I)EBATES

THE

'SE N\AT E
0F

THE

DOMINION OF CAN ADA

19071 -S
BICP<>IYDAND

EIIED 11V

HO.LLANl)

BROS.

Official Reporters of the Senate of Canada

F>UIRTII

SES,ý[(>0N--TENTII

VOL.

PAIZLIA31ENT

111.

OTTAWA
PRINTEJJ BY S. E. DANWSON. PRINTER TO THE KING'S MOST
EXCELLENT MÂJESTX'

rjjHl,

DEBATES
OF

TIIL

SE-NýlATE 0F"CANADA
IN THE

4PPOH\TED TC)
1 OURTHI SESSION 0F TIRE TENTH PARLIAME-NT 0F CAN tD,
ON THURSDAY, THE TWENTYMEET FOR THE DESPÂTCH 0F BUSINESS
BIGHTH DAY 0F NOVEMBER. IN THE SEVENTH YEAR 0F
THE REIGN 0F

HIS

M.\AJESTY

KING ]EDWARD

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA,

Thursday, May 14, 1908.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers ind routine proceedings.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill <YY) In Act respectifg thxe Orowni
Mr.
Coinpany.-(Hýof.
lnsurance
Lite
Leugheed.)
QUEBEC BRIDGE AND RAIL'WAY COMPANY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:

VIl.

out 1-eserve, co. doe- it propo~e to -wait, before
inaking thei, until the couits of justice have
established what are the responsibilities
which inan- weigh uýpoiî the eompany, and
wh.at are the pecuwiarv dainiages ivhich the
empany .may be condeinned te pay to the
heirs6 cf the unfortunate victims of the terrible collapse of the month of August last?
Hon. '-%r. POWER-I wlsb to raise a
question of order with respect te this notice. The first part of the notice, I tbink,
is ln order : ' Dees the geverinent intend
te substitute Itself for the Quebec Bridge
and Railway Cenmpany, as it bas reserved
the rîght te do, ln 'virtue of the contract
entered Inte between It and the said cernpany on October 19, 1903.' but I contend
that the other two paragrapbs are out ot
erder, because fixey are bypothetical. The
second ene wants te know, If It Is true,
If such a thlng happens, wbat will the geverninent de ? A questien et that kind la
clearly bypethetical.

Does 'the governuient intend to substitute
itself for the Quebec Bridge and Railway
Company, as it has reserved the right; to de,
in virtue of the contracit entered into between it and the said coinpany on the l9th
October, 1903?
Is it, true that in such event the Goyernment wouid be then held to reimburse bc each
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-No, no.
of the shareholders of the said compaay the
whole wnount of capital paid up by such
Hon. Mr. POWER-And the last parashareholders, together with iateret et five graph Is open te the same objection ; ln
frein the date
per cent upon ail bis payments
of each payment. and inoreover a -premiun case tbe gevernment dees se and se, wbst
of tea per cent upon the capital paid. by each la te bappen.
The authorities which I
cs reholder into the capital ef the -cempa.nyP
And iii oa.-e of the goverament decidxng te read yesterday lncluded, among notices
nae *thus a triple payment te each share- and questions, whlch were irregular and eut
holder, of entire reimbureement ef his
questions, and I
capital, of payînent of the interest e.ecrued of order, bypothetical
and of a pre-mium of ten per cent, almpiy wlsh te add-lt ls a matter whll
thereon,
is it then the intention of the gevernament to
flot requ ire any argurnent-that at
effert these paynments withotit delay and wiîth- does
¶
57ai

Ç~OoSENATE

page

11.6 of

Blackmore's Speakers'

Dec!-

or another 'Mr. lParent

wvilI bave

It Nvith

sions, 1 find this statement :' Hypothetical the ilccrued interest.
,.,,t,o,,

shni1d not be nut,' and lie cites

two cases, the Esquimalt Dockyard and
the p)rotectioni of Britishi subjeets in M-%asbonalaud. It is ne(t necessfiry to argue the
case. If is perfectir dlear.

CLAIM 0F MR. ULRIC BARTHE.

INQUILIY.
Hon Mr. LANDRY inquired
(>ver and above ftie $16,890 whicli as seýcreRa.ilway Cointary ofhethe Queboe Bridge and $425 whichi he
lion. Mv. LANDRY-Tlie first question îîuîy
has dlrawn, and the
tbe government liaîs -eýceivftl foi- hi., travellinig expeuises, hais
uot being bypothetictil. if
against
Ulric,
thinig it
they
reply for, tiien, a, initend te do thae the otîter Mr. cornpanyBat-the aiiy other dlaimi
for his --evîes as secretary, for
the
î consequence,
asks that
ý .1 Coa4fiitioil
travelling e.xpenses, or for e'ny
question' cease to lIe hypothetîcal. If On1 )thl. object. lip 1) th It of Nfli. iîî4tal1t'
'l") h( iliucli dIoe'. sticà clamil aniounf?'.
flic etiier biaud the goveriiii0ut declares
lIas4 it beeîî paid'
has lie rcceived and Ilîow iii
u
nlow
tiley have noe iuieîîtiefl to do what is
tlîat
asked by my tirsi qulestioni, tlien tbere is no m'elala-ii. due te hiiii
Hon. Mr. POWEfl-It seenis to me tliat
nlecessity f0 nnswer the otimer qUestionad
the g-overnmeflt -III prol.mablv declin.e toinasmuchi as thi, question deals with
!moneys wbicli ave umot public funds. but
11nswcer themui.
the govHon. '.%r. SCOYÏ-i hiave ne objection memîclys of a private corporation,
cannot bo expected te answer ut.
to an1swer the flrst p;:mvaguapl ; ne decision erniment
Hon. '.%I. IANýDIY-But te govevamneut
lias been corne ho by the gevernrnent on1
is vesponsible.
the snbject.
1-loii .\Ir. SCOTT-l should like tlic uiiing of the Speaker on fibat point. I arn
if it 'were flot 10 be
Tlie SPEAKER-The forin is soiiclevlat prepared to answer it, because I think the
. -_, taken as a precedient,
il
;*
-,
..
government arc onlY botind f0 answer questice. The first question being ln order, If fions mheve they are in a sense responsible
the others
it is nnswered in tlie affirmative,
tbat the money Is properly expended. This
-ire lu order althuiogli the forai is not ac- nuoney the government have no control
cor<ling ho the general traditions.

Hon. 'Mr. L.-NDRY-Tliat
other questions.

settles

the

over.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It is taken out of
bonds guaranteed by tlie govevument.
Hoii. Mr. LANDRY iniquired:
Honi. Mr. SCOTT-Then under that, the
Over and abovwe the $24,250 F4lreadY reýceived
PAYMENTS TO MR. PARENT.

by Mr. Parent for the paynenf of so-called
services rendered to the Qnebec Bridge and,
Railway Comnpany; and besides the bonus of
$3,O00 which the oompany%votedl fe Mr. Parent, the day after the collapse of the bridge,
aud w-hich is not eomprised in the $24,250
above nienfionied, did fthe company on the first
iJa'r of the present mon'th owe any amount
what,,ocver to -Mr. Parent?
What is thaf amount'
Is it also for the services rendored?
What servicesP
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-As to the first lnqulry,
the answer Is, none, nov ls the bonus dlaim-

goverament w-ould lic respoiisible for flic
expenditure of millions of money tbey
tlie
They have guaranteed
guarantee.
bonds of the Grand Trunk Rallway, of
the Canadian Nortbern, and varions other
enterprises, but no one wiIl say that tbey

should be held responsible for fbe expenditure of thgt. money. That would -not be
sound doctrine.

Hon. Mv. LÂNDRY-The government bas
able ln any wýay. Mr. Parent refused It already answered those questions.
when the sharebolders voted lb to hlmf at
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is a matter of
their annual -meeting last year. The other grace wbere the parties choose 10 give the
Inquirles are ail answered by that.
Information, but we cannot compel tbem
ls dlaim- to give the answer, and I do flot thlnk
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The bonus
ask
able for the simple reason that the motion tbe House Is entitled t0 IL. I would
the rullng of fbe Speaker.
glving It bas not been cancelled. One day
Hon. Mr. POWEll.

)1AY

14, 1908

lANDRY-I accept the ansHou. M'%r.
wer of the government that the company
refuses to -ive the Information.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, not on that ground
There are several of the hon.
nit aIl.
gentleman's questions that I thlnk are flot
proper laquirles, because the goverament
cannot control the expenditure of thxe
money. He does flot mena to say, surely,
that iwhen we guarantee the bonds of a
rallway we are responsible for the way the
money Is expended ?
Hon. M'r. LÂNDRY-I want to reniind
the House, tluat 1 nsked a question some
time ago as to the amount paid to Mr.
Baxrtile. sintd the governunient gave nie those
I am asking does
figures tliemselves.
that iiunount comprise ail that is due, or ls
there souiethlng more ? Now, as to the
other questions, tlxat the expenditure is not
controllable by thse goveramelit, one must
not forget that, here is a company wlth
a eapitai of $65,000 subscribed, and neyerthelcas tbey have paid their directors $112,000 *merely for ottending meetings of the
company. Thse only revenue they bave la
They are
wbnt the -country gives them.
speuding the people's money, and I want
to know If there ls more of the public
inoney to go to 'Mr. Barthe for sny dlaim
lie uny have agilinst tue ocmpafly.

regarded as a precedeiit, because hereafter
it may be quoted, and it is a very improlier thing to do. 1 arn always anxious to,
give the fullest information 1 cal) to inîembers of the House.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-We sali flot consider it as a precedent. I arn wvilling to
accept an answer and flot regard It as a
precedent.
Hon. Mr. SOU ±ýT-If the hon, gentleman
Is wllhlng flot to accept It as a precedent,
1 wsil! give hlm the answer. The answer
le : 'Nothing- outside of bis inontbly salary.' Then tihe other three questions are
answered by No. 1. They made the inquiry from the Department of Railw'ays
and Canais nnd that Is the answer they
received.
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY-Notlii outside of
lils uuonthly salary ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
QUEBEC BRIDGE AND RAILWAY COMPANY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY linquired:
Wh.at is thse annual fflalary. to whiich Mr.
Bar-the bac et present a rizht as cecretary to
the Quebec Bridge and Railway Companv3*.
Since when has Mr. Barthe received* this
salary ?

What iva, Iii. salary for the s:une eiiiplo.vmîent pr-eviously*?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT--T'he aus,.ers are as
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ar, I said before, I.
follows
(14 r'ot waut it quoted as n precedefit in
i. $2,400.
matters of tlhis kind, and when bis Honour
1,
2. Since M.%ay 190(p.
repîr.
flec Speaker ruies I %,%Il]
3. $2,000 a -year.
Th'le SPEAKER-TIie Chair ls not lIn
possession of the fncts and contracts îvhicli QUEBEC B11IDGE !4ND RAILNVAY COMIrelate to the public expenditure, nnd 1
-PANY.
îvould ratiier leave the government to take
INURY IOSTPIONE-D.
their own position inasmuch as tbey have
more information thani the Chair ca have.
I aux flot sufficiently ait fait as to thc' situa-

Hou. Mfr. LANDRY liiquired of the governinent:
Over and above the $45,000) paid to M-Nrtion between thîe eonpany and the goverii- Hloare as chief enginîeri of the conipany by
muent.
the Quebec Bridge and Railwa ) Com-panyV of
whielh Mr'. Parent is president, -lis hoe reare ceived. anv other suins of nuoniey froni the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-AII those papers
Commiission, of
before the House. The contract between Transconti.nental Mtr.liailivev is aise president?
Parent
whioh the came
the governalent and the country fomýms part
How mnuehl, in each year, foi' the years 1904of one of our statutes. They are before 5, 1905-6, 1906-7 «iid 1907-81
this House and the country. I amn only
nsking about the expenditure of publie

monley.

For what serVices?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This is a proper question, but I have flot the information.

Hon. ',%r. LANDRY-I suppose ail the
lion. '.%r. SCOTT-I amn quite prepared
to -ive the information If it is flot to lie 1questions tîxat ar e proper are unauswerable.

SENATE
pany, and Messrs. A. E. Douicet, district
It is only the improper questions that the
engineer .Transcontinental Railway Coingovernment are willing to answer. Let this
mission, E. A. Hoare., chief eng-ineer, Quebee
one stand tili Tuesday.
Bridge and Rallway Company, St. George
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I cannot Say when It Boswell, engineer, Harbour Comm issioners:
will be ready.
as engineers to the said commIttee.
6. At Quebee.
The question was allowed to stand.
7. Seven meetings, includlng subcommitQUEBEC BRIDGE AND RAILWAY COM- tee meetings.
On October '12, 1906, NoPANY.
vember 7. November 20, 1906.
INQUIRY.
S. Nothing was paid to anybody.
*9. Answered by No. 8.
LANDRY in4uired:
Hon. Mr.
10. Ans*ered by No. S.
i. Bas there been ait e.ny time, and particulariy duri" the period coniprised betweea the
ist Ju.y"Ï1906 .. d th. let May, 190, ait Qnebee, OPERATION 0F .%LARITI?%E COAL AND
a coînmitke known under the naine of the
RAILWAY COMPANY.
Quebec, Terminus Commnittee?
INQUIRY.
2. Froin what conipany, association, or -1
ganizat ion, did thir oommittee proceeil?
Hon. Mr. MeSWEENEY inquired:
3. Who weas it-, president?
4. Who acted as seeretary?
What were the revenu,-, and expenseý, a
5. Who were the .members of it?
well as the costs of operation and the r-eceipt-.
its fsitting~. held?ý
6. Where were
of the company called the Maritime Coal andI
7. How many -sittings has thet comnnittee Itaiiway Company (forîîîerly JogginOý. for the
,held? On what dates?
years 1906 and. 1907?
S. Bas the government paid anything whatHon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers are as
of
.Sever to the president or to the 6ecretary
that cornmittee?
foliows
9. Ho' much to each?
Canada Coal and RaUlway Coinpany, for10. Andl under what authority?
nierly Jogglns' Rallway :
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe answers to the
GROSS EARNLNGS.
hon. gentleman's questions are as follows:
$43,080 46
...
10.... ........
1. Yes, the Quebec Terminal Committee.
48
1909............38.4-18
2. It was called on the Initiative of the
OPERATING EXPENSES.
National Transcontinental Railway Com$30.651 74
.......
1906 .. ........
mission.
22.272 53
1907............
3. '.%r. Rodoipli Audette.
4. M1r. Ulric Barthe, on, motion1 of the <ýuEBEC BRIDGE AND RAILWMAY COM%PANY.
cohîmittee.
5. Representatives of the Allan Lines,
INQUIRY.
representa tives of the Canadian Pacifie
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
Railway Comnpany, represeatatives of the
1. Over and above the sums which have been
Grand Trunk Railxvay. representatives of paid rto Mr. Ulric Barthe as sadery as secreand Raiilwav Cointhe Grand Trunk Paciic Ralway, repre- tary off the Quebec Bridge of his travelling
pauy, 'or es reimibursement
sentatives of the Ciaaiani Northerni Rail- expenses, have the comn1issioners of the
way. reîiresentative., of tlic Delaware and Transcontinental R.ailway paid iny other
h
Hudson Railway. represenita tives of the mnoneys to the ýsanie Mr. Barthie? aîd wa
2. When, for what services
Qnebec Central RaiIhvay. representatives of ainount?
3. Amongst these payainent-. are theie anyv
the Quebec and LaIze St. John Railivay,
whatsoever which have relation to bis prerepree tt ivs
f the Quebec R ilwny, ence ait meetings of a coîn.nirttee knoi under
Light and Power Company, representatives the naime of the Quebece Ternimnus coiinînittee?
iead, how ranch ha-. been paid
4. Under tis
of the Dominion Steamnship Uine and Lloyd's, to him, and at what dlate was eech of sucli
of the Quebec Trans- payments made?
&c.. representatives
of eacli of sutcli
5. What
port Company, representatives of the In- payrnents? was the amount
of tliç
tercolonini Railway, representatives
* Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers f0 the
City Council of Quebec. representatives of
hon. gentleman's questions are as follows:
the Board of Trade, representatives of th(
1. The coînmissioners have nothing to (Io
representat1ve.ý
Commissioners,
Harbour
*with the payment of the salary anid dlisof the Quebec Bridge and Railway Coin
l<urseînents referred to.
Hoii. Mr. L-ýN-D1Y.

9()U

VAY 14, 1908

2. Answered by nunîber one.
3. There are ne such payments,

and

moreover aaswer to flua bas already been
given under a previeus question., order No.
19, of Otb May.
4. Answered liv above.
5. Answered by aliove.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want fe cati the
attention 0f the hon, leader of the House

Io the fact fIat if %veconsult tIe Auditor's
report, Part W o! 1907, we find that Mr.
Barthe bas received $79.30 for attendance

bo the capital stock of the Quebec Bridge and
Railway Company, and paid up in full, ini
cornpliance wi.th clause 4 of the agreement
made on the l9th October, 1903, between the
Quebec Bridge ana Railwey Company aîîd the
Dominion Government.
ULRIC BARTRE,
<Sgd.)
Tiessurer.
Seal of the CJompany.

(Sgd.) S. N. PARENT,

-President.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-My question wvas as
to the names.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That was ail the liiformation I could get on ftie subject.*

Tint dees nlot showv
on tbnt committee.
Hon. '.%r. LANDRY-My question is îîet
tînt ftie answer fhat -1 have r.eceived Is
yet answered. The additional subscribers
Or perliaps the Auditor Geneeorrect.
are very tew in number. There are fthe

ral's report lazfalse.
Hoi). 'Mr. SCOTT-I do not kaew wliefher tbat covers ftle Auditor's report or
If la quite imnpossible te say. I
flot.

think the lieu. gentlemanî knows more
about flic ausvvrs te fliese questions flan

1 do.
Hou. 'Mr. LANDRY-It is siniply f0 test

the good faitb or file accuracy o! fIe auswers given.
QUEBEC BRIDGE AND RAILWAY COMPANY.
INQUIRY.
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY lnqulred:
Wlieu fhe goverîîmeîit, iii 1903, concluded a
fliacial arrangement with fIe Quebec Bridge
and Railway Comany, did it then require
and has if m ade if one of the obligations of
the contract that the company ehould forth.
with suberibe addifional shares fa the nincunt
of $200,000?
Has fhe comîpany ceused this additional
surn f0 be Subscribed?
By whom, giviag the nimes?
Djid rthe icompany iafterWards idevote the
etiount which if eo obta-ined te pay for
works chargeable te capital, or hue if mot
rather emploved slmost the whole, of thaf
6um, te n-it: S3188,721, in payment of the discount af whîich securities of the compaay had
been issued, fthe builder of the piers of the
bridge having consenlied fo extinguish a clai-m
«of $283.,279 whieh lie had against the company
by tiaking debentures of the said company to
the amcunt of $472,000, that is to aay, at a
discount of 40 cent?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I obtained froi fthe
Deparf nent 0f Finance fhe foliowing certificafe, -îvhicI fliey say ls correct:

Alian lhue, Hon. '-%. Sharpies, Rodolphe
1 have
Audeffe, and a few others.
not the çomplete iist, but I know
there are very few names. It la for that
renson 1 wanted to know the names of the
new subscribers, and then there is anoflier
question :did the governmnt devote the
amount whtclb it se obtained te pay for
works chargeahle to capital, or bas it net
rather employed alînost the wliole of that
sum, to wit, $118.-d21, iu paymnent of flic
discount at wliich securities of the coinpany hadl beeîî lssued and so on. 1 tbink
this last question Is ouly partially answered. I iinighit allow it te stand till
Tuesday.
Hou. '.%r. SCOTT-1 spent a good many
heours trylng to get the answer, and I
failed to obtain if. It is very much in-

volved, and if ls reperted In fhe Finance.
Department thaf the requirements of ftic
Act of 1903 hav-e been complied witlî as
far as the $200.,000 la conceraed.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That is an assertien

of

the

Finance

Department.

That

assertion must be based on tacts. And If
Is preclsely those tacts that I amn asking
for. If fhey are sure that the provisions o!
the Act of 1903 have been complied wlth,
fhey must have fliaf assurance fron the
tacts tbey have gatbered. I want f0 know
wbat the tacts are.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn quite unable te
Copy.
obtain any more tacts about ItL I have
THE QTJEBEC BRIDGE AND RAILWAY
made several fruitless inquirles, and have
COMPANY.
looked over .a variety of papers, and I was
Quebeo, February 26, 1904.
1 herebv certiv that additionei stock fo the fold that this should: answer the question.
extent of $200.000O, lias been duly subscribed

904

SENATE

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I wouid suggest fo
the hion. leader that if hoe wouid give me
bis autliority for fen days-I wili nof take
the saiary-but 1 wmiii f111 the position as
minist,er without salary for ten days-I
would get the answer.

GRAND TRUNK PENSION SOHEME.
IISQU1RY POSTPONED.
The order of the day being called:
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON rose to éall the

attention of the Senate t0 the following
clipping from the 'Montreal Dally Star' of

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Let the other motions the 15th April Iast:
stand for about ten days, and if I receive
Grand Tiiunk pension seheme a succesa.
ln an interview this morniîîg with the
the information, I wiIl bring it down.
'Star,' Mr. Williaui lainwrigbt, assistant
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Let the other ques- to the gexierail manager and comptroller of
expressed
tions stand f 111 Wednesday next and the the Grand Trunk railway, the îxew his coin1-ensioni
plete satisfaction witlî
iast question may stand tili Tuesday of scheme as piaced in operation by the <onpaiiy
on January lst. The three ýmonths trial, lie
the foliowing weelz, at the ove of prorodeclared, had eonvinoed the officiais that the
gaf ion.
inauguration of a pension fund was a wie
mnove and the -moniey was welI spent. Hie beHon. Mr. SCOTT-Ini regard f0 that iast iieved that the conîpany would -save in the
gentleman damages account nione enoughl te nîeet the
question, I have given the hon.
ail the Information I p'ropose f0 give. I cost ai carrying the fuîîd along.
And wili inquire if the goverinnent wi]1 prohave exhausted more time on it than the Pure and lay on the table of this House,
au-thent.ioated copies of ail ruiles, by-laws and
whoie tbing is worth.
regulations made by the Grend Trunk Rail]ose way comnpahîy under sections 5,.6, 7 and 8 of
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We must not
our patience; but we must get the Informa- chapter 89 of the Acts of Canada of the Yeair
1907.
tIon., sud we must keep cool.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-l wrote Mr. WainHon. Mm lOWER-I irise f0 n question ivright. and 1 have liad iin a husver froni
of order. 'There is îîo rule more decided hlmi, and I understand the Departinent of
and clear thaux that there shall ho no dis- Railways and CanaIs hnve also written hlm
cussion of flie îiiniisteriai answer f0 a ques- but have not recelved any rep]y. 0f course
tion. The hon. gentleman is a great stick- we bave no record of it, and this is a pure
ler for or~der, but every day lie discussses matter of courtesy. I tlbought that lie would
nearly every nnswer wmhicii is given f0 M.
have sent the Information.
Hon. Mîfr. ,A\DItY-I have îlot discussHon. Mr. FERGUSON-We shall let it
ed the ans-%ers af ill. if the lion, gentle- stnd tili Tuxesday.
I desire the question
man liad givon another ninswer, I w-ould to stand, because I want f0 inake n very
have accu.pted it. Whîen Ihere is no an- brief staternent with regard fo it, in order
swer, I have n riglit f0 aIslz liat .11 ain- that the scope of flhc question may be
swer shiah be givon.
fhoroughly iinderstood.
The SPEAKER-Do 1 und(erstiknd the
The question was allowed te stand.
Secretary of State f0 deciare that lie has
answered the hast question No. 15 of fixe QUEBEC HARBOUR COMMISSIONERS.
11sf ?
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have answered that
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired of the govfully. I amn told by the Finance Depart- ernment :
ment that'that inatter bas been safisfied,
Who are the persons that have been aPthaf tbey ivere satisfied 'witb the way the poinVed by the governiuent, since 1896. to foi-in
part of the Quebec Harbour Commilssion, witlî
mat ter was decided and aceounted for.
the date of each of the appointmnents iii quesMr. LANDRY-I do not discuss tion ?
Hon.
that part of If. Thiat is qulte correct; but
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answer is as fol.
I want the names.
iows :
Jean Baptiste Laliberté, October 3, 1896;
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I cannot get the
Narcisse Rloux, October 3, 1896 ; Doslthée
names.
.&rcand, October 3, 1896 ; Harold Kennedy,
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-We shahl get the
October 3, 1896 ; Wm. M. MePherson, OcDames.
tober 3, 1896; Roger Larue (vice N. Rioux,
Ilon. M r. SCOTT.

?NlAY 14, 1908
1101. Mr. SCOTT-I1 i-ticd in the ' handeceascd), Jauary 19, 19X07 J. S. Thom,
Sir Frederick Bor(vice Il. Kennedy, rcsigiied.), August 31, sa.d uty edytat
den mnade the following stateMent
:1907.

Hon. Sir FREDERICK BORDEN(!Lntr
of Militia and: Defence). It is not correct to
say that the troops are not going to the terh
acus
It if, a fact, however, that the
gverm'mmemtIRtY.
centenery.
ernent
Onnuai campe of instruction il ha hol as
lion. Mr. LANDRY inquired of the gov- usual throughout the Dominion this year, instead of being held st one coinmon point at
or inear the oity of Quebec, as; iw proposed.
of the city regiments w~ill
works o! repair of Dufferin Terrace and o! The annual dill usual this year. The reasqerve ta support thtL said also take place a%
the lands which
programiiw, which
terrace, which w-ork, are gaing o11 at present, son of the change iii thebriafiy to the flousa
to ha ;completKd before the celebration of the programme 1 announced is chiefly due ta the
thr-ee or four weeks ago,
Timird Tercentenary of Quebec?
difficulty of transportation. It w~ill be underbeen stood, 1 arn sure, that on1e of the principal
Hion. '.%r. SCOTT-Orders have
mind ini connectioli with
given ta expedite the repairs ta the walls. things ta kaep iii celebration is to bring tothis tercentenary
It Is expected that this wlll be done suffi- gethar -the largest number possible of people
cereiuonitsý. Soima
ciently early ta enable the corporation ta ta Quebec ta wjtnees the of the commission
chairman
comiplete the terrace before the celebra- time ugo the
called my attention ta thê f act that the
tion.
transportation Jines, the railways an 1 stean)be left free as far as po'beto
LANDS IN boats, must people ta Quabec anid tahze thein
LEASED GOVEPNMENNT
bring the
home again, and lie thouglit it proper ta ask
THE ciTY 0F QuEBEC.
the Militia departmient ta agree xîot to -inoya
any troops on a certain number of days be'MOTION.
fore the celabration begani and a certain irunHiou. 'Mr. LANDRY moved
ber of davs efterw.9rds. lt will be readily
sucli am arrangement would
order o! this, fous-e do issue for iuntere.toodi thetrei.lway traneportation line6
Tha-t -an
the production of the correspondance ex- lmper the An earnest effort w~as inadle ta rea
changed, since 1896, betweemî the governient, very mucli. difficulty could be overcomie, but
the
or the milita.ry aut ,horitias, -and the persan or inhether found it could on-ly be pairtially ovarpareons who osked for -and obtained the lease it was It wa.s therafore thoughit better that
of the land helonging ta the government and came.
canmps should be held at tlme usual places
contained in the land comprisad batwean des the holding camps. As to the stateinent that
Callières etreat, liaunt Car-mel street, R1aidi- of been ;nade that the headquarters o! tha
inand street. and St. Louis street, iii Quabac. hamilitia Nwere 'unable ta copa wmth the inobilia;S:gîîc'd t.o.
Thè motion
iation of 25,000 or 30,000 troop' e aE central
point like Quebec. the story i.. ab-solut-e.v
BILL INTRODUCED.
%without foundation, and is entirely absurd.
Tfha Militia departnxent is quite able ta mobBill (ZZ) An Act ta amiend the Mnnitobpm *lie40,000 troops at a central point lîke
da"e, il not within a
a
Grain Act.-(HIon. Sir Richard Cartwright.ý IQuebec, within the few
necessity arose. But at a
feu, hours, if
tima whan tons and hundrads o! thousandg
THE MILITIA AT QUEBEC.
of peopla f rom ail over the northern part of
NQUIRY.
ha îooking -toward-s
this continent will
have got ta ba taken there over
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-Bfore the order! Quebea, and and steamboat lines, every oae
tha r-ailways
of the day are proceeded w'Ith, I ivoukÉ ivill egrea that a eierious probleni is preeented;companies ca.ita
ask the leader of the government if he bai a nd owing the the fact that the iodation suc.h
nieces-sary acomm
give
ta give respect -not we think -the militia éhould have, this part
any supplementary answer
as
of the programme haz been given up. As ta
lng the calliug of the militia in Quebec.
what will ba dona ta bring troops to Quebac
directed the attention of the bon. mirilste r
1 arn not pre1ta take part ini the celebration, any annolnceyesterday ta the fact and- ha sald ho wouli pared at this moment ta take
Militia demartment wilI ha
get suppleinentiiry Information for us tao muent. But the
»mrepared ta co-operate with the commission
day.
Ini every wav in its.e power.
ItEPAIRS TO: DUFFERIN TERRACE.

He ndds, bowever, that a considerable
ln the othe r force would assemble, those w-ho are niost
ta the Minister of 'Militia
chamber and answered.
avallable. 1 have forgotten the number
force
thie now, but he sald that a considerable
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It was put la
assembled at Quebec, tbough not
ha
other chamber, but the Prime Minister sa, d would
as was orlginally lntended, owiflg
lu the absence o! the Minister o! MNiliti a as, large
ta the difficulty of obtaiuing transportation.
ha could not give a reply.
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-That question was pu

S1RNATE
IIOISTIN-G THE UNION JACK.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-l w-ish to caîl attention to, the follow-ing- despatchi in the
Star' 1 f Tuesday :
WILL NOT 11,0I8T UNION JACK.
the lonse of CoinLoudoni, May 12.-Im
mons, Premier Asquith stated he did not
think it advisable to order the hoisting of
Unionî Jacks on governaient buildings, on Empire Day.
I want to briîîg tlîls ho the attention of
the House and of the country, to see how
we stand (in the question of lîoisting the
Union Jack. M'l]l 1h be boisted ait Quebec
ait the Terceîîteiîary celebrahion, or slhail we
folloi the c-ours-e îîu-i-ed ini England '
Thmere Is a9 good deal of tailk about loyalty
ln this country, and I w-ant ho knowv how
this decision of the Premier of England is
going to affect us inî Caîmada ?

Hon. 'Mr. CLOIAN-I suppose liu expression of opîinion fî-om tlle parli-inlelit Of
Canîada on the propriety of hois-ting the
Unionl Jack lut England %vill have a great
If
eff.eet upon the lîupeî-itl governinenit.
there is any mian in the empire ýwlo ouglit
to know when to lîoist the Uijaon Jack, it
should be the Premiler of Englaud. w-ho is
the adviser of the Sovereign, and it 15 not
for- us to give a lesson to the Premier of
I find it extraordiniary on the
England.
part of this bononi-able Iouse to dictate a
unie of poliey. iiu regard to loyalty Io hIe
Clown, to the Prime 'Minis-tel' of Eîîidanîl.
Hon. Mr. SULLIDAN-Wlîn i, thie Prime
Miîîister of Emîglaîid ?

lion. MIr. CLORAN-Tl'e lion. geuîtleîîîail
ouglilto1 know,\ tliit '%I-. Asq uith is the
1
premier, andl thait lie is îesponsible ho ltî,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thiiak *t w-ll rather entire empire for Ille maintenance of loyshilunlate this country to bave more Union alty to the BritishbC-on
lie lias stated
Jacks bolsted on Empire Day. 1 amn quite on the floor of thle House of Comnlons that
sure it w-ill not reduce the nuinher.
It: is utot necessary or eveil advisalîle to il)Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Do I struct the aiuthoritie- to bois-t lbe flaig ou
understand the bon. gentleman to say tbat the p)ublic buildings of timat country ont
the Premier of Eaglan<I bas giveil instruc- Empire Day. Wby slhould, Nwe. li our cations thiat the Union Jack shahl fot be ralsed pacity as (-olonis-ts, undertake to dictate
on public buildings in Eiîgland-on Empire to the Premier of England w-bat lie s-honild
do0 towards the empire or His Majesty «
Day ?
Hon. %Ir. DOMVnIILE-No, it does not I fail ho see tîmat a les-son frontilis ini that
say that. But lie stated lu the House of respect would be Nvell accepted lin ElîrOommons that .be did not tbink Lt advisable land. Tbey ai-e iii a better pos-itionî lie
regard lie tha
lee-îyii
to order the boisting of the Uijaon Jack on judge w-bat is
matter than we are.
government buildings on Empire Day.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL -If
tat be the declaration of the Premier of
England, it is about tiue-w-e let hlmi know
that we propose ho raise the Union Jack
wbenever we please. If you refer to correspondence w-bicb took place a very short
tîme ago, la w-hicb the question ai-ose as
to tbe pî-opriety of raising the Union Jack
wltb the Canadian emblem or something to
Indicate that it was a Canadian flag, tbe
Lords of the Admlralty took objection to
it; but the nisW-et' made by the Secretary
to Canada at that tine was that we were
at liberty to bois-t thie Union Jack wvben,ever w-e pleased, and an expression of opinIon from this Huse and aIs-o the House
of Commons ho that effect would not be
out of place. It sbould be in sncb ternus,
that 1h could not be misunderstood.
HJoli. '%ml. qCOTT.

Hoii. Mr. SULLIVAN-I r-ie ho a9 1)0111
How does the lion. gexîhleiina n
of order.
know tuaI hhey understand theli- dîity si,
Weil ?
Hon. 2M.r. IPuVEl-Tlhere
fore the chair.

is nothiig lc

The SPEAKER-There is no question hefore thle chair. Call the first order.
Hou. Mr. CLORAN-There is the question ralsed Ihv thie lion. senator fronti RotijeSay.
The SPEAKER-'rh17lat question bas beeîî
answered.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The-C is no0 question
w'bich bas been aîîs-veîed.
The SPEAKER-lt bas been
by the bon. Secretary of Sta te.

aas-wered

_MAY 14, 1908

the clair. Instead of
Hou. 'Mr. CLOIiAN-I questionl the ruling hie slîould aîddress
doing so lie turned and addressed tlie lion.
etf the chair. After the lion. senaîtor frouîi
Victoria, and 1 did not hear
Rothesay bas raised the question, and the senator fromn
what lie said.
bou. Secretary of State and the bon. senHon. Mr. CLORAN-That us wby 1 reator frorn Hastings bail expressed their
amn I to be toid tiiet 1 bave nlo marked that the ears of the cliair are deaf.
opinions,
deep senriglit to express mine ? Is thant the deci- I arn between the devil and the
the hon. senator fromn Kingston
.between
-sloî of the chair ?
arn I to do ?
The SPEAKER-I allowed the hiou. gen- and the clir-wbat
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVEL-Sit
tiernan to speakz and to sit down before
dow-n.
declaring that thiere was nothing before
CLORÂN-I wvill sit doNwu wheu
Hion. %Ir.
the chair. 1 imîglit bave stated ut before
my opinions bave been expressed. 1 bave
-the hon. gentleman sat (Iown.
Ilouse trying to
Hon. '.%r. CLORAN-The1lii 1 shahl ;1jîpea-l been live years in this
gaiu i, ear, and this is not thea tlrst timie
frorn the decision of the chair.
I have beeu told by the ex-leader of the
The SPEAKEII-Cali tlic first order.
and liv the preseuit leader of
The CLERK-Pirst order of the day- the goveramelit lu the Ilouse to sit down.
pt insel inthe governient
Hon.'Mr
CLOAN-o
have not sat don nt anyb)ody's dictal1
fise
t
ovu
lue
h
Mefr CLRAon.
I
and I wvilI aîot sit dowii 10w.
httetion,
I nv
adjus.
ode deor the
hiere ou nîy riglit asan man whvlo
ajouu.stand
Houe d uw
man wvho is
The SPEAKER-i ani infornied that the knows bis business, and as a
frxoin Victoria had îlot ClOsed iiot tied doîvu by traditions of servility ;as
hou. genîtleman
the sentimenits
bis remarks whnlie sat dowu ; thât a a man wbo wants to speak
raised by the lion. seni- of young Canada iu spite of the Methusepoint of order îvas
Let It: be
ator from Klugstou. I wvould not have in- lalms who would prevent hlmi.
whlle lie the lagt time tlint such an expression shotild
terrupted the lion. gentleman
octogeflariail or
was on bis feet, but I thought lie w-as mal;- conie frouianym venerable
Let it lic the hist tinie.
ivas nonogenarian.
ing a second speechi and as there
members
nothing before the chair, I enlled attention We have stood it long enouigli.
likze inyseif w-ho bave coule lu as youing
the tact.
Ito
patriotie as aur old
Hou. Mr. CLORAN-I ani sorry that the patriotic meiiibers-as
the
dent. Thie lion. sea- man In the House, wanting to defend
ears of the chair are
of thîs House and o! the country.
tor from Kingston raised a point of order. interests
to sit dowl: but you do not
and 1 sat down ut once. The hou. senator Yet we are told
Irlsliman of nîy stamp] to sit down
f rom Kinigstoa rL-;iikg said 'I rise tu a poinit get an
was to sit down under such l ciustauces any more than
e! order,' and my duty
on the fields o! Waterloo and
,whlle lie stated the point o! order. That the Irish did
and the the filds o! Soutli Afriea. WVe have propoint of order lias been raised
duced generals ý%vho bave won victories for
chair bas not yet decided It.
It took, Irishmieu to do
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I rose ouîy to put the Britisli empire.
it, and ut does nlot beconle an Irlshman to
the lion. gentleman riglit.
wben lie la told, eveu liy an exHon. Mr. CLORAN-The bon. gentleman ait down
Prime Mînister. We are liere to defend our
9id ' rj-.' to
f romn Kington -ini rising -.
of opinions. We may be wrong ; o! ten I arn
point of order,' and stated bis point
order. I wualted for the decision of the wrongHon. '.%r. POWER-Hear, heur.
chair on the point of order and got none,
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It is hanian to err,
riglit to
except to lie tohd tliat I bad no
there wvas nothing liefore the aud tbere Is nu one -wlio knows tliat better
speak as
Halifax. Tlie
House. That dld flot decide the point of than the bon. senator from
the lion. senator f rom question ralsed liere to-day is of more finorder ralsed .by
Wiy ? Beportance than vou imagine.
Kingston.
the Liberal party o! this country by
The SPEAKER-Wlien the lion. senator cause
ujeans of the hou. genitlefroin Kingston rises to a 'point of order, and througli the

SENATE

ma fromn Hastings wbo

wvas Prime Minister of this country, and w'ho was Minister
of Customas under biis leader, Sir John'Macdonaldl, denounced the Liberal party as disloyal men who wanted to disrupt the empire. That was the cry wbich kept these
people lu power for over twelve years.
They won their first victory lu 1878 through
the protection cry, and again partlally ln
.18S2 ; but wben Sir John Macdonald made
an appeal to this country that bie was
'hemn under the flag and under thec flag
wvou]d die,' tbat w-as the only cry that kept
the Tories ln power. He was a great old
stuîtesman, 1 admire and respecýt lis
aîieinory, because he did great things for
this country ; Liut 1 say that cry kept the
Tories ln pQwer froni 1891 te 1896. and the
lion. seaator fromn Hastings beneflted by
it during the two years hie hield the premiership, until lie w-as swallowed up by a nest
of traitors. The flag did flot coter hlm
then.
lion. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELLI-We
shall bave it iucreased. ln size.

Hlou. Mr. CLORAN-The lion, gentleman
wvould xîot require It to lie greatly increaseil
te coter bil now. To-day the party whom
lie and bis colleagues denouneed as belng
disloyal, have done more la tlie past twelve
years to build Up the solidarity of the empire, to unale it solid aud strong than
bis gevernment did la the 18 years the
W'e have niot waited for
wvere in poiwer.
Englanil to asic us for help. We have gone
and offered our help te England, and have
given our heip on the battlefields of South
Africa even agaluist our traditions and sentiments, because we Canadians believe in
bomle mile for ourselves for which we
fouglit la 1837, and home rule w-hidi w-e are
prepareil f0 give to the people of Ireiand.
In the unfortunate w-ar in South Africa
w-e, agalnst our Sentiments, but as a manifestation of loyalty to fie empire, sent
our sous of ail ýclasses, creeds and naflonalities te upliold tint -flag whieh flie Prime
Miaister of Eugianil, ou account of w-bat
consideration I cannot tell, but ln bis
w-isdoml and judgment, thînks If Is unneecssary and inadvlsabie f0 ioisf on our
public buildings on Empire Day. Tic lessons I draw fromn that statement Is tuis,
that w-e are nef to be called upon to dlisHon. '.%r. CLORAN.

play more imperialistic senti ments thani
the mother country Itself. If 1, or any one
like me, dared to risc on the floor of parliameut or auy p]atform lu the country and
Say
Canadians, if is inailvisabie te ralse
the Union Jack on Empire Day,' I would
be denounced lnimediately as a traitor, as
the disloyal man w-ho N-anited f0 disrupt
the empire. But w-heu the Prime Minister
of Great Brifain anil of the empire States
on the floor of the Britîsli Hlouse of Coinmous, thaf it is luailvisable te boist the
flag ou Empire Day, N-hat is the spectacle ?
A youiig colony like Canada stands up and
says that the Britishi Prime Minister is
lisloyal ;is nof truc f0 flic empire ;is false
to bis duty andl te bis King-. Is tîaf tlie
message w-e are f0 seuil frein this bionourable Semiate andl pai-liamient f0 the linperl
goverin
? Why wcv are prsuminig 011 OUr youthîful streîîgtlî .11d on1 a
tliing w-hieli w-e do flot possessM7e ai-e
presumiuîg oni a tliiiig w-hici is not nie. sary for the building up of this c-ountmy,
andl that'is this intense imperialistic "eiltiment thiat Canada can liever prospe- ami
go alhead
ithout bcing bound up te flc
al)rou sfrings of the motiier country. Tha t
feeling does imot exist !i England ; but Nve
have a certain ciass of cifizens in Canada
viowisb f0 impose it on1 fle people. We
have iu fuis despateli an object lesson coining from tue Prime MNiniister of fhli epire, saying flînt thîls flag- flying is simply
a burlesque andl he.ivants nofhîing of flie
klnd. He does not believe fluat loyalty te
tic empire is bouud up l a flag that w-avcs
lu tie breeze.
He does net tvalit flie
Engiish people f0 believe tîlat their loyalfy depends on the flag flyiuig eve
a
public building.
Fie waufs his people to
undersfand that the solidity of flic empire
remains lu flic policy of tie govremmeuît
w-hidi wll do besf And most for flue
people.
He w-ants, the people to understand f bat the solidity andl pi-osperlty of the empire depenils on Ifs internai
pellcy, and he does not look for flag
shows.* He appeals to the people of Eiug]aund to support bis policy for flic building up* of fie empire and flot to simpiy say
w-e are Englishmen because we hoist the
flag.
Thaf Is flic position hie lias taklen.
und wiiy sluouid w-e icre lu Canada be

11AY 14, 1908
pride of caste,
called upon to do more ? We are aidiug loyal throughi any faise
jand lioisting the flag bere or there ; wve
to build up the empire more than the
luterests are bound
people at home eau imagine ; we are are loyal because our
those of the empire at present, and
spending millions upon millions on the up with
any otber nonogeconstruction of public works which will 1 say to-day. let flot lie or
*'aitdown.' Tbe
redound to the advantage of the empire. nanian senator say to me,
rail- time bas gone by for sitting dbwn and
We are building up transcontinental
We are
ways and opening up great water routes looklng wise and saying nothing.
bere to discuss the interests of the counto the advantage of tbe empire at large.
try. We are bere to see what young
We are doing ail that without any show. t
will ever be
The Liberal party bas doue it, aud our!ICantada wants, and 1 for one
bast tbeir prepared to stand by w-bat is just and fair
good Conservative fnieuds bave
the Domiîîgreat battie cry. Tbey eau never now aud bonourable ln building up
aud Ion, lu standing by the empire, not w'lth
go to Englaud aud before the world
1 or any
aay that the Liberals are disloyai. Tbey auy false cry of ioyalty, and wbeu
young member like me 'May so dedid that effectually during ten or tm-elve other
klnd, we
long yeara, but to-day the policy of the sire to discuas a question of this
put dowu as traitors ;as disLiberal party bans sbo-wn that no more shall not bie
of the
truly loyal people exist than the Liberals of loyalists. I criticised the affairs
la
W7e made our late sovereigu, Militia Department of Canada, that it
Canada.
not fair that six or seven million dollars
Queen Victoria, feel that Canada possessedl
and gold
one of the greateat statesmen lu lier em- sbould lie spent on liass buttons
braid for men who are of uo use to the
pire ln the person of Sir Wilfrid Laurier.
Let it be
We bave made King Edward'feel that be country, generals and so ou.
canais, let it be speut on our
bas no more truthful, loyal and more cou spent on
rageous allies lu the building up of bis farinera and ou our w'ater routes.
An lion. MlNEM-BER-H-ow mnany genieempire than the saine Canadian people.
We bave offered to the British empire, rais ?
the last liuk to make this one solid emHon. Mr. CL(JRAN-I question not the
pire, and that la the AIi-Red hune between
tbrougb the waters juat tbe number, but the number is there. I bave
the empire
the
same as we bave establisbed It tbrough said more than I iutended ; but wbeu
It tbrough thie lion la pricked, wbien the lion la pierced
the land. We bave bouud
the
waters by the cable, aud w-e waut to blnd lie has got to rebouud libe bas to fight.
the man wbo dared to conidema hlm into ailtbis empire over -the land aud over
to
seas. There Is the work o! the Liberal ence, wlio dared to say be had no right
growl or groan or roar. 1 bave doue
party without appealiug to the fiag. We
done.
bave not heard our premier say : 'An Eug- probabiy more than I sbould bave
are. there, and I stand for
lishman I was boru and an Englishman I My sentiments
I
waut to die,' but we bave lieard hlmi say : tbem before the people of Canada.
tbe
A Canadian 1 was bornansd a Canadian stand for 'tbern before the people of
before
1 will die, bound as a loyal subjeet to tbe British empire. I stand for tbem
empire, because the. empire lias protected the niembers of the Britishi goverument,
our intereats and given us aIl we waut.' ani 1 aak, theni to pasa judgment upon
Tbere is the bistory of the Liberal party, -wbat I bave said and, wbat tbe others bave
faim
and wlieu au bon. gentleman like the sald and not said, If I ar n ot.in a
for Hastings, ex-Prime way to do more for tbe building up and
bon. member
than
Minister. says to -me, «ait dowvn, ex- consolidatlng* o! the Britishi empire
1 feel now tue flireats and commanda o! these octopress not your opinion.?
the
that lie was afraid of the trutb, afraid genarians wbo are out of toucli with
be- people to-day, wbo were probably good
tii know that young Canada does not
the
lieve in the taise cry o! bis old leaders sixty years ago, but are no longer lu
the mardi o! clvilizatlon-civilizaand o! bimself, that we are loyal because lune witb
we are faitbful to our duties and faitb!ul] tion of politica, I mean-and other subjecta.
to the traditions of thc past. We are not Let it lie understood that wben auy young

SENATE
iriember rises on the floor of tlîis House it
shall neyer be said to hlm again 'Sit
dow n.' The word belongs to Russia. anid
we are flot a part of Russia. We are a
part of the British empire, «%vhlch I arn
proud to belong to, and to wbicb 1 would
like to see the poliey of tire present Prime
Mlfnister developed, so that it could be one,
unIted and Indivisible, and that is, that
Premier Aisquitb and bis governent. andl
Lloyd George, and Wiriston Churchill, coinbining with the others, sbould give to the
littie Erneraid Isle that measure of borne
ruie wbich we have bere to-day and under
the aegis of wbichi 1 speak ry sentints
and feelings so freely to-day. Let that
goverament give to Ireland wbat w-e bave
here, and the empire will be ail at one, ail
at pence, ail in harmony, -ad tben. these
forces united with the good, will of Canada, with the good will of the South African colonies and Australia, we can afford
t0 stand and 100k on at the rest of the
world carrying on its batties of war one
against the other. England. thien can .say
to itself 'I arn safe at home and I arn just
as safe abroad-.' There is the expression
of opinion tbat I give vent to to-day on bebaif of the Canadian people, of ourselves,
and on bebaîf of the British government.
Honl. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-As an octogenarian, I have the sense to speak w'ben
I think 1 shouid speak. and I have the
sease to be sulent when I know I should
be silent. This question bas expanded to
a mucb larger degree than It should
have. The question of the iffag is a very
simple tbiug.
If the Governor Generai
order the flag to be put up, or If tbe
Premier of Canada orders it to be put up,
It will be put up, and If it is not put up 1
do flot tbiak there Is a great deal of harm
done. We are just as loyal witbout the
fag being put up as we are with it, and
I bave often said that there has been too
much stated about what Canada did In
regard to assistance In the South African
war. The littie colony of New Zealand
wltb about 800,000 inhabitants dld more
than the wbole Dominion of Canada Ia that
'war, and they have neyer mrade a boat of
It. I do not think we bave done too mucb.
Perhaps If we examine ourselves more
closely we niigbt corne to tbhr conclusion
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

that we bave done too littie.
Tihe question is, wbvat is before the Ilouse ?
Hon. «Mr. DERBYSII1IE--fTbat is wbat
we wvoul(l like to know.
Hou. Mr. ROSS (H-aifatx)-If we have
business w-e sbould proceed witb it in the
rigbt w-ay, and If we have no business, theri
îwe bave no righit to be Irere.
Hou. '.%r. DO'MVILLE-I sbould like -to
say a word, and I riam really serious in tis
matter. 1 fnui speakiag to the motion of
rny lion. friend. I liold in my baud the
Kiag's regulations, wbich states on wbat
occasionis the Union Jack is to be hoisted.
Hou. Mr. POWER-We do not want to
knoxv that.
Hou. Mr. DOMVn-ILLE-Tlie lion. gentlemran is irot the wlbole Ilolse. 1 arn speaking to the motion for adjourmunent, and I
desire to eall attention to the King's regulations wbhich states on w-bat occasions
the Union Jack is to be bnisted, and Empire Day is one of those occasions on
wblcb that flag sbould bc put up ;therefore I take It tbat Mr. Asquith is flot
to. be congratulated upon the fact that
bie does not tbink It proper that the Union
Jack sbould be raised. For mny part. with
regard to our part iii the South African
w-ar, 1- entirely disagree -%itb the statement made by the bon. senior member froîn
Halifax. We sent mien f rom Canada to
South Africa and they shed their blood,
and ail the nobiiity and the sons of nobility served la Africa, and I do not think
that their serviecs should be iightiy referred to, or that they shouid receive a
call-down from this Huse or an expression
that w-e did not consider Canada bad done
very. much.
The motion w-as deciared. lost.
LAND TITLES ACT AMFENDIMENT BILL.
The House resoived itself into Committee of the Whole on Bill (113) An Act to
amend the Land Titles Act.
(In the Comrnittee.)
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before the hon.
Secretary of State proceeds wltb this Bill,
may I point out to bini that this Act bas
been repealed as to the new provinces of
Alberta and, Saskatchewan.

INIAY 14, 1908

Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Tt
apply te the Yukon.

wvas

intended te

bers of the ciiureh-.iud those things happen-and the congregatien splits lu two,
then where is the titie to the land ?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My own impresHon. Mr. SCOTT-The majorlty would
sion was that it was lntended that the Act
rule.
should not stand« repealed s0 far as te
unorganlzed portions cf the Territorles and
Hon. Mr. POWER-I de not know ; perI haps ht would. 1 do flot think* the lanthe Yukon Territorles are concerned.
would refer my lion. frlend to the orders guage used here is, on the 'whole. the best
In councl repeaing these Acta se far as sulted for the purpose. I notice that ln
Alberta and Saskatchewani are concerned. the province of Nova Scotia there is a
Tbe orders lu councîl will be found lu the provision wvlth respect to r<eli.-0us congrestatutes of 1906-7 on page 103. They read gations, a portion of which reads as folas follows
lows :
By order in ceuncil of -the 23rd of July,
1. (1) When any number . f persans not
1906, under subseotion 1 cf section 1 of the less than 20, capable of contracting, desire to
Act 4-5 Edward VII, ohapter 18, entitled An forai themnselves into a congregationl of ChrisAct ta amend the Lands Tities Act, 1894, and tans for the public worship of God according
in view cf the f sot that the legisiature cf the to their peculiar rights and ceremonies, they
province cf Albierta, bas passed ani Art re- may by dieed by therm exeairted ini the presence
lating to the registration cf land tities, it is cf two or more witnesses, constitu-te themordered that the Land Titiee Act, 1894, e.nd selves suoh congregation, and adopt a suitahie
each and every of its ainending Acts, except ninse therefor and deolar the place where
the said chapter 18 of 4-5 Edward VIT, shall the saine is established, and the particular
be repealed iii e .far -as they -apply te the &aid denommiation of Christianes with ilhose docprovince of Alberta, such repeals te take effeet trines such congregation is connec-ted.
as provided by the subsection 2 of the abe>ve
(2.) They may also by such deed nine two
quoted section 1.
or more persons of the congregation to be
VAQdCallad.-: ' Gazette,' vol xl.. page 364.
trustees thereof, and give thenm the naine of
The same order ln council n'as passed office, and describe 'oy bounds any land conSo tbat veyed ta or inI trust for the congregation for
witb reference to Saskatchewan.
connected with euch congregation
frieud bad better allen- the mat- any purpose
niy bon.
and se forth the constitution cf the congregation, the mode cf admission cf future
ter te stand If lie desires te look Into It
nnembers, by whom the right of voting at
furtber.
meetings shall le enjoyed, hcw -the votes shall
lie ascertained and given, the ma.nner in
Hon. Mr. SC4Y1!I-It was brought up at which. vacaricies in the trust shall le suppilied
of the Churcli of England ln and such other particulars as they thinik
the Instance
the Yukon, lu the unorganized districts proper.
(3.) Every such deed sasil be recorded hY
there, and it wnas then referred te the De- the trustees or other person on behaif of the
partment of the Interior, and referred te *congregation in a book te be k-ept for- that
purpose, and shall be registered in the rethe Department of Justice, who pronounced gistry of deeds for the registration district
upon It. They thought it would, meet tbE in wihich the congregiation is established.
ail the
conditions li the Yukon and lu ather atm- * 2. tTpon the deed being se registered
land described therein and aIl real and perdistricts. I wlll call the attention ai -;anal property granted ta the congregation or
lar
te their use shall lie vested in -the trustees
the Justice Department ta lt.
na-med in the deed for the use cf the congregation.
Hon. Mr. PO>WER-I wish te expres,
the opinion that the anguage used here fi
I think that is a method of procedure
rather too vague, and Is hiable te lead t( whlch is less Ilkely to Tead ta trouble lu
subsequent difficulty. The clause reads :
the future.
123a. The bishop of uny chureh, or aný
is a phrase In
trustees cf, any church, or sny congregatici 1 Hon. Mr. ELLIS-There
of any churoli. holding land for the purpoe Sthe Bill here:
cf snch church or congregation shall respec
And land so held shall devolve respecti'rely
tively, with regard ta snob land and an deal
upon the successor ln office of snch .bishop or
ings tberewith, be deemed ta a a, boy cor
trustees
shah d£ upon the isucsqsors in office cf .such
and politie; and the se held
!orate respectively apon land successor in offic e duly -appointed in manner by law or by euch
valve
church or congregation prescribed.
cf snch bishop or upon the enceessors lu offlo e
This Is a general law and makes proof such trustees duiy appointed in -maniner
1by law or by suoh cbnrob or congregation pr( vision for some law creating sucli consc.ribed.
does flot appear f rom wbat my
If the niembers of the cburch are te b e ditions. It
what lie refers
corporate, suppose there 1s hon. frlend bas read that
deemned a body
i- te Is prevented by that. There xnay be a
a difference of opinion between the mnen

SENATE
secession in the cburclb .and the question
would stili remain as to wLio -%ould constitute the body. 1 do not think there la
inucl inl the objection.
lion. Mr. LOUIGHEED-Whclin the Bill
carne up for second reading, I took the
liberty of objectlng to it. I amn qulte ia
accord with wbat the lion, gentleman from
Halifax bas said. If lands are t0 be, beld
by trustees, the trustees sbould become lncorporated. the saine as any company becornes lnceorporated, or the saine as any
cburch or otiier body of that kind becomes
lncorporated. That at present la tbe law,
and there is no reason wby any exception
should, be made, and more particularly la
view of the fact that under tbe Land Titles
Act a certificate of tîtie is lssued by the
government and the titie guaranlteed by the
Crowa. The trust does net appear upon the
certillcate of titie, and no attention 15
pald to the trust ;consequently tbose trustees that may be appoiated, and posslbly
appointed by an irresponsible meeting of
the congregation, or mar- fot be representative of the congregation, could dispose of
theqe lands witbout practically accountlng
to aaybody for tbem. The question might
arise on the part of tbe members of the
congregation wbo had claimed to be such,
that tbey bave no status in the congregation ; and consequently bave no
locus sta-nd! ia court is asking the trustees
to accouat for the proceeds of the land. So
many questions can arise as to the power
of people acting ia that capacity, that 1
think the leg-isiation on ita face Is vlclous.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was predlcated on
the assumption that It would apply only f0
remote and distant places, where It was not
possible to apply for incorporation. Years
ago, a great deal of. cbnrch property
throughout Canada was beld by trustees,
or by the -clergymen in trust for the clîurch.
There were very few religions bodies up
f111 fifty or sixty years ago, and that was
the ordlnary way and'-it seems admirably
adapted for bodies of Christians in remote
regions wbere they bave aot the means or
tbe opportunity of procuring Incorporation.
It la probably of very littie value. The
special case that waa brougbt t0 the notice
of the minIster was la the unincorporatcd
portion of the northera section of the counHon. Mr. ELLIS.

try in the Yukon. It was f0 ineet a case
there, wbere they liad a churcb and no
corporate organizatiou, and the subject wns
referred to the Departaient of Justice, aad
they pronounced upon the Bill aîîd prepared
it for tbe 'miniater. However, I wjll bring
to the notice of the departmnent the objections whlcb have been urged by my bon.
friend. I cannot foresbadow that any miscblef or injury can arise, because it will
not be adopted by any of the larger bodies
that are now in a financial position to
secure incorporation whicb, of course, is the
proper and legitîmate way for sucb organizatiens to lîold property.
I move that the cemmittee rise, report
progress and ask leave to sit again.
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN from the committee reported that tbey liad made seme progress with the Bill, and asked leave te sit
again.
CANAýDA SIIIPPING ACT A.%ENDMNlTI
BILL.
Tbe House resolved ltself into Commiit-

tee of the Wbole on Bill (NN) An Act te
amend the Canada Shipping Act.
(in tbe Committee.)
Hon. Sir RICHARD

CARTWIRIGHT-I

may mention that the object of this Bill la
t0 enable tbe goverameat f0 register the
vessels -wbicb they own. It appears that
under tbe existing law tbere is n douubt
wbetber that can be legally done, and tbe
departmnent want to clear that up. Sometblng of the samne kInd bas been done la
the British parliameat, I believe.
On clause 8,
3. The said Act is amended by inserting the
following section immediartely after section
75-75a. The minister may refuse to admit -te
the exami.nations rnentioned ia the two preceding sections any person domiciled in Canada who is a 6ubject or citizen of a country

in whieh British subjects do not eajoy simi.lar
pririleges- in respect of such examinaitions.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We sbould kno«w
-whereia the amending clauses dIffer from
the Act as If stands.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe objecf of this clause la to, enable the
Minister of Marine and Fisheries f0, refuse
the examination of persons domiciled bere,
If the country of whicb tbey are citizens or
subjects do not grant similar privileges to
British subjects.

MAY 14, 1908vi
business of the
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Is that cbanging suffcieut to carry on the
country, and if the law is put In force the
the law in that respect?
the present condition
ICHAD CATWRIHT-effect will be to make
Hon.Sir
The business of the
things stili worse.
CARTWRGHT-of
on.hl aprs ICAR
must be carrled on, and if yeu get
be ew.country
ppers
t
No, his
fromn
Hon. Mr. POWER-I wish to say a few nien to corne from, no matter where,
The Norway, or the United States or Gerrnany,
,words wlth respect to this clause.
they
section whlch Lt lB proposed to repeal prnc- to live here-because to be dorniciled
must be here with the intention of remainticallywell as
llg-I tblnk It is a most fool.ish as to these
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, Lt adds to it.
an improper line of policy to say
of
Hon. Mr. POWER-It cornes very near men, 'You shal flot have certificutes
We shal nlot admit you to exrepealing IL Section 75 reads as followst. thîs kind.
You shall have no opportunity
75. Exarninations rnay be instituted ini Can- arnination.
unada for British subjects or for versons dorni- to MIt the vacant places on our ships,
ciled in Canada for at least three years who
bas
to whicli you belong
;ntend to become masters or rnates of ships less the country concession to British subtrading on the inland waters of Canada, or made theI sarne
arn somewhat surprised that the
or on
on the. minor waters of Canada,procure coast- J-ets.'
certiing voyages, or who wish to
hion. Minister of Trade nd Commerce
ficates of competency or service,
as godfather,
2. Foreign subjects- serving ini ships regis- sbould be prepared to nct
tered in Canada and tradina- on the inland even to a Bill of. that kind.
waters of Canada. or in the minor waters in
lIon. Sir RICHARD CAILTWRIGHIT-I
Canada whiie so serving. 57-58 Victoria, 42,
section 4.
It
rnay rernark that this is permissive.
76. Subject to the provisions of this part,
lu bis discusthe minister shahl provide for such examin- sîrnply ailows the minîster, if the hon. gension, to refuse. However,
stions at such places as hie sees fit.
The amendrnent proposes to say that the tleman wants to discuss this miatter, I have
mInister rnay refuse to admit to examina- no objection to allow the clause, or sirnilar
tion nny person domniciled in Canada w~ho is clauses, to stand tili I confer with rny cola subject of a country which does not league. I would not he disposed to nccept
grant the sane privilege to British sub- an amendmnent strlking that out until I
jects. I must say that 1 do not think that confer witb hlm.
clause ought to commend ltself to the comLLTi
o.SrMCEZEBI
The present law provides for permittee.
the hou. Minister of
ia Canada for at least three la a question that
sons domilled
and Commerce knows very wel bas
yenrs. Now when yon say a rnan is demi- Trade
agitating the sallors and masters of
clled anywhere it mens that hie la lu that been
there. ships la Ontario for a great many years,
place witb the Intention of remalning
whlle the interpretatioli ls given by the
If a man cornes luto this country, say frorn and
of hon, gentleman whe has mast spoken as to
the United States, with the intention
constitutes a domicile, that thilee
returning to the United States, he Is not what
years' residence In a country is to be conI contend that any
domlclled in Canada.
a domicile. what would you do witb
man who bas been dorniciled lu Canada for sidered
a man who was In the country about six
three yenrs should not be refused a certifiWould hie be domiciled under
ît montha?
1 say that on general grounds.
caste.
the Interpretation the bon. gentleman gives
19 an lnhuman sort of proceediag I think,
the clause?
-position who advocated good-fellowsblp to
Hon. Mr. POWER-I shoiild not say
good feeling arnongst people of difand
who resided in the country
ferent opinions a littie wahile ago. wilI con- that a man
should have n rlght ; but If
cur wlth me with respect to thus matter. six months
I do not care If It
That Is one point. I thiak Lt la lm- a man La dornlciled,
tbree nionths, when he la
proper, and that Lt la legisîntion which be- were only for
It mens he Is here with the
longs to a darker age tban thls altogether. doiiled here
of remalulng.
Then there Is this other point: unless I arn intention
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLlsinformed. the number of qunllfied mastthe marimates nt the present tirne ls not Whatever miay be the practice in
ers and
REVISED

EDITION

SENATE
time provinces, I amn not prepared ta say,
but we know very well the practice In
Ontario or on the western lakes bas been
for citizens of the United States ta cross
the border and pass that exarninatian and
occupy positions tbat sbould be occupied
by our own subjects; but a Canadian who
crosses the Une and enters the United
States, wii flot be permitted, noa matter
wbat bis qualifications may be, ta obtaîn
a certIficate ta sal a sbip, or ta become
master of a sbip.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Uniess hie takes
the oath of aliegiance.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I amn
speaking of those wbo are not United
States subjects.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-WVe want ta get
ail these peaple inta aur country-Yankees and everybody else.
Hon. Sir MÂ.CKENZIE BOWELL-I axa
speakîng of those wha have gone ta the
United States, who bave not taken the
oath of allegiance, and 1 arn speaking of
the privilege given la the past ta citizens of United States w-ho have corne ta
Canada wbo have flot became British subjects, and I arn glad ta see the gaverament bas adopted this principle. It ls
true that according ta this clause it leaves
the question optional wvlth the Minister
of Marine and Fisheries. I would go much
furthier and prevent it aitogether. If my
opinions were of any value, I would place
the United States citizens la Canada, ln
reference ta the certificate ta enabie thern
ta sal a vessel, la preclseiy tbe sarne position that the United States places a Oaaadian or British subject whea he -goes ta
tbat country. I sincerely hope that the
Minister of Trade and Commerce wlll nat
bold ta tbe suggestion which bas been
made, ta leave the iaw as it has been on
the statute-boak for years ; but wii enforce this new provision. If au extraordinary case arises by whicb It would be
necessary ta obtain a master of a vessel,
and a Canadian was not obtainable at the
moment, the minister then bas the privilege of adrnittlng an allen. ta 'an examination and ta grant hlm a certificate, and
those are ail tbe concessions I wonld be
wllling ta give under tbe clrcumstances.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

lion. Mr. DOMVILLE-You talk about
we are right
the maritirne provinces;
alangside of the United States people. We
like thern as weil as we like our own peopie, and sorne of us like them hetter thau
they do a good many of our people, and
they are a very respectable class. My
hon. friend tram Hastings was dowii ln
rny cauaty, on one occasion, and he was
well treated there ; but what I do uot lîke
of mv bon. friend's position ls this : that
hie, as a Conservative, is backing up a
Liberal motion, xvhlch is illiheral ln its
provisions. Then niy hon. friend must have
joied our side.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
sornewhat at a lacs ta understand what
the hion, gentleman means.
Hou. 3%fr. LÂNDRY-Daes be understand
Iirniselt ?
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I do
liat thiak lie does. I repudiate the statenment hie axakes, that I spoke as a Conservative. 1 spoke as a British subject and a
Canadian, and I say I woald extend ta
the United States no further privîleges
than they extend ta us. That may be a
Conservative doctrine; I hope it is, and I
should like ta see ever3' Liheral adopt it.
Han. Mr. DOM VILLE-I differ tram my
lion. friend eutireiy. If the United States
or Hungary, or South Af rica, choose ta
enact laws which are against the present day Christian religion, I cannot agree
wlth hM.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-We shauld set a noble
example.
Hion. Mr. McGREGOR-We should be as
generoùs as the United -States. They do
not require a man ta be there three years.
If he is aniy one month la the United
States and makes a deciaratian, be can
clear a ship.
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I arn quite la
accord with thc legisiatian, aotwithstanding the anticipations of the hon. gentleman
frorn Halifax. I thlnk the tirne bas arrlved wben there should be reprisais of
this sort as between the United States and
Canada. If our men are not gaad enougb
ta he admitted as masters 0f shlps ln the
-United States, then their citizêns are nat

MAY IL. 1908

D

good enougb ta be admitted as masters of a.djustment of conditions in regard to that
abips In Canada, and I would make aur question.
caasting laws quite as strict a the cOastý
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-England le a free
ing laws of the United States witb regard
ountry. When a man goes ta England,
ta Interchange with their people. Thene areC oes lie have to take the oath of aileglance
ailier reasons why this legisiatian should d efore lie can command a ship ? Dld any
be paseed, In my judgment-natiolial rea-b ýon. gentleman ever hear of such a thlng?
sans. Thene may be times wben It woul« qever. Men may be offered to filI the polie wise In the Interests of Canada that itions an the slip. and the owner may
this discretIan sbould be vested In the iot want them ; lie may know a good
minieter ta prevent: fareign subjects tram nan, residlng In Boston, who would suit
becoming masters of Canadian or Britishb ilm, and yet lie would lie toid that lie
vessels.
ould not employ that man.
Han. Mr. ELLIS-I concur witb the lion.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The lion. mnister
gentleman tram Halt ai. I think It le n las agreed to let this clause stand.
ridiculous and foalish thlng for any caunHan. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTtry ta ebut itself ont frorn ueing the serman who cau render it ser- i would prefer ta go tbrough the Bill, and
vices of any
vice, and I do nat agree with the pnotec- if there are clauses ta which the bon. gentianist doctrine my han. frlend, tram Hast- tleman objecte, I amn prepared ta aliow
ings enunciates. Because the United States Ier ta stand until I can confer with rny
or any other country does a foolish thlag coiieague.
le no reason why we should falaw a bnd
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before we leave
exampie. It very otten happens--aioag the thi clause, can the hon. gentleman say
caet at any rate-I do not know how it bow many nations refuse ta permit Brimay lie an the great lakes--but I observe tish subjects ta become masters of veesels
tram the observations of the bon, gente
wlthln their waters ?
man tram Hastings, that there le on these
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTlakes a sort of union or trades alliance
as against outsiders that we require That I arn not able ta say off-band.
ta get anybody we cau.; and ta shut aur- But I think prababiy, In all Ilkeliselves out tram bavlng aur coasting ves- baod, that the parties that are alrned at
sels prapenly manned and pnoperly man- are the Inhabitants of the United States.
aged, simply because of the tact that a I have no doubt about that, and that very
I
man le a Norwegian or a United States few of the others would be affected.
think, for Instance, the Norwegians wauld
we do not get tbe sme
citizen, and that
privileges ln bis country, Io a piece ot flot be affected by this, or any of the Scandinavian nations.
great toollelinese.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-The hon, gentleman
have, in
Han. Mn. McGREGOR-We
aur shipe, very otten officere who mîglit find out about that.
sallng
are f oreigners. We may have a NarweHon. Sîr MACKENZIE BOWED-Is
gian wha le mate of a ship, wba has neyer thîs clause sufficiently wide ta meet the
had an opportnnity ta become domiclled. cases mentioned by the bon. members tram
If the captain dies, the mate takes hie Pictau and St. John?7
It leaves It optional
place. The owner of the ship should be wlth the minister of tlie day ta exercise
permittedl ta decide wbo le ta be the mas- dîscretian in matters of that kind, and If
ter.
there were cases simular ta that ta whlch
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It lie becomes the hou. gentleman has called the attennatunallzed, lie le quaidfed. The orden la tion of the commlttee, the minister would,
cauneil, which doubtless 'would be passed, In the interest of those intereeted, the ehipIt does flot
would make sme provision for that. The owners, grant the permission.
latitude given Ia the proposed legisiatian go as far as 1 lidlcated a few moments ago
It le not lef t suffile sufficiently wide ta permit of a praper I should like it ta go.

SENATE.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (H-alifax)-There are veseŽIs owned lu Nova Scotia that are regîsered lu ports lu the West Indies ln order
luit those having coastiug certificates *may
s ail those vessels wlthout hein- subject toi
On. clause 98a.
iavlug a captala and mate's certificates.
The four preceding sections shall apply )ur experleace iu Nova Scotia is that our
also to British ships registered eisewhere
oasters, as a mile, are more successfui ln
thau in Canada.e
;alIing- their own vessels even to forelga
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- E orts tban perhaps those who have certifiThe clause that Is proposed to be arnended mites as captaias aud mates, and that Io
Is for this purpose; It is proposed to take why they object to that clause.
power to, compel British ships meglstered
The clause was adopted.
elsewhere thau lu Canada to obey the mequirernents contained lu the four sections
On the 5th clause.
eaumerated w-heu sailing f rom a Canadan
Act is amnieded by
5. Section 100
As the law now stands, a British nserting after of the said' hire' in the third
port.
the word
ship registered elsewvhere than la Canada ime thereof the words ' or to steamers of not
may sal out of a Canadian port lu charge more than five tons gross tonnage.'
of aur one. whetluer certificated or uot. It
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
la to preveut this state of affalrs that the. may mention the reason for this is to aliow
iaw la beiug amended.
sinali gasoline yachts to carry passengers
without having certificated masters ln
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-The objection charge.
to this clause Is this: Iu the case of Nova
Hon. Sir MAL4CKENZIE BOWELI-How
Scotla they register their vessels lu some
ports of the West Indies in order that cap- far would that apply to vessels of the chartalus and mates haviug certificates for acter to whlcli the bon, gentleman refers
coastlug miaF sal to the West Indies, aud salling on the lakes? I could understaud
they wouid consider It a great bardsblp If that lu the iniand waters, the baya and lathis clause were insisted ou. I was direct land rivera, the coucession is a very good
ed by some of the ship-owners of Nova one, but sailiug on the great laktes is as
dang-erous as ou the sea itself.
Scotia to object to this clause aitogether.
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTWhere the tonnage is so small as five tons
Practicaliy spealzliug. rny bon. frieud will
gross tonnage I do not thiuk there wouid be
note that the object of this provision is to,
inucb risk lu giving the privilege.
compel parties saillug a shlp ont of a Canadian port to be certificated.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-Would that exempt the ordinary pleasure yacht?
POWER-As I uaderstaud It,
Hou. M.%r.
at the present time a Canadin lias to be
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
certificated.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTFive tous wouid cover practically speaking
Hon. 31r. SCOTT-Yes.
1 do not
what are known as launches.
lion. Mr. POWER-Aud this la to appîr think ft would cover anythiag that ought
lt to British ships?
properiy be calied a yacht. My hou. frieud
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-It la to put British pmobably la aware that- ou our lnIaud watships on the same plane as Canadian ships. ers, and iudeed on ail our lakes, there are
a large umbem, a growiug number of small
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIG-HT- lanches mangiug from 20 to 30 feet. They
This will not corne Into force until It bas are usualiy worked by their owuers, aud
been pmociaimed by au order of the Gov- It wouid be almost au absurdlty to mequlme
ernor lu Counceil.
that these should have cetificated masters
SCOTT-With the approval of ia charge, If tbey presume to take a pasHou. Mmf.
seuger or two ou them.
Marine Department.
the British
BOWELI
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE
cieutly open to meet ail1 the cases to which
objection wvas inade.s
The clause was allowed to stand.t

MAY 14, 1908

917

On the 7th clause.
7. Subsections 1 and 2 of section 141 of the
aid Âct are repealed and the following are
ubstituted therefor
141. Every shipping master or deputy ehipHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRLIGHTping master shall be entitled ta a fee ofiAt sucli a point ns Kingston, they cruise
(a) fifty cents on each engagement eflected
out same distance lnto the open 'water, and ,efore hl-m ia any of the provinces this part,
the same is the case at Toronto, Cobourg and,
any discharge of a sea(b) thirty
This re- nan effected cents on him ia any of the said
and various ports on the lakes.
before
fers ta vessels which take passengers for provinces.
2. In the province of British Columbia
hire.
evry shipping master and deputy shipping
rrovided
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-This naster may, until otherwîse and receiveb:y the
from
jioveruor in Council, take
permits vessels af five tons ta carry pas- hie master of any vessel and remuneration
agreed upon between them. not exoeeding ten
sengers.
dollars including the fee of fifty cents provided in paragraph (a) of subsection 1 of this
Hon. Sir RICHARD OGARTWRIGHTsection, for the hiring or supplying of anyv
Yes, it la bel ter ta legalize It.
9eaman by such shipping master or deputy
the case may be, for such
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I arn glad that this shipping master, as
vessel.
because there are many-places
Is permitted,
Hon. Sîr RICHARD CARTWRIGHTan aur small lakes on whichi there are pieaconand it wauld be a serions mat- There is n good deal of obscurity and
sure boats,
tusion nt present as ta whnt shipping master ta require thiem ta employ certificated
There ters and deputy masters are to be allowed
mnasters If they carry passengers.
to charge, and tis defines it.
wauld be na profit in the business nt ail.
The clause was adapted.
Hon. Mr. McGREGOR-Subclause 2 does
I sbauld
not affect aur province, daes It?
On the Oth clause.
decIdedly object ta paying a man $10 for
6. The said Act is amended by inserting the
followîng section immediately after section shlpping a nallor.
125.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT125a. Section 117 ta 125. inclusive, shall apply also ta British ships registered elsewhere Lt appies only ta British Columbia.
than in Canada.
Hon. Mr. RiLLIS-Would it flot be better
Han. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe reasan for this clause la that the pen- for the government ta pny these people
themalties for not having certlficated officers In regular salaries, and tnk-e the fees
of British steamers registe red else- selves?
charge
where than in Canada should apply. This
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTamendment la coasidered necessary in order Thiat Is a question I cannot answer. Owing
ta pravide a penalty for taklng a slip 0ut ta the difficulty of getting seamen on acof port without a proper certificated offcer counit of suspected crimplng which bene&ibeiDg la charge.
ted UnIted States ships In the neighbourLOUGHEDED-Could my hon. hood, the law was amended In 1905 so as
Hon. Mr.
friend aay anything A ta the constitution- ta allow a master or bis'deputy ta hunt Up
ality of the question which bas been very sallors, this being an entlrely different matoften raised, as ta whether we have any ter ta sIguing a seaman brought before him
autharity ta legislate with respect ta British for the purpase. A fee of $10.50 was au
tborized.
ahipping7

Han. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWE)LThose vessels, ns a rule, do not go upon
the lakes.s

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Mr. McGREGOR-I
My han. friend probably knows that In would encourage crimping.
matters affecting: British shipping the con- steal men from other ships ta
sent of the home autharities Is usually reThe clause was adopted.
quired. Their attention will, of course,
On thxe 8tb clause.
be calieci ta this shipplng Act, and they
may or may flot see lit ta disalaw part of
8. Section 384 of the said Act
It.
striking out the word 'two'
The clause was adopted.

am afraid it
They would
get the $10.50.

is amended bv
in the fourth

SENATE

PI8

lino of the said section and substituting therefor the words 'aone and one-haif '.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHE.D-How does My
hon. f riend corne to lower the duty on this
subject?

sion.
The clause was adopted.
.On the 12th clause.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThere are a number of exemptions and
partial exemptions under the law as It now
exlsts, and the object Is to makze these
plainer and consolidate them.
Hon. Mr. .LOTJGHE1ED-Can my lion.
friend say what additionai protection la reHon. Mr. SCOTT-SectIon ffl of the quired on boats by this registratlon?
Act explains It. The duty Imposed is two
Hon. Sir RICHARD C&RTWý%RIGHITcents for every ton of registered tonnage. They are made subJect to the provisions
cents.
This reduces Lt to one and one-half
of the general Act as regards passenger
steamboats.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-WbNy7
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-A question arises
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I suppose to encourin my mind as to whether the interpretation
age trade.
placed upon the word 'passengers' whIch
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWERÀL-My we have already passed, does not give tee
own opinion la that It is a good provision, great latitude that might resuit In exemptand would be better If Lt were lower, be- Ing a passenger steamboat froni the burcause the smaller the tonnage dues and dens lmpesed upon lt; that is to say, the
other harbour charges ln any of our ports, passenger must be carried, for hire to be a
Now, many beats might posthe better for the shipping trade of the passenger.
country.
sibly evade that provision for the purpose
et escaping the Imposition placed upon a
Hon. Mr. POWER-It is a good thlng.
In
boat by adoptlng some other means.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-I do another clause, we enlarge the interprecent tation to be put upon a passenger se that a
not know why they have taken hait aL
master may carry bis family and guests
off.
and non-paying passengers without belng
Hon. ',%r. ELLIS-It is a very littie step
considered a master et a passenger boat.
in the right direction.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe clause was adopted.
He cannot carry anybody for hire.
On the lOth clause.
The clause was adopted.
10. Paragraphs (i) and (j) of section 565 of
On the l3th clause.
the said Act are repealed and the foliowing
are substituted therefor:
13. Section 591 of the said Act is repealed
(i) '.passefnger' meaxis any person carried
substituted therefor.
on a stearuboat other than the master and and the following is owner or engineer of
591. The mnaster,
crew, the uwner, his family and the servante .every steamboat, or the person in charge
connected with his household, and other than thereof, shail at the eariiest opportunity, after
the guests of the owner of any steamboat used the. occurrence of any event whereby the hull,
exclusively for pleasure, if such gusts are or the machinery or boiler thereof, or any
carried on sucb steamboat without remuner- part of any or either of the same is, in any
ation or any objeot or profit; and
weaken
(j) 'piassenger steamer ' means any steamn- material degree, injnred. strained. or inspector
ed. report such occurrence to the
boat carrying
oertificate.
who issued the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Mr. SCOTT-The only change here
There was some dispute as to the deflnition is the addition of the words 'Who issued
of ' passengers,' and they want to niake It the certîficate.'
The object Is to make .It quite
clear.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Why Is this change
clear that besides the master and crew, bis
For Instance, a ship gets ber cerfamily and household servants and non- made?

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIt ia simply a reduction ot the existIng
duty.
,Hon. Mr. LOUGHRIED-How wlll this
duty compare wlth the duties levied ln the
United States or British ports?7

lion. Mr. MeGREGOII.

MAY 15, 1908
tificate at Quebec. iShe is plying on
the coat of Nova Scotia and meets with
Why should the master
material injury.
who le, perhaps, making Halfax fis principal port, bie required to report to the luspector at Quebec instead of to the inspector of Halifax? I nnderstand that the inspector at Halifax might communicate wlth
the. inspector at Quebec, but lt seems to me
it would bie more convenient for the ship
al
h npetra
maxtlr tha reo.t
cse.understand.
fax n tat
Hon. Mr. LOUGHF>ED-The Inspector
who Issues the certificate might flot be
Another inspector mlght
filling the office.
position.
bie lu the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe presumptioli of the Iaw would bie tliat
bis successor would be entitled ta receive
the certificate.
Hon. *Mr. LOUGH&EED-I daubt very
much whether the Interpretatioi 'Act would
You
be sufficiently wide ta caver tbat.
do not refer to a man who beld a particli-

If ahe obto the head of Lake Superior.
lier certificats ln Montreai and
tained
should meet with an accident In Lake Superior, would she have to wait there until
the master or owner could report to the
man who granted the certificate ln Montreal?
TARWI
ICAD
Ho.Sr
suppose theveslWul beheld
Siot
don
caîhld
tohhic I hould
dp. Tt spon
Âs I
the attention of the department.
it, ail that lie would bie reqtiired
to do Is ta mail a wrltten report.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
the object of reporting would be, I fancy,
for the purpose of bavIng repairs made so
as to make the vessel safe lu proceeding
She would necessarily
on lier Journey.
ta lie held up awalting the certificate.
have
Tecluewsaotd
Han. Mr. WILSON, f romn the committee 1
reparted progress, and asked leave ta si t
again.

lar
act.three
o'clock.
____
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTthe department conAIl 1 can say le, that
THE SENATE.
sidered it would lie better ta have this as
OTTAWA. Frîday, May 15, 1908.
a rule made ta the man who lssued the
He must write or seud s recertificats.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Thres
port ta the party from whom lie obtalned
o'ciack.
the certificate.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-Tbere ls a
now at Gaspéi golng to Montreal
steamer
A QUESTION 0F PRIVILEGE.
wlth caal, and probably after she gets
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I shauld like ta
-Supthere she will require ta lis repalred.
os aasae
f h
teto
h
pose the original certificats was given ln u
the master nient which appears lu to-day's 'Gazette,'
Sydney, C.B., probalily It wns.
would have ta go there to get this certifl- which reads as follows:
enatar Domville. in aaswer ta an interrupcate reewed.
tian, stat.d that the vounger members of the
Hou. Sir RICHARD CA.RTWRIGHTta b~e caatralledl by the aidWould It not lie siifficient ln sucli a case,1 Sonate praposed
of the departixielt, er senlatars.
according to the rule
Now, I neyer made sucl a remark.
that a wrltten report be made ta the luIt
certificats.
spdetor who issued the
T-HIRD READING-S.
would not bie necessary ta report in perBill (41) An Act ta Incorporate the Stan
son; It would simply amount ta this, that
Conmpany ol f
whenever snch an injury occurs, the officer dard Plate Glass Insurance
Mr. Jaffray.)
ln charge would mail a report stating the Canada.-(Hofl.
Bill (73) An Act respscting the Quebe<c
partîculars of the lnjury ta the lnspector.
Lîglit and Power Companly.Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW.FI,-Take Railway,
Quebec or Montreal (Hon. Mr. Casgrain.)
a vessel plying from

SENATE
Bill (86) An Act to incorporate the North- for slaughiter shial be inspected, and so on,
ern Empire Raihway Company.-(-oni. -Mr. and ail carcases and portions thereof
DeVeber, Middlesex.)
qlaughtered and intended for export shall
Bill (53) An Act respectiag the New be inspècted as provided by the regulaBrunswick Southern Railway Company.- tions. Then section 6 provides that every
(Hon. Mr. Ellis.)
carcase or portion thereof found to be
Blill (101) An Act respecting the Fort Wil- bealthy and fit for food shall be marked
liam Terminal Rahlway nnd Bridge Com- by the inspector as provided by the regulations, &c. There was a proviso that the
pany.-(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
Governor in Council mighit exempt certain
MEAT AND CANNED GOODS ACT
establishments. Now ail are subject to
AMEND'MENT BILL.
the law ; but they must make out n case
for exemption before tbey are exempt. At
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
present It Is compulsory.
The House resohved itsehf into Committee
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It remnoves to
of the Whole on Bill (149) An Act to amend
the Governor in Council what parliament
the M-Neat and Canned Goods Act.
bas niade ob]igatory upon the cann)ers.
(In the Committee.)
On clause 1,

1. Section Il of the Meat and Caaaed Foods
Act, chapter 27 of the statutes of 1907, is repealed, and the following is substituted therefor.:
,11. The Governor in Council may, upon application of the owner thereof, exempt any
establishment from the operation of the provisions of sections 3 aad 4, and of sections 6
to 10, both inclusive, of this Act.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This gives power to
the Governor in Council to exempt any establishment from the operation of the provisions of tbose clauses.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I should
like to ask the hou. minister If the former
provision bas been found too exactlng or
too strict. Because this first clause repeals the former .Act and wIll give the
Governor la Council power to exempt any

packhng establishmeat from the operation
0f the provisions in sections 3, 4, 6 and 10
of this Act.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-T~he law couid be better observed by making It general, and If
you want to make aay exception to 11, let

It be brought before the Governor la Councl, and let hlm take the responslbility of
exemptiag in any particular locality.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-You cannot be too strict ln regard to canned
meats.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEEED-Can my hon.
friend explain wbat bas led to this amendment ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Three and four are
arbitrary provisions-ail animais intended
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE.

Hon. 31r. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wh'Iy should this
p)ower .be taken out of the statutes and
placed ln the Governor in Council, because
it would seem to me upon the face of
It to be very desirable that this obligation
should be compulsory and should flot be
optional.
It simply becomes optional If
the powers are vested in the Governor in
Council. That Is to say, whatever influence
may be brought to bear upon the Governor
in Council wlll determine whetlh(r they
are brought Into force or not.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The explanation, ln
addition to wbat 1 have just stated is as
follows: Sectioa il of the Act provides
that parts of the Act regarding compulsory
inspection shall apply only to sucli establishments as are from time to time' designated by order in councl.
After administering the law for some time, it was fouad
advlsable to apply tbem to ail establishments engaged in export trade, and this is
to empower the Governor in Council to
exempt small establishments whîch wiIl not
pay for the cost of Inspection.
The clause was adopted.
On cl ause 2.
2. Paragraph (a) of section 12 of the said
Act is amended -by adding thereto the foilowing
Or of the first dealer obtaiaing them direct
from the packer who sells or offers the said
articles for sale; and such dealer shall, upon
the request qf an inspecter appointed under
this Act, disolose the name of the-packer of
such article.

MAY 15, 1908
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The best assur. mce the publie bas of the quality of goods
Is through the label of the packer belng
How is the
ipon the can or package.
1 ublic to set ln motion the law, except there
Is some motive as to who originally was
*esponsible for the packing of Inferior
goads? The dealer may flot have any standi ng la the commuaity, may flot be known,
maay bave little interest ln the community
commercially or otherwise. I therefore say
the best assurance the public can have of the
superlor quality of goods, is through the
namne of tlie Uacker beiuig upon the original
When the government In'tro,
package.
Hon. Mr. LOIJGHEED-Wbereia would duced those amendmnents la the Ilouse of
If you release Commons, they were opposed to the packthat apphy to, the packer?
the packerTbey
age being marked by the dealers.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We do not rehease hlm wanted the original packer to, put bis brand
at all. -We simply permit the wholesale upon the package, and it was only through
man to bave bis label on the can, but the influence of the deniers brouglit to bear on
packer is stili hiable.
the government, after the Introduction of
is an alterna- the Bill, that thîs important departure was
.Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It
1 think it will be found that the
As the law aow stands, the packer made.
tive'
a certain way, opinion of the department ltself was that
must mark bis packages la
and It seemns to me that substltuting the the package sbould continue to bear the
1 amn not saying
denier for the packer is viclous la this re- brand of the deaier.
The dealer, for tbe purpose of ob- thiat the packer is relieved of the liability,
gard.
taiaing a cheap article, may induce the if the law%is set la motion to inquire who.
The the original packer was; but, la the meanpacker to put up Inferior goods.
denier says, 'I will take tbe respoasibility tinie, you absolve hlm fromi the necesslty
by pla cing my name on the package.' The of having- bis brand ou the package.
Hiou. mr. l'ERGUSON-Last year, when
packer ls not bound to disclose to the pubThat will be fol- the Bill was lntroduced la the first Inwas.
lic who tbe packer
lowed by thig evii effect; under the exist- stance, it went the utmost leagth of lnslstlng law there is an obligation on the packer lag that the name of the packer should be
1 tbiak It was after the 'Bill
to, disclose to, the public wbo put up the on the goods.
There is therefore an incentive to, came to this flouse that some modification.
goods.
That modificaput up a superior class of goods, so tbat wvas mnade in tlhat respect.
his ane shahl be ideatifled witb that par- tion was called for both from the east and
If he, througb tbis law, fromn tbe west. lu the lower provinces, the.
tîcular braad.
can substitute isolnted deaiers wbo assume lobster trade ruas ln this way; the agents
the respoasiblity of the Inferior goods put of the large dealers la Europe insist upon
up by hlim, wlthholding from tbe public bis buyiag the article whicb is xnanufactured
personallty, tbe public la that way will ob- for tbem without the label of the local,.
tain an Inferior braad of goods, because packer being upon it, la order that they
I know that Is.
the packer lis not coacerned about main- may use their own label.
talnlng bis reputation with the public by the trend of the lôbster business lu the east,
It seems to me aad I thiak my hon. frlead fromn British.
packlag a superior braad.
that would be the logîcal workiag out of Columbia voiced the same .opinion wltb
refereace to the salmon trade of that prothe law as proposed.
vince. What happened was that la thîs House)Hou. Mr. SCOTT-My hon. frlend Is
AIl the pro- power *as givea to tbe Governor la -Councl
under a misapprebension.
Act la order to, meet the absovisions of the Act stili appîy to tbe packer; to, modlfy the
lute requirements of trade both ln British.
flot repealed.
they are

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe contemplated
change la the lnw w-i not relieve the
packer fromn the consequences of bis puttiag up any product la the fori of canned
But, la the
goods la an improper shape.
trade, It bas been found that the wholesale man who buys fromn the pac.kers wants
bis ane and labdl on the package, instead
It is only an addiof the packer's ane.
tion to, the law, and does flot relieve the
packer wbo Is guilty of any infraction.
Under. the Act of 1907, if the packer doesI
flot conforma to al the regulations, he is
lhable to bave bis license cancelled.

922

SENATE

Cjolumbia and ln the east. The present
amendment Is slmply carrying this Idea a
I have flot been able to
littie furtber.
make the comnparison for myseif, but I
know, as my hon. frlend. has polnted out,
that the departure came from the necessity
of conformlng wlth wbat had become the
establlshed metbods of doing business both
in lobster and salmon cannlng.
Hon. Mr. POWER-What happened ln
connection wlth this matter is this: I quite
concur ln the views expressed by the leader
of the opposition. Tiiere was an Inspection
Iaw which provided for an inspector golng
down to the cannery wliere lobsters, for
instance, were being canned, and the law
was that a staxnp bad to be put on the
The package
outside of the package.
spoken of was a wooden box coatalning
one or two or four dozen cans, and I remember saying myseif that no stamp put an
the outslde of the package was any guarantee to the purchaser, of tbe quallty of the
goods, and years and years ago I said I
tbought the best guarantee of the quality
of the goods was the nanie of the packer
And 1 arn stili of that
who put them up
Now, the amendmeat before us
opinion.
provides tbat ln certain cases the naine of
the dealer shall be aubstituted for that of
the packer.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-That may be.
Hon. Mr. POWER-And the ameudment
before.us goes on :
Ad such dealer shall, at the request of an
inspector appointed under this Âct, disolose
the name of the packer of each article.
That proviso, to a certain extent, diminishes the objection to the change, but
The object
does flot remove it altogether.
15 to provIde that none but good articles
shahl be put up, and the strongest Instrument to brlng about that resuit is to, compel the packer to put bis name and addrcss
on the can. It Is, no doubt, true, as the
boa. -gentleman from Marshfield says, tbat
the practice la the lobster trade ln the lower
provinces bas been to put the large dealer's
name on and flot the packer's ; brt, atter
ail, we are not so mucli concerned wlth
the Interests of the large dealers as we
are with tbe Interests of the public wbo
consume the goods, and I know that the
head of a large concern in New Brunswick
Hon. Mr. FERGUJSON.

told me, speaking about this very matter,
that tbey got lobsters from ail over Prince
Edward Island, Nova Scotia and New
Brunswick, and they put tbeir own labels
on the cans. I know some o? the packers
from whom they bought dld flot put up a
good article, and this matter of allowing
the wholesale dealer to put bis label on,
simply renders It possible to put Inferlor
goods upon tbe market. 1 do flot see any
reason wby a large dealer should flot put
this label on as well as tbe label of the
The difficulty can be overcome
packer.
by putting on the label tliat the goods are
packed by So-and-So, givlng the packer's
naine, for So-and-So, glving the name of
the dealer. and I for one would be disI
posed to vote against the amendinent.
thlnk It Is a step in the wrong direction.
.Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I cannot follow the
argument that there would be any barin
It
done by the arnendmeat to the BihI.
seems to me that the wholesaler who would
buy these gooda from the packer Is as reliable a mnu as tbe packer bimself, and
very often more so. lu the salmon trade,
la British Columbia, the wbolesalers send
their labels down to the canner, and havlag arranged for so niany cans o? salmon,
they have their labels put on the tins,
and they are sent out as If tbey were
packed by the wholesale dealer. I do not
see where the public are going to be lujured by bavlng to look to the wholesale
dealer lnstead of to the packer for a good
article. The wholesale dealer Is often a
very mucb better known man than tie
packer, aud If the goods be Is puttlag on
the market are not good goods, the public
fiad out where tbey got tbem f rom, and,
on applying to the department, the Inspector can find out the naine o? the packer,
and la that way the matter can be put
riglit. No dealer Is going to put bad goods
on the market, because he must kaow be
Is golng to spoil bis trade. Ia the long
rua, tbe people wlll find ont whlcb dealers
are furalshing the good article.
Hon. Mr. BÂIRD-I think It Is Important that the naine 0f Vie packer sbould
be put upon the eau lu a conspicuous place,
because it Is qulte evident that tie man
wbo Is buylng canaed goods or spices o?
I every kInd, ls not buylng them every

MAV 15. 1908
montb of the year, and If an inspector
cornes to makeé an Inspection they are
handed down to hlm. For lixstance, I arn
ln the business myseif. My namne la onlY
on the can. It rnight be a dîfficuit matter
for me to prove from whom I bought the
gooda, after they were stored on the shelf
four or f1ve months, and there la such a
great agitation at tbe present turne against
canned gooda, that tbese people who are
canning goods are seeking some menus of
escape ln case tbe gooda are flot pure. I
think It la of the greatest Importance that
the packera inarne sbould be on the can,
and If the wbolesale man wants bis naine
put on, It la a very easy matter to have
stamped on the can : «Goods packed hy
So-and-So, put up for So-and-So,' namlng
the wholesaie manx. That would make It
clear.

923

Hon. M-. BAIRD-It seems to me lit is
quite evident there muet be soute deslre
on the part of the promoters of the Bill
to get rid of the responslbllty for It. Take
any otber tiaes of canned goods, except the
matter of provisions, the names of the
packer ls always on the package. Why
shouid they want their names left off the
canned gooda, because certalnly the packers
muet have a reputation? No doubt the reputation of the packer is just as good as
the reputation of the wboiesale man. There
la no reason why, If they put up good
goods, they sbould flot want their name
on them.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEEIID-It seems to me
that the faliacy lies ln this, that Up to the
present time the inaime of the packer had
The
to be impressed upon the package.
trade In canned goods, notwithstanding
Hon. Mr. JÂFFRÂY-I think tbat If what bas been sald by my lion. friend
this la faly consîdered, It wifl be seen from Yale and my bon. friend from Kingsat once that It le more Important generally ton, bas been golng on witbout any dimiWe bave amended
for the many buylng the goods that the nution apparently.
name of Vhe merchant sbould be the one thîs clause from time to turne, and we bave
tbat ls prominent ratber Vian that of the not gone as far as absolving the packer
packer. As a ruie the merchant la better f rom the responslbility of placing bis brand
If that be the case,
known than the packer. He la more easlly upon the package.
got at and bas a reputation to niaintaîn for it seems to me very fallaclous to say that
the joods whlch he delivers, and bas to this la an Impediment, so to speak, that will
take care of. In addition to that, the mer- prevent tbe dealer or the wholesale merchant advertlses bis goods, pusbes the sale chant froin purcbasing the goods with a
of thein, and It la not bis business to have view to piaclng bis labels upon tbe packThere ls no,
He can do that now.
the parties buylng froin hlm pags hlm to go age.
to the packers. I arn sure that If pro- prohibition under the law to prevent hlm
vision la made tbat ln every case wbere ut froin putting his label upon the package,
la requlred of Vie dealer, he should give and let me point out ibis case, wherein I
Vie naine of Vie packer, It la qulte suifi- say the amendment would be Ineffectual
dient, and lit can be followed up, and Il towards discloslng the. person orlginally reMany of those goods are bought
can be ascertalned whose fanît it is Il sponsîbie.
If a foreign dealer
by foreign dealers.
Vie goods are Inferlor.
should purchase lobsters or fisb, as the
label piaced
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Crosse & Black. case may be, and have bis
iupon thein, how are you going to exercîse
well are Vie greateat purveyors ln th(
They get salmon from nortberi ithe right embodied ln the statute of deworld.
British Columbia. It la sbown Viat thel r mandlng f rom hlm wbo the packer la, or
My recollection le that during the
purchase the sairnon froin Vie packeri 3 was?
and Viey Insiat on Vhir name being or i recess something 111e two cars of salmon
the cana and not Vie naine of the packer .were seized by the department owlng to
If Crosse & Blackweli are not better Vhi i the goods helng lu a partly putrid state.
any dosen packers la Vie country, I shouh I Can my hon. f rlend Bay whether the gov111e to know lit. The merchant lm wel I erninent prosecuted the parties who put Up
known and you look to Vie merchant foi r the saînion that was selzed ln Montreal?
1 thlnk two cars were seized.
Vie quallty of the food von purchase.

SENATE
'Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It
thlnk.

It is merely permiqssive. After ail,
I tive.
I do not tbink It is wise to direct how trade
shall be carried on.
Trade is too large a
prosecu- condition
of tbings for us to interfere with.

was destroyed

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wbat
tions followed?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot know whether It was followed up.

Hon. Mr. POWER-How wouid
argument apply to the case of apples?

that

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The nanie of the grower is flot on the apples.
You do flot kuow
wbere an appie is grown nowadays, iu nine
cases out of ten.
In the monîth of July,
the deniers go round the country and buy
Up the whoie of the orchards. You or 1 or
anybody else cannot now buy a dozen
barreis of appies. You cannot give an order for haif a dozen barreis, because it is
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The question is, whichi the large man who buys the orchard, and
is the better xvay to circuinte the goods packs the fruit, and it is bis name that is
wbichi Canada produces?
Every onie wi]l put on the barreis..
admit that the trade la the canned goods
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My hion. f rieud
liue bas not deveioped as it sbould. There
We bave the is scarceiy correct in that statement. This
is no doubt about that.
We have the best materiais ln the Act has no réference to the packing ot
goads.
w-orld, and we have ail the facilities for appies. This is the Canned Goods Act,
producing theun.
Now we propose to wbiie the inspection of fruit is settIed by
direct bow tbey shahl reacb the consumer. another statute altogether. I arn entireiy
Tbe trade is the only channel tbroughi in accord with the Bill. 1 thinlz that It
Is is in the right direction. 1 have flot been
whicb tbey cfa reach the consumer.
there a firm lu the world better known able-and I bave made several attemptstban Crosse & Blackweli? Would tbey put to get the statute of last year. iun order
their ame on any article which tbey did tbat 1 inight compare them, but I took
flot kuow wns A-I, the very best possible? soine interest in the question last year, and
The
»e bad to make an exception in favour of understood it rather well at that time.
lobsters and lu favour of fIsh, and -wby Bill is introduced in the first Instance consbouid the sarne principle not apply to other taîned drastic provisions that the name
canned goods?
The packer Is flot known 0f the packer must be put on ail cauned
Sometimes It is a small goods. Before it bad reacbed this House,
la many cases.
conceru.
Factories are built la Canada a very strong protest arose-I arn now
that wlll flot be known outside the boua- speaking of my owvn persoual knowledgeWe would flot know where la the east frorn the lobster packers, who
dary lîne.
tbey were.
Tbey would not be as re- explained to us tbat the trade had. asHe is sumed a very satisfactory shape. I do
spoasible as tbe wbolesale dealer.
the man wbo buys. He takes the wbole flot tblnk that five per cent of thi, lobsters
He may packed ln Canada are consumed ln this
product of an establishment.
take the wbole product of several estab- country. They are for foreign consumplisbhments.
if it is going to stimulate tion. The agents of- large foreiga houses
traae and give larger faclities to the con- buy tbem ; firms on wbose respectabillty
sumer to buy bis goods, is It not wiser to and reputation the article Is sent to tbe
nt lenst try It?
The Act does not relieve consumer, in Europe. The label of the
the packer from the consequences of bis wbolesaler goes upon the goods. Tbat bas
He Is been the practîce. Tbe Bill as it passed la
puttiag Up aul Inferior article.
hiable to have bis license cancelled and the House of Commons last year would
goods found on the premises confiscated, have stopped ail that, and would have pracand be Is hiable also to the penalties pro- tically destroyed the trade. Tbe large dealvided In the Act. Tbis Is only an alterna- ers are flot sucb fools as to allow their
non. Mfr. LOUGE[EED.
Hon. bir. LOUGHEED-I undertake to
1 fail to
say there was no prosecution.
see the use of passing legislation of this
character, unless tbe rnnchiuery of the
statute is set la motion to prosecute such
wholesale violations of the Act as were represented by the s1ilment to which 1 aiInde.

MAY 15, 1908
naines to go upon goods brought out from
a factory that does flot manufacture a
good article. The ability on the part of the
saal factories -to selI to the large and respectable bouses rests upon their turning
out a good article. The wholesaiers will
vot buy the article and put thieir tabel on
It uniess the paclcer has a good rpputation
and unless they are satisfied that a good
article la belug produced. Whenl that is
done, il goes to the wholesaler, hie pulaces
bis label upon the article, and lie recornmends it for consuimption. If that systei badl been interfered with, and the Bill
had gone through without the mnodifications of last yen r. it would have practically
de-anged, and it might possibly have destroyed tbe Canadian tradéiln lobsters. This
Bill goes a little further so as to rake responsibillty attacli to the packer. Thie.xîarne
of the packer must be disclosed, aithougli
the article bears the label of the large
dealer, and It is really placiag more responsibility upon tbe smali packer than the
original Act cast upon Iii. I know that the
amendment of last year to the Bill, after it
came to the House, allowing modifications
to be made by orders la couacil, -was the
means of protecting the trade la lobsters
ln the east, and this ameadment, If there
bas been any abuse, whi serve to correct
IL, because the lnspectors will be able to
geL at the packer as Lhe clause forces the
larger dealer to disclose the naine of the
man who packed the goods.

925

and
thern.
year
was
nment

as the press of the country states
This amendment to the law of lasL
ivas found to lie inadequate; but IL
a good deal better than the amendnow proposed which transfers Lhe resl)oniSbiliity of the packer to the shoulders
of the wholesaier. Who is the wholesnler?
What is lie? Is lie a mail whio buys canaed
gooda-one case or Len cans? Is the packer
Lo be aliowed by parliarnt, to put up
goods that will be of no substantiai use Lo
tue country, probably of a pisonous nature,
and bie relieved of LIe responsibility. liecause some whoiesaler who buys a Lhousand cases or one case. wishes to sell the
goods under bis own label'!
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-No. He la Hiable for
the consequ ence of aay infringemuent of
the Act. If hie put up an inferior article,
lie cau be prosecuted. His name cau lie
ascertained through the inspector, and bis
fnctory crin le closed.
.Hon. '.%r. .CLORAN-I wisli the law was
as -plain as Lhe staternt of the bon. Secretary of ëState.

Hlon. '.%r. SCOT-T-The law la clear, nd
provides that ail fisb, fruit or vegetables,
used la any establishients where those
articles are prepared for export, shahl be
souad, wholesome, and fit for food, and
tînt aay sudh articles, la sudh establishments, uasouad or unfit for food shall lie
confiscated; and the law l)rovides a penThe luspector can close the estabalty.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Last yenr, wben lishmnt, and the license cau be withthis Bill was before the House, I warned drawu.
bion, gentlemen thiat it would have to corne
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I have no objection
up for revision, and I arn sorry to -say to that clause, but 1 would ask that the
that the revision is against the public date of packlng shaîl bie put on the can,
Interest. Canned goode and packed goods or on the box, I care not whether it Is
are sold by packers and by whoiesale amea, Armour, McLaren, or auy.body else.
I
and that la their line of business. The bu- know tlie standard of these nien of course,
siness of the consumer is to find out wben but I waat to know Lhe date upon which
those goods are pncked and wbat they are these goods bave been put up.
As a
wortb. Under tbis law, the packer and consumer-and I spenlc on behaif of five
the wholesaler 'will be relieved of the res- and n lf million people-I want Lo know
ponsibil [ty of telling the consumer whether whether LIe canned food tlhat we buy were
the goods were canned or packed la 1908, packed five years ago, or packed yesterday.
1906 or 190. and I as a consumer do ilot Tînt la ail I ask.
I want no ehaborate
want this parliament to pass a law on be- description 0f the gooda on LIe can.
1
haîf of the packers to tbat eff ect. 'I arn want a simnple stateaient of wben they
glving you tbe plain facts as the people were packed, s0 that when I go to a dealer
want them, and as the people state Lhem, I can purchase what I want.
I want a

926

SIEN ATE

were working
guarantee froxu the governinent that the systexu under whicb they
or inferior, were was stopped by the Act of 1907.
guuds, wbether superior
de
D-twsn
GH
o.M.L
That is a point
packed at a certain date.
GH EDtwafotdn
r.L
Ho.
Uhe law should cover and this Bill dues flot
lntroduced the Bill,
I arn not asking for any unfair until the governmeflt
touch.
Bill as
or the whole- and this clause was not part of -tie
auvantage against the packer
fair lntroduced.
saler or the retaller; 1 arn asking for
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-It was put in at
If
play for Uie purchaser of the goods.
bad been reading the ex- the instance of the member for Vancouver.
bon, gentlemen
The clause was adopted.
pressions of opinion on this subject, tbey
feel the force of whxit I say, and
would
Hon. Mr. ELLIS, froxu the comilttee, reexercise their influence here on behaif of
canncd goods; but, un- ported thc Bill without ameadment.
the consumers of
fortunately, we are under the influence of
SECOND READINGS.
I
packing bouses and wholesale men.
Bil(RAu ctfrheeifofCh
wisb to be under the influence of the people
of this country, and I ask of this hionour- armne Aun Cannon.-(H-ofl. Mr. Baird.)
Bill (TT) An Act respecting certain pat
able House that the packer be required to
opn.
fteGnriCeia
state on each package and can the date et
The peu- (lion. Mr. Kerr.)
were packed.
wvben its contents
Bill (UU) An Act for the relief of Acl a
pie of thc country wlll exact that rnuch
I
the governrnt and parliament.
froxu
Stewart Paulding.-(Hofl. Mr
fail to sec that wc should be at the service Katurab
Derbyshire.)
The bon.
of wbolesalers or packers.
a
c o h eifo
Bl V)A
of State says that packers are
Sccretary
Mr. Derbyshire.)
not aliuwed to pack inferior goods, but Alexauder.-(Hon.
THIRD RFIADING.
wben I go to buy such goods I want to
kuow wben tbey were packed.
Bill (11) An Act respecting the Ný%ipissin
Mr. Mc
Hon. Mr. LOUGIEE'D-Mal-ýy I rcnewv my Central Raiiway Comnpauy.-(H0n.
of the House? I Keen.)
question to thc leader
e
usa
ni
dore
TeSnt
asked rny hou. frieud howv It came tbat
tiTudane
TeSeaeaoric
whcn the Bill was introdu:ced IntoUi
three «dcock.
House of Commous it did flot contain this at
_______
added to
It was flot
particular clause?
the Bill until It was refcrred to commitTHE SENATE.
tee, and then the amendmcnt was rnoved
OTTAwA, Tuesday May 19,'1908.
s0
by the hon. member for Vancouver,
that Uic solicitude of which the bon. genThe SPEAKER took Uic Chair at Thre
tleman wbo bas spoken relative to meeting Uic wlsbes of the wholcsaler, never o'cloek.
Paesadruiepoedns
entered tic mhnds of the government until
Paesadruiepoedns
the Bill was lu committee in the
after
QUEBEC BRIDGE AND RAILWAY C01
House of Communs.
PANY.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Bill was uot
INQUIR-Y.
until it camne up to
brought to my notice
Hon. Mr. LANDRY lnquired:
this chamber.
re
Over and above-the $4.5,000 paid to Mr. Hoa leMr. BOSTOCK-The hon. senator
Hon.
by the Q~
Ch
a shot tme go hatas chief engineer of the company
of whi ny
fromCalarysai
Cagar
frorsad ashot tme go hatbec Bridge and Railway Company
has he received a
tbis Act had been ln force, nnd there was Mr. Parent is president, the Transcontin' mue
money frein
The Act was passed other sums ofCommission, of which the sai
nu kick against it.
tai Railwav
'-5,
it was at the instance of Mr. Parent is President?
last year, aud
in each year, for the years 1904
the canncry men of Vancouver that -this How much, and 1907-8?
1906-7
claue l,ws bcaus thy fundthe1905-6, what services?
pt
For
claue l, ws bcaus thy fundthe
pt
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN.

MAY 19, 1908

927

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers are as Quebec, received from the commissioners of
the Transcontinental Railway, for goods and
follows
merchandise during each of the years 1904-5,
1. Yes.
1905-, 1906-7 and 1907-SP
2. E. A. Hoare, salary, 1904-5, $1,767.74;
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers to the
1905-6, $2,400 ; 1906-7, $1,800 ; 1907-8, $2,400. hon. gentleman's questions are as foliows *
A.
EB. Hoare, expenses, 1904-5, $23.86 ; 19051. Geo. Tauguay, for gooda and merchan6, $224.76; 1906-7, $210.98; 1907-8, $248.37.
3. Answered by No. 2.
dises, 1904-5, $449.58; 1905-6, $9,176.13;
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Âm I to understand 1906-7, $12,417.88; 1907-8, $18,603.71.
tbat la in addition to bis salary as engineer
QUEBEC BRIDGE COMPANY.
of the Bridge Company? That is wbat lie
INQUIEY.
receives from the Transcontinental ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY Inquired:
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I presume so. I give
It as it was given to me.
Does the government know whether Mr. Edof
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-My question asks mond Taschereau, and Quebec, notary, was emin that capacity signed
ployed as notary
the deed of agreement entered into on the l9th
for what services was this.
October, 1903, between the federal authorities
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe on13- items given and the Quebec Bridge and Railway Company
relating to the financiai obligations contracted
me are those I have read.
by the government with the said company?
Hlow mucli was he paid for the transaction
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-As what?
and by whom P By the government or by the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Chief engineer of the company P
Hlow much, in addition, did he receive from
Company.
the commissioners of the Transcontinental
raiiway, for having as notary verified the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Not of the Bridge tities of ownership of certain lands acquired
by the aforesaid commission for the passage of
Company ?
its roadP
Âpart f rom what it has aiready paià him,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If my hon. friend is
does the Transcontinental Railway Commission
not satisfied, I will send it back to the de- stili owe anything to Mr. Edmond TaschereauP
What amount P And for what services?
partment and ask them to be more explicit.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Information to
answer this question Is belng obtained,
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-He received a saary as engineer of the Quebec Bridge Coin- and will be given to the House later.
pany; but besides that, he received the
The inquiry w-as aliowed to stand.
amount the hon, gentleman has given nie
from the Transcontinental Rallway Com- PAYMENTS TO QUEBEC PRESERVING
pany ; but I want to know for wbat serCOMPANY.
vices ?
INQUIRYý.
I
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-It is flot stated.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY Inquired:
have given the amount, but not the serHow much have the Transcontinental Railvices. I do flot know about tbe salaries
way Commission paid each year during the
part.
years 1905-6, 1906-7 and 1907-8 to the Quebec
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It might be a sa]- Preserving Company, of QuebeeF
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers to the
ary, but salary as what ?
bon. gentleman's questions are as follows:
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I regret that the In1. Quebec Preserving Company, 1904-5,
formation la not fuller than It la ; but it
Informa- nl; 19W5-6, $500.85; 1906-7, $5,281.89; 1907la like extracting teeth to get the
8, $7,815.31.
tion.
PÂYMENTS TO DROUIN BROýS.
QUEBEC BRIDGE COMPANY.
INQUIRY.
INQUIRY.
Hon. '.%r. LANDRY Inquired:
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY inqulred:
How much have the Commissioners of the
Hlow much lias Mr. George Tanguay, of Quebec, merchant and ex-alderman of the city of Transcontinental Railway paid escli year dur-

SEINATE
ing the years 1904-5, 1905-6, 1906-7 and 1907-8,
to Drouin Brothers and Company, of Quebec,
merchants, for goods an& merchandise?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers are as
followe :

be flot now rend a third time but that it
be amended by striking out clause 5 0f
tule sa1d Bill.
Lt will bie remembered that
I have taken the grouad right along that
private Bis should go ta a Committee of
There was a good deal
Wbole House.
Frères & Company, 1904-5, the
1. Drouin
of Important discussion on this Bill in the
$1,504.07 ; 1905-6, $9,94S.62; 1906-7, $6,751.10;
Railway Committee, and many members of
1907-8, $14,188.36.
the Senate who are not members of the
PACIFIO COAST PIRE INSURANCE Railway Commlttee were not present when
COMNPANY'S BILL.
this Bill was under discussion there. Therefore, it is îiothing but riglit that it shouid
THIRD READING.
be brought before the Hanse for discusHlon. Mr. BOSTOCKi moved the third
'Clause 5 of the Bill is as foliows:
sion.

readiug 0f Bill (40) An Act respecting the
Pacifie Coat Fire Insurauce Company.

He said: When this Bill was under discussion the otber day, I was flot able ta
give ail the Information which some bon.
gentlemen wished with regard ta It. Since
that time I have Iooked ito the matter
and found that the company is la a very
I have obtained
satisfactory condition.
from the Superintendent of Insurance a
statement whichi shows that the affairs of
the company are ia a very good state, the
directors of it at the present timie are responsible men.
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
was read the third tixne and passed.
THIIRD READINGS.
Bill (147) An Act ta, repeal the Caaned
uoods Act.-(Hou. Mr. Scott.)
Bill (149) An Act to, aniend the -Ment and
C(ined Foods Act.-(Hlon. Mr. Scott.)
Bill (LR) An Act for the relief of Catharue Caqnnou.-(Hlon. Mr. Baird.)
Bill (UU) An Act for the relief of Ada
31r.
xý,aturan kitewart 1'aullnig.-(Hon.
1ierbysh ire.)
Bill (VV) An Act for the relief of Mary
.Mexander.-(Hon. Mr. Derbyshire.)

5. The provisions of any general Act of the
legisiature of the province of Ontario or of
the province of Quebec, now or at any time
hiereinafter la force, shall in so far as such
provisions are not inconsistent with The Electricit.y Inspection Act, 1907, The Electricity
and Fluid, Exportation Act, of any other
generai Act relatin&r to, the transmission and
distribution of el2ctricity hereafter passed by
the parliament of Canada. appl-Y to the works
and operations of the Company.
If parliainent hias a right ta pass this
Bill at ail, I do not see why this clause
If we have no right
shauld be inserted.
ta pass it, of course we should not pass It.
The question of provincial rights bas been
discussed la this Hanse for the last two or
tbree years. aud I think the sooner we
caine ta, a conclusion that no Bill of this
kind shahl be put through this 'Hanse with
There is a
any such clause, the better.
If we pnss
way out of this difficulty.
this Bill without clause 5, and either the
people of the province of Quebec or the
province of Ontario are not satisfied, or

thinkz that It is an infringement of provincial rîghts, they can do as Sir Oliver
MNowat did when he was Prime

Minister

0f Ontario, take it ta the proper court and
get n decision of the court as to wbetber
1 do nat tblnk
we are right or wrong.
this House has a rlght ta, Interpret the
We are supposed
constitution or the law.
DOMINION LU3LBIERING AND 'POWER ta miake iaws, and the court ls the proper
DEVELOPMENT COMPANY'S BILL.
place ta have them interpreted, nnd if we
are gaing to pnss this Bill at ail, we should
THIRLD ILEÂDINO.
if
cut out section 5 and let the Bill go.
-Hon. M.Nr.CASGRAIN moved the third
Ontario or Quebec-and they are the only
reading of Bill (H) An Act ta incorporate
provinces affected-thInk it Infringes on
the Dominion Lumbering and Power Detheir rights In any way, the proper thing
velopmeat Company.
for them ta do Is ta carry it ta the courts
Hon. *Mr. DAVIS-I gave notice of the and get a decision ns ta what are our rights
1 think the sooner
following amendment, that the said Bill and what are not.
Hlon.

Mr. LANDRY.

MAY 19, 1908
ive get to that the better, because nearly
every 'Bill that cornes before this House
eontalns something withi reference to provincial righits, nnd the sooner we obtain a
rulîng on the question whether we have a
right to Incorporate power companles or
flot, the better.
lion. Mr. BEIQUE-I was in charge of
t1ils Bill, and I obtained the consent ot
the promoters to accept this clause, and
the reason why I thInk thls clause is good
legisiation is that the rights of the provinces sbould 13e preserved lu a reasonable
Suppose that any of the promneasure.
vinces sbould create a Commission In years
to corne, entrusting the commission wltb
the control of the rates of water power
.companies, as far as public utllties are
econcerned, In the distribution of power
In cities and towns, would it nlot 13e but
proper that the legislature of any of. tbe
provinces should. have the right to legisiate,
and tbat their legîslation, 'provlded it 13e
applled to ail companies of that nature,
ahould affect companies whetber they are
*
c reated by the local legisînture, or whether
they are the creation of this parliament?
1 think this is legisiation In the proper
direction, and we bave passed a number
o f Bis in the last three or four years,
That Is
wlth a clause In this direction.
the reason this clause bas been Inserted.
There Is no question as to the power of
Tbat ls
this parliament to pass tbe Bill.
Lt îs
flot the obJect of the clause at aIl.
nierely to save the rlgbts of the legislature
If there sbould 13e an occasion hereafter to
pass a general law wb.icb sbould properly
affect companles lncorporated by this parliament or nny other body.
Hon. Mr. POWFER-I do flot wisb to
cointradlcet the hon. gentleman 'who bas
just resumed bis seat, but 1 had received
aln aitogether 4lifrerent impression as to
tbe attitude of tbe promoters of the Bill.
I understood the counsel who represented
the promoters to aay that If this clause
passed In its present form, tbe Bill would
And my humble'opinion
13e of no value.
l s that, If 1 understood tbe promoter corWe have to conrectly, he was rlgbt.
sider something further than the position
as stated by the hon, gentleman from De
If the province o! Onttario
:salaberry.
59

929

wvere like the province of Quebec or the
province of Nova Scotia, and had not undertaken to go into tbe power business ltself,
then I could aee no particular objection to
making this company subject to the existing, or to any future legisiation of the
province with respect to power and the
Lt aays ' The
transmission o! electriclty.
provisions o! any Act o! the legisiature.'
Lt does flot confine it to Acta which deal
The probabîliwlth. electricity or power.
ties are that this company, under the cîrcumnstances, wiii really not get a fair opportunlty to carry on Its business If the
company persist, after the piissitg of tbe
.8111 In this form, In bavlng It made law
I
by puttlng it through the other House.
do not think they wll ever be able to do
business under tbis cbarter we have given
them, and I agree witb the hon. gentleman
from Prince Albert that lu a case of this
kînd, it is our duty not to interfere unnecessarlly witb the legislation of the
When gentlemen come to us
province.
and ask for an Act 0f Incorporation, It is
not our duty, and I think it la Improper,
that we should annex conditions to the
graiiting of the charter which wli render
tbat charter uselesa to tbe promoters, and
that is just what 1 feel the paasing of this
My honeat opinion Is
flfth clause will do.
that this fifth clause in the Bill, If tlue
measure becomes law, will render It of no
use to the promoters and those wbo are
askIng for the charter.
Hon. M~r. POIRIEIt-The hou. gentleman
from De Salaberry saya that he desires
the rights of the provinces to be .preserved
1 desire the
ln a reasonable measure.
of the provinces to 13e totally prerights
served. Tbat Is where I differ from my
bon. frIend, mnd it la the reason wby. 1
shahl hold the vlew that 1 held In committee, that that clause should be struck out
altogether. It la for the courts to decide
the extent to whlch we have to go, and
the exteut of the jurisdiction of the provinces, 1 wihl add tbnt I wlsh to 13e the
guardian of the provincial rights and aiso
of the Dominion rights. Supposlng the province sbould enact ln sncb a mnier that
tbey would trespasa upon the rlghts of the
Dominion, then, according te the reading
of the clause, as I understand it, whatever

ItEVISED EDITION

SENATE
enactment may be passed by the province
would be made as against the enactment
by the Dominion parliament, even If It Is
an encroacbment upon our rIgbts. I wiil
repeat bere wbat I contended ia the committee, tbat ln my opinion the clause stiould
be struck out altogether, and the rigbts
of the provinces should stand; that we
sbould legisiate bere witbout maklng any
mention of the rights of the provinces, but
that we should be careful flot to encroacb
upon provincial rlgbts and not leave the
door open for the provinces to encroacb
upon our rights here ?
Hon. Mr. WILSON-lt appears to me
that if 'we want to preserve the just riglits
of the Dominion, we sbould adopt the priaciple of the Bill without Vhis clause. The
Dominion bas certain rigbts, and so have
tbe provinces. "Then why sbould -the promoter ot this Bill make provision for Ontario and Quebec and leave the other provinces out ?

Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Tbere
Is somethlng very extraordlnary about this
ineasure. The fifth clause eftVis Bill reads
as follows:
Trhe provisions of any generai Act of the
legisiature of the province of Ontario or of the
Quebec, in or at as time hereprovinceinofforce, shallnow so far anysuch provisinafter
ions are flot consistent with The Electricity
Inspection Act, 1907, the Electricity and Fluid
Exportation Act, or any other general Act
relatiag te the transmission and distribution
of electricîty hereafter passed by the parliamnent of Canada, appiy to the works and operaions of the company.
In Vie Frencb edition-Vie only one that
I have before me-the fiftb clause Is as
follows
5. The head office of the companvi shall be
at the city of Toronto, in the province of
Ontario. or at such other place in Canada as
is froin time to time determined by by-law.
'The SPEAKER-That is the formn lu
whlch It appears ln the Bill as originally
prlnted. The Bihl bas been reprinted. lu
its arnended form, and clause 5 is cbauged.

Hon. Mr. KERR-It seems to mue that
the ameudments should prevail, for this
reason; lu leglslating on a subject of his
klnd, ve sbould either legislate completely
or not at ail. if we are going to legîsiate
at ail, we should deal with the werks and
Hon. Mr. OASGRAIN-It Is the case.
operations of the company, and Viat we
assume to do by the provisions ef this Bill.
Hon. Mr. WIIkON-The ot.her pro- The clause la question provides tbat the
vinces also are part and parcel of the provisions of any general Act of the legisDominion, and wby net embrace ail the latures of Ontario or Quebec, 110w or at any
provinces?7 Wbat is more ; we have ln
time hereafter ln force, shall apply to Vie
Ontario a power company, and possibly by
works and operations of this company. We
this Act we may interfere, curtail or res- Iare deiegating, lu other words, to the legisOntario,
trict tbe rigbts of the province of
latures of those provinces tbe right to do
and very Ilkely the province of Quebec, lu
somethlng-givillg tbem a blank power of
the exercise of their f ull power nnd conattorney, ln respect te Vie very hilngs
trol. It 'would be unfortullate, and I think
we are leglslatlng on here, the works and
we sbould not under clrcumstaliceS of tbis
operations of Vie company. It appears te
kind, pass legisiation of sncb a character
*me, Vierefore, that we sbould not leave
Tbey wll have ample control for the obopen the door to tbe possiblllty of tbe works
ject of the Bill witbout clause 5. There lçe
and operations of the company being Bo
ne *necesslty for this clause. LegIsiation
as to
and I c'ntroled by legislatiolI elsewbere
of this kInd wlll lead up to Iltigation
*render Vie wbole charter ineffective, and
trouble between the Dominion and the pro,
useless. It will be observed that If we
vinces. I thlnk Vie hon, gentleman shîoulÈ
bave exceeded our power lu any respect,
consent to bave this clause struck, out. 01
If Viere Is any power necessary that
-or
course 1 arn oniy a inyman-Tiot a lawyerwe bave flot given here and whlcb le within
and I can see P'o necessIty for the clause
B Vie power and jurlsdiction of those proI appeal te my hon. friend te interpret thi
h vinces, nothing lu this Blill can affect that.
law. If you strike out tbe clause we wil
In-Its ewn jurlsdictIon, wlthin its own powleave It ln that position.
Hlon. M.r. POIRIER.

Hon. Mr. CASGRALN-It does not go
outside of those two provinces.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Tbat might or miglht
net be the case.

MAY' 19. 1908
ers under the British North America Act, Dominion company, and is taken exclusively
each legislative autbority is supreme, and out of the powers of the provinces, and
notbing tliat we eau put In this Bill would except the clause be le! t in the Bill, cerinterfere with the rights o! the provinces tainly the provinces of Ontario and Quebec
to legislate, either to add to or to detract could exercise no jurisdiction whatever over
from the powers of the conipariy, and 1 this company. Under paragraph a, of subtbink It is Important that we sbou]d con- section 10, o! section 92, o! the British
sider thils a littie more closely, because we North America Act, the legislature bas exare determining 110W sometbing whicb ought clusive jurlsdlctIon over local works and
to be in nearly ail Our Acts If it is in any nndertakings other than sucb as are o!
1
Act at a]]. 1 tbink it is wrong that this the following classes:
Lines o! steani or other ships, railways,
company sbould be siugled out for insertlng
of this klnd. Strike ont that canais, telegraplis or other works and undera provision
takings others of the Province with any
clause of tbe Bill and 'wbere are the rlgbts other or connecting the. Provinces or exteading
Tbey are determlaed beyond the. limits of the Province:
o! the provinces ?
of steamiships between the province
b.
by the British North Amerîca Act, and If and Lines British or foreign country.
any
c. Such wonks. although wholly situated
here have
these provinces that are named
province are before or after Canp>ower to control the worlks and operations wjthin thedeclared by the parliarnent of their
thee prvines avetheada to be
of te copany prvincs bae texeecution for the general advrantage o! Canada
hes
o! te cmpay,
right to prevent a company !rom operating or for the advantage of two or more o! the
within their limits unless they obtain Il provinces.
wvill
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This company
cense. Witbin the scope o! their legislalicense tbey operate la two provinces.
tive anthsorlty iii granting that
It cornes
Hion. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
niay declare that, within the limits o! the
province, the company shalI exercise those wlthin this description, ' Connectlng the
rigbts ouly insofar as tlîey do not inter- province wîtbl any other or others o! the
f ere wvltb the legisiative riglits exercised Provinces, or extending beYond the limits
already by the province so granting Ilense. o! the Province,' and I presumne for that
If there is no rigbt on the part o! the pro- reason we omit the statement la the Bill
vince to Interfere, we sbould not charter that it is a work for the general advantage
this company and vest it with these powers o! Canada.
and then say that the powers we are giving
1-1on. '-%r. KERR-Although we may pass
to them shahl be snbject to the coatrol of
the titis Bill, the compIiny will not be permitany province. 1 submnit, therefore, that
ted to operate withini tbose provinces withclause should be struck out.
(l'i out obtaitilng a license from the province
DeBOUCHEERVILLE
Mr.
Hon.
to the to do so.
Frenc)-I bave caled attention
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-WVby?
!act that there 15 no0 French edition of this
Bill as reprinted, and we find that the
Hon. Mr. KERR-Because the province
only one w'hicb we bave differs fromn the
Wii flot allow IL.
Bill which ls under consideration.
Hon. Mr. EDWVARDS-I think thiat ls
Hon. '.%r. LOUGHEED-Do 1 understand
my bon. !riend !romn Toronto to take the entirely wrong, so far as some companies
position that w-ith tbe exclusion o! tbis are concerned.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-My
clause, the general laws o! the provinces
affecting similagr companies won]d be in lhon. !ricnd !rom Ottawa is incor~rect so far
Ail
as the lnw o! Ontario is concerned.
oiperatlon as against titis company?
Hon. Mr. KERR-I say that the pro- Act passed by this parliament; nnd giving
vince can, by granting- license, regulate a company power to operate ln the protbe extent to wbiclh, wlthini its power o! vince of Ontario cannot, under the laws
regulation, tbey would have a rigbit F.> do o! that province, commence operations witbout a license--that Is, a private coinpany,
SO.
1 amn conHon Mr LOUGHEED-My bon. !riend flot an insuranlce company.
overlooks

the fact

thfit thiS is made

nected

with a

publishing

Company

for

SENATE
hbe says it is unnecessary.
wvhich we have a Dominion charter, but Bill1 because
retain Its
Re dlaims that the province wvi11
wve are not permitted to carry on business
1 take issue witb the lion. meinof Ontario, without first powers.
in the province
Both Ontario and Quebec
ou tijat.
paying a license and afterwards rnaklng ber
companies'
I understalld rny hon. have passed extra-provincial
every year.
returnslaws for the I)UiPose of licensing ail coinfrieiîd froin Toronto to say that the proîncorporated ia the prol)anles 'letther
vincial law gives power to the local'govvince Or by the Dominion parliament. The
erninent ito aeclnre Dy regulations -the
mailler la whlch t11e business shahl be obJect of the license law Is to Ievy a tax
to make
No sucli exaction is made of on ComPaîlieS and require them
carried on.
certain returns, but they cannot exercise
the coinpany to wvhich I have referred. We
the issue of licenses.
coine under what is called the Extra Pro- that power, beyond
If clause 5 were left ont of the Bill, the
vincial Act: tiiot is, It Is an Act passed by
woiild have no righit
the Dominion g-iving us power to carry on provincial legislature
to pass any general law which would afa business iii the province though the.proSome members seem
vince bas the right ho incorporate sncb a fect thîs Company.
this compnny may be at
company, and under the provisions of the to be afraid that
of Ontario, and
constitution they declare that, havlng the the mercy of the province
wlth the rights
ralse a revenue, they Impose this that Ontario rnay interfere
power to
of the comfpnnfy. I re-afflirrn the statement
But I arn not nware. that there Is
tax.
the prornoters of
any power la the provincial Act givlng that 1 made; I represent
the Bill, and 1 had the prornoters accept
titei the rIght to regnilate the manner la
I ar n ot aware thnt the hon.
which the business of the company shaîl the clause.
member froin Hnlifax is justified ln quesHence 1 tnk-e It for grantbe carried. on.
miy word in thînt respect. 1 stated
ed that If this Bill Is passed wlthout clause tioning
The position I take on
reason why.
5, ail that the provincial governinent of the
this Bill Is the saine position that I have
Ontario could do would be to impose and
to other Bis. The
collect a tax without rnaking any regula- taken withl reference
hon. senator froin Toronto lmself joined
tion or lnterferiag wltb the manner la
or four years ago on other Biswhicb the company should carry on their mie three
not going- to the sarne extent I admit-la
business.
framing a clause in that direction.
Hon. Mr. ELDWARDS-The provinces do
Hlon. Mr. KERLI-This clause declares
appear to riise a certain ainount of revenue
la this way, but I ndertake to say there Is that the provisions of any general Act of
no such license la Ontario, althougli On- the local legisiature now or at any hime
tario does Impose a tax. Like the hon, gen- liereafter la force shah, insofar as they
tleman fromf Hastings, I speak witb a per- are not Inconsîstent with a certain Act
sonal knowledge of what 1 arn speaking relating to electricity, apply to, the works
None of the companies in whlcb and operahions of the company. Supposlng
about.
1 arn lnterested have licenses in Ontario, they refuse to license this company, where
lut the varions provinces Impose taxation. wvouid -ve ho ?
It is a question which I for one should
? To
Ilke to see tested. 1 deny absolutely tbe * Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-LicenSe what
to Impose any sucb *license any Comnpany ? The cornpgny Is
rigbt of the province
not subject to a license. If the cornpany
taxation or to, Issue any such license.
were refused a license it would not prevent
Hon. Mr. KERR-If my hion. friead wiil them froin going into operation.
Anymake inqulry, he wouid 4ind tlîat his coin way. the fact that tlîis cornpany will be
panies bave been llcensed.
the crenture of this parliarnent, If there
Hou. Mr. EDW'ARDS--No. noue of thein was any law passed by any of the prohave ever beemu licensèed, but Ontario doe~ svinces, -whicb would be oppressive of the
try ho impose a tax.
rights of this conîpany, It would be enseiîato r titled ho corne back to this parliament
Hou. Mr. BEIQIJE-The hion.
clause expunged or mof rom Toronto objects to clause 5 of th< eand have that very
Hon. F- MACKENZIE BOWELL.

MAY :19. 1908
difled in such a wily as-to Proteet themThis
selves. I arn not afraid of that.
parliament does not abandon control. It is
a protection in tbe rigbt direction to the
province. Lateiy we bave expressed our
opinion about provincial rlgbts, and una-i
nimously expressed ourseives in favour of
the protection of provincial rigbts whenever anythinfg invading tbem appears In
any Bill. The question seems to, bave
arisen agaîn. anil tliere seem to be ail
kinils of objections.

i;

of the province except by deciaring this
work to be a work for the general advant age of Canada. In that case the jurisdiction of the province la ousted. There ls no
such provision in tbis Bill, and, therefore,
Iassume that any juristlietion of the province would remain. The promoter of the
Bill says: 'I1arn most anxious to protect the
riglits of the province and the provisions
of the 'fifth clause, so far as a clause can,
does protect the jurisdiction of the province.'
Wouid It flot be safer for us to accept this
Bill with some degree of certainty that the
jurisdictlon of the province would be preserveil, and leave the question at large. That
is the form in which the argument seems to
crystallize itself to my mimd. By ail mens
iet tbis House do lts duty as it declared
it wvould last session, andl let us sec that
provincial riglits are protecteil. If at any
time there la doubt. let us rernove the doubt
as far as we cail hy iliierting .1 clause
simîlar to this, strouger if iieeessary ; but
at ail events show the country that, so
far as we couid, in a Bill la regard to
whichi there xvas any doubt, the Senate
would stand by the resolution of iast year,
and deciare In the form of the clause or
some other way, tbat It bRd the intereat
and the rights of tlue province ln view
and so stnted them. For that reason, I
arn disposed to vote against the arnendment, believing that this declaration of
provincial rights, leavlng the Bill at large,
is better than It would be If the amendment were adopted.

Hou. Mr. POWER-Inasmucb as a sort
of personal question lias arisen between
the lion. gentleman froîn De Salaberry and
mnyseif, perhaps the flouse wili ailow ine
to say a very few words. 1 did Dot say
tliat the lion. gentleman's statemnent with
respect to the promoters of tbe Bill was
incorrect. 1 biai very littie to do witli
the liroifloters of tic Biil. The hon. gentîeia frnm De Salaberry bas such a persuasive Nvay that I can imagine hlm, in deallng ivitiî the promoter of the Bill, persuading tbiat gentleman to adopt aimost any
My statement
view be chose to incuicate.
is simply tbis ; and I feel 1 bave a perfect
right to make It: In my hearing the counsel of tbe promoter expressed a strong objection to this clause, and, If my rnemory
does not fail me aitogether. be lntlmiated
that If this clause remained in the Bill,
the Bill would be of no use to, the coinpany. Tbat Is my remembrance of wbat
Wbether be
this learned counsel said.
stated sometbing aitog-ether different to tue
Hon. '-%r. DAVIS-I amn sorry I cannot
bon. senator from De Salaberry, or not, I
from
do not say. I assume that he dld say some- agree with the hon. gentleman
It appears to me that this
Middlesex.
thîng different to, the hon. gentleman.
question of provincial riglits bas been made
ROSS (Middlesex)-Tbe object a football of.
Hon. -Mr.
of the hon. senator wmvo bas moved this
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--Ob,
amendment Is to protect provincial rigbts,
a very laudabie object. The object of the no.
fifth clause of -the Bill, as stated by its
Hou. Mr. DAVIS-Well, to n certain
promoter Is to protect provincial rights.
It ail depends on wbose ox 1s
mo- extent.
On opposite sides then of this Bill, the
we
If clause 5 be stricken being gored. If It is proper that
tive is the saine.
should proteet the rlgbts of the province, I
out. tiien tbe jurisdiction of tlue province,
gentleman
If ny, is nt large. It wili be subject to wouid suggest that some hon.
wbo lias this question at beart shouid lnsucb argument as migbt arise under the
Provincial
Britisb North Amerîca Act. I tbink It troduce a Bill, calling It the
Rîgbts Act, or some other suitable naine,
would probably remain. I do not kaow
if
Bill.
tbat this House can oust the jurlsdictlon on the Unes of clause 5 of this

SENATE

934

the Hanuse thinks- we shiould protect the
provinces in that maniner, ive should have
a general Act, which would applr to every
I know
Bill passed throughi this Fluse.
there are a great many power Bis wvhich
have g-one tlirough the House withi no such
The hon. gentleman
provision in themn.
fromi De Salaberry said that if the incorporators of this Bill found that any Act
passed iu the future by the Iprovincial gOverniment of Ontario or of Quebcc should
interfere with thleir riglhts under this Bill
-or lu other words if it mnade their Bill
Useless-they could coine back to us for
redress. That is a very nice proposition.
He nckniowledg-es that stich a thing is posSible-thiat the provincial governiient iuay
mfringe the riglits of the federal goverumuent hy passing au Aet whlch is going to
interfere withl an Act that wve have passed,
and that in order to proteet themuselves
the promoters of this Bill vould have to
corne back to this House for protection. I
submit that If the promoters of this Bill
have t 0 corne back to this chamber, it is
just as well that they should go to the
courts for Protection.
Under the British
North America Act, there are certain
things we cannot do. 'We cannot infringe
au the riglits of the provinces, nor can they
lufringe on our righits.
If the rights of
the provinces are infringed ilpon, they have
their redress.
If we, interfere withi thieir
riglits, ns guaranteed under the constitution, they can go to the court. It is the
I therefore
proper place for thein to go.
think 1Irnust ho0ld to Mîy motion.
The House divided on the aniendment,
which was lost on the following division:
Yens, 12; nays, 31.
Contents:
The Ronourable
Bostock,
Boucherville, de,
Cofiey,
Davis,
Landry,
McMillan,
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

Messrs

Me ruer,
Perley,
Poirier,
Power,
Tessier,
Wilson.-12.

NOn-Contents:
The Ho nourable Messrs
Lougheed,
Macdonald
(victoria),

Béique,
Beith,
Bernier,
Bolduc,
Bowell
(Sir Mackenzie),
Campbell,
Casirraia,
Choquette,
Costigan,
Derbyshire,
Dessaullecz,
D)ouglas,
ELUIS,
1 ergusoni,
Gibson.
Jaffray,

Mcllugh,
'MeKa " (Tirurio),
McLaren,
lMcSweeney,
Owei.,,
RiIev,
Scott,
Watso n,
yeo.-31.

lion. MNr. I >.UV [Sý-I have giveIl notice of
I move that the
a furtiier amnendaient.
said Pihl 1)1 not n1ow reati the third tinie,
b)ut tlîat it he alxnentded by- striki ng out
clause (" of the ;Ii( Bil wh1icLî reads as
fohlows:
6. The company may acquire and operate the
%vorksof any coaspany haviag powvers wholly
or in part sinmilar to the powers of the company; snd rnay acquire the capital stock,
bonds, riglits, franchises, powers, privileges or
properties of any suchi comipany; and mnay
enter into agreements for an amalgamation
ivith ans- such company, on such ternis and
conditions as are agreed upon, and subject
to such restrictions as te, tihe directors seern
fit; provided that any sucis agreenment bas
been first approved by two-thirds of the votes
at a special general meeting of the shareholder-s dul ' called for the purpose of considering
it, at whicls meeting sharehiolders representing
at least two-tbirds in value of tise stock are~
preseat or represented by proxy.
Tihis is the clause which provide~s for flic
It pros-ides that this conîpany
combine.
shahl be alhowed to boy stock uipon the
mnarket, or ta amialgamate or to absorb
an'y other coxupaur in the saine Une of
I submiit that that is niot a
business.
In the United
step in the right direction.
States they have had a lesson. on combines.
and are trying to get rid of thern, and we
are making It easy for people ta form cornThis is a power Bill, whieh
binations.
gis-es this cornpany the right to operate
water'powers ail over Ontario nnd Quebec.
whiclh aiiht be extended later ta the other
I wishi ta draw attention to
provinces.
the fact. thfat if we alhow this Bill t 0 pass,
these people may he able to absorb every
Other wnter Power ln these twa provinces,
and extend thelr operatians to other provinces. What would happen If the water-

MAY 19, 1908
getting a footpowers of the Doiiion sbould get under dation for sucli Institutions
Wbere liold in this country.
the control of onuc coîfipanyl
would the people be? 1 tbink tliis is a
H-on. ',%r. SCOTT-I do not thluk tbe
clause deserving of soule coasideratioli from effect bas been to create combines in tbe
tlie House. I do not think we sliould provide past. If that were tlie case we sbould
machInery wbicli would enable this com- bave bad some evidence of It. I do not
pany to absorb aIl the other water-power besitate to say tbat there are over 500
To my mind companies incorporated every year ln Cancompanies lu the countryv.
It Is a backward step.
ada wltb tbat clause ln their Bill. It la
miglit cal at- lnvarlably doue.
Hon. Mr. CKSGIIAIN-I
Hon. Mr. lie'.ULLEN-I do flot care.
tention to the fact, that this is simply
taken from the compaiiy's Act.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I neyer kuew any
does not maire mischief to arise from it.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-That
Mr. WILSON-I do not tbink there
amy dffernce.Hon.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Tiie capital of the la mucli force in the remnrks of the bon.
be 500
company is one Million dollars; so that leader of tbis House. There mlt
companies ln that position, and stili it
they cannot forai a very big trust.
We are leglslating in
Hon. Mr. McMULEN-I thlnk- there la miglit be wrong.
interests of the country, and if it be
a great deal of force in the nineudment the
the interests of the
proposed by the hion, gentleman from Prince necessary to protect
large, this House bas a rigbt to
Albert. I do flot care whether it is the public at
matter wbetber preCompanles, Act, or wvbat Act it cornes do It. It does flot
lias graated certain confrom, we are justified ln fightlng against vlous legislation
We know
companies.
combinations ; and If this clause enables cessions to other
to cointo bring- together ail compa- that we bave granted concessions
the company
one panies lu the past, tbat are ln combinanies possessing -water-powers, and form
la wby we are objectlinge combination, I say It la legisiation ln tions to-day. That
ing to sucli législation at the present time.
tbe wrong direction. That la my candld
It Is We would like to have these combinatiolis
opinion witli regard to that clause.
It Is necessary, as tbe
quite enougli if we give this company the done away with.
la the Bill, wltli- bon. gentleman fromn Wellington bias said,
other powers mentioned
the combinations that
out includiag the powers in clause 6i. Tliey to consider carefulîr
well wltb- inay take place in the future. We do not
can conduct their business very
this company or any other
out the provisions of this clause. If It want to grant to
a pro- company tbe riglit to gobble up the wbole
Is to be adopted, tbere should be
of the country, and
vision attached to It, that these consolida- of tbe water-powers
sanc- later on 'when we need tbem for public
tions of compailies sbould recelve the
manufacturlflg and other
tion of tbe Governor General la Council. utilîties, or for
purposes, find tbat tliey are ail ln the
Tbey can corne back If necessary for larI hands of combinations and we are debarred
ger powers and tliey wlll get them.
I
lu froin uslng tbem In a legîtimate way.
want to know If tliere Is any company
back to parliament say we sbould raise our volce ln opposition
Canada that bas corne
bon. friend
kind. M.%y
for larger powers and bas flot recelved to anytblng of this
way la to make that wbo moved this amendment, deserves cretbem. The proper
brouglit tbe matter before
clause subject to tbe approval;of the Gov- dit for having
to become Iaw. the House. If lu Ontario to-day, tbe waterernor General, If It Is going
ln the bands of combinaI was opposed to tbat clause ln the first powers were ail
single enact- tions beyond tbe control of tlie leglalature,
place. I arn opposed to every
be a serions matter 7ment that will tend to brIng about tbe con- I say It 'would
andi the province It la no argument ta say
solidation of companles of this class,
bundred other compacreate monopolies. In the 'United States, tbat there are five
nies baving certain riglits and privileges.
the people are bled to deatb by combinala It rlgbt they should
tions, and we bad better not lay tbe foun- The' question la,

SENATE
have tbem ? Are we in a beaitby condition because tbey bave sucb powers ? They
will use tbe power of combination in the
future as tbey bave in the past, If tbis
provision is left in the Bill.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-If my bou. friend
would corisider tbe limited. powers of tbis
Company, lie would sce that a capital of
one million dollars will flot more than sutficee-I question if that amount will be
sufficleut for their purposes.
Itegarding
absorbing other corporations, I may say
that they bave spent betweeu eigbt and
ten million dollars in w'-a ter-po -%ers between Toronto and -Niagara Fl'als.
Tbey
bave spent millions of dollars nt the Falls.
Three or four millions have been spent
between the Kew rals and the city of
Hamilton, and the idea that this company
because of the powers given to it iu this
Bill. wbicb biave already been givcn to
other comnpanies, is to be of snch a formniÉtable characte'r thiat with a capital of
one million dollars It will be lu a position
to buy Up aIl the water-powers of Canada
-I am astonlshed at my bon. friend's Intelligence Iu prescnting such a absurd argument to Uic House. One million dollars
wlll flot place tbis company on a firstclass basis. There is an erroneons idea la
regard to thc cost of transmnissionl and development of water-power. The people look
at the water runnlng on the wheel, and the
revolutions of the turbine, and tbey bave
no conception oif 'wbat it cost. Millions
have been spent by companies lai connection wlth the developinent of water-power,
and electricity, In the province, by United
States capitallsts nt Niagara Falls ln additIon to the money tbat has been spent by
Toronto people.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-lt Is lu thc bands
of Mackenzie and 'Mai.
Hon. Mr. GLBSON-They caninot do any
more than any other company bas donc.
If any other Company lias a better franchise, It *wIll have a better chance to bny
.,Dut this Company, than tiiis company would
bave to buy thcm out. rt is always the
large company that buys out the littIe one.
Wlth thc amount of' capital tiey organize
on, thcy cannot do more than attend to
their own business. I disapprove of coinHon. Mr. WILSON.*

bines as much as the lion. gentlemanu froin
Alberta. I am glad lie is coining over to,
tlîat view~ of the case, because, lu the past,
he bas been very free In regard to large
corporations, and lie bas neyer ralsed bis
voice against tbem until now and I amn
qulte sure of ail Uic corporations that bave
reccivcd bis at tbe bauds of this Ilomse,
this company Is lcss formidable than any
of tbem.
Hon. 'Mr. DAVIS-WVith regard to tire
arguiments-if tbey arc argunments-against
this ameudirnent they are very eni.
Mre were toid wblen discnssing the last proposed amndmiet, thiat thc clause conld
not bceut ont becanse it was iu the goeneral
Act. We are told tliat this clause should
be allowed to sta3- iii the Bill because it
appears lu 500 other Acts ; so that Nve (Io
ilot know m-here we stand. 'My lion. friend
says that this company bas oalY onre iinillian
dollars capital, and that it would be liinpossihle for tbem to buy up otber waterpowcrs. If that is the case, wbnt hirrn
will be donc by striking ont the clause ?
It Is Uic principie I object to. I do not
care if It appears lu a hundred Bis. We
may some day find tbat it Is flot right' to
insert Uiis clause in measures passed by
this House. We may find that Uic Comnbinations are getting too strong-, as in the
United States, and we magy corne to the
conclusion that they sbouid be stopped.
I think Uic prescut time Is just as good
as any to commence the good work, and to
say :'Wc do not want to furnisb machinery for the formation of combines.' My
hou. friend speaks of Uic combines ut Niaguru. Tbey arc worth millions und millions. This company could comne back to
us and get an Increase of capital. Supposing there xvas n small company doing
business down there, and this compauy
would make it se lntcresting for the
smalI company that thiey wouid bave te,
get ont of business, and they fouud that a
million dollars was not sutffcient to ahsorb the stock of the other company, they
wonld corne to, this House and ask for
lncreascd capîtalzation, and I venture to
say that my bon. frlcnd, who bas becu
always opposed to combines, would be one
of Uic gentlemen ýwbo would vote for the
lacrease lu their capital. We are doing

MAY 19, 1908
this compaaly no bori l'y strikiug out this and one of the very fit-st functions of this
w-hich really
clause. They have only a million dollars House is to protect the bonds.
means the credit of the country. Now,
capital. If we strike ont this clause we
must remember that the moment a railw'ill show that we intend to purge this coun- %we
It wlll becorne a way conipa ny, or any otiier enterprise,
try of combinations.
lu a few years, as the issues bonds, the legal estate is vcsted lu
serious question
hon. gentleman from Wellington bas sald. the mnortgagcc; a deed of trust is deposited
State.
When this thing gets properly started, If lu the Dppartment of the Secrctary of
ail the w'ater-po-%'ers become absorbed, the It stip*laàtesýý certain provisions, ainongst
over
combiuation would control ail the street ,N-Iiel tle îroperty Is virtually handed
and the electric llght companies and to tlie t-rustees for the bondholders. and the
cars
the p)eople would be siinply hewers of wood conîpany Is alloived to exploit or operate
and drawers of water for a huge combine. the enterprise, provided It complies wlth
We bave the Ilistory of the United States certain provisions stipulated la the deed of
before us. Combines st«arted là a small way, trust. the principal of whlh is generaglly
w'lth five or six millions of capital, and the paying of coupons nt the time of their
Congress gave these companies everYthing becoming due, and also the payaient of the
they wanted. They would be glad to-day If principal of the bonds when It becomes due.
someone twent7y or thlrty or forty years 1 Unltil th,ý coupons have been paild. and until
ago had advocated the stopping of the the principal of the bonds has been pald,
mnachinery to allow the combines to get the legal estate is vested lu the bondholders.
bold of the resources of the country ln thls'rlîey are virtually and technically the
owners of the proîrnrty'. Therefore the
way.
dîrectors of a compa going into large exThe arndment was lost on division.
of the lienditure are actually, as the la,% stands
The motion for the third readlng as endto-day, creatlng a charge, a lien. on a proo, nd he Bll
Billwasaggeed
to
perty that technlcally does flot belongThe
the third time aad pnssed.
them. but belongs to the bond.holders.
RAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT

BILL.

IN COMMITTEE.
The House resolved itself into Committee of the Whole on Bill (PP) An Act to
aînend the Railway Act as regards the prefereatlal charge created by the sale of securities.
(Ia the Commlttee.)
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-This Is rn very
short Bill, and simply proposes to strike
out the words 'Property and assets' la the
fifth lune of section 138 of the Railway
Act, chapter 37 o! the statutes of 196
but it la a most Important measure. It
lies nt the very foundation of ail the
It afgreat enterprises o! this country.
fects the bonds not only of the railways
enterprises also. where
but of several othei&
we render the Rallway Act applicable. and
1 arn sure that the attention o! this House,
wll be given particularly to the Bill, as
It la of sncb a great Importance to the very
credit o! the largeat enterprises of this
The greatest projects depend,
country.
as you know, on money ralsed on bonds,

object of this Bill ls to restore the law
as it existed prior to 1903, when
the Railway Act w-as consolidated. It
is going back to the law as it existed ln
There is no Intention
the, statute of 1888.
to infict a bardship on any of the other
It must be understood that
creditors.
every dollar of revenue or rentaI shahl go
to pay the worklng- expenses of the railway. It Is only when a railway may
not have sufficlent revenue to pay the working expenses that the clause will operate
iind surely It 'will be time thea to notlfy
Tme bondholders may
the boadholders.
get their coupons paid out o! the revenue
of the rond w-hile nt the ame time the
directors may be borrowing money !rom
the banks or elsewhere to pay operating
expenses and after a year or so, whefl the
bondholders fiad tbat their coupons are n0
longer belng pald, or the rond Is golng Into
Insolvency, they cannot act themselves;
they can only nct throtigh the trustees.
These trustees generaly live on the other
aide of the Atlantic. When a rallway geta
Into difficult!, one o! the trustees cornes to.

SENATE
Canada to ascertain the position of the of any road, immiediateiy they found the
W'hea lie returais to running expenditure was inivading the procompanies' aifairs.
EnglInd a meeting of the bondholders wilI perty and assets of the company, would
Thirty days is the shortest proceed on their bonds. Tbe lnw as it is at
be called.
notice of a meeting-, but ns the bondhold- the present time is almost a sufficient proers are scattered there is sometimes a delny tection for aIl the purposes in view. As I
0f six weeks or twb months before a meeting said on the introduction of the Bill, the
can be held, and aIl tis time the position public are eatitled to bave their roads
of the railway is getting worse and worse. operated no matter at wbose expense. The
acted
After the bondholders get together and are governaient of the country bas
by
made acquainted with the state of the rail- It inin ost instances very generously
lioausing nearly every mile of railîvay that
way, the company general lias some exIf the
cuse or other to give wby it lias îlot been lias been constructed la Canada.
generni revenue of the rond is insufficlent
able to pay the coupons-soine accident on
operation of the hune, then
the road, stagnation of business, and de- to warrant the
have we that the road is
everything wvill lie ail riglit if the what guarantee
clare that
to be operated ? Lt seeius to me that the
company is allowed to go on. As the law
guaraatee we have to-day that at road
stands, the directors ny go on borrowing. only
is to bie operated for the benefit of the peoRemember, bondliolders are flot anxious to
pie of Canada, is that thie property and astake over railways, hecause tliey are generalinvestors and place their moner i sets of the company shahl be char.-ed. witiî
tue acitial running expenditure. If that is
these bonds tbinking they are a flrst charge
jusufficient, thon one of two tbings must
on the property, and whethier their coupons happen, eithier foreclosure of the road hi'
are paid in the year or not they are cumuthe bondholders, or permit the property and
lative and tiîcy believe that they will be assets to be invaded for the cost of runipaid some timie or other and the property ninig. That is a matter upon wbicli they
wvîli always be responsible for the payment; can exercise their oîvn,- discretion, and rebut nfter this lias gone on for somne years gardins whicb they have the remedy in
and a linge delit bas been created, when the tlieir owa bands of foreciosiag tlieir mortbondiiolders wisb to take possession of the gage. We are iegislating upon a very imroad tliey find the large indebtedness lias portant question invoiviflg very large iuteaccumuiated ahead of the bonds. The rests, without a kniowledge appareatiy of
bondholders whio thought tliey 14ad the nny conditions baving arisen to warrant
first lien, find they have oniy a second lien the legisiation. 1 am at present unaware,
on the road. Under this system, the bonds since the passage of this Act, 0f nu)y railA note of way lu this country, except it be the Insbould not lie called bonds.
the comipany miglit be just as good if the tercolonial Rnhiway-aad we usually except
bonds are to bave no priority except after that from ail raiiways thiat en ruui on coin1 tbink tlie people monsease lines-wbose affairs call for this
the working expenses.
who seli to the raiiway company are weli legisiation. Ail the railways thiat I know
enougli protected wliea every dollar of the have sufficleat revenue to pay their runreceipts of the road goes to pay tbem. niag expenses. If any conditions have artTliey bave a lien on ail receipts and sen warrantlng an amiendmeat of this klad,
rentaI, but. the property itseif, which la It seems to me the governument should bave
vested in the bondholders, sbould remain assumed tbe responsibiiity of introducingwitli the bondholders and notlilng sbould tbis legislation. It should niot bave beeni
lntroduced by a private mnember, not that
be allowed to go aliead ot the bonds.
I for a moment place any limitation on
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Does my hon. tlie riglit of any bon. gentleman to Introfriend know of any co' pany that lias been duce nny legfisiation lie may tbink fit, but
subject to the imaginnry abuses wliich he tbe goverament lias pecuiiariy assumed the
bas so eloquently polnted out ? Wbat con- respoasibiiity 0f acquaiating ltseif wltb
ditions bave arisen to justlfy this legIsia- every phase of raiiway undertaklng, and It
tion ? It seems to nme that tlie bondbolders seeis to me that this is n *case la whicb
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN.

MAY 19, 1908

the initiative ougbit to have beenl taken by
tbe governient.e

939

e nue is flot sufficient to meet the worklng

*xpenditure, so far as it relates to the
vages of eniployees ; what remedy would
hose employees bave under tbe proposed
tmendment for the recovery of -the wages
lue them ?The property and assets are
iot available and. consequently,. the only
:iang they could look to would be tbe revenue.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The answer to the
'bon. gentleman's argument was properly
stated by the lion. senator froni De Lanaudière. Tbis Bill is lntended to re-establish
the ]aw as it was before tbe Railwvay Act
o! 1903. As I stated the other day, I introduced two years ago a measure in exactly
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Under our code la
the sanie ternis as this Bill, and it passed
reading ln this Flonse. 1 hiad tbe province of Quebec, eiployees would
Its second
to leave for England and the Bill ivas have a privilege ; wag-es would corne before
dropped. At that time I tried to ascertain the bonds.
bow this change happened to be introduced
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But uiy hon.
la the law in 1903, and 1 could really find
friend will flot contend. that a provincial
no trace of it. Lt is well knoýwn tbat the
law wvould affect the railway ]aw of CanRailw-ay Department employed at the tume
so far as giving- employees a reinedy
-as solicîtor, Mr. Ha-en&ard, wvbo wvas entrust- ada,
against the property of the cornpany.
ed -with the drafting of the Bill, and w-bether it -%vas an oversight on is p~art or not.
BEIQI7E-Yes. I think, tbe priHon.u.
I -%as unable to ascertain. The bon. sen- vileges for wva ées would take rank on the
ator from Calgary asks wvbetbier anything- property if there is no provision to the
bas arisen to render tlils legisiation neces- contrary in the Railway Act, and 1 am n ot
sary. I hiappen to know that a road two aware that there is, In the case of the
years ago was placed la the haadis of a railvay that 1 spoke of. under the rullng of
receiver. It biad over $27,000 of triffic the Excliequer Court the wages were actbalances owing to the Intercolonial Rail- iially paid by privilege.
way, some five or six tbousaud dollars
H-on. 'Mr. IOUGH-EED-Assuining that
owing to, tbe Canadian Pacific Railway
the reveniue is exhausted, what remedy
and large amounts .to otber roads, and a
have ?
debt for worklng expenses wbicb was ex- wculd the employees
cessive for the size of the railway. About
Hou. )Ir. DEIQUE--So far as the aproone hundred thousand dollars had actuallv vincee of Quebec is conicerned, tbey would
to be pald for worklng expenses. Happily, bave the I)rivilege on the rond itgelf ;but
no bonds bad been lssued by that railway. waiges stand on a very different footing
There were bonds, but I believe they were fi-oci the working expenditure to, whicli
lnvalld, but If that railway had issued Nve called attention a moment ago.
bonds before It passed Into the bauds of a
Hou. M.LOUGHEED-It is part of the
receiver It would have been a very serions
matter, because there would bave been -,-%ork.ing expeuditure.
privileged dlaims to, the extent of one bunHiou. '.%r. BEIQUE-Tbey f on part of
drel thousand dollars against the road. the workiug expeudîture, but if tbat por*wlthout the bondholders having any ineans tion of the Railway Act Is not sufficlently
of knowlng about ItL The worklng ex- clear, for iny part 1 would have no objecpenses were allowed to accuninlate la such tion to amend It so as to make It clear
a way that bondholders could unt bave that the wages would be a charge on the
ascertalned what was going on. More thun property ltself ; but that Is no reason why
that, au amount o! expenditure miay be ln- the Rallway Act sbould otherwlse remala
curred for solicitors' fees. for salaries to, In Its present shape. The hon. member
officiaIs, for directors' fees, &c., and they asks whether there Is any need for thîs
ail formi part of the worklng expeuditure, legisiation. The Rallway Act, up to 1903,
and corne before the bonds.
dld flot contain these words. 'property and
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Let us assume assets'1 lu that section, and I arn not aware
that la the worklng of the road the rev- that nybody suffered for non-payment of

SENATE
wages or otlîerwvise ;therefore we bave had ithere are large dlaims agaiîîst most railIs it prothe experience of the working of the Rail- w-ays on acconut of accidents.
way Act frorn 1888 to 1903 without any posed to ]et the people Nwhlo have sustained
If Mny
Inconvenience resultlng and it seems to me injuries go withiout any redress?
lion. friend w-vlI grant three months wages
to rettnrn to that state of tins
it is better
I would suggest to the hon. senator froin 0f eumployees as a first lien, lie must make
De Lanaudiêre that, if his Bill carnies, provision also that the friends of those
the word, 'the should he struck out of -whlo niay be injured or killed on the railthe second line in section 141, for the pur- ways shall have pniority for their dlaims.
The railroads ire responsible to the public.
pose 0f giving effect to the amendulent.
good Thev have issued tiîeir bonds and sol<I
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-There is a
owoehac
deal of force ln ivhat the bon. senator fiointen.aiitsprpsd
evau0ftiebosathexpse0
CalIgar-y says about the pnyxnent of wages,
the ruaand 1 should be w-illing to acccpt an aniiend- tiiose w-ho furnislied sul:plies for
rtc
Weogtt
lerîra.
nient making three inontis wages a privi- nîg0
boudholders.
leged dlaim. Thé code of Quebec makzes ithe public just as well as the
ainounits of bonds have been
islarge
that provision, but tliere should bc a limit, Ver
a first issued. andiare being issued on account of
and the bondiiolders should have
will
'nt
There should ha a 1tue construction of railronds.
lien on soinethîing.
i pon siih
limit to thc charg~es to be created ahead of he the Pffe-Ct of Iluis logMnltion
Cortainly thils, Bill ouiglît to he
issues?
If tue !eader of the opoito
the bonds.
that three ýdelayedl iiitil w-e cauî look carefully inito
w-ould move in amendiiont
bc a privileged dlaim. lts Provisions and see liow it wili affect
months wnges sliould

1 hope my lion.
I arn quite, willing to accept sucli a pro- ýthe pub~lic at large.
frlend w-ill rnve that flic, cornîniittee î'ise
vision to protect the workingmen.
and report progress.
Hon. Mr. POWER-011 ! no,
Bill as it is.

pass

thue

Hon. '.%r. CASGRAIN-We aire OnlY l-everting to wiiere the law w-as before. For
maany years the law stood that w'ay. The
bas
attention of Soule0 of the capitalit
beenl called to tlîe law~ as it stands now.
andi unless If is aînended, yotn could flot
raise xnoney on a railway project by issuing bonds.

lion. Mi. SCOTT-Tlie hon,. gentlemlan,
speakInjg lu favour of persons investing
their mioney. states that w-e are giving adNow
dlitiolial security to the bondlholders.
it is exactly the reverse of that.

Hlon. Mr. WILSON-I saîd w-e wvere givin- tlic bondiiolders protection at the expense of tliose w-ho are supplying the railw-ays.
Hon. Mr~. SCOTT-Where bonds w-ere isis sinigular
Hou. '.%r. WILSON-Tuis
ainounits of bonds snied undifer the lan ais it sfood unjtil five
Very large
legsiti u.
have bemn sold un.der certain conditions. 3-ears ago. the position of those bondholders
The purcliasers entifleti tiieni to hlave the law placed where
and nt a certain value.
have laoked upon the' prol)erty as their if w-as whleii they took the bonds.

security, and uiow w-e find an apl))icationii

.'r

LUHE

-au

iybn

M
st
HEE-a
tOU genyen
hon.
made to eniîauîe tue value of fluose bonds
Hou.dwb r.
hnte
sreay
-ho ernste governiment,
as ngainst tue dlains of private parties. frin
when
they prpasred
govertngAnt,
My hon. frieîîd sa3's he is wviIhiig to aîîowwh the
those whîo furnislu supplies for the work- the estonfo
frt yaedd h lwas
ing of railroads to have a dlaim ugainst hdsodfrfryyas
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-My bion. f riend knows
the working expenses of the rnilway, and
to allow empioyees to have a prior lien on very well fliaf there ls sometimes a good
the property of the company to the extent deal of carelessness ln drafting an Act. I
Have we any think, it is very Improper, so far as bonds
of three months wages.
Tbe Issued before 1903 are concerned, f0 have
righf to do a thlng of that kind?
the security of
charge on a rond ongbt f0 be for the cbanged ln agny degree
first
If It, goes abroad now,
Besides. those bonds.
working- and running expenses.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

MAY 19, 1908

VJ

Hon. NIr. LOUGHEED-Tbe governent
througli the reports of this discussion, tliat
take away certain riglits surely could flot have made sucb a serious
we are going to
and powers that bondliolders lield anterior mistake as that
&I
Hon. '1r. CASGIIAIN-Thls was maklng
fCanada very seriously.
Over 75 per
,,iaia
hnewt
eadt
h
h
eadt
ent of the rnoney that bas bulit the rail- a vr Iaia not hnewt that It us rigbt for
know
do
lns een orrwedbonds.
f tis
ays ounty
an
Surely we oughlt to kzeep falth mie to say it here. but I have .had
broad.
tbis inoiiey, interview wltb the officer wbo drafted the
!lth the men wh adad
ne recoltbat hie
told
nd whatever the conditioil of the law Bih1, and be at ail.ne Evldentlybad
tbese words
tat
as wen oneywasadvacedlection of it
hens ade liav-e been repeated lnadvertently lu the
prsrned un
bous wbenta
r clause, and by striking thern out w~e shall
od
h
ni
rsre
boudb
p
restore the law to w-bere ut 'vas before
LOUGHEED-3onds negotiat- 1903.
Hon. Mr.
e d prior to 1903 would flot be aff ected by
Hon. Mr. PERGUSON-I do flot think
t bis legisiation, because it wouid not be
It certaiuly did flot affect the the hon. geatlenhan is rlgbt ln saying that
r etroactive.
r lghts ncquired prior to the passage of the these words were laserted inadvertently in
L.ct; It only affects bonds negotiated subse- 1903. 1 bave flot liait ry attention called
to this subject until the debate ai-ose, and
c tient to 1903.
1 will flot be able to make the references
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tlbe effect of the law I should make lu order to corne to an Intelis It now stands wvonld be tbis, that tbe ligent conclusion in regard to the matter.
onds would not coînmrand the saine value, I arn speaking from recollection, but I tblnk
)ecause iii the money mnarket if tiiere is the change was miade ln 1903 to harmonize
the general law wltb the contract miade
ifeeling that those bonds are not secured
)y the substantial property of the coin- witb tbe Transcontinental llailway ComiIf dlaims tbat paay. Vbe first mortgage to secure the
pany. they are worthless.
ivere not a lien on the property of the coin- bonds was described ln the Act as not
pany can corne ln and be preferred to the, to laclude rolllng stock and things of that
kind. Tiiere were exemiptions miade. AIinortgage, the bonds are valueless.
tbough It was called a first security, there
Hon. 'Mr. BEIQUE-Working expeuses were large exceptions mnade, and If I bad
This
«accruin,- before 1903 would not take rank tîrne 1 could show wbat they were.
on the property before the bonds, but any is a Bill that sbould not be passed witbout
workîng expenditures subsequent to the the very fuliest consideration, for this reapassing of the Act of 1903 would takre rank son ; ut niay be confiscation. It is giving
and affect, therefore, the lieu of the bonds. the bondhiolders a priority. I take it, the
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-If the hon. gen- point made by the bion. gentlernan froin
theinnu f rom Calgary will look nt section Calgary Is correct, that wbatever was done
138, le will see that It Is simply a inistake under the Act of 1903 was not retroactive.
ln drafting. In tbe thîrd lune of clause 138 It did flot refer to bonds ln existence up
ut says :' Sucb properties, assets, rents and to that time, nnd the provision ln the Conrevenues of the cornpany.' And then : Pro- solidated Act of 1903 wiil only refer to
vlded that sucb '-it should be rents and bonds lssued since 1903. Tbese bondholders
revenues-but whoever copied it put un liave a certain security. Tben the compathe words : 'Such property and assets.' nies bave been going on maklng contracts
Those words sbould not have been repeated. with other people, as weli as selllng bonds.
1 think It was a mistake ln draftlng the Among other things, they bave been rentSurely such a radical change Ing rollng-stock. If hon. gentlemen wilI
clause.
would flot bave taken place lni the Rahlwny look at the Interpretation clause of this
Act witbiout soîne discussion lu tils House. Act tbey wlll find that workling expenditure
I looked for sucli a discussion ln this House, Is described. and that ut Includes a greRt
rnany tlîings. nînolig others the foliowing
nnd there wis a discussion on the Bi-

S-N AT E
Ail such toits, rents or annuai sums as are
paid ini respect of the hire of the roiling stock,
c.
&
That is only one hune, and there ire a
great many other things. Now~, a company
bas beeu selling bonds, and it lias becen
biring rolling-stock. Under the condition
of the taw existing the lessor of the rolllng stock would have priority over the
Now, you propurcbaser of bonds.
pose, by changing tilese words, to iavert

1 gave
will flot be aff ected by this Act.
some attention to that point a few years
ago. and I cannot understand that a taw
of that kind bas been ailowed to remain
It is a serious maton 'our statute-book.
bondholders, and it wil very seriouster, for
'l' affect the sale of bonds.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-My hon. friend
will tcnow ttiat when raiiways acquire rollah
a
aet
eeal
ii
tcte

ahed puf the bendor If a railway wants to buy locomotives, or
bondsI af ptin
fte riglit or any kind of rolling stock, they bave to pay
a
of rondintc poitouid
of rllin-stck
?Woud itbe ightforash. If they do flot pay cash the locomotive
to change the stntus ofe
dis parliament
over to tbe comipany, or to
these two classes of people haviug deal- Is simply handed
reWbSý shoutd the the trustees of. the bondholders, but
ings with the Company ?
namne of the manufacturer,
tnterest of the bondliotder be more sacred mains iii the
paid on accounit thereof is
than the rights of the man who rents roll- and anr amnount
rt
p i for
ing-stock to the company ? If lion. gentle- onl conidre aosur on 0 f etn g hl
they~aentsr
and a nd
at the Iiaiiway Act, watpay, ifthe locomotive is generally marked
men, wiii 1ook th inerrettio
clus, ad se
rea
bye swc a cocanad
alue
toesuchreato
réadrete
uhacirnetoseacmpyb
they
is involved in working expenditures,
Ttxcrefore If an execution Is levied
1 niean. The pany.'
wIll understanil what
locomotives eau be reBilt may be rigbt, but I bave grave doubts on tue road, these
correct legisia- moved and cannot be attached by any
as to whether It woutd be
There cannot be any hardshir
tion on the part of this House to change seizure.
peopte, upon the manufacturera of roiling stock
the status of those two classes of
not part witb their stocl
those wbo sotd materiat to the company, because they do
But Nvlth re t
tilt tbey get their nioney.
and those w-ho had a prior dlaim-to take
a firs
from tbem and give it to gard to the bondholders, who, have
that prior dlaim
on the property, If the taw shoukd
those wbo, had oniy a second position at mortgage
the ifirst mortgng4
the time the transaction was made. 1 put some charge between
the raiiway compan y
tise matter is of sufficient impor- and the property thea
tbink
dttflculty when they try t!t
tance at ail events that we shoutd look wtll i nd some
Thiis provision mus
bonds.
more carefuliy into it before we adopt tliat dispose of put lu the Act by mistake.
have been
provision.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It woutd flot have a Bill, and he toid me that he had no recotIf there were sucb lection of the matter.
retroactive effect.
as the bon. gentleman bas
rigbts created
Hon. ',\r. LOUGHEIJD-I suggest that it
suggested, It wouid flot affect those rigbts. w-as put ln advisediy, for
his reason.
The
It wouid be mereiy for the future.
Previous to 1903 a creditor, be lie an erumeaning of the law wiil be merely that for
ployee of the road, a working man or any
the future, from the time of the passing of other individuat occnpying the status of a
this Act, the worklng expenditure -will flot creditor, found it practically impossible to,
rank before the bonds o! the property
In
recover bis debt from the railway.
and assets of the company, except the
whxat way could be hnve redress as agaiast
The
renta and revenues of the company.
But
tîxe reats; and revenues of the road?
Act wlii not have thse effect o! changing
silice the passing of that Act, immediately
the rlghts o! any person ln tbe perîod exa creditor bas a dlaimi against the road and
tending from 1903 to the coming ilito force
obtains jndgment, he seizes some of the
It will bave effect oniy after
of this Act.
tangible and
Tbe rolling stock and that is a
the passlng of the Act In the future.
well understood way of recovering bis
dlaims for the sale of rolting stock wlll be dlaim.
Those dlai
protected In other ways.
0fi

Hon. Mr. FERGUSONq.

MAY 19. 1908
Would that be rigbt to put the bondbolders'
elaim above salaries and wages of persons
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-lt is doue ai- empioyed lu and about the working of the
niost every day. because the property aud ralIway?
assets of the road are 110w made ch:argedo you
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Where
able with all thbe liabilities of the road atfind. tbe word 1propert-y' under the item of
How heretending the running expenses.
after wil t-be creditor have any redress, expenditure?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-xi definlng what
unless he enters upon a yery techulcal aud
1worcing expenditure'1 means, the subsecvery abstruse class of litigation, attacblng
the rents and profits of the rond, asking for tions includes ail these things. Clause C
the appoint-ment of a receiver, which will rends:
Ail rents, charges or interest ou t-he purresuit la a recciver going la and taking
cliase money of lands beionging t-o the cornpossession of tbe road ?
and flot paid for.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-WhCn a creditor pany purchased
WVhy shouid. the bondboider's rigbt be
and
desires to sue a railway company)
If Put abead of that of the vendor of t-bis
attacb t-be property of the copy
railway company?ý Wby should
there are any bonds. the bondholders lm- land t-o the
the governandi the mani ls out it be abead of taxes due t-o sbouid it be
medintely intervene,
or municipality? Why
bis csts.ment
placed above the salaries and wages of
Hon. Mr. IOUGHEED-MNy hon. friend persons employed lnannd about the workla amending t-be law iu that regard. That ing of the raiiway? It is a far-reacblng
The lawv pro- provision.
is 'the object of the Act.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It is a remarkable
vides tbat t-be reits and profits as weli as
property and assets shahi be hiable thing that we had t-bis law for forty
thbe
coenne
cuday
tev
eran
for the running expeaditure. Now you proproperty and assets oers difit- nye caSe am. gentonenensee
pose cutting out the
mtho o relizngdreadful consequences if we go back to
whili rethetanibe
t-he claims agaluat the conipany, and t-be law whicb exlsted up to 1903?
leaving the rents aud profits, or revenues
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-Wby did t-bey
as we may term it, ouly available for t-be
satisfaction of dlaims against tbe Company. change?
can readily unHon. '-%r. POWER-Can t-be bou, gentle- .Hon. Mr. POWER-One remains as it la,
where the employces derstand that If t-be law
man give any instance
bas been called to lt-s
of a railway ponIpany failed to get their now -that attention
present condition, It would be almost immoney?
to
on.genle-possible t-o secure tbe capital necessary
Hon.Mr.FERUSO -If
Hon.Mr.FERGSONIf on, entle-carry on t-be building of any rnilway ln
men will look over the int-erpretatlon clause t-bis count-ry.
of the Railway Act ln detail, tbey wiil
Hou. Mfr. LOUGHIEED-MaIiy 1 give my
find t-bat the effect of t-bis would. be to put
bon. friend an Instance of where tbe old
lu a position above taxes.
t-be bonds
law worked a very great bardsbip upon
creditors? 1 refer t-o t-he Baie de Chaleurs
remain.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Taxes
proFERGUSON-No, they do not. railroad, la whicb we, t-bis session,
Hon. Mr.
t-bat tbe creditors of long standing
linder t-be Act, -working expenditure is vlded
If 1 mismade to Include not only rent nnd bire of shoulfi be paid .by t-be promot-ers,
tbluk I recaîl a clause that
I
rolling stock, but ail renta, charges or ln- take not.
inserted lu the Bill
terest on t-be purcliase money of lands be- the Raîlway Commit-tee
Tbey
t-o the company, purchased but not t-bat t-bey should pny those creditors.
longing
lncluded a great number of workiug men
paid for. Wby sbould t-be int-erest of t-be
thbe company, credibondholders be placed above t-bat of t-be who bad worked for
who had furnisbed supplies for t-be
owuer of land sold t-o tbe Com.pany, on t-ors
t-bat employwbicb t-be company has not made payment. company, aud wbo, through
Hon. '-%r. CASGRAIN-1t cannot be doue.

H,4SNT
ment and the furnishing ef supplies, enlanced the value of the property, the securîty ef the bondholders. and yet conld
net realise a dollar of tbeir dlaIm agalnst
that property, because of the superior dlaim
That is a case in
of the bendbolders.
point, and I thiuk by a lîttle lndustry oee
mlgbt recali very many instances of a sîmiAt that time. If the law
lar character.
bad stoed as It: Is to-day, they weuld have
lind their redress ngainst the tangible assets. Tbey could have seized the preperty
and assets.
Hou. Mr. POWER-The bon, gentlemanfrem De Salaberry knews the blstory of
the Baie de Chaleurs Railway better
than almost any other member lu this
Heuse. My recollection is that tbe working
men were protected. I tbink tbey were
subsîdies given by this government and the
provincial government, and as far back as
1891 we previded by legislation tbat the
workingmeu's dlaims sheuld be pald eut ot
the subsidy before the cempany ceuld obtain It for auy ether purpese.
Hon. '.%r. LOUJGHEED-For wbat reaFor the reasen that the preperty
sou?
aud assets were net available under tbe
law.
Hlon. Mr. POWER-Lookimîg back at tbe
bistory of the Baie de Chaleurs Railway,
I do net thiniz that the lion, gentleman
-ould serieusly bring that case up as oe
I tilnk It:
wçbicb is likely te occur agami.
is a sert ef romance.
Hon. Mr. LOUGIIEED-Were the property and assets available fer paymeut te
the wvorkin.gmen?
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Wb'en the goverunment enters into a subsldy agreement witb
any company, it is specially previded therelu tbat thc wages shaîl be pald, and aise
aIl the materials furnlshed, aIl the supplies
and se ou sball be paid, and If during tbirty
<isys, auy contracter or compauy neglects
te pay the worklugmen, or for tbe supplies,
tIen, upon notice being sent te the Departmuent of Railways, the subsidies are bung
up bei-e. and the geverument bas the rigbt
te pay the werkingmen eut ef those suligidies.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But the days of
subsidies te railways bave gene by.
lion. Mr. LOUGHEED.

lien. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOW'EL-It
seînis to me that so important an amendment to the Consolidated liailx-ay Act
inust have heen imade for sonie reasomi or
otber.
Hlon. '.%r. LANDRY-And by the g-overulment
1-on. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Aud
by the governuent. 1 take it for granted
it was by the government, because It was
a goveru ment Act. Lt was fouglbt in this
House for a long time, and some eighty
or minety amemidments were made te It,
but this point w-as flot consldered at the
timie the consolidation of the Rallway Act
was discussed ; for tbat reason It seems to
nie cases arose similar to those to w-hidli
attention bas been drawn by tbe lion.
leader of the opposition, that induced the
Minister of llailways and those with wbem
bie m-as in consultation ns to the framing
of the Act, te Insert this very clause.
Otberwise wbat would bc the position of
the labourer ? Take a case of that kind
to-day ? If this law be passed, and there
were net funds avallable te pay tle labWould he
ourer, where would be be ?
bave the power te go Inte court and sue
at common law for his wages, and baving
a judgmnent, could be seize auy property
of the railway iii order to satisfy that
judgment ? It seems to me tbat is a very
important point to consider, that the removal of tliese words f rom the Ilw as it
stands to-day w-ould be a very great lucentlve te the purchase of bonds by capitalists lu a foreigu country. I can readily
understand how it w-ould interfere wvitb and
probabîr preveut the sale of bonds, uuless
these words were remnoved, or soîne otber
of
securlty provided for the payment
bonds. But wby you w-ant to exempt certain preperties and assets frem thf, benefits that sbeuld accrue te the ordinary creditors, for the running expenses, Is somew-bat difficult te understand. If the bondholders expect te bave any security for the
muouey they bave Invested, It must be In
the workiug and runulng of tîme read, amîd
if the w-orking nnd operations cf the road
sbould cease, w-bat becomes of the bondholders and the muoney whicb tbey bave
invested in those bonds ? They bave either
to' takze possession of the road. or lese al

MAY 19, 1908
they have put Into it. Now in order to
prevent these failures, which existed ln the
past, ln the payment of ordinary debts for
wages and supplies wblcb weat into the
constr'uction of the road and made It valuabie, the committees of this parliament
have over and over again, when a Bill to
affect the sale of or amalgamation of any
of these companles with another compaay la
lntroduced, one of the first questions asked
la wbat ls to become of the creditors of
the old rallway company ? AÂnd over and
over again, a clause has been lnserted la
the Bill compelling the new company to
pay these creditors la order to enable tbem
to effeet the sale or amalgamnation wluich
they were about making ? There is no
doubt about that being the practice. Anyone who bas iistened to this discussion must
have coma to tue conclusion that the exemption of the property and assets of a
railway froxu llabiity ta those who furnlsh
the companies with supplies, would affect
to a very great extent the capitalists who
While
deslred to invest ln the bonds.
that maý be tbe tact, sbould they be la any
poeition to prevent other creditors who
have suppied that which was necessary ta
carry on the work from securing -their pay'
Thbat ls a point which strikes me very
serinuely.
Hon. -'%r. DOM-NVILýLE--Quite rigbht.
*Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL - I
wouhd suggest that we sbould zahiow this
clause to stand,« so that we may look more
ciosely lnto the law at present on the statute-book, and ascertain the rensons whIl
lnduced the government to insert these two
or three words in the statute.

would destroy publie credit, by adopting
sucb a principle.,
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-May I point out
to the hon.. gentleman from De SaiaberrY
that when this Bill was before the Senate
lu 1903, my hon. friend took charge of this
particular clause and strongly'urged upon
the House the necesslty of making the
property and assets liable for the credi,
tors' claims. If I may be permitted to
read one remark which he made. at page
34 of the 'Senate Debates,' 1 wIhl show
that my bon. friend was extremely anxious
that the property should be heid liable for
ail municipal taxes.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It wouid be hiable
under amy circumstances for that.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I kuow It was a
surprise to me inter on1.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I wiii rend one
stateinent of my hon. f riend's whlch, If I
can construe it properly, means that he
was very niuch la favour of the clause
then being submitted by the goverament:
Raiiways nînst be sold and treated as one
property and bv diverting part of the railway
as is provided for ini this aew subsection, it
wudopen the door to these frauds that in
giving securi-ty to a creditor by leaving out
soine of the property, forrning part of the
railm-ay, a raiyiway which would be foreclosed
under the security. m-ould ha dismuantled. This
clause should ha carefuily guarded to provide
against anything of the kinid--dismantling a
ra ilway.
I must say that the statement la flot as
Iiiuminating as I thought, but It would
signify that my hon. friend was of opinion
the property should be heid as security- for
the creditors.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The bon, gentleman
înay find. je at fault, but 1 will give him
this assurance, that when the Rahlwvay Act
of 1903 was passed. I never noticed the
Hon. '.%r. DONIVILLE-It hooks to me change that was made froiu previous Acts
hIke creating à prefarentini ciass of owner- lu connection with that inatter. It was a
ship. Whiy not appîr the same princii'he surprise to me. 'My attention was cnhied
to factories and so on, and say that these to It some months after.
concerns need not pay any of thair meu ?
The motion was agreed to.
Why ixot sity thmat these poor fellows who
have worked and but the rond should not
Hon. Mr. OWENS, froin the committee,
be paid at ail ?
reported that they had made some proHon. Mr. SCOTT-Oan they interf are gress wlth tbe Bill. and asked leave to ait
You again to-morrow.
with a mortgage on the property ?
Hon. Mr. CASGIIIN-1 move that the
coimdttee rise. report progress, and ask
leave to sit agaîn.

SEN'ýATE

946

for their sustenance lu those Iakes, and it
SECOND READING.
wli be a great boon to the settiers also If
Bill (YY) Au Act respecting the Crown
to take the flsh tram
Mr. they are permltted
Company.-(Hon.
Life Insurance
the jakes.
Lougheed.)
Han. Mr. SCOTT-The answers are as
BILLS INTRODUCED.
follows
1. No entire monopoly or exclusive rlghts
Bill (116) An Act to amend the Excheare conveyed.
quer Court Act.-{Hon. Mr. Scott.)
2. Yes, withaut permission of the MinaisBill (112) An Act ta amend the Railway
Act as respects the constitution of the ter of Marine and FIsheries, or except to
Board of Railway Commissioners.-(Hon. the transferee stipulated In the lease.
3. Yes, to settiers, Indians, tourists and
Mr. Scott.)
Bill (152) An Act respecting Signai Dues employees of the Hudson Bay Company.
4. None beyond those covered by the
at Halifax.-<HFon. ]Sr. Scott.)
Bill (158) An Act respecting the Mea- requisite license under which whale factories are operated.
ford Harbour.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
The conditions under wblch suchl icenses
Bill (163) An Act to authorlze the Exchange of Sehool Lands for other Dominion are issued are set ont In section 0 of the
risheries Act.
Lands.-(Hou. Mr. Scott.)
The Senate adjouruied until three o'clock,
to-morrow.

THE SENATE.

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Thiese
answers are highly satisfactory, and 1 arn
glad to receive thein.
MONEY

Prayers and routine proceedings.
FISHIING LEASES IN NORTHWVEST
WATERS.
INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.) inquired:
1. If the lease-s for fishing in the lakes aud
rivers in the Northwest give an entire monopoly in such waters ta the lessees?
2. Do the leases farbid assignment ta other
persans?
3. Are any rights reserved ta settlers snd
fariners in the neighbourhood of snch waters
ta take fish for home consuniption?
4. Have any privileges been given the whal.
ing coxnpany operating in1 the Pacifie ocean
west of Vancouver island? If so, what tire
theyP
1 may say wýith regard ta
He said :
these questions that 1 hope the government
bas nat given power ta make assignments
o! leases on the Northwest rivers aud Iakes,
and I hope the statemnent which I bave
heard that the United States people have
been permitted ta buy these leases is flot
correct. I should have included Indians In
this question, and I hope reservatians have
been made ta aliaw Indians ta take fish
Han. Mr. OWENS.

TO THE INTERCOLO-

NIAL RAIL'WAY.

OTTAWA, Wednesday, May 20, 1908.

Th~e<SPEAK~ER took the Chair at Three

PAID

INQUIRY.

Hon.
What
to May
of New

Mr. ELLIS inquired:
is the total amount of mauey paid up
1, 1908, ta the International Itailway
Brnswick, including also the Resti-

gouche and Western Railway, ont of the
public funds of Canada on subsidy account?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The total ainount of
money pald to the Intercolonial Rniiway a!

New Brunswick, inclnding also the Restugouche and Western Raiiway an subsidy
account, up to May 1, 1908, is $17S.408.07.
LEASING 0F COAL LANDS.
MOTION.
Hon. Mfr. MACDONALD (B.C.) inoved:
1. That in the opinion of the Senate the
regulatians of the Departineîit of the Interior
respecetiag the leasing of coa)l lands should
be amended sa as to linit the acreage ta be
Ieased ta any one persan from 2,560 acres ta
one-uarter of that quan.tity.

2. That care should be exercised ta prevent

fraud and deception by aippîloants for leases

making applicatian in fa-Ise or real naines for
more sections of land than one. That any

p)ersan or persans practicing deceptian in
xnaking applications for a lease iu a f aie
naine, or naines, should be punished by withholding a lease-if not by prosecution.
This is a highiy Important
He -sald:
question, lu the interests of the whole coun-

MAY 20, 1908
try.

1 ar n ot going back to wbat bas

been done soine years ago, except to mention that 1 tbink the governinent will not
approve of giving any man or any coinpany four or five. hundrcd square miles of
Now it Is a fact
land ln any province.
that leases or sales have been made of
those large amotants, and I liope, if the
conditions under which tbey are granted
are not complied with, that thc goverument
will cancel them nat once in tbe liiterests
We ail know thc scarcity
of the country.
of coal and fuel in the Northwest, and we
Want te, sec that country settlcd by people
m-ho are bappy and prosperous. Wbnatever
affects the Northwest affects the whole Dominion; 1 lcnow certainly that the prosperity
UicNorthwest affects Britishi Columbia.
ofth
Thcre are many lion. gentlemen heré who
know more about the Northw'est than I. do,
but I niay say that soîne tume ago tic
number of acres that any one could talze
up was 320, a rensonable area, but iiox it
bas been lncrcased t0 2,560; wby, 1 do flot
It la too mach to be allowed te
kinow.
In the Public Accoants Coinany one.
iiittee a few days ago, an officer ef the

lion. Mr. SCOTT-I shall be vcry glad

to eall the attention of the M.Ninister of the
Interior to the observations made by My
1 amrn ot myscîf sufficiently
lion. fricnd.
familiar witb the wvorking of the Act, because wve bave flot had any experience iii
this part 0f Canada, and, therefore, I asked
the minister to give me bis views so that

I sbould flot lncorrectly makze any statenment to the House, or any statenient that
w-as not ln accordance with the views of
1 wanted the departinent
the depirtinent.
to be responsible for the statement which
iS aS follows:
The regulations for the disposai of coal mining lands et one time imited the area whieh
might be acquired by one individuai or eo'npany to 320 acres, but experience cleaiy3
slîowed that such an area wvaq not sufficieîît
to enable the person acquiring the saine te
inining
saccessfully carry on coel and, iii operitions
the lirge
as a business enterprise,
înajority of cases, it was found necessary for
1 number of applicants for coal lands to rombine and work their properties together, iii
order to acquire a sufficient area to justify
the expenditure necessarily incurred iii opening i4p a mine and installing expensive inachinery for the economic handling of the output.
After careful consideration and inquiry, it

that four sections of 610 acres

Initerier Departinent stated that a man was decided secure to an individual or coineach would
niamed 001w-cil had put in 325 applications, pany desiring to invest the large anueunt of
If there is capital involved in opening up and equipping
nearly ail under bogus naines.
a mine, a sufficient area for the purpose, but
a la-w to puuisb a man for doing a thlng of that a less area woald scarcely justify sncbi
The larger the aiea
that kind I do not know, bat any la-w that a large expenditure.
cccl,
aéquired and the larger the output succes5 exist to prevent lt should bce enforced. the greater will be the chance for of
may
and the mnan shoald be heavily punlsbed. f ally carrying on the business, and the greater
The 'officcr dealing with hlm shoald bave wjill be the profits derived therefroin, se that
two *or more -leesees m-ight,' with advantage,
informed the authorities of w'hat this man anite with the view of establishing a larger
only got 3,00)0 business enterprise. The coal ia found in
Fortunatcly, be
was dolng.
so that, in maany cases, a very large
mntosbigseains
sa
I
acres ofln.
onsrou thngpart of the area acquired under lease does
and
et Itis
that a specalator doing anything like that uot contain coal, as the applicant leases not
The oifficer onlly the coal seain, but also the balance of
should be allowed te go free.
quarter-section, haif-section or -section
who gave bis evidence sald that tsapi-theisapi-through which it passes.
The object of the regulations las to have the
the Rassell House to
cant got bell boys at
property of the Crowa,
sign applications, and that hie bought tbem coal meaLsures, thesufficient quantity of coal
developed, and a
ail requirements; as well My sole object nuined to meet
off afterwards for $1 each.
derived
ln bringing- up this matter is my desire to to secure to the Crown the revenue in such
rom the rentai and royalty specified
cu-f
presrvethefuelandtimer o tht
presrvethefuelandtimer 0 tht cun-regulations. As the coal mining rights are
We know there are leased under certain conditions as to rental,
try for the public.
these
millions of acres ef coal mines stili te be royalty and operation, and as -makesconditîonx
ne differmaust be met by the, lessee, it
talien up, and great discretion and common-

ence who miay subinit the application. for a

sense should be exerclsed to preyvent themi lease, or la whose na-me 6uch lase may be
and
ntothe f afavored ew.with
faulng bnds ofa faourd fw. ssuàe,these long as of the regulations andfully
ï
conditions the lessee complies
he
fallng Ito
kept for the benefit of the piovisions of the lease which are the saine
They should be
Population settling in that part of the Do- in ail cases. Whea the rentai. and royalty
the conditions of the lease as
aie paid and are striet-ly cosnplied. with, the
inion.
to operation

SENATE
vill repeat the
Hon. '.\r. LANDRY-I w
publie interest would not appear to extend
to the namne of the applicant or of the lessee. inquiry, and perhaps the lion, gentleman
As the conditions under which a lease of may get an answer to-morro-wN or the day
coal mining riglits may be acquired are speciticaully set ont ini tlîe regulations and in the after. It mnay stand.
lease, it would apPear to be qn.ite improper
Mon. Mr. SCOTT-I eau get no further
to discriminate as to tise ame of the person
who mssy suismit the application, or the naine information than I have alreadly givein.
the person iii wisose, favour the lease may
,of
be issued.
Tihe inquiry was allowved to stand.
H1aving giveni tise Ileuse thse benefit of
this view, I pressuise that the lion, gentleDIVISION 0F BUSINESS BETWEEN
manl will be constenît to wjtbids'aw bis
HIOUSES 0F PARLIAMEINT.
motion.
MOTION ALLOWVEI) TO STAýND).
Hlou. Mr. MIACIIOXALI) (BCîIshouhd
Hon. 'Mr. MýeMýULLEN mioved:
like to liear an expression of opsinion ou
That the Senate lias passed the followinig
tisis subjeet froin lion. gentleîmen ivho are
conversant with the condition of affairs in resolutioa, proposing a joint coniniittee re
conference of both Houses, w ithi a vieu' of seAýs 1 bave ahready said, curing a better division of the Bill- introthe Nortlbwest.
the onhy object I hiave lu view lu briniging dluced at each session and deviý;iîg ineains
of parliarnent rnay be
%N-hier-elb
Up tins matter is to benetit thme countryv* ,expedited the business
and the sessions shortened. be forhave biad tise opinion of tie inlister w-arded by the proper officer of the Seniate to
We
Wiso adiiisiisters tise Departmnent of thse In- the House of Commuons.
said re..olutioiï le coulOrdered, that
li.
]johhes gentlmeis nleed inunicated to thse the
terior;
House of Commnon- bY ow,
nlot bc afraid to give ahjlexpressiols of their of the miasters in chancery.
Verv oftenl a MinOpinions to tise Houise.
S9YS
motion
Hon. 'Mr. POWEII-Tlie
ister mav dis;sgree with lus colleagues, and
that the Senate passed the followlng.! reoI slbouhd like to Iear wliat eau be said foi'
lution, but it does neot give the r-esoliution1.
or against thie motion 1 have submnitted.
The SPEAI;EPZ-IiStOfldC Of .giVila thie
The motion was witlitdrawn.
resolution, the lion. gentleman lis given
the pnrport of it.
QUEBEC BRIDGE AND RAILWAY COM1%PANY.
ilI stand for
Hon. 'Mr. LA DlYIt
iiîiproveient.
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired :
resoîntion
Hion. '.\r. MýcMULLEN-The
1. Over and above the $15,000 paid to Mr. that I now propose eml)odies the former
Hoare as chief engineer of tise company by
the Quebe Bridge and Railwvay Company oi re solutioni.
wii Mr. Parent is president, lias he reThe SPEAKER-Is it the pleasure of
,ceived any other suins of money from the
of tihe House to pass thîe resolution as Lt is
Railway Commnission,
Transcontinental
which the saine Mr. Parent is also pî'esideat?
2. How much, in each vear, for tise 1ye,-r. framed
1904-5, 1905-6, 1906-7 and 1907-8?
Somue lion. MEM.\BERS-No. no.
3. For what services?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I gave the answer iu
regard to Mr'. Hoare, yesterday.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I beg pardon ; the
hast portion of it m'as not nnswered, as to
the services.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was given te me
as sahary and expenses. The expenses were
sepnrate froin thse sahary. I gave the salary
for the four years.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Salary as w-bat
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I
gentleman knows.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

presume

tIse bon.

Thse SPEAKER-If not. it will 11ave te
be re-cast. I would suggest that thse lion.
gentleman witlidraw bis motion aud give
another notice.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Withdraw
togetlher.

it al-

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If thse lion. gentie
nan wants to p)air wvitli me. 1 wvîlI wîthidraw oite of mine.
The SPEAKER-Thse lion. gentleman understands that thse resolution ninst repro-

MAY 20. 1908
duce bis motion, or refer to the motion
adopted et sucb n date.
The motion was ailowed to stand.
QUEBEC

BRIDGE

COMPANY.

949

dure which this: Chamber has beeti adopting, anud which is aot in accordance witb
our past saethod. Wbien a Bill1 goes te a

committee and amendments are made to.
It, tbose am'endmeats are brought bere,
aad we ask the concurrence of the Hous~in the proposed aniendments. In the mear
time those ameudments are printed Ia our
Minutes, so that everybody may see wha-t
kind of amendments are made to the Bill1;
but I observe that la one or twc, cases
we have set aside that procedure altogether. I will refer to a Bill which ia uow
ready to pesa. I take the report of the
Standing Committee on Railways, Telegraphs and Harbours on Bill (11) An Act
to incorporate the Dominion Lumbering
and Power Development Company.
That
Bill wns sent to the Standing Committee
on Railways. That committee appointed a
subcommittee, and the subcommittee redrafted the Bill aitogether, and then when
it came back to the commilttee, the comnalttee acted, not on the original Bill, but
on the re-drafted Bill, and the emendments

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY Inquired:
1. Does the government know whether Mfr.
Edmond Taschereau, of Quebec, notary, was
employed as notary and ein that capacity
signed -the deed of agreement entered into on
October 19, 1903, between the federal authoriLies and the Quebec Bridge and Railway Comnpany, relating- to the financial obligations
contracted by the government with the said
CompanyP
2. How mnuch was he paid for that transitction and by whoni? By the government or
by the Company?
3. How mucli, in addition, did he re-ceive
from the commissioners of the Transcontinental Railway, for having as notary verified the
tities of ownership of certain àands acquired
by the aforesaid commission for the passage
of its road?
4. Apart from what it lias already pah,'
him, does the Transcontinental Railway Coummission etill owe anything to Mr. Ltd.wiâ.,
Tasehereau?
5. What amouat? .And for what servicesP
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers are as that N'ere nmade were flot mnade to the Bill
follows
as originally sent to the committee, but
1. Yesý, ',%r. Edmond Taschereau was em- on the Bill as re-drafted by the subcommitplov-el as notary to the agreement of Octo- tee. 1 contend that the report of the subber J9, 19W3, and witnessed the execution
of the same between the governmcnt and
the ComLpany.
2. The sumn of $W06.05, which included
travelling expenses to Ottawa, deposit and
copies of deed, paid by company.
~The following sums of money were
pald by the Transcontinental Railway Commission, to Mr. Edmond Taschereau, for
services lu connection witb verifying titles
and obtaining deeds of lands for rigbt-of-

committee should be reported by tIse Comnmîttee to the House and printed ln our

way :
Bill of October 31, 1906.....$677 21
520 00
Bill of December 11, 1907.. ..
746 00ý
Bill of April 13, 1908.. .. .....
He was also paid $745.48, for disbursement for certificates from registrars, &c.
There la an outstanding bill of $184 rendered for attendances, whlch bas not been
passed, peading a rate to be ftxed by the
Solicitor Genera].

the titie be changed, &c.
I thiuk it is very irregular.
The ameadments made by the commlttee should be
submnitted to this House so that we mey

A QUESTION OF PROCEDURE.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before tbe orders
of the day are called, I sbould like to draw
tbe attention of the House to a new proce-

Minutes, £0 that everybody may see what
alterations have been made to the Bill1.
This is a new Bill aitogether. The amendnints nmade bave been the objeet of the
report, but the Bill which came back froni
the committee was the original 13111 witb
this report :
Your committee recommend that the Bull
be amended to conform with the printed redraft thereof, herewith submitted, and that

I ani not going
take cognizance of theni.
mnto the merite of the question Itself, but

am conlIning my remerks to the procedure.
We should stick to our rules.
Hon. Mr. BEIQIE-The bon. gentleman

is quite correct, as a generel rule; but there
are exceptions to all general mIles and this
As a matter
Is a case for an exception.
of convenience, If the Bill Is so changed
that It Ia practically a new Bill which

would tiot be intelligible if' the report were
mnade as suggested by the lion. gentlemian.
the course which lias been followed iii this
Thiere are îprececase sbould be adopted.
For Instance, I tbink the
dents for it.
Mutual. Reserve Insurance ýCompaniy's Bill.
and another Biii, iii the saine session. Nvere
reprinted by the dlirection of the cominittee
so as to bring themi before the House in a
shape that they icould bo intelligently denit
If tlue usual course biad been fol
Mwith.
lowed, it would have been impossible for
the House to tborougblly understancl the
I tbink tluis is a case for
amendments.
anu exception.

the eommittee should report the draft Bill
and it x-ould ho only proper tiiot that draft
Bill should appear in our minutes.

The SPEAKER-Wlien the report was
brouglit i, I quite nnderstood that the Bill
had been redrafted, but it did not occur!
to me that the original Biil itself liad not
been ameaded so that the aneiniments
There ls
sbould appear in our minutes.
no objection to a Biii being re(hrafted and
reprinited, but the amendunients sbould appear on the original of tue Bill sent to the
committee, so tlîat they miigbt appear in
our minutes.
The resuit of tbis change of
procedure bas been that there Is no reprint of the Biii and the amendmients do not
appear iii the minutes.
The error in practice bias been, aithougli a redrafted Bili bas
been reported. that the amendinents do miot
appear on the minutes.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-One has flot been
brought down yet-at least 1 have not been
able to find it.

TeSPEAKER-And transtated.
ILon.
LI.
ANDRY-.\s I1i.k lIonour the
Speaker bas stated. it lias deprived us of
the Frenchi translation altogethier.
DELAYEI> IETIJIIN.

Ilon. Mr. I;EItG;USON-Itefore the orders
i0f the day are cahled. 1 should like to know
i f Ilii Honiour the Speaker bas been able
to Iay on tbc table of the Ilouse the returni
I asked for on the 9-itl of 'March wlth reHon. M-Nr.
LANDLIY-I do flot agree Nvith gard to orders of the Railway Commission
Lt miglit be con- Irespecting railwiay crossings.
1 ask-ed for
the bon. gentleman.
u
aebe
hc
f
w
eufs
veulent for those on tbe committee, but I the
MWe. mitted. but the main one lias flot been furarn speaking for the whole House.
know notbing of what toolc place in the nished yet.
committee, and, tlierefore, the amnendments
it bias been
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tiil
made ln conimittee shonld appear on our
We do niot know what tbey are. bronglit down.
minutes.

THE QUEBEC TEIICENTENARY.
Hon. Mr. MACDONAkLD (B.C.)-I should
like to ask the hion. Secretary of State if
lie lias anything to say on the subject of
the suggestion I made to invite the exGovernors of tlue Dominion "to be present
at the Tercentenary celebration at Quebec?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It appears that it is
an unwritteni law- of etiquette that a min
wbo bas been Governor General of Canada
does flot returu. as lie lias no status in the
HIe would come far
table of precedence
below officiais appointed long after hlm, so,
Hon. iMNc.
POWVEl-I do not rise to quesfor that reason, there bias been rather a tention the decision of bis honour the Speaker,
dency on the part of Governors General to
but 1 agree w-itb the hion. senator fronii De
Tlîey bave
dechine returniug to Canada.
Salaberry, that wbvere a long Biii sncb as
They
11o status when they comec back.
the Biil in question was, bas beeni referred
corne simply as individuals and take second
to a committee and the comnmittee lnstead
place to Individuals ver.y mucih below their
of reporting certain amiendinents to tbe
standing whien they were Governors GenBili report tbat the Bill sbould be redrafted
eral.
I believe thuat is the explanation.
in the form in whicb tbey subinitted It,
Hon. Sir M.NACKENZir BOWEIiL-No
members of the House would find it Inconvenient to try to insert those new clauses Governor bas ever revisited Canada after
and compare thema witb the orig-inal clause
is ternu expired. and for the reason sugOn the other biaud. I thhnk gested by the bon. Secretiry of State.
of the Bill.
Hon. Mr.

MEIQUE.

MAY 20, 1908vo
plying from Halifax, and the natural tblng
Hon. M.LANDRY-Lf we eannlot seej
would lie to baud the certificate in ta the
we see the report
the aid Governars, can
port fromi whblb It was sailing.
on the bridge question? I asked for It long 1
[t befare the
Hion. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTago, and we shouid like ta see
festival.
I find that the department tbink the emendbou. frieud the leader of tbe
Hou. 'Mr. SCOTT-I have paragraphs of ation of my
right-to make lit to, the
haîf a card of it. but a con- opposition is ail
It, not quite
office of the Inspector, where the certificate
siderable portion of n card, whicb I should
was Issued.
lie very glad ta bring dawn.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We wNere proinised
On clause 14,
that we shauld see it very soan.
14. Section 598 of the said Act is repealed
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-if the lhon, gentleman and the following is substituted therefor:
598. Every inspector of stes.mboats shall,
Is satlsfled with wbat I have here, I shall whenever he visits and inspects any steambrIng It dawn.
boat, satisfy himseJf that such steamboat is
properly furnished with 'lights and sucb
Hou. '.%I. LANDRY-Half a- loaf is bet- ineans of making fog signais, in pursuance
of the miles prescribed by Part XIV of this
ter than no bread.
Act, and is also provided wvith the proper certificated officers in charge as required by Parts
THIRD READING.
I aud VII, respectively; and he shall refuse
respect to any
respecting the Edmoanton, to grant any certificate withnot so provided.
Bill (6S) Au Act
steaniboat which he finds is
Yukon and Pacifie Railway Company.Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT(Hon. 'Mr. Cas.grain.ý
The chnnge la that apparently naw the
penalty is ta refuse ta grant a certificate.
SECOND READING.
The clause was adopted.
Bill (XX) Ali Act ta Incarporate the
On subclause 2,
Traders' Life Lusurauce Company.-(H-on.
'Mr. Jaffray.)
2. In the event of any change in the proper
certificated offleers foIlowing the issuing of a
CANADA SHLPPING ACT AMENDM'%ENT certificate of inspection to a steamer, the
owner, managing owner or agent -shail forthBILL.
with report in writiug, bv registered post,
such ehange to the inspector or inspectorg
IN COMMITTEE.
who issued such certificate, with the name,
held by
The Hanse resuiieil lu Cowinxnttee of tbf grade, and number of the certificaIte event of
officer so appointed; and in the
consideration of Bill (NN) An Aci the owner, inanaging owuer or. agent not doing
'Whole
the
so, sucb vessel shall be deemed to be making
toanmend the Cawida Shipping Act.
a trip or voyage without a certificate of in(In the Comiuittee.)
spection.
On clause 13,
Hon. '-\I. LOUGHEED-Ifl the fourth
591 of the said Act is repealei
13. Section
flue of this suliclause we sbould Insert
and the following is substitnted therefor:
yta the office of the luspectar or Inspectars
591. The master, owuer or engineer of ever:
snch certiflcates.'
steamboat, or the person in charge thereolF, -,To Issued
shahl at the earliest opportunity after the oc
Mr. MeGREGOR-It should be 'ta
currence of auy eveat whereby the huhi, o 'Hon.
thereof, or any pai
any qualified Inspector.' The Inspectar who
the machinery or hoiler
of auT or either of the same is, in any mi 1, issued the certificate mlgbt be lu Vancouver
terial degree, iujured, strained or weakene<
the shlp Is iu
report such occurrence to the inspector whi .or In Montreal. Supposlug
issned the certificate.
Vancouver, and the Inspection baù taken
lu Montreal, how are tbey going to
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In my judgmet2 *place
rget the luspector ?
lit sbould be ta tbe office of the luspectc
who Issued the certificate and not ta tbi
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL, - Or
Inspector In persan.
suppose the Inspector were dead?
p
Hon. Mr. PIOWER-Tbat wauld.not bel
Ilon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTsa great deal. The certificate uîight be 1
ta me, the Introductioni of the
the slmip igbt 1>e Lt seenis
sued fromn Quebec and

SE_•YATE
words 'office of flhc inspecter ' would anse.Of course I am n ot conversant with
the details, but it seerns to me there is a
Verv considerable convenience in having ai
these reports made to one particular office,
and that that office should be the office of
the inspector who originalls lssued the certificate. Prima fadie it would seem that
that ivas a very proper thing to, do, and
aIl they are required to do is te report
in writing byv regilstered post.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbere is no objection
to change that and make it rend Ito the
office of the inspector whio lssued such certiflcate.'
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWýýRIGHTThat would bring it ln harniouy witli clause
13.
The clause was ainended and adoî)ted.

pening to tugboats. It is puttilug a difficlItY in fthe w-nY of deilg business.
lion. 'Mr. ELLIS-Where thece are quite
a number of tughoats you rnay not be able
toï get a first-class engineer for every boat.
Thece seenis te be ne reason to n practical
maii why these tugboats should be coinpelled te have a first-class engineer, any
more than certain other vessels.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThis clause rathier extends than dirninishes.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Tlie departrnent say
90 per cent of the engineers are qualified,
and they think that tlic other 10 can readily qualify. Therefore tixere should be ne,
objection t& the clause.
The clause wvas adopted.
Ou1 clause 21, as te deck leads iii w-inter.

On clause 15,
15. Section 621 of the said Act is amended
by estrik-ing out the word -"passenger in the
"
first line thereof.

Ilon. Sir RICHARD cR
WtGT
This nrnendrnent is designued te mnake tlic
Caiad ian law, wbich is niow based on the
sections in the Imperial Merchants ShipHon. Sir 'MACKENZIE 130W'ELL-What
Pxng Act of 1906, exactly sîmilar te it.
was th*le effect of the aiuenidrnet made by M'ben thec arnendmeut
te thic (eck load law
this clause ?
was passe(l by the Canadiani parliarnent,
iii 1906, it was niedelled on the BIII then
Hon. Sic RICHARD CARTWRIGHTAt present this applîeý only te passenger befoce the British parliament.
The latter
steamaers. By stcîking out the wvord 'pas- underwent soine changes before being assenger' it would apply to all vessels and sented te.
The pcoposed amendment conwould compel ail] vessels to provide therni- tains these changes which are of a nature
selves with the different equiprnents men- -te make the ineanîng- of the requirernents
tioned ln the Act.
clearer.
This is te bring our law inta
exact conforrnity te the imperial law.
The clause w-as adopted.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWlEI,-Does
On clause 17,
this restrict the leadiîxg of vessels te a
17. Paragraph (c) of subs-ection 3 of section
640 of the said Act is ainended by inserting greater extent than the old laxv?
the words 'or tug boat ' after the word
Hon. Sir RICHARD OARTWRIGH-Tsteamboat 'in the first line of the said para. Te serne extent,
I understaad, It dees cegraph.
strict It: but It makes it conform exactly
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTte the requicements of the imperial Act.
This clause is to enable tbemn to specify
flhe class of eng-ineer who Is required te
The clause was adopted.
serve on tug-boats.
%in Clause oa.

Hon. '.%r. POWER-With
respect
te
clause 17, I amn net questioning the tact
that it is desirable that tugboats should
have certificated engineers; but there is
a great difficulty, speaking in regard te the
Atlantic provinces, in getting those certificated engineers; and, as fac as I arn aware,
there have flot been many accidents hapHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

35. The said Act is amended hy inserting the
following section imrnediately after section
Sfa
hr
hl
en
pelfo
n
e
cision of a court holding any formaI investi.
gation under this Act, except to the minister
for a rehearing under the provisions of section
806.
2. No proceeding or judgrnent of a court in
or upon any formai investigation shahl be
quashed. or set aside for, any want of forrn,

MAY 20, 1908

953

nor shall any such proceeding or judgment be ing superior knowledge 10 an adiiiralty
remnoved by 'certorari ' or otherwise into any court.
If we have organized admiralty
court; and no writ of prohibition shall issue
to any court constituted under this Act iii courts, and appolnted judges competent 10
respect of any proceeding or judgment in or deal witb questions of Ibis kind, they cerupon any formai. investigation, nor shall such tainly should be very
much further reproceeding or judgmeat bie subjeet to any removed fromn any influence in the way of
view except by the minieter as aforesaid.

Interest, prejudice or sympathy, as the case
may bie, than an officer of the department.
I cannot very weli appreciate vesse] owners being satisfied wlth a law which wll
take from tbem the riglit to appeal to tbe'
important redress whieh a master ight ordinary tribunals 0f the country, and vest
have.
Under section 2 of clause 35, the practically absolute poxver in the officers
jurisdiction of the ordinary judicial tribu- 0f the department. Truc, It may bie sald
that the fanding of thé minister will bie
nais is entirely eut out.
final; but we know that a miaister aia",Hon. Sir RICHIARD CARTWRIGHT- nets in a pcrfunctory way, referring the
Yes, thiat is so.
No doubt the object of malter to the officers o! bis departmeat.
the amnendment is 10 do away Witb the They may be actuated by prejudice, symmodes of attacking the judgmient of the pathy, Interest of feelings of a kind,
court. 0f course it is a very fair question and it scems to me that the jurisdictioa
for discussion, but 1 tbink. in ail proba- o! the admlralty court should certainly flot
bllity. thaqt in Ibis class of case the ends of be ousted In cases of this kiad.
justice would be as likely to be met by
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The jurisdiction of
makiag the decision of the iaister final
tile court is not ousted, but il certainly la
as tbey would be by seadiug it throughi
made final.
It takes away any appeal
tbree or four courts.
fromn the jurisdiction of the court, except
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We have admir- that the minister is entitled 10 grant a realty courts, and I am assuming that they hearing.
are ve3ted witb jurisdiction 10 bear an apHon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-But my lion.
peal froni the fanding of the board. Tliat fricad wvill remember
that the court spoken
jurisdiction is entirely removed-at least I of
here is not the ordlnary judicial tribuwould say so.
nal.
The court consists of the assessHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHIT-I
ors
Imagine it 10 be so.
The reason givei me
ýHon. '-%r. BEIQUE-It seemns 10 me
is thiat they desire to make the decision of there is a great deal
la the point which
the miaister finnl.
I tbink I might say the bou, gentleman takes.
to the bon. geullemuan that la the vnst maHou. Mr. LOUGHEED-Supposiiag
jority of cases the miaister rather leans
the
to the side 0f mercy Ilian the side 0f strict court be made up of officers o! the govcrament, and from that court arc excluded
justice.
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-Tliey say that wbien tlie judges referred 10 iu that section, then
the officer--Captain Spain for instance--is il vests final autbority la the oflicers of
sent 10 inquire Into a particular case, lie Is the department.
Hon. Mr. L0UGIIEFD-Can

my

bon.

friead say why an appeal to a court of
competeat jurisdictioa Is taken nway, and
absolute authority is vested in the mninister?
It seems to me to %wipe
out a very

served with a certiorari, and tbe case la
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Clause 26 provides
taken out o! bis jurisdiction altogether be- that in a case of collision, wherc a vesse!,
fore lie can make a report upon It.
without rensonable cause, fals to render
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEE'D-It seems 10 me to another vessel such assistance as is
that the owners of vessels should have practîcable and neccssary t0 save them.
soime remedy from the officers of the de- from any danger, and so 'on, they are subpartament.
It simply reduces ltself to this: Jeet 10 a penalty.
I tblnk Il is very drastbat they wlll have t0 rely bereatter upon tic.
Should th.at man flot bave a rigbt
the officers of the department as possess- 10 appeal to the ordinary civil courts In

SENATE
I can understaud wlth resncb n case?
gard to the civil service that there is a desire on the part of the officiais to stand by
They form a kind of organieach other.
zation, mot an absolute organization, witb
secretary and presîdent and so on, but they
have their Ideas and their system, and the
minister Is very apt to be entirely lafluenced by bis subordinates; and If a minIster does not stand by bis subordinates,
'he soon loses caste wltb tbem, and Is perhaps driven by them Into a certain Une of
1 would suggest to the hon.
conduct.
Minister of Trade and Commerce to consider wbether be would approve of that.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CATWRIGHTThere is another clause that 1 wvisb to
reserve, aud 1 shall reserve this also If
the hon, gentleman desires, it, and confer
with the Minister of Marine and Fisheries
and report to the House afterwards.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbe lion. Secretary of State points ont tbat the courts
nt one tîme Intervened by certiorari and
removed the case ont o! the bands of Commander Spain. There may bave been tlie
best of reasons for doing so.
Hon. Mr. POWER-We should hear In
mind that these laquiries are investigations into the acts of captains and other
officers o! vessels who come peculiarly
within the jurisdiction of the Department
o! Marine and Fisheries, and there is another circumistance thit it is v-ery desirable
that these Investigations shouid r'ot be protracted, I menu that the decision should
not be long postponed, and if yon open
the door to appeals o! ail sorts on tedinical grounds, the injury done to trade will,
Me
in some cases, be very considerable.
should bear that in mind. I thjnk the
minister is doing the right thing- to let the
clause stand.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe departmeut deals with certificates exclusively. That would hardly be a thing
that would corne lu auy shape or way wlthlu the jurlsdiction of a court. The department iuforms mie that this clause doés flot
prevent an appeg] by the owners .to the
Admiralty Court.

ing port corne into collision aud one 15
severely damaged wbile the other is only
slightly damaged.
The vesse! slightly
damaged wvouid want to proceed on lier
voyage as early as possible ; lience the
necessity of an early inquiry ,to avoid
delay. Then, after the report wouId be
made, the owners of the injured vessel
would likely Ilbel the other steamers. We
had a case of the kind in Halifax wliere
the decision was ngainst one steamer Ia
the Admiralty Court. Lt -was referred to
the department nt Ottawa and the decision was contirmed. Lt was referred afterwirds te the Supreme Court and the decision %%*as rue'ersed.
The clause was allowed to stand.
Ou1 clause

3,

Hioa. Mr. POWýEII-The more this clause
considered, the more objectionable it'
appears. I fancy it was drawn wltlb reference to a condition of tlîing-s on the
is

great lakes. W'batever the condition of
things mnay be on the ]akes, this clause, If
put Into operation on the Atlantic coast,
would be most injurions.
The truth Is
that ut the present time there is a shortage of qualified officers ou the Atlantic
coast, and thle effect of making this clause
law there would be very Injurions lndeed.
As it Is now, there gre a number of Nor-

serviug in
These
meni very often begin pretty 10w down in
the service.
wegau
sbips

captains and mates

ia the maritime provinces.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It will not affect the
Norweglans.
Hon. Mr. POWER-If the hion, gentleman Is in a position to state positively that
Canadiaus, wlthout beiag
naturalized in
Norway c9n become masters and mates

there, then this would ijot appiy to the case
of Norwegfians. There is no reason why a
rule which suits one place and does not
suit another should be made applicable to
the two places. and 1 would suggest the

addition of a subclause somethlng to tbis
effect:-' Sucb refusai,' that is tbe refusai
to admit to examinations 'may apply to ail
Canada or may appiy to one or more proHon. Mr. ROSS (Hnhaifax)-Let us sup- vinces, ports or places at the dîscretion of
pose a case ; suppose tNvo steamers enter- the minister.'
Hon. Mr. ELLIS.

MAlY 20, 1908
gîving him discretiouary
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That w-ould be one ,%ide enougb,
law fer one place, and another law for power to be exercised either for good or
evil.
another.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-The lion. senator from
Hon. Mr. POWER-Certalnly, and there
Is good rensen fer a difference. .The con- Hastings takes the correct view of it. If
dition of things on the lakes is different two foreigners should corne up for examifrom the condition ef tlungs on the coast. nation and the mnister should be Influenced,
By n clause like the one I have suggested, righitly or wrongly, against one' and ln
you can avoid the difficulty ef applying faveur of the other, it %vould be au ilas1tratiou of the old scriptural remark, one
the same rule te both.
would be grinding at the miii and the other
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Under the clause as
would be left. I hope the bon. M.Ninister
drafted, the minister is given discretien,
of Trade aud Commerce, se long as he Is
and, therefore, the suggested clause would
lu the cabinet, shall use bis influence to
not add anythingý te that discretion. He
4 and 6 coinfing into force.
may refuse or permit the examination te prevent clauses
Canada Is continually talking about Ils
be miade.
loyalty, and it is a very Improper tbing
Hon. Mr. POWER-The minister could lndeed for a British colony to puit such
net issue instructions ini each pirticular legislation ln force as against British slips.
The
case. That is net te be suppesed.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTmiaister could net say ln the case of two
These two clauses can only come into force
Norwegians applying te be examined for
after being approved by the British gevcertificates la Halifax that he weuld deal
ernmen t.
witb each case separately. He must bave
Hou. '.%r. ELLIS-I w-as just going te
some general rule on which te go.
mention some great men wbo were neyer
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- naturallzed. Take the case of the two CaI arn qulte willing te let the clause stand. bots. Then Christopher Columbus remaînI want te conTer w'ith the minister about ed au Italian, though he founded the glory
Il.
ef Spain on this continent. There are huadreds of cases w-here men have eutered the
The clause w'as allowed te stand.
service of foreiga countries, and se with
FR-The. attention ef some British ships, as long as they have good,
Heu. Mr. POWE
members of the other House w-as called te strict laws of their 0w-a, we should net
clause 4, and they said It weuld be most make the restrictions on our 0w-n ships apmischievous and lajurlous la the lower ply te them. We shouid be more liberal.
provinces and they heped thaf the mînister
Hon. Mr. POWER-I agree witb the
w'ould reconsider It. I de net know w-bebon. gentleman that w-e should be more
ther any ef those gentlemen have sought
liberal as te the application of clauses 4
an Interview withi the minister or net.
and 6 but I cannot agree with hlmn or the
Heu. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL - If hion. senator from Hastings as te the
this %vereimperative, the objections mnighit airending of clause 3. The new clause
be as strong as they are represented te Is as fo]lows
be but If the minister hias discretion te
The minister may refuse -te admoit- te the
say yes or ne, the ebjections do not. apply. examination mentioned in the two preoedIt is left entirely wvith the miaister te act ing sections any person doii.led in Canada
who is a subjet or citizen of a country in
on the Information wbich he may receive which British eubjects do not eajoy similar
If the privileg-es in respect of such examinations.
frein those whe are lnterested.
It Is clear that the objection Is net on
law sald distinctly tbat ne oae except a
persea domiciled la the country for a cer- the ground of lllIteracy but because these
tain length of tume sbould receive a certi- people beiong te countries whiere British
ficafe, 1 could understand the objection of subjects do nlot enjoy the same prîvileges.
the bon. senater from HaIlifax ; but If he 1 have potnted out that we ire in ne! ef
Iras any confidence la the minister, under more qualified officers ln the lower prosucb circunistances, I thlnk tue el.au:e ls vinces.

S ENA TE
Honi.

Sir RICHARD

CARTWRIGHT-

I will confer with the minister in charge
of the departmf-nt on the subjeet. As 1
have stated. clause 4 can only corne into
force if approved by the British gevernment; and la any case it would flot be put
ln force until after proclamation liv the
Governor ln Ceuncil.
Hon. Mr.

ASQfrom

the comimittee,

reported that tliey hiad made somie progress with the Bill, and asked leave to sit
aga ID.

IRAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT

BILL.

IN COMMITTEE.
The flouse reselved itsclf inte Ceînrniittee

of Whole on Bill (PIP) An Act to amend
the Railway Act as regards preferential
charges created by the issue of securities.
(In the Committee.j
Hou. Mr. CASGRAIN-I have made inquiries since y7esterday. and Eind that ne
reasons can lie given to justify the change
made ln the law in 1903, and I, therefere,
think we sheuld revert te the law as It
existed for ferty years and more before
1908.

Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-With reference to
the point which was* discussed yesterday,
and the suggestion made by the hou, leader
ot the opposition ia regard te wages, I
would sugg-est that section 141 lie nmended
te read as fellows:
Subjet as herein provided, the paynient
of penalties and working expenditure1 would strike eut the word ' the ' because it wvl1 net cover ail the working expenditure, and I would add after «workling
expenditure ef the railway' the followlng :
The payrnent of arrears of saLiries and
wages mentiened ini paragrapli F of Ne. 34
of section 2 of this Act for a teri not exceeding three months.
It weuld prevîde for the paywent of
As a
three months' salaries and wages.
matter et fact this principle governs in
the province ef Queliec.
Hon. Sir 11ACKENZIE BOWELL-That
woiild net cover a delit incurred say for
ties. Suppose the manager directed the
purchase of a thousand ties frein seme
Hon. Mr. ELLIS.

fariner, if I understand the intention et
the premnoter ef this mensure, the bondholders weuld take precedence over and
abeve the farmer wlio sold these ties te,
the rallway. Take another case :suppesing it wvere necessary te maise money to
pay for these ties, and the manager or the
directer hiad gone inte the bank te borrow
it the bank weuld be cut ont frein the position ef collectlng the notes or the suin
due thern 1»- the contracters, even under
the clause as amended. Now it miglit lie
absolutelY necessary in the Interests of
the rallway te get the ties and being
In the lnterests of the rallway It wouild
aecessarlly lie la the Interest ef the bondholders, liecause If they did net receive
the ties whlch were necessary to enable
the railw9y te lie worked and mun. the
bonds lield by the bondhelders weuld be ef
ne value. except te the extent of the railIt strikes me that the effect
way Itself.
eft he aînendment would lie toecut eut
the dlaim of the bank. The hon. gentleman says he bas made inquiries, and can
find ne explanatien ef wliy these words
were added te the section as it existed
prier te the introductien ef the Railway
Act. I de net suppose for a mement that
lie lias lnterviewed, except by the means et
a mnediumn, the gentleman whe lntroduced
the Bill and was responsible for the addlng ef these words, w-len lie was the then
Minister ef Railways, because lie ceuld net
reacli him, except tlirougli the means I
have sug-gested.
1 cannet lielp thinking
that there was a geod and sufficient meason
fer the placiag et these wevrds ln the law
as it stands upon thie statute-lieok ; ne'.
can 1 see any reason wliy a bondliolder
sheuid lie la any lietter 'position than a
mertgagee. If a man takes a mortgnge
upen a man's preperty, the pmeperty Is
held fer the face et the mertgage ; but If
the person wlie lorrows the money fails
te pay the lnterest, the man wlio liolds the
mortgage lias the riglit te go Into court
and recover, and, If lie gets judgment, te
seize any etber property, goeds and chat'
tels -whlch may lie upon the propemty. Why
should a bondholder be placed ln any better position than any other man?
Hon. Mr. BEIQU-I do not see that
tlie bondiiolder la placed ln any better po-

MAY 20, 1908

sition than ia the case suggested.

As to

w-hether the change w-as made advisedly
or flot la 1903, 1 bave consulted the ' Hansard,' and by follow-ing- the discussion
w-hich took place lu the House of Commons
aud lu this House-and hion. gentlemen will
remetuber that tbe Bill was denît w-ltb
for a considerable titue la both Houses.
There w-as a great deal of attention given
to tbe Bill; and w-heu changes were made,
as a mile, they were discussed, or attention w-as draw'n to the fact that the changes
bad beeu made for suchi and sucb reasons ; but If the bon, gentleman w-ill look
at 'Han.3ard' lie w-lll find tbat this clause
w-as not referred to lu the Flouse lu any
shape or form. Therefore, w-e magy infer
tint It w-as overlooked ; that it wvas la the
draftiug that thc insertion of tiiose w-ords
The hon. gentlemnan
w-as actually made.
asked. if it w-ould be fair to prevent the farmer or contractor selling tics to a railiway
compnny tak-ing rauk before the nortgagee.
Weil I say yes. lie should not take rairk before the mortgag-ee. otherw-ise the railwaty
company may purchase fifty thousand dollars or a huudred thousand dollars' w-ortli
of ties, and what knowledge wll the mortgagee bave that liabilities are being accumulated w-hidi w-ill take rank before bis
claim ? He is supposed to bave the first
charge upon tbe property w-hen be advances bis money. He w-as given the first
niortgage, and lu the course of five or ten
years it w-ould be lu the pow-er of the coinpany to build up dlaims by purchasing ail
kinds of supplies and obtainlng large cre,dit. Supposiug the ties are purchased for
A judgmeat Is
fifty tliousand dollars.
taken. The judgment wl be good for
thlrty years, and at the expiration of Say
tw-eaty years, lie wll be entltled to corne
Is
and take rank before tie mortgagee.
that fair ? Would anybody purchase bonds
w-ltb a law of that klad ? 1 suppose nobody w-ould do It knowingly. If the corni
pany Is flot able to purcbase ties, there
The Exchequer
Is tbe other recourse.
Court Act w-as amended la 1901 for the
purpose of providlng that If a raliway
company Is unable te malatain Ils railway

957

.ceiver bas the power of purcbaslng ties
or improving the property, and any certificate issued by the receiver w-i take ranli
before the bonds ; so that the public is
amply protected, it seems to me. and If
w-e provide for the salaries and wages, as
I have suggested, w-e w-ould be golng far
enough.

Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-Tlils Bill is
Lt deals witli two classes
rather puzzling.
of property, and it deals also with two
One class of proclasses of creditors.

perty w-îtl wbich it deals is w-bat is called
That menus the rond bed,
the railway.
the rolling stock and the whole equipînient
of the railway, as w-e fiud lu the interpretation clause, w-hichi rends as follows:
A railway ineass any railway which. the
conîpany lias autliority to construct or operate, ýid include'- ail branches, sidings, sta-

tions, depots vliarfs, rolling-stock, equipmuent, stores, property, real or persona.l, and
works connected tlierewltli and also any rail-

%vay bridge, tunnel or other structure which
thle conipany ie authorised to coaetruct.

That is w-bat w-e understand by the railThen there is another, wich is not
way.
property ln tijat sense, consisting of the
As 1 understand
revenue of the raîlw-ay.

it, tbe boudholders have' a lien, not oilly
upon the rallway under section 138, on the
railway l)roper, but also upou the revenues
That is their
and income of the railway.
That is simply security so far
security.
Now,
as the bondliolders are concerined.
lu the Bill as it stands, the creditors are
to have a similar security, but the lion.
gentleman who proposes an nrnendinent
w-auts to withdraw f rom the security w-hieli
the creditors of the railw-ays have under
the Act as It now stands, w-bat is defiued
ns property and nssets, placing- the creditors of the rallw-ay over any ordinary liability as to wages, or it uiay be supplies
of any kind, la a different position to the
The question w-hidi lias perboadholders.
plexed me a good deal is whether these two
classes of credîtors-the boudbolder is a
creditor la posse, the conditions of bis mortgage are not active until the rallway becomes lnsolvent-what puzzles me Is w-leIn operation, then at the Suit of the mort- ther the bondbofder, as creditor la posse of
gagee, or nt tihe suit of any of the credi- the rond should be placed lu a different
I bave
tors, w-ltb permission of the minîster, a positlon to the other creditors?
receiver may be appointed, and that re- only twb aaswers to tbat condition of

SELN ATE

The first is fliat for forty years
things.
à-a Iw a y s were conducted uder the condition lin whici flic bondliolders lad as fi
securify ftle property of flie railw'ay, and
ifs income, and under fliat condition tlie
Now,
bondholders werc perfectir saf e.

~ana(lian railw-ays, and under whichi wageC

aesand the ordinary creditors ofa
e
road have not suffered mucli disadvantage.
( >f course, banlcs rnay lie less ready to adv.ance rnionev for the puirpose of tics or
That may be ail very wveIl.
betternients.
Lrailvay will generallybear a debt to Uts
we have lad forfy years' experience of fliaf,
and fliat experience bas been quite safis- ordinary bonding capacity, althougli If mrei
facfory, 1 have ei-cry reason to believe-r nioney were wanted for ties or botterThe condition iii wlIlchr nents, then thie railIway could put on a secso 1 arn assured.
we waut f0 place the credifors is flic con- nid rnortgage as was donc in flie case of
dition in whicli fhey were for fliese forty t hie Grand Trunk. and as was really done in
years before the Acf of 1903 was passed.t hie case of the Canadian Nortliern so far
Tlhere is aiAffer fort y years* expericace of these con-a is if run:, tlirougli Ontnrio.
ouglit f0 feel a reason- i-ays an opening for an improvernent of
ditions, fthc Iouse
able guaranfee fliat fliese conditions wcret lie road: but f0 say finit a condition of
injurions t hings fliat existed forty years ngo ouglit
or
unreasonable
faulfy,
nof
to any party. We are sirnply asked f0 o bce chianged, wlthout any ci-idence that
restore tbose conditions by fthc arnend-t bat change was necessary. is, to nly mind.
I (10 niot thiil
anticipafing legislation fliat was flot rcally
ment of my lion. friend.
tlhc proposition is a very unreasonable one. called for. As to the insertion of the
If if cau lie sliowi fliaf under fthc old con- ivords wlierc It Is proposed to strike theni
ditions barm lad corne f0 flic creditors of out, on looking closely Into flic matter, 1
a road, I would say do nof pass flic amend- can see how flic drauglitsmen could very
ment, but if does appear f0 nie fliat pos- riafurally place fliose wvords there; but a
sibly if flils auieuidient is allowed to stand, draughtsman wltli full lcnowledge of railbanni may corne tfeuture morfgagees or to wav conditions would niot insert thein witIitiiose ivbo niake loans f0 raulway comi- ouf calling special attention to if. 1 thinik
I can nnderstand thaf a bond- the amendrnenf proposed by flie hon. genpaules.
luoldler wlio feels bis security cornes aliead tleman from De Salaberry is opportune, aiof everyfhing. abead of flie w-orkhig ex- thougli I do flot feci fliat if is specially
penses of flic road and flic wage-earners, called for.
Raihîvfy men get their pa a
is in a strong position; but if lie feels fliaf fhirty days.
No raiilway can opoerafo if
tbe creditors of the road may affadi the flic workmen go on strikze.
Wages may be
corpus of flic road-tliaf is flic property flue condition whicb if is proposed f0 fitand assefs-as fliey can under flic present tacli by bis arndment to tlie liabulities of
law, lie feels bis~ position i, nof s0 good. raulways, and if rnay perbaps add additional
Supposing we malie the bondliolder as se- security or guaranfee, aflihongl 1 do0 fot
cure as lie xvas prior f0 19M3. wlia liarni fbink lu flie experience of Canada for fifty
If we place flic caplfalisf years lu railroad matters even, fliat thaf
ean bie donc?
ini a less secure position flan lie w-as prior condition is reqnired.
However, as if is
f0 1903, is capital likely f0 bie invested In perbaps a kindness sliown f0 fliose people
I thini. If wonld flot depcnding for tbelr dally wages, 1 will uicrailway enferprises?
Capital is exceedingly sensitive. cepf fliat amendment as one fliat cau do
lie.
If, on
Witliouf capital we cannof go on.
no bariun and wlll bave a tendency f0 place
flic othier hand, If can be sliown fIat tlie fbose wbo mniglt otlierwise feel lIn a lielpor tbose who were
credifors of flic moa,
less condition, and that their intercsts werc
dependent on flic road for wages lad been
So far as I can understand
prejudiced.
prejudiced by flic old condition of things,
tlie question. I incline f0 tlie view fliat we
flien I say we shonld protect flic ordinary
restore tlie old condition of
The weigbf of evidence, f0 niy liad beffer
creditors.
fbings, as no liarm bas corne f0 aniyboody
rnind, Is in favour of flic old condition,
it, and thiat urnendment whiclh is
under which no Ianm ean corne, under* fronui
lIn proposed by rny lion. friend f0 flie Bill is
which capital lias been fmeely lnvested
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

MAY 20, 1908
one wlîich titis Ilouse nxiigbt safely pass
In tbe ligbt of past experience.
Hon. '-%r. LOUGHEED-WitI refereluce
to the ameudment proposed by the bon.
gentleman from De Salaberry, I arn of
opinion it does not go sufficlenfly far. As
I fook thxe opportunity o! observlng yesferday, tbe property and assets of a railway company aire about tbe only tangible
menus out of whlch Oaa be reallzed tbe
dlaim of ftxe credîtor. I think-in fact I
bave no doubt-that those words were put
In advisedly by the Departmenf of Railways la consolldating tbe Act. It must
bave been witian tbe mlfid of the department that scarcely a email rallway
was f0 be found u-ifhln the Dominion of
Canada that hiad nof piled up very large
liabilities owiug f0 the workingmen, owing
to persons whIo hiad furnished supplies, and
u-blcli claims bad nof been liquidated, and,
owing to the compllcated nature of realizlng a dlaim ouf o! a rallway, those dlaims
stood. Hon. gentlemen wbo bave occupied seats upon the Standing Commiftee on
Raiiways must recaîl tbaf nearly every session tbere camne a complaint before tbe committee of unsatlsfled dlaims agaînef railwnys. W'bile I may nof be able to, desIgnate tIxe railways, yet I have a distinct
recollection of many instances fbat bave
ariseti la this direction. Railways In ManItoba, railways iu Ontario and rallways la
Quebec that were afterwards absorbed by
ftxe ]arger railways, or were re-organized
by new promoters. Now can my hou. friend
wbo sug-gests this ameadmeaf show any
good reason wnhy a flrm supplying maferla
for betterments should not have a remedy
for the collection of tbe dlaim agalust tbe
property and assets o! fthe company ? The
property ltself, which ls fthe secturity held
by the bondliolders, wlll have been enhanced
rnaulfestly to thxe amount of ftxe betterment whicli bas been made upon the rond.
If ties, as tbe bon, gentleman fromn Hastings bas inst.gaced, or If rails have heen
purcbased, why should not the properfy,
the saine as a building under fthe ordinary
lien law passed by tbe province, to the
exteut it lias been eahianced hy the furnishlng of those supplies be available for the
recovery o! the dlaim held Ixy those who
furnlsbed tbe supplies ? We know very
well tbat It Is a't established principle

amongst railway men, amongst ail wellconducted railways, that betterments are
chargeable, flot to capital, but to revenue.
Then If the betterments 'whlch are made
upon thé road from time to time are made
chargeable to revenue, and that revenue
ls lusufficlent to satlsfy the payment of
those betterments, Is It logical to, say that
tbe persons furaililng those supplies should
flot be able to recover trom the corpus
whicb they bave Improved to the extent
of the betterinents ? I can ensily Imagine
any bon, gentleman calllng up an Instance
where boudholders migbt induce the management to lihprove a smail rond very substantlally tbrougb purchase upon crédit of supplies. such as ties and rails, cars, rolling
stock and so on, and thus by practically a
systein of fraud enbance the value of their
property to a very large extent, and thea
snap their fingers at the persons wh'o had
furnisbed tbose supplies. My bon. frlend
has referred to the macblnery furnished to
creditors, mortgagees and others. for reallzlng upon tbe rallway, tbrough thle Excbequer Court. My hon. frlead. can see bow
the worklngmaa should have au excéption
made ln bis favour, but the mercliaut wbo
furnisbes supplies, and cannot have a large
iain against the rallway, le scarcely lu
a position t0 set in motion fthe machinery
of the Excbequer Court, and ask for a receiver, ln order that he may colleet a
couple of fbousaad dollars from. a ràilway.
As pointed ouf yesterday, almost everyr mile
of ralway that bas been constructed wlthin
thxe Dominion of Canada. and particularly
those railwvays over wbicb the Dominion
of Canada bas Jurlsdiction have generoUsly
been bonussed by the Dominion government, and the public are entitled f0 protection, if seemis to nue, f0 a degree beyond
that afforded to thxe bondholder.
Every
facility sbould be furnislied. by lau' whereby fthe credifor wbo bas bona fide furnlsbed supplies to the rond for betterments
thus enhanclng the secinrity, could be able
to realize out of the road the amount of
his dlaim.
Hlon. «MNr.
SCOTT-The only auswer 1
wisb to, make to my bon. f riend's comments le this: If bis views had prevailed
the last flffy years the rallway mlleage of
ýCanada would be many thousand miles less

SEN.\ATE
it is impossible to, exthan it Is to-day.
pect capital to corne iu and take a mortgage on a railway subject to ail the ex,emptions niy hon. frlend has stated. A
morigage on a railway should be like a
If I
mortgage on any other property.
have a mortgage on a farm, the worklng
expeuses of the farin, the payment of
wages to the men, &c., would not be a first
lien.
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHEED-Iil the consitructioni of a building, the wages of the
men employed lu the work of construction
would take precedence of a mortgage, und1er the lien iaw.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Tihat Is under a provincial law glving special privileges to, the
men employed ln putting up the building,
but that is an entireiy different case from
tlis. If this amenduient were adopted, it
would weaken Canadian securîties abroad.
I do flot
We mTust borrow money abroad.
besîtate to say tbere are hundreds of millions of dollars lu mortgage bonds held on
the good faitli of the Parliameut of Canada
not weakenlng the security, aud I venture
ta add this, that If a proposition sucli as
my hon. friend lias sugg--ested as a proper
one, were acted upon. lie would flot get any
capital advanced.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I arn deaiing
Wby did flot
with the law as It Is to-day.
îni lion. frîend show the saine solicitude for
the bondholders lu 1903 whea we passed
the Bill ?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I bave no knowledge
If I biad I would cerof it wbatever.
have opposed it, because I think the
tainly
concession iii favour of the non-bonded
creditors is ample. and they ougît uot to
interfere witb tbe sulistautial securlty the
M'ithout their being heard
,capitalist lias.
from, are you going to take away a security
that they regard as souud?
Hon. Mr. LOUGH-EED-W'e do îlot; yonr
goyeruxuent lias doue it.
Hoii. Mr. SC.OTT-No, .I do liot tbink a
inember of the government ever .k-new about
this-ever beard of it. I understand froin
the hou. gentienîan lu charge of thils Bill
that lie lias questioned the Law Clerk wlio

drew up the Act of 1903 and lie cannot reHe repentcali any conversation about It.
ed the words because lie saw them in a
former sentence, wltbout attaching meaning to, thern in the sentence under discus1 should object to auy amendments
sion.
calculated to weaken the security of the
It is a clear breach of faltli.
bondholder.
I have looked over the mortgages flled
with the Secretary of State, a*nd the form
used Is under the old law-all the mortI arn not prepared to say Ifiat
gages are.
If we make the change It would affect
the interests of any of the mortgagees. It
speaks of the law as it will prevail wlien
The
tis amendment is given assent to.
first opinion I formed atter reading It was
that It was the lnw the court would have
to recognize and they could liot see that
the bond wns issued before It.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My bon. friend
bas ventured the opinion that If this law
of 1903 bad been ln operatlon for forty
yenrs before, we would have very few railwnys built lu Canada.
Hon.
ments
which
change

Mr. SCOTT-I spoke of the coiof my lion. friend f rom Calgary,
went furtber than the proposed
ln the Act of 1903.

Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-Does my lion.
friend undertake to say that the operation
of this law. as it was amended lu 1903, has
lnterfered witb the sale of bonds or with
the building of railroads in Canada?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It certainly wouldHou. Mr. FERGUSON-Not
but lias it?

'it

would.'

Hon. Mr. ISCOTT-I cannot answer that
question, because the mnai wbo put bis
înoney ln a railway believed hie got a miortThe law relatgage as lie understood it.
ing to mnortgages bias prevailed for ceaturies, and when n man bas a mortgage on
property, uobody can corne lu and cut lini
out of It.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-No law that was
pa8sed was retroactive lu any sense whaEever. My lion. friend seems to thiuk these
words lu the Act of 1903 crept la without
the knowledge appareatly of anybody.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.

MAY 20, 1908
lion. Mr. FERGUSON-I ask the hon.
gentleman to think over this for a moment
The words used ln the Act of
1903 were very Important words.
Their
Insertion had a distinct and clear meanlng.
Does nny one suppose that those words
came ln there by nome clerical error?
They lnvolved a very Important principle
and a prîncipie whîcb I thlnk: the longer It
ls discussed the more clearly ht appears
that it Is rlght
Now there Is no question
ln my mmnd that that change was flot made
ln the Act of 1903 without very carefui consideratlon, and there mnuet have
been some very good reason for puttlng it
there.
The bon. gentleman wbo had
charge of that Bill ln Its esrller stage was
Mr. Blair; he was a very able man.
He
had been Minister of Raiiways for many
years nnd bad very able assistance ln bis
department
Mr. Hansard, the law officer of the department, was a very experlenced man, and these 'words were put
there ln his time, and we cannot corne to
any other conclusion than that they were
put there wlth due deliberation and for
good reason.
Now it la proposed to remove these words, and my bon. frlend does
not know that auy barm bas arisen from
their belng ln the Act for five years.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Because there le flot a
lawyer wbo knew they were tbere.
if
you look at tbe mortgages flled ln the
Secretary of State's office, you will uee tbat
tbey do flot include this exception.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My hon. frlend
says that nobody knew tbese words were
there.
Two years ago the bon. member
from De Salaberry introduced a Bill ln
thîs House to remove these words. I tblnk
most people knew they were there by that
time, anyway. if nobody knew It before.
Are we to suppose that able lawyers lu
Canada and elsewhere. negotlating the sale
of bonds railways, never looked lnto this
change of the law and dld not know up to
this time that tlue change was made?

years' experience, we find nn application
made to this parliament to change the law.
Does not the hon, gentleman think It
necessary for those who are pressing
for this change to show some barm that
hied arisen through the existence of these
words lu the Act? They do flot show that
any barin bas been done, and, therefore, It
seems to me that there muet ho nome particular Instance thnt bas arisen ln connection with nmre railway, perhaps a matter
of very littie Importance to the generai
public, and yet It muet be for some such
reason as that that thls change ls proposed.
I want to point out that the change of the
Act lu 1903 made the Act sensible, wblch
It had flot been Up to that tîme, and which
It will flot be if thîs amniedment le passed.
The amendinent of 1903 pute government
taxes-municipal and provincial goverument taxes--before the bondholders' Interest.
Now we are proposlug that we
wlll put a part of tbe worklng expenses
of a rallway. the government and municpal taxes-lun a position of Inferlorlty to
the Interest of the bondbolders.
I know
tbe bon. Secretary of State made a very
strong statement yesterday about that. -He
uaid: Oh. no, the taxes would be ail rlght.
They may be, under the British North
America Act, but that only sbows wbat
kind 0f leglslatlon we are attempting here
wben we are putting up a Dominion statute
to Interfere wlth the British North Amerîca
Act. Refer to paragrppb No. 34 of section
2, and run down to letter (e) lu that paragraph and you wll find it includes as worklng expenses 'ail rates, taxes, Insurance,
and compensation for accidents or -losses,'
and this Bill pute them lu a position of Inferlority, secondary to the payment of the
bondholders' Interest.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Every property la
lable for taxes, of course.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-But my hon.
friend [s declarîug by this Bill wbîch he
supports, tbat the bondho1ders' interest le
to bave priority over taxes.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Nothing of the sort.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mr. FIERGUTSON-I cannot accept
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-My hon. frlend
that, because I think it le so very unreasonable. The hon. member should not expect shakes bis hend.
this House to accept it wlthout some eviHon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, I say nothing of
dence in support of ItL
Now, after five the sort.

SENATE

962

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The first arnendmieut
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It is lamentable
to see rny bon. frlend when Important Nvas to expunge two words ; 1 was supportmeasures are before this House, showing 'mng that. The next amendmentthat he does not understand their contents.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Is flot rny bon.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I state that the hon. friend supporting the Bill that we bave begentleman Is absoluteiy wrong ln the aile- fore us ?
gation. le makes.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, but flot Mr.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I bave the clause
before me.

Bélque's amendment.
Hon. Mr. FERGIJSON-We are flot speak-

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I wll flot discuss It ing about Mr. Bêlque's amendment ; I arn
talking about tbe Bill vhIch the hou. gentleman la supportlng s0 very strenuously,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I cannot help
and I say that that Bill, as far as tl4e parthat. Under the Bill it is proposed to put
liament of Canada can do It, Is puttlng
workIng expenditure to rank below tbe
taxes in a secondary position to the bondbondliolders' interest-is not tbat what la
holders' lnterest.
proposed ln this Bill?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. we cannot doHon. Mr. CASGRIN-Not to thé bondthat.
holders' interest at ail.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-My hon. friend
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If my hon. says we cannot do it, but he is trying tofriend's Bill Is carried, then the worklng *do It as far as lie can, and It shows how
expenditure wiil corne next to the bond- shIly this Bill lo, because we are doiug somehoiders' interest, and a part of the work- thing which wiil not stand ln a court of
Ing expenditure la taxes. Turu to sub- law, for there ls no doubt the provinces
clause 34, of section 2, letter (e) and there have power to deai with property and civil
you wiii see 'ail rates, taxes, Insurance, rlghts and can tax property and coliect
and compensation for accidents and basses,' taxes before the bondldPrs 'ian collect
Included ln working expenditure, and my their rnoney.
hon. friend the Secretary of State is supHon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
porting an amendment to the law, whieh
will give taxes a position inferlor to the
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-But mY hon.
interest on the bonds.
friend strenuously supports a Bill giving
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I arn not supporting priority to the bonds over the taxes.
the amendment. 1 was agalnst the amendHon. Mr. SCOTT-No. I arn uot going
ment. I was against any aiteration ln the
to answer the hon, gentleman again.
law made in 1903.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I hardly know
Hon. Mfr., FERGUSON-The amendment
how to account for rny bon. friend's halluproposed by the bon. senator from De Lacination, for that is the position in which
naudîère?
he really stands. 1 take the position that
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I arn speaklng of the the Act of 1903 must have been amended in
It
a deliberate manner in this particular.
amendment p)roposèd to-day.
xvas ln the bands of a very able man ; niy
Hon. 3fr. FERGUSON-Tbe Bill of hon. friend was a member of the governthe hon. seniator frorn De Lanaudière Is
ment himself aud they made this arnendthe one the lion, gentleman Is so strongly
ment and they cannot show us, after five
supporting.
years, that any barra or Injury wvbatever
bas resulted from the operation of that
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Not at ail.
Act.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Is the hon, genHon. Mr. CASGRIN-Nobody knows it
tleman opposed to the amendment of the
Is there.
lion. senator from De Lanaudière ?
with the hon, gentleman.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

MAY 20, 1908
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We have had no
Instance prcsented to us wbere any harmn
bas occurred, and 110w they corne and ask
us to revert to the old order of thinigs. My
hon. friend freim De Salaberry stated
w-heu w-e were in1 conmittee yesterday,
that the question of wages la w-ortby of
consideration. I do nlot think w-e need concern ourselves very mucb about the matter of taxes. I only brouglit that up to
Ilinstrate the erroneous state of mind 1In
w-hlch mny lion. friend the Secretary of
State exlsts. The hon. member for De
Lanaudière is trying to put taxes In
a place of Inferiority to the bondholders' interest, but I do nlot tbinlc lie can
do it. How-ever, w-e can put the wages In
that position, and I do not thlnk tliat the
nmendment which the bon. senator from
De Salaberry has moved w-i make any
Improvemeut in that respect. With due deference to the lion, gentleman, 1 tblink that
dis amendment w-iIl leave the matter just
w-bere it Is now, or w-bere it w-i be after
the major part of this Bill passes. Turn
to section 141, which la proposed to lie amnended, and you w-Ill find It w-I read this
w-ny after the ameadment Is lncorporated
In it:
Subject, as hereinbefore prov-ided, to the eubment of penalties and working expenditure
of the railway, and to the payment of arrears
of salaries and wages rnentioned dn Wafragraph (f) of section 34 of section 2 of this Act
for a terni not exceeding two months, Lc.
Thien it goes on, and ail dis is subject to
the w-ords ' as bereinliefore provided to the
payment of penalties, and worklng expenditure of the railw-ay.' The penalties and the
working expenditure of the railways, If the
flrst and main provision of the Bill Is
be given a status, and
passed, w-i
this ameadment will be subject to that,
and as wnges is n part of the working expenditure, declared to be so by the Act,
w-ages w-il remain lu the position It occupied before, and that Is a position secondary to the Interests of the bondholders. 1
therefore tbink that thîs amendment wiIl
neot change the position of tblngs In the
sligbtest respect, because dis provision
w-ith regard to w-ages w-lit le subject, as
bereinliefore provided, to the payment of
penalties and w-orklng expendîture of the
ratlway, and the secondary standing ef the

w-orking expenditure of the railway w-ill lie
settled w-tb If the amendments of the hon.
senator fromn De Lanaudière becomes law.
Therefore, 1 think this amnendment will not
put the wages ln a better position dian bei
fore the ameadment w-as proposed.
I do flot
bave put my views on record.
feel that it wiil affect me any, but when
w-e are golng to make this change ta die
law, we sbould have some good and suliWe should be
stantial reason for It.
show-n that the Act passcd in 1903 bas
w-orked some bnrm, that it lias prevented
bondboiders investing their money, that It
bas Ia any case operated in w-rongiug tbe
boadholders and preventing them getting
their just riglits. As none of these things
bave been sbown, it seems to me It would
be mucb better to let the law stand as it
is at present.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--This
discussion mnust lie very interesting to
those w-ho bave remained in the chamiber
I arn quite sure that
and listened to It.
any senator w-ho bas witnessed the exhibitien of apparent temper on the part of our
usually genial friend the Secretary of State
w-ii lie pieased to know that something bas
occurred to arouse him from the letbargy
w'blcb bas cbarncteilized bim for many
montha past 1 bave noticed. Ia my
experience, that whienever the hon, gentleman shows temper there must lie some reason for it behind the mere question before
Might I asic hlm if anything
the House.
bas occurred in connection w-lth tbe sale
of the bonds, debentures or other securities
connected witb the Grand Trunk Pacific
Railway, that bas led to the Introduction
0f this amendment to the Railway Act?
Hon. 'Mr. SOOTT-No.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Has
any objection been taken in tbe money
markcet of England to the law as it stands
affecting the securîties wbich bave been
offered la tie mnoney markcet, la order to
We have bieard
carry on that great work?
It rumored, and it bas been stated la the
newspapers, and If my memory serves me
rightly a Bill bas been Introduced la the
House of Commons by the Finance Minister, asktng for some change la the iaw ln
reference to the Grand Trunk Paci'fie Rail-

SENATE
BOW'ELL-i\

wvay scheme; is it for the purposv of
granting greater security to those wbo are
asked te lend tleir money upon the securities off ered by the Grand Trunk Pacifie
Railway Comipany? 1 have heard It hiuted
tbat one or two of the great bankers in
Europe bave declined to advance more
moneys, first the Rotbscbulds, and next
another firm, and 110w the company have
reverted to tbeir own financiers the Barings, and they say it is impossible to raise
money on the securities at present with
only a 3 per cent guarantee on the part of
Or If
Is that correct?
the government.
that is flot correct, bas objection been taken
to the purchase of these bonds on account
Is It
of these words being In the Act?
the one reasoni or the other mentioned in
the rumours current in the press and in
Or perbaps the bon. gentlethe lobbies?
man could tell us the purport of the BUi
wbichi bas been foreshadowed by the MinisI fail
ter of Finance In. the lower House?
to see in the newspnper reports that be bas
given any explanation of tbe Bill he bas
This gives an apparent conlntroduced.
firmation of the rumeurs wblcb bave been
in circulation, and is lt in order to prevent
the possiblIlty of a collapse of tbe undertaking tbat my bon. frlend bas lntroduced
Having put these questions to
tbis Bill?
the bon. Secretary of State, let me turn
mY attention to the bon, gentleman who
introduced tbe Bill.

Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE
miortgage on wbat?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Does my hon. friend
want an answer to bis questions?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This Bill bas not been
I had no0 cognizbefore the government.
ance of it until I saw it moved here.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEIjL--Gertalnly.
Tbls has no posHon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
sible colnnection wlth anY legislation proMy attention
posed in the other House.
was never drawn to it, except when tbe
bon. gentleman introduced the Bill bere,
and I bave spoken entlrely from my own
judgment as to wbat was proper between
tbe mortgagee and the mortgagor, applying
I did
the general principle of the law.
not bear of any cases; 1 bave not examined.
There are lots of mortgages In the Secretary of State office, but I only took up one
before coming out to see what it covered,
and it covers everytbing.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-On a railway-bonds
They
or debentures Issued by a raiiway.
are secured by a mortgage, and tbey bave
to file an original of it la tbe Secretary
Before comîng out. 1
of State's office.
just called for one of tbe mortg-ages-I do
not recollect tbe date of it-and I saw that
this particular mortgage tliat I iooked at
covered everythin. so that lnw'yers drawing up sucli a document. wbcether the law
warranted it or not would l)ut in everythlng.
Hon. Mr. IOUGHEED-It could
cover more than the Act calîs for.

not

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, but the lawyers
I bave flot rend the
inserted everytbing.
Bill lntroduced by the 'Minister of Finance.
but I tblnk If refers to cbanging tbe securiLt lias
tics of the Grand Trunk Pacific.
no reference to this legislation.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWIELIi-I
can readily understand now, from the expianation of tbe bon, gentleman, and bis
utterances a few moments ago, tbat wbeil
bie took charge of the railway Bill be knew
Lt is not the first time
nothing about it.
tbat tbat bas occurred in this House. The
very principle on wbicb they carry on the
government leaves a minister-

Hon. Sir MA.CKENZIE BOWELL,-You
govern the country on the one man principle.
Most people understand that our
system of government is joint responsibility
on the part of every member of the govNo single meinber of the goverament.
erament can be held responsible for wbat
takes place; tbe combination. wbichi forais
tbe government Is equally responsible.
I
am not going to deal witb tînt question
now.
1 have done so often in the past
and bave sbown tbe impropriety of attempting to govern the country upon the
princîple whicb bas prevalled for some time
past.
Lt being sLx o'clock 1 move tbe adjournment of tbe debate.

MAY 21, 1908
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Thie lion. seator
from Marshiield t!Ioughit there was some
machination going on, that somne great quesI wish
tien of state depends on this Bill.
to say that I bad no conversation wlth aay
member of the governament or any member
of the Senate about this measure until my
attention was drawn to the subject some
The pertime la thue winter la Montreal.
son who did se asked me- if a railway
He
bond w-as a first lien on the rond.
said to me, 'You ouàht to know better
than anybody, being chairman of the Railway Committee.' He snid that the working expenses go before a bond,'and. he took
out the RLallway Act and sluowed it to me.
I snid, 'It is evldently n cierical error ln
the law of.1903. and It should be corrected.'

DELAYED RETURNS.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is there auy news
f that correspondence whlch took place
ietween the- milltary authorities ln Otnwa and Colonel Pellatt ? An order was
piven three montbs ago that this corres-

»ndence should be brought down.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-WiIl tbe hon. gentleman write me a note, so that 1 au bave
.t on my mind ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes, and I .will renind the hon. gentleman that I wrote hlm

a note caiiing attention to the fact that a
few weeks ago I sent back a return sub-

mitted by the goverament in respect of
the employment of some troops bere in Ottawa during the Fenian troubles of 186)5-6.
That retura was incomplete, and 1 asked
The motion wns ngreed to.
that It be compieted, and I bave not
Hon. Mr. McIKAY (Truro) from the com- heard of It sînce.
mittee reported that they bad made some
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Nor bave 1.
progress with the Bill and nsked leave to
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Perhaps If I write
sit agaîn.
another note, It will be aise forgotten.
CANADA TFM1PERANCE ACT AMENDHon. Mr. SCOTT-I wlll cali attention
MENT BILL.

to It.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. McGREGOR moved the second
reading of Bill (WWM) An Act to amend
the Canda Temperance Act.

GRAND

TRUNK PENSION SOHEME.

INQUIRY.
Mr. FERGUSON rose to:
Hon.
Call the attention of the Senate to the foiit is underHon. MIr. POWER-I suppose
iowing ciipping fromn the Montreai 'Daily
stood that by consenting to the reading of Star,' of April 1, last:Grand Trunk Pension Schenie a Success.
the Bill a second tîîne now, we do not comIn an interview this morning with the
mit ourselves to the principle?
'Star,' MT. William Wainwright, essistant to
the generai manager and comp'trolier of the
'Hon. '-\r. SÇOTT-Certainly not.
Grand Trunk Railway, expressed bis coînplete
satisfaction wjth the new 'pension schene as
The motion wns agreed to, and the Bill placed in operation by the compnny on .1a¶iuary let. Thie three months' trial, he declared,
was read the second time.
had convinced the officiais that the inauguraThe Soenate adjourned untîl to-morrow at tien of a pension fund was a wise mnoveu and
the money was well suent. He behieved tht
three o'clock.
company would save ini the damiages account
alone enough to meet the cost of carrying the
fund &long.
And will inquire if the governient wi.ll proTHE SENATE.

cuoee and lay on the table of this House au-

OTTAWA,

Thursdny, May 21, 1908.

thenticoted copies of alIl rules, by-laws and
regulations made by the Grand Trunk Railway Company under meotions 5, 6l, 7 and 8 of

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three chapter 69 of the Âcts of Canada of the year
1907.
o'c1ock.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I may say that la a
Prayers and routine procedlngs.
uetter from -Mr. Walnwright he snys that
the interview referred to la th3 'Star'
neyer took place, and he was away at the
Bill (BB) An Act for the relief of Hattimie, and they used bis' ame without autie Spratte.- -(Hon. Mr. Perley.)
BILL INTRODUCED.

SENATE
thority. I submit a copy of rules and regulations of the Grand TrunI. Rallway as
to pension fund, in accordance with the
bon. gentleman's request.
THE BUSINESS 0F THE SESSION.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN moved:
That the *resolution passed by the Senate
on the 12th instant, proposing sa Joint Coinmittee of Cvnference of both bouses, with a
view of securing a better division o(f the Bis
introduced at each session and devising means
wheroby the business of ýpar1iament may be
expedited and the sessions choi-tened, bie furwarded by the proper officer of .the Senate to
the bouse of Gommnons.
Mr.
DeBOUCHERVILLE-This
Hon.
motion does not correspond with the motion
which I find in fthc minutes of the l3th of
The motion
May, and t0 which if refers.
carried on the 13tb inst., is ns follows:
That the Senate deems if expedient to invite
the House of Gommnons to co-operate with it

by means of a Joint Committee to consider

the advisability of devising methods whereby
anmore equal division of the initiation of pirivate and public legislation may bie secured be-

-tween the two branches of parliamient, and
adopting rules governing debate which. will
limit the time of discussion so as to better
expedite 'business.
1 think it would be more regular f0 fol10w the language of the resolution adopted
by the House.
The SPEAKER-The point raised by the
hion, gentleman is that the statement in the
motion now before the House does not*exactly cover the resolution passed on the
13th of May; but 1 consider thiat the narration in the motion before us Is but a sunimary of the resolution; it is not this motion
that will be sent f0 the bouse of Coinmous, but the motion of the l3th of May
last.
Therefore it Is sufficient if the resolufion of the l3th of May Is properly madicated, and 1 consider thaf this motion Is
In order.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-It la exceedingly lndiscreet for the Senate to undertake f0 dictate to the bouse of Commons how they
should do their business and whether they
should make long Speeches or short
The House of Gommons Is a
speeches.
representative body elecfed by the people,
and responsible to the people for fthe way
they transact the business of the country.
Hlon. Mfr. SCOTT,

We In tbis Chaînber are nlot responsible f0
the p)eople in the same way, and we are

overstepping the mark 'wlen we undertake
to say to the members of ftie populor
brandih how they shall conduct their business.
For that reason, I shall oppose tis
motion.
The bon, gentleman said the
other day that lie would have ftic closure
adopted to lirevent long speeches, and lie
nlso nndertook f0 say that the length of
the session was due to fhe long speeches
in tlie House of Commons and the desire
1 do
of members to obstrnct leisînfion.
The members
not think fliat Is correct.
of the bouse of Gommons are trying to do
They
their duty fo their consfituents.
are elected t0 carry on the nifairs of the
country, and are responsIble f0 the people
for the way they discliarge their duty. I
find lu looking over the history of tuis sesSion, last session and the session before,
fiat a great deal of finie lins been spent
la the bouse of Gommons In defending the
riglits of the people as ngalnst certain persons f0 whom the goverument pay large
amounts of money in an improper manner,
and when a motion Is made f0 appoint a
committee f0 100k. into the misconduct of
certain officiais, the passage of the motion ls
obsfructed by long discussions. Then, when
an inqniry la granted, and fhe investigation begins before a special commlftee, certain members f ry f0 prevent that iniquiry
being effecfed lu every way fhey can. My
idea ls that members are elected f0 work
lu fhe public lnferest and nof f0 help fthe
government or anY person lu flie goverîlIf a goverament officiai
nient employ.
does wrong, it ls as much flic dufy Of the
goveruiment as of the opposition f0 liold
that officiai responsible for bis conduet,
nnd it would be much better if fie goveraiment would sec that ftic aiffairs of fhe counfry are conducted ln a proper manner lusfead of protectlng people who are doing,
For fthc last fwo sessions if has
wrong.
been one continuai inquirY into the adiministration of affairs by goverument offIt is said that we cannot purchase
diais.
except
îinything for fthc government
throug-h middlemcn, and the money of fthc
country hns been expended lu varions lmiWe have had fthc Arctic
proper ways.
exp2?ditio!n iuquiry, ftic Atlantic Trading,

MAY 21. 190896
the House is
Comnpany aif air, and uow we have an in- 13. The motion now before
to the House
quîry into the management of the Marine simply to send the resolution
departmnents. of Gommons. 0f course the Hlouse can
and Fisheries and other
itself, but there is a
Ail these inquiries delay the House. It is divide on the motion
general principle that a debate cannot be
not tbe lcngth' of the speeches members
question, and I would
make. It Is the Inquiries that cause the repeated on the samne
draw the attention of bon, gentlemen to
delay-the way they are obstructed in tryiug to get at the bottom of tbese things, that point.
lon. Mr. LANDRY-I rise to a question
and that is why parliament Is kept lu session so long. I do not besitate to say of order. The motion, as It is presented
that parliameat ougbt to" get through the to the House, is that a resolutio'i passed
business in three months, If everyone un- by the Senate on the l3th instant proposdertookz to do bis duty and expedite legis- ing a joint committee of conference of
lation. But you will find lu the other both Houses, &c., be forwarded by tlie
House there is obstruction from start to proper officer of tbe Senate to the House of
finish whvlenever tiiere Is a demand for an Gommons. Wben this House passes a reluquiry. A large number of mnembers la solution like the one passed on M~ay 13, we
the Çommons, on the goverument side, un- do not proceed In that way. The followdertake to protect people wlho bave stoien ing is the resolution passed by this House
money or donc something wrong. If the on May 13 :
government were anxious to see that good,
That the Sonate deemis it expedient to invite
to co-operate with. it
lionest mea werc employed, then there the House cf Com mouscnmmittee ito consider
joint
kind, sud we by means of a cf derising methods whereby
*would be no inquiries of this
the advisability
would bave shorter sessions. The reasc'n a more equal division of the initiation of pripublic legisiation mnay be secured
the sessions are long Is because the oppo- vate, aadthe two branches of parliament, and
between
do flot see fit to let things go by adopting raies governing debate, which will
sition
default, and permit the goverument to, limit the time of discussion so as to better
êxpedite business.
take everything in slght, aud wbeu they
I may eall attention to, the fact that
tire obstrncted Iu making these luquiries,
those two tbiags are quite different, but
It bas, to, a large extent, to do xvlth the
that Is not tlie point I want to ralse ?
prolonglng of tbe session. The hon. genWhen we pass a resolution lu this House
tleman Is cutirely wide of the mark iwben
asking for a joint committee, we seud a
lie states that the long speeches are the message. We do not take the resolution
are elected
cause of the trouble. Members
and lay It on the table. I wll refer to
to the House of Gommons to represent page 52 of the Minutes of tbe House of
do
certain constituencies, aud they bave to
Commons of this year, where I fiud the
their duty.
followlng:
Hon. Mr. MITCHEL-lt Is only a few
Resolved that a message ýbe sent to thc
honours will
months ago that the bon. gentleman made Sonate requesting that -theirformation cf a
unite with this Hanse in the
the statemeut tu Toronto that tbis House joint comtniftee of both Houes on the subject
'was no good. Now bie states that the other of the printing of parliament, &c.
House is no good.
I tblnk this resolution is not the proper
dld not do any- one. We should send a message requestHon. Mr. PERLEY-I
ilng thiat their honours will unite wlth this
thiug of the kind.
House. This message I have read Is one
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL-I do not know that was sent to the Senate ; but wlieu we
where the bon, gentleman standssend a message to, the House of Gommons
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I rise to a point of It is 1that a message be sent to the House
,order. This House did some good wheu of Gommons by one of tbe Masters la
It thwarted the Drummond County Rail- Chancery lnformlng thiat House tbat the
way BihI.
Senate has invlted them to forai a comor asking thein to join wlth the
there
The SPEAKER-I do not think
0f a joint coinbe any discussion on the merits of Senate in tbe appointaient
sbould
mittee.'
the motion passed by this House on May,

Jmittee,

SENATE

1 think, tbe mere fact of sending a resolion. ,Mr. POWER-The motion is iii
Intion and throwing it on the table of the order, and the House can pass that motion,
House ls flot convenient. It miglit be leEt but the uniform practice is to move that a
on the table.
message be sent to the flouse of Commons.
That is supposed to be a more respectful
The SPEAKER-I believe that the hon.
way o! dealing with the other chamber,
gentleman fromn Stadacona Is rigit ; but if
this resolution ls adopted, then, as witb and I think just now we hnd better show
the utmost respect and deference to tbe
Bis that pass througb this House, I 'will
perforce order that a message hi- sent to feelings o! the otber flouse.
The SPEAKHDR-If the hon, gentleman
the House of Commons m-itl the resolution
from Wellington desires to w'ithdraw bis
passed on May 13.
motion and present it with that other
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
proviso that a message be sent to the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes, but the motion flouse of Commons, &ce.,lie may do so.
should be that a message be sent with the
Hon. '.fr. 3fc3ULLEN-I made every enresolution. We have no motion at ail.
deavour to meet the suggestions tbrown
ont f romi time to time.
I have alreàdy
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-I w-as flot bere when
ended It.
I amn qulte wllling to accept the
the motion w-as debated and voted upon,
suggestion made by the Speaker, that lie
but, unless by unanimous consent, we canwill forward the motion as It was passed
not extend it, and I would suggest to the
on the 13th 3fay, witli a copy of tbis resobon, gentleman from Wellington that lie
lution ns anthority for so doiiig. I tbink
should consider as an amendment to the
last part of bis motion, that lie should slrnply that is aIl that is required.
Hon. Sir MIACKENZIE BOWELL-Did
refer to the sbortenlng of the session and
not enter Into details.
It miglit be con- I understand the bon. Speaker to mile that
sidered Impertinent on the part of this this was a motion whichi could not be discussed because tbe Senate had debated tbe
House to furnisb these details.
subject upon a former occasion? If I
Hon. Mfr. McMULLEN-I arn qulte will- arn to understand the Speaker's ruling
ing to accept the proposed amendment.
goes to that extent, I shall take exception
My Impression is that we have a
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I oh- to It.
riglit to discuss the merits of every motion
jeet to nny amendment.
before the Senate, and to give our reasons
The -SPEAKER-Ný,o amendment can lie wby we« oppose its adoption or why we are
made to this resolution, except it be witb- in favour o! it being passed.
I think the
drawn and proposed anew.
Speaker would bie quite right in ruling that
w-e had no riglit to refer to or comment on
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-It bas been with- a former debftte.
If I understood the
drawn twice now.
Speaker's ruling to go only to that extent,
Hon. M1r. BEIQUE-It can be done by I could have no objection. For ray part,
I expressed mysel!, when the resolution
unanlinous consent of the Senate.
was before the flouse, as bein.- oppose(î to
The -SPEAKER-I have already stated the w-bole proceding for reasons whieh I
that it is not this motion wbicb wll go gave at the time, and that I should try and
to the House of Commons, but It wlll be stop, so far as the ruies of parliament will
the motion whlch was passed and wblcb permit me, any further step being taken lu
cannot be amended by this resolution. the matter, and la affirmiug my position
This is but a summary of the resolution of and that o! those w-ho take the same view
tbe l3tb May.
I take for granted this that I do, it strike*s mie we would have a
motion is that the resolution passed by rlght to give our reasons why w-e object to
the Senate on the 13th May be sent to the the motion belng carried. 1 arn not goîng
House of Commons, and I believe the into that discussion just now%,because my
motion ls lu order.
hon. friend from Wellington lias consented
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

MAY 21, 1908
adjournments were sent to us frorn tbe
Honse of Commons ýwe would be very apt
to regard it as a gross infrîngement of our
privileges, yet that is prccisely what we
are propoqing to do to the other chamber,
becanse everybocly mnust know that this
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-So far as 1 bave resolution airns at cnrtaillng the length of
been able to follow the observations made, discussions in the House of Commons and
and the ruling of the Chair, the bon. gentle- flot lu the Senate.
The lion, gentleman
man proposes to wltbdraw bis motion and lias lad bis resolution agreed to ln this
We bave bad this matter Hanse.
sabrait another.
The moral effect of It, If any, is
before us many times, and perhaps a word feit It bas ail the effect It will bave.
or two lu Une witb wvbat tbe bon. gentle- Wby flot stop tbere and flot send tbis resoman frorn Hastings bas said miglit flot be lution to tbe Honse of Commons at ail,
I tliink wve because it wifl certainly create friction, and
arniss at tliis moment.
have gone quite far enongli on this ques- be regarded as an infringeinent of tbe priIt cornes very near to being a re- vileg-es of the Coimans.
tion.
flection on tbe Hanse of Commons,
Hon. '.%r. Me-MULLEN-I cannot underand 1 think we -should abstain, as the
bon. gentleman frorn Halifax lias said, stand liow mny esteenied friend frorn
at this tirne or at any time frorn doing Marslifield always; seenis ready ta be virtuSoimething may be said in debate, ally rny godfather in Ray matter 1 brlng
tbat.
He is alway s prepared
but whîen.we corne to a formai resalution hefare the Hanlse.
of tbnt character, it Is ta suggest things tlîat 1 should do. 1 amn
embodying sarnetbing
ratber a serions matter. It Is welI known not, perbaps, as weil versed ln parliarnentbat'tbe general crltlcisrn on tbe Hanse of tary procedure as lie is, but 1 would reCammans botb in tbls Chamber and else- spectfully suggest ta hlm tbat lie keep bis
wbere is thUit tbe debates are toa long. It suggestions. so far as 1 amn personally conNow I arn
Is equally well known that the critîcisis cerned, to himself after this.
an tlis House, botb lu the House of Com- willlng to, meet any reasonable suggestion
ruons and ont of lt, Is that we take too tliat tbe Flouse lias ta make witb regard
I was bonest in tbe moSupposing we were to tbis matter.
many adjournrnents.
two words lu this resoin- tion I submitted to the Honse, and amn stili.
just ta change
It bas flot
tian, and supposing it were sent frorn the I bave no party end in view.
wbat would we been placed in my bauds by any one ta
Hause of Commans to us,
I amrn ot acting unSupposing tue resoîntion read lu accompllsh anytlîing.
say?
1 act soleder the inspiration of anybody.
tbis way:
deems it ex- ly oni ry own responsibility as a member
That the House of Commons
pedient ta invite the Senate to co-operoJte wiith of this House, without being ndvised or
it by means of a joini committee to consider instructed by any one. 1 have a great deal
the advisability of devising methods whereby
a. more ecjue. division of private and public of respect for rny esteemed friend froi
legislaition rnay be secu.red between the two Hastings; lie is an aid parliamentariafi, and
branches of parliarnent, and adopting miles lie lias made a suggestion witli regard ta
governing adjournments which will Iinîit; the
time of adjouruments so as ta botter expedite thie Improvernent of the resolution. 1 arn
business.
willing, If the Hanse thinks best. to droR
If sucb a resolution as tbat were passed tbe present resolntion and move one in
lu the Haùse of Comimons and sent ta us, accordnnce wltli tbe suggestion of the bon.
we wovuld le apt to regard It as Imperti- senator from De Salaberry.
We are quite able to regulate aur
nent.
Hon. Mr. M.%ITCHELL-I would go a
own adjournments, and 1 sbould think thie
able to cour littie furtber tban the bon. senator from
House of Gommrons are equally
1 tblnk the motion should
sider tue matter of the leugtb of their de- ;M.%arsbfield.
It is a reflection on tlilu
be wltlidrawn.
If tbe tables were
bates and speeches.
that lt was ever brouglit up or even
turned. and a resolution to interfere wltu iHouse
Althaugb my bon. friend frai
our rigbts and privîl eges wlth reference tc idiscnssed.

to witlidraw lis motion as suggested by tlie
bon. gentleman from Stadacona, and also
by the bon. Speaker. Wben it cornes Up
again, I shall daim tlie riglit ta give my
rea son wby 1 oppose it.

SENATE
Marshfieid says the discussion w-as w-cil
enougli but flic motion should lie dropped,
I go so far as to say fiaf flie discussion
w-as a reflection. on this House.
The govcramient lias doncý aIl in its pow-er f0 expedite the business of flis country and lias
been blocked for reàsons w-hidi I do Dot
tiinc w-e slîould go into la thus chamier.
Thc matter should lie droppcd once for ail.
lion. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWEL-I
figree witlî flie hou, gentleman.
The motion w-as w-itlidrawa.
QUEBEC BRIDGE COMPANY.
INQUIRIES POSTPONED.
The notices of motion being cailed:
No. 7.
By -the Hon.
r.Landry:
May 6-Thât lie wili inquire of the goveranientOi-er aud above f le $45,000 paid to Mr. Hoare
as chief engineer of the compazy by the Quebec Bridge Company, of which ýMv. Parent is
president, has lie 'received any other suais of
money £rom the Transcontinental flailway
Conmmission, of wlîicli the saine Mr. Parent
is also pres.ideiit?
How annch, in eacli year, for flhe years 1904-5,
19W5-6, 1906-7 and 1907-8?
For whait services?
No. 8.
By the Hon. Mr. Lanidry:May i13-That he will inquire of the goveramuentDoes the government know whether Mr.
Edmond Taschereau, of Quebec, notary, was
emnpioyed as notary and in -that capacity signel
the deed of agreement enfered into on October
19, 1903, hetween fhe federal anthorifies and
fhe Qucbec Bridge and Railway Company relating to fie financial obligations confracted
by tic government wif h the said company?
How muci was lie paid for that transaction
auîd by whom ? by 'the goverument or by the
company?
How mucli in addition, did lie receive from
the Commissioners of the Transcontinental
Railway, for having as notary verified fie
tif les of ownership cf certain lands acquired
by fhe aforesaid commission* for the passage
of ifs roedP
Apa.rt from what if lias actually paid him,
dees the Transcontinental Railway Commission stili owe ay.tliing to Mr. Edmond Taschereau?
Wliat axnount? And for wliat service?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-1 w'ould ask thec lion.
leader of flic House if lie lias any additionai information w-ltb respect f0 the paymenfs to Mr. Hoare '!
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I biave not.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Can fie lion, gentleman give a repîr f0 any of these questions?
Hlon

Mr. M.%ITCHIELL.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
For No. -, I do
not see that I can get aîîy furtlier iniformation.
I have giv-cn miy hon. friend ail
the information 1 could get.
It is statedl
fliere the money w-as paid for salary.
Hon. '.\r. LANDRY-What salary? If it
is the salar- nttached to soine position
whicli le occupies. w-bat is flic position?
Wliat was the salary paid for ?
I wll
amiend No. -6 and put the question so fliat
it will lie understood liy tlie general publie.
I see if is flot understood by the bon. leadler
of this House.
liHon. Mr. 9COTT-The lion. gentleman
knows ail fliose facfs mucli better tlian any
member of the governnment.
Ail flie
little scandais about Quebec are ventilated
iii this cliamber, and flic lion, gentleman
knows ail about flin
blimself.
lie w-ants
f0 probe into matters that 1 have no confr01 over and cannot get.
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-I know the party
tliat I mention liere is an cuginee-r ln Quebec. I know tliat lie bas been emp]oyed
liy Mr. Parent, Mr. Parent acting as president of tlie National Transcontinental Railw-ay, and tliat lie lias given hlm the sum
of money w-lilcli my lion. friend sbowed
me by bis answer yesterday; but -1 w-ant
te know ln w-bat capacity Mr. Hoare w-as
acting w-leu lie received sucbi salary. WVas
it as an engineer or wbat ?
lion. Mr. SCOTT-Apparenfly as a salaried officci', liecause the details and expenses connecfed w-,Ith the office w-ere given
for ecd year.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But lie is rot tie
englacer of flie National Transcontinental
Railway.
He is engineer of tlie Quebec
Bridge Company, and I w-ant fo know if
fliaf salary is given hlm as englacer of tic
Queliec Bridge Company
or of anotber
company ? 1 wll put It in a w-ny fliat
w-i enable flie bon. leader of flie House
f0 get an nnsw-er from the departmient.
1
therefore ask permission to droi) N-o. -i
and to let 'No. S stand.
DELAYED RETURNS.
Hon. '.\r. LANDRY-Before the orders
of tic day are called, I should like to know
if any progress lias been made la prlnting
ftle report of flic bridge idisaster inquiry?

'MAY 21, 190S114
than 50,289 persons were saved from
We have nothiig before us yet. The coin1- no less under its operation in the M1etropalitan
prison
hnve made their report to the Police District, the west riding of Yorkshire,
ujissioners
Warwickshire and
government, that report was sent to be Lancashire, Staffordshire,about one-tenth were
Durham. 0f thsse only
ago, and 1 sbouid like ta called up to receive judgment, or are known
printed anonths
to .have been suhsequently oouvioted of a
know w'ben we are ta have it ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I mentioned yesterday that I had received a part of the printing. I could bring down a part of lt at
any tîme.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-And when wIll the
other part be printed ?
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I cannot tell.
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-Is If translated?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I could not tell the
bon, gentleman. It is qulte Impossible.
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY-By reading It, tie
hon, gentleman could see If If is lu Freuchi
or lu Eng-lsh.
THIRD READINGS.
Bill (88) An Acf ta lncorporate the Architectural

Instituts

of Canada.-(HIon.

Mr.

Béique.)
Bill (TT) An Acf respecting certain patents of the General Chemical Company,(Han. '.\r. Kerr.)
JUVENILE DELINQUENTS BILL.
SECOND READING.

fresh ofience. But authorities agree that the
beneficial results of the Act would have been
greater if the persons whose sentences were
suspended could have been assisted by a probation officer during their terni of probation.
The object of the present statute is to provide
for the appointment of such officers and aiso
to afford the means of avoiding a record of
conviction altogether.
If we refer ta the Act as passed by the
British parlament In 1907 and which was
merely extending the provisions already In
the law, but providing for the first thuie
for the appolntmeflt of probation officers,
we find the following provisions :
(1) Power of courts to permit conditional
release of offenders, 1 Edward 7, chapter 20.
(1) Where any persan as charged before n
court of summary jurisdiotion with an offence
punishable by suchi court, sud the court thinks
that the charge is proyed, but -is of opinion
that (1) having regard to the charaoter, antecedents, age, heslth, or mental condition of
the person chs.rged, or to the trivial nature
of the offence, or ta the extenuating circumstances under which the offence was committed
it is expedient ta inflict any punishment
or anv other than a nominal punishment
or that it is expedient ta release the offender
on probation, the court may without proceeding ta conviction, miake an order eîther,
(i) dismissing the information of charge;
or(ii) discharging the offender conditionally on

recognisance, with or withHon. Mr. BEIQUE moved the second lis entering intoa be of good -behaviour and
out sureties, ta
readin.- of Bill (QQ) An Act respecting Ju- ta appear for a conviction aud sentence when
venule Deluquents.

Hle said : This Bill ls copled in a great
mensure from the Bill lntroduced last session by the hon. Secrefary of Stafe, whleh,
was s0 favaurably received by Vis Hanse.
The mensure ls lntended ta apply and extend Vie principie of the probation of of-

fenders, as if was enacted in Eugland as
early as 1807. If was only In the hast
session of the British parîlament In 1907,
thaf a mensure was adopted ta provide for
1
the appoIntinent of probation officers.
have here The Practical Statutes of 1907
edited by James Sutherland Cotton, a barrister nt law, In England, and I find lu
the notes, accampanylug the Act passeÉ
by the British parlament last yenr, th(
followlng amangsf other remarks:
The triennial returne presented ta parlis
ment ooncerning the operatian of the Praba
-tion of Firet Offenders Aot. 1887,. show thai
from January 1, 1888, ta December 31, 1905

cslled on at any time during such period, not
exceeding three years, es may be specified in
the order.
(2) Where any persan has been conviofted
on indictmnent of sny, offeuce punishable with
imlprisonmient, and the court is of opinion that
having regard le the charaoter, antecedents,
aire. health, or mental condition cf the person charged, or te the trivial nature of the
offence, or te the extenuatinig circumestailces
under which the offence was committed, it
la inexpedient ta inflict any punishment or
any other than nominal puilishment, or that
it is expedient ta release -the offender on probation, the court ma!, in lieu of impsn
rder dssentence of impriomet maea
charging the off ender conditianallY on hie
enter-ing -into recognisance with or without
sureties, ta be of good behaviour and ta appear
for sentence when celled on nt any time during such period, not exceediug three years,
es masbe specified iu the order.
3. The court mav iu addition ta any such
order, order the offender ta psy such damages
for injury or compensation for loss (not exini the cae of a court of summary
-ceing
*juriediction ten pounds, or if a higher limit
b l fixed by aiy enactînent relating te the
*offence, that higher lijuit) and ta psy euch

972

SENATE

icost of the proùeedings as -the court thinks
reasoiiable, and, if the offender is under the
age of sixrteen vears, and it appears ta the
court that the parent or guardian of the offender bas conduced to the commission of the
offenee, the court may under and in accordance wi.th the Youtlrful Offenders Act, 1901,
order pavinent of such damages and costs
by sucli parent or guardian.
A recognisance under ithià Acf may contain.
such additional conditions as the court may,
having regard ta the particular circumstances
of the case, order fo be iniierted rtherein with
respect ta ail or any of the following mnatiters:
(a) For prohibitiîîg the offender f roin associafing with thieves and other undesirable persans, or. fromn frequenfîng undesirable places;
(b) As ta the abstention of intoxacating
iquor, wbere the offence was drunkenness or
an offence conîmitted under the influence of
drink;
(c> Cienerally for securing that the offender
should lead an honest and .n.dustrious Lit e;
(2) The 'Court by which a probation arder
is made sh-al furnish (ta the offender a notice
in writing 'ýtatîng di simple ternis the conditions Lie is reguired 'ta observe:
(3) Probationt officers-(1) There may be appointed as probationi officer or officer6 for a
petty sessional division such persan or persans
of either sex as the authority having power to
appoint a clerk tii the justices of that division may dietermine, -and a probation officer
when acting under a probation order, shall
be subi eef to the contrai of petty sessional
courts for the division for which ha is sa
appo.inted.
Then theî-e are provisigns for release,
and provisions in case offenders fail ta
observe tbe conditions of release. As n
niatter of tact, the British Act cov-ers in a
great measure the samne graund that is
coi-ered by the draft Bill nom, before the
House.
I have been furnisbed a COPY of
the Bill vhich is naw hefore th,2 Imperial
Parliament. and which by this time may
have beau adopted. The title of it is:
'An Act ta consolidate nnd arnend the
laNIV-1relating ta children and Yoaung persans, refarînatory and industrial schools
and juvenille offenders, and otherwise ta
amnend the law with respect ta children
and Young persans.'
I find that by this Bill the Imperial Parliament la invited ta go stili furthier and
ta practically adopt a mensure sinîlilar ta
thase adopted in soîie tw-enty different
states lu the United States of America.
Tlîe Bill uow befare the British parlismeut provides:
Juvenile Offenders.
89. W-here a persan apparently unmde- the
age of sixteen is apprehended with or wifhout
warrant, and cannot be brouglit forthwith
before a court of summary jurisdiction, a
superintendexît or inspector of police, or ather
Bon. Mr. BEIQUE.

oflicer of police of equal or superior rank, or
the officer in chai-ge of the police station ta
whicb such perisan is brouphlt, shall inquire
into the case and mav in any case, and shall(a) unless the charge is ane of homicide or
other grave crime; or
('b) unless àt is ne-cessary in -the inte.rest
of isuch persan ta rem ove hiiiî frai association with reputed criminals or prostitutes; or
(c) unless the officer has resan ta believe
that the release of sncb persan would defeat
the ends of justice, release such persan ou
a recogni-;ance with or u-ithout sureties for
such an amount as wilI, iii the opiione of the
afficer secure the attendance of suelh pPrsonh
upon thie hearing of the charge, heing en.tered
rita by hini or by his parenit or guardiait.
90. Where a percsan bas apparently under
the age of sixteen having been apî>rehiended
is not released as afo-esa:id, the officer af
police shall cause hiîn ta be detained in a
place of detention pravided under this Act
until lie cau bc biauglit before a court af
summari- jurisdicfioîi, uniless the officer certifies<a) that 4t j., impracticable ta do so; or
(,b) that lie is of sa uiiruly a chaiacter that
hie cannof bie safoly s0 detained; or
(c) thaf by reasaît of bis statte of health or
of bis mental or bodsily condition it it adedvisable ta iso detain. dim.
91. A court of suînmary jurisdiction ou remanding or coîumitting for trial a ch-îld
or yau-ng persan who is noît released an bail,
shail, inistead of commifting hima fa prison,
commit idm ta custody in a place of detention
pravided under ithis part of this Act and
naied. in the caînîuitmnent ta be there detained for the period for whii
lie is reilianded or until he is there delivered in due
course of law.
93. (1) Wihiere a child or younig persan as
choarged before any court with any offence for
the commission of which as fine, diiniages, or
cofs, xuay be imposed, aîîd the court ta ai
opinion that the case %vould be hest met by
the imposition of a fine, datiiages or costs,
whetber with or' %vthaut aîîy other puiinient, the court m-ay in:aniy case, and 4hah, if
the offender is e ehild, order that the fine,
damages or costs avarded be paid by the
parent or guar-diaii of the cbild or- youn.g person, uinstead of by the olhuld or young persan,
unlees the court is safisfied that the parent or
guerduien cannort be found or thet lie hus mot
oonduoed to the coimmissiont of the offence by
negiecting ta exercise due cure of the c-hild or
Young persani.
<2) Where a chuld or younig person is
charged writh any afleiîce the court nîay order
bis parent or guardian 'ta give csecurity for
bis good behavîaur.
(3) Where a court of surnînary jurisdiction
tbinks that a charge againsf a child or young
persan is prave-d the court may mnake an order
an the parent or guardian uýnder titis sectaou
for the payanent of damaiges or- costs or requiring him ta give secu'rity for good babaiiur w-ithout proceeding ta the conviction ai
the child or young persan.
As 1 said a marnent aga, we canuat get a
better examnple titan the British parliaWe know they are always careful
ment.
especially as far ns legisiatian la concerned,

MAY 21. 1908

edu

148 of the Rcvised
and the moment they have adopted legisia- 54, 62 to 70 of chapter
1 wiIl refer specially to sections
tion such as is - embodled in the present Statutes.
67 reads as foilows:
It wîil be 67 end 68.
Bill, we can safely adopt it.
If any child appearing to the court of jusbut proper for me.to cali thec attention to
child is tried to be unsub- tice before whom the
the state of our. J9&w lu regard to this
der the age of fourteen yeairs, is convioted of
Hon. members wlll find thbat ln the a'ny offence against khe l.w of Canada,
ject.
indie.tabie or punishabie on sumnîary
year 1894, an Act M'as passed bearlng the whether
convaiiLon, jsuch court or justice instead of
Act respectlng arrest, sentencing the child to any imprisolamenit profollowing titie: 'Au
that the
trial and lmprlsonmeflt of youthful off end- vided by law in suob case, mnay order of any
be committed to the charge
of that Act reads ns chiid shahidestitutes or negleoted chàlîdren, and
The preamble
ers.'
home for
approved by the Iiieuitenant Governor of Onfollows:
terse in Council, or to any cert4fied indusWhereas it is desirable to make provison triai sahool.
for the separaition of youthful offenders firom
Then section 68 reads as follows:
contact with oider off enders and habituai
criminals du'ring 4their arrest an trial. eand -to
Whewrever en information xor cosaplaint is
provision thaii now exists for
makce botter
their commitmenit to places where they May laid or maede against eny boy under the age of
age of
be refomed and trained to useful lives, in- twelve years, or girI under theof sany thirteen
offence
6tead of their being imprisoned: Therefore years, for the commission
and con- egainst the law of Canada, wilether indiotehie
Ber Majesty, by and with the advice
sent of the Senate and Bouse of Gommons of by punishrment on summary conviction the
court or juetice seized cthoreof shaîl give notice
Canada, enacts as follows:
thereef in writing to the executive of the
there were provisions witb regard children's aid society if there be one in the
Then
to
to the trial of young persons under the age county, and shall allow him opportunityaiso
the cherres made and iniay
take place without investigate parents of the ch.iId, or eîther of
of sixteen which should
aotify the
publiclty and separately, and apart f rom tbem, or other person app arently interested
1
This in the welfare of the child.
the trials of other accused persons.
2. The court or justice muy adv'ise and counappiied to the wliole of the Dominion of sel with the said officer e'nd with the parents
There were other provisions or such other ;Person and may consider any
Canada.
upon the
It was ln report made by the said officer
applied only to Ontario.
winich
charges.
regard to tie Imprisonment of persons un3. If, efter such consultation and edvice and
Tbcy were, pend- upon consideration of eny report as mxade and
der the age of sixteen.
afiter heairing the maitter of information or
ing their conviction, to be kept In custody COMplaint, the Court or justice is of opinion
separate from older persons charged with th-at the 'publàc interest and the welfnare of
will .be best served thereby, then,
criminni offences, and separate from ail] *the chiid oommitting the cinld for trial or
inetead of
imprison. sen.tencing éhe ohild, as the case may be, the
persons undergoing sentence of
ment, and not locked up wlth older personm cour't ojustice Rnay, by order,
the said officer to take the
(
a)
There were other pro cbiid authrize
or other criminals.
and. under the a)rovisloas. of the iaw of
Ontario, bind -the child out -ta saine suitable
visions, but they applîed mainly to On
the
on oui persa'n until the chiki has ettained or age
This statute remalned
tario.
of ttwenty-one years, or any less cage;
1906, and the provisioni
some apyproved foster
statute-book tîll
(1) place the child ia
or
0f that statute were embodied la the re -home;
(c) impose a fine not exceedi.ng ten dollars;*
We now find that theg
vlsed statutes.
or(d) suspend sentence for a definite period
provisions are la chapter 148 of the Re
31 and 4C Ior for an indefinite period; or
vlsed Statutes, sections 28, 29,
4e) if the cbiid has been founld guilty of
These provisions did flot go far enougb the oflence charged or la shown to be wiifuiiy
ohild
and, as I have said, they applied niaini; Swaywe.rd andi unmanageable, commiftthe Ona certified industriei shool, or to tthe
They did flot deal et ail wit] jta
Ontario.
to
rtario Refor-metory for boyýs or the Refuge for
any protection' to youtliful offenders af te rgirls, as the case -may be, and in such cases
ebhi be attbached
the sentence hed been passed upon theu:1, the report of the said officer
e to the warrant of coemtment.
or give power to the judge to reserve th
Then there nre provisions respecting the
sentence and to deal with them la an y
They are to be corne religion of children.
W9
other way than with other persons.
la the Revise d mlitted to Protestant or Cetholic instituhave further provisions
Wc cen see by
as mny appertain.
Statutes whielh apply to the several pr<)- tions
province c)f these provisions that the whole principle of
Those applylng to the
vinces.
which is now before this Bouse
Ontario are to be found lu sections 49 I:o the Bihl

SENATE
was embdied li

our statute, but it applied

mainy to Ontario, because Ontario was a
province which had for mnany years on its
statute-book the most advanced legislation
on the matter.
There are also provisions
which are applicable to the province of
Quebec in the same Act-sections 79 to 86.
Other provisions are applicable only to
Nova Scotia.
They are to be found in
sections 90 to 97 inclusive; 105 to 112 inclusive; 115 to 126 are applicable to New
Brunswick only.
Sections 132 to 134 applicable to Prince Edward Island only;
sections 128 to 142 to Manitoba.
We have
also in the criminal code a few sections
applying to the matter, and they are to be
found in section 800 and following.
They
do not go far enough.
As I stated, the
province of Ontario have lad for a number
of years very advanced legislation ln the
matter, and during the last session of parliament, they have stili extended the operation of their Act as it stood on their Revised Statutes of 1897.
I find that they
have this provision:

having a population of 10,000 or over shall provide one or more places of refuge for such
children only, to be known as temporary
homes or shelters such homes shall be entirely distinct and separate from any penal
or pauper
institution,
and
no pauper
or- convict shall be permitted to live or
work therein, and they shall not be used as
a permanent residence for any child, but for
its temporary protection for so long a time
only as shall be absolutely necessary for placing the child in a foster home, not exceeding three months unless authorized by the
superintendent,
Then another provision:

An orphan or children's home may, with
the consent of the trustees or governing body
thereof, be used as a temporary home or shelter under this section, and when desirable for
economical reasons, not inconsistent with the
welfare of the children to be provided for,
such temporary home or shelter may be established in a private family, but in no case
shall such home or shelter be under the same
care or management as a penal or pauper
institution.
In any electoral district town or village,
there may be established by the Children's Aid
Society of the county or by the superintendent a committee consisting of not less than
six persons, at least half of whom shall be
women, to be known as the 'Children's Conmittee.'
The committee and the individual
members thereof, shall co-operate with the
The Lieutenant Governor in Council may superintendent and with the Children's Aid
appoint an officer to be known as the super- Societies.
intendent of Neglected and Dependent OhildThen there Is another provision:
ren, whose salary shall be padd out of such
moneys as may be appropriated for that purThe committee or any member thereof, shall
pose by the legislature, and it shall be his have and may exercise the powers conferred
duty,
by sections 9 and 10 under the direction of the
Sunerintendent of Neglected Children.
society and may adopt such methods as they
4. The Lieutenant Governor in Council may may think best for securing voluntary subappoint an officer .to be known as the super- scriptions to be devoted to the carrying out
intendent of Neglected and Dependent Child- the objects of this Act.
ren, whose salary shall be paid out of such
There is another provision which reads:
moneys as may be appropriated for that purpose by the legislature, and it shall be his
The committee shall report to the Children's
duty.
Aid Society of their county with reference te
(a) To establish and assist in the establish- neglected children, se that the society may
ment of Ohildren's Aid Societies;
at ail times have accurate knowledge
(b) To advise such sooieties and instruct ing the care, oversight, education and regardgeneral
them as to the manner in which their duties welfare of such children.
are to be performed;
*Another provision reads as follows:
(c) To see that a record is kept by such
societies of ail committals and of ail children
A judge may, upon the application of iny
placed in foster -homes under this Act and of society
to whose custody or control a child
snob other particulars as may be deemed
is committed, make an order for the payment
desirable;
(d) To direct and supervise the visiting of by the municipality to which the child beany place where a child is placed pursuant longs, of a reasonable sum, not being less than
$1 weekly, for the expense of supporting the
to .the provisions of this Act;
the society,
(e) To visit and inspect industrial sehools child by foster home or in a temporary home
where children are not
and shelters as may be directed by depart- or in a
cared for without compensation.
mental regulations;
(f) To prepare and submit an annual report
This Act is to my mind very complete
to the minister:
Then to provide for chi-ldren's shelter in ail and, ln fact, offers as extensive protection
cities.
ta children as under the laws which bave
Then they provide for children's shelter been adopted in the state of Colorado,
Pennsylvania or any other state of the
in al cities.
Clause 6 reads:
neighbouring republic.
The present Bill is
For the better proteotion of neglected children the corporation of every oity or town intended not to interfere with but to faciliHon. Mr. BEIQUE.

MAX

1,1908vi

at donations of that kind; but 1 do not
tate the application of provincial legisia- plaud
think that so far we have given to children
tien on the subject. The principie of the
If It is advisBill is embodied la the preamble wvbich the attention they deserve.
able to corne to the beip of suela classes
rends as follows:
Whereas it is expedient that youthfui as attend institutions of higlier education,
offenders shouid be classed or deait with as such as universities, stili more desirable
ordinary crirninals, the welfare of the com- is It to spare no efforts in comlng to the
muaity demandia that they should on the
contrary be guarded agaiast association with rescue of the poor, and especially of clcrime and crîminals, and should be subjectedl dren. We baad many expressions of opinionl
to such wise care, treatuient and control as iast session from members 'who went very
will tend to check thieir evil tendencies-and to
deeply into the subject, and I arn sure that
strengthen their better instincts;
I could not find more appropriate lan- this measure will meet witii the universal
House.
gugge to describe or define the object of the approval of hon. mejubers of this
Bill and I arn sure it is a language whldh
Hon. Mr. COFFEY-I desire to pay comnwill appeal to ail lion. members of this
plment to the hon. member from De SaHouse. Any one mho has liad the experilaberry, because of the able, cali and
ence of briaging up dhidren, knows to
judicial mianner ln wbieh lie bas preseuted
what dangers they are exposed, and these
ivith juvenile courts. A
by the fact that they the Bill dealing
dangers are increased
trnined and tnlented plender sucb as my
are hiable to associate xvltl a greater numfriend, may review this subject froin
ber of friends, or chidren of their own age, hon.
the stalidpoiut of the lawyer, but suchi la
and the danger is increased by their surpriviiege and I must confine xny
rouadings if they belong to a poor class of liot my
reiuarks to the tlioughts of the lainxua.
society or wliere tliey may have bail exmensure to note the
amples, where they are neglected, and very It pleases me beyond
wdrntli witli Nvil this movernent to reoften deprivedl of the care of parents and
%vaywiard youth of our country
bave no opportunity of receiving proper dlaim the
lu every part of the
It la well known tînt active bas been received
education.
Dominion. It Is a subject that is deemed
children are full of mischief, and vicions
greatest Importance, and weli wortendencies are ensiiy developed If« any occa- *of the
tliy prompt action. While, however, there is
sion Is nfforded to thern. Wili It lie denled
one voice as to the pressing
tbat, *taking amy givea number of chuîdren, *but practically
*need of action, there may be difference of
a large amount of good can lie done to tbem
ineans and methods wvhereby
if tbey are surrounded wlth proper care, view as to the
Ail
the best resuits may be achieved.
and if tbey happen to commit any offence
to Imprisoument, *lonour be the portion of those men and
wbidli renders them hiable
wlio have iuitiated this beneficent
It is unquestionable that the principle of women
reform lu the rnanagembnt of delinquent
the probation offlicer or of the probation
These
inclined chiîdren.
lnw, as applied ln Engiand mnny yenrs ago and crirninaiiy
o loyers of hurnan kind are not merely fireas applied la this country many yenrs. ag<
- aide planthropists and lazy phulosoplier..
aise, and especially the principle of proba
bas been of the practicai order,
e
tion officers, persons whose duty it 'will 1< Their work
It rnay
these chuldren, to follov Sand, as sncb, of substantiai. value.
to take care of
that what Is known as the Chii'dren's
-be
tbem, to ascertain as to mhether tliey at
the forerunner of this larger
tend sdhool, wliether tliey associate witl SAid Society Is
movernent from whlch we mai' look for
persons of baad dliracter or nlot, and adopt
as for ait
ing means of protectiag tliem throughou t resuits abuindantiy compensating
anxiety entalled
their younger years, that a law of that kln4il the trouble, expense and
and equlpment of children's
cannot fail to bave very beneficial resuits ? in the foundiag
me bere remark: that there
Let
la our time, we are making any arnoun t courts.
that the operaof sacrifice for ail kinds of lmprovement s. is no cause for suspicion
will ln any
especially la the United States RE ~tiens of the chlldren's courts
WVe see,
1- way Interfere wlth the splendid work bepublic, tînt donations of millions and ml
the Chlldren's Aid
lions are given to universities and to iinst 1- lng acconpliihed by
-- Society. Their spieres of usefuinees are
tutions of ail kinds. * I amn the fIrst to al

SENATE
eiitirely apart. Wblille one body takes unto
itseif the care of the criminally iacliaed,
the other places in good families-the ininocent littie ones wb%-.ose home surroundings
are perniclous. Thiere is one feature connected wvitb the childrea's court movemnent
whicb strîkes me as of paramnount importance, that is, the connection ivlilch may
exist between the ordinary police court
and the 'tribunal before wbich cases of
youtliful delinquency or criminally may be
adjudicated upon. Lt would be of importance, It seems to me, to render the work
of each as remote as possible one froin
the otber. Whilst It Is generally conceded
tbat the police court Is not a sultable place
for the trylug of juvenile offences, it would
be a mistake to establisb the cbildren's
court ei-du an adjunct of t he peeie
court. Wberever it 'would.be so arranged
the two courts should be entirely distinct,
even to the extent of not having botb lu
the saine building. Tlmere is that about
the very atmospbere of the police court
ivbich grates upon tbe boy nature, and bis
reclamation -will be rendered ail the more
difficuit If hie be forced Into tbe by-way of
thse hardened criminal fromn wbom hope of
correct living bas fied and wbosc only ambiCaîl It by
tion la to prey upon society.
wbat naine you will, the Chlldren's Court,
to tbe wayward boy, remains tbe police
court so long as tbe samne roof covers botb.
Nor is it advisable that tbe police magistrate sbouid ln ail cases be empowered to
adjudicate upon the crimes cbarged to the
Wbule some' of these men are by
Young.
nature and acquirements well equipped for
worlc of this character it la nevertbeless a
fact that many are quite unfit for tbe
handling of cases of criminallty amongst
Tbey bave pinued their faith
the Young.
To tbem
to metbiods of the harsb order.
kindness Is almost an unknown quantity.
In 'Maryland and Indiana the judges of
the juvenile courts exercise tbat function
only. and it Is found emlaiently satisfactory
for tbe reason that tbey tbius become experts la dealing witb juvenile court cases.
The consideration of the item of expense
may bere be suggested, and lt is undoubtedly wortby of some thouglit when we are
dealing witb sparsely settled districts, but
for large centres of population the exPendiHon. Mr. COFFEY.

ture of a sum of moniey should bave sligflit
.wveight iii tbe minds of municipal authorities when contrasted with the savinýg and
guardiansbip of cbîldrenl whose after lives
To us of tbis
mean mucb for Canada.
day belongs the task of transformiing them
as mucb as we mnay into useful citizens.
Cold neglect or efforts misapplied will render tbem a shame and a reproacli to us.
Iu thse appoiatment of juvenile court
judges, when sincb appointments are deemed advisable, it were dificult to undervalue the Importance of keeping out of
mind aIl considerations save those of entire
No inatter w.bat
fitness for the position.
standing the applicant niay bold ln the
community-no matter how persistently
and lîow ardently bis friends may sue for
bis appointment as juvenile court judge.
it were but a crime to I out a parcliment
for bim unless lie possessed a weli balanced mmnd and a warm., syrnpathetic na ture-firin where needs be, but ever recognizing in the little waif before himi a chuld
of nature wbo bas wandered f romn the path
of rectitude but wbo should lie directed
It la
bomeward to the Ideal once again.
of value to Canadians that the Cidren's
Court movement took root lu thse Axuerican
No matter what
republic nine years ago.
may be our disposition towards rfinely spun
theories, served by enthusiasts wltb mathematical exactitude, the fact comes home to
us that the experience of our neiglibors,
since the first juvenile court was estalilsbed In Chicago Ia 1899, Is an assent of
infinitely greater value than a host of untried suggestions by weli-meaning people
wbosle hearts are ln the work of reclaimIn Canada, as we
ing tbe errîng youth.
a re approacbing the experimental stage,
one of our police officers, Staif-Sergeant
Arcbibid of the Toronto force. gives us
this advice:
Let us lie careful and guard against the
superficial sud sentimental f addists wbo seek
to take advantage, of the popularity of tliis
child saving propaganda to work upon the
sympathies of phianthropic men and woneil
for the purpose of introducing a jelly fish and
an abortive systemi of law enforcement, whereby the judge or magistrate ia expected to coule

down to tise level of the incorrigible street
arali aid assume an attitude absolutely re-pulsive to British subjects The idea seerni
to be thit by the profuse use of slang phraseology lie should place himself ini a position to
k-i-s and coddie a ciass crf perverts and delin-

MAY 21, 1908

quents wvho require the most rigid discipliniarv and corrective methods to ensure the possiGlity of their reforination. I would go
further and affirmn froîn extensive and practical experience that this kissing and coddling, if indiscrirninately applied, even to the
very best class of children, would have a1
disastrous effect, both 'physically, auentally,
morally and spiritually.
Th., presentment of the situation Nvould
lead us to believe that the Toronto bad
boy is very bad indeed. If the picture is
a true one ail the greater reason have mwe
for try iug the Anuericain pln, which I m iii
touch ul)of shortly, in dealing wlth bin).
Men who hold opinions like unto thoss
of the staif-sergeant, take inspiration Ixo%-ever. I thinlc, froin the systeni of dealinug
ont justice wvhichi prcvailed la Englani
Tirne was, whien sonmu
ini a past age.
British judges of the Old Bailey patterni,
wvben trying even juveifle cases, presenite.]
to vie-w the dour face and the head bcwiged and the X Ray glance that bored
througli and through the very sou] of the
-aif before the bar. and
littie sivering
But we
visions of Newgate carne to hlmn.
have outlived that systeni, and there is
flot nom* in vogue that fearsonieuess of
the
showing niercy which characterized
cou rts of other days, and helped to give
us a Dickens. The spirit of rigidity and
severity whicli seems to pervade the pronouncemient of 'Mr. Archibald %vill not, I
trust. take root la Canada. Truc, there is
a tiine aud a place for. severe administration of law, but there is also a time and
a place for paying due regard to the promptiugs of the hunmanitariau. Nlr. Archibaldfs
view isý at variance with the experlence
of the juvenile court judges of the great
republic. These emiinent inen are firm in
the belief that an adm inistration of criminal law whichb las flot even a noddlng acquaintance çvwl rncrcy brlngs resulteq whicli
leave uothing ln Its trai save a nienior!
of punishment. 1 would ask permission to
read what some of tiiese distingixished
jndges have written as their exper.-Y3co lu
that Interestlng Uitile world of the boy and
bis ways. Judge Tuthili, of Chicago0, glves
bis line of procedure ln this wise:
1 have always feit and endeavoured to act
iii eacli case as I would were it my own son
that was before me in my library et home
charged with niisconduct.
In a similar vein Jndge Stubbs, of Indiana. says
62

It is the personial touch that does it. 1
have often observed that if 1 sat on a high
platforni belinid a high desk, such as we have
i11 our city court, with the boy oit the prisoxiers' beîîch sounîe distance away, that my
words liad littie eilect on hini; but if 1 could
get close enouàlî to huîni to put my band on
his head or shoulder, or miy armi around huxa,
in nearly every case I could get biis confidence.
iay happen that boys wvill ho utIt
terly perverse as to be unm-orthy the kind
conlsideration or the juveuile court judge.
We are told. however, that these cases arc
rare, and that the mile is that a confidence
to grw betwoen
and frcdhpsecins
Judge and prisoiler. To illustrate this point
I vwould ask permission to quote an inci(lent in the experience of Judgc Lindsay,
of Denver, Colorado, considered the most
succcssfnl of ail the juvenile court judges
lii changing the lives of voutlîful dellaHe speaks of visitîng in jaîl a
quents.
thirtepn
confornicd thief w-ho was only
years of fige:
I sat down hv hi.. sicde and told hini that
tiot Nve were both in jail, sud if I let hîmii go
aild lie ever stole again 1 should rertaill feel
that I ought to lie put back in the saine celi
wvith hua.' For,' said 1, ' if you go to the industrial school, as you have started, yon will
certsialy not have a chance to steal, aud perlisps yon will becomne a good boy. But if I
let you go, and you steal again, theii 1 arn
Now,
respoasible even more than you.
Harry,' said 1, 'if I protect you,' are you gokunow that I
ing to protect me? Doit't you
couldni't hold mvy job very long if I permnitted
thieves ito run loose on the community?'
Harry saw to rua loose at once. Wrrth tears iii
stood Up like a
Ilis eves this 13-year old boyand earnestly for
miali and said. s0 sixîcerely
a boy of his age, that lie would never get me
into any trouble, that I, alinost tearfully,
accepted lis protection. I rang for the jailer
and througli the clitter of the iron gates, the
boîts and bars, walked out of that jail withi
that boy snd took hiiu to bis mother. He
%ventto sehool regularly. He sold bis papers
in the efternoon, and would frequently conie
to me dnning the week, with a face full of
gladness, to tell mie howv well lie w-as doing
and how ably lie ias protectiag mie. He was
also fully awa-re of the proteotion I was affording him in keepinq him out of the industrial
school, which to, t lat boy %rasas mucli of a
horror as the peniten.tiary is to a man. Ble
%vasequally aware of the importance to bis
own welfere and future that hie sbould not
steal egein, thet l*e should obey the school
law snd avoid playing 'hookey' as hie would
tbe plague.
For over a yeer littie Harry brought excellent reports every tivo weeks. Recently he
moved to a distant city iii the w-est, with nearly tivo years edded to his expenience since the
time w-e set iii the celi together, and only last
wveek 1 received fromn both bis inother and
himn letters full of love sud gratitude for
what w-e had accomplished for that boy.

REVT5ED EDITION

SE.NATE
Some time after lie had returned to school of the law'less element of society, and eacb
his mother camne to me and said, 'Judge, 1 should receive fullest consi(leration from
noyer quite understood çw-ly my boy is such a
splendid little fellow. You knoiv hie used to those to whom is assigned the task of resteal and lie, and it was impossible for me fori of the erring.
There is another
to keep hlm in school.
1 said to him the
other day, ' Harry, how is it you were so contributing cause. however, and one whieb
good for the judge and you wouldn't be good supplies a goodly quota, wichl seldoin refor me?' He looked up into my face and said ceives that study wvhicli its importance warsmilingly, ' WelI, Ma, you see it la this way:
If I gits bad again, the judge, ho will lose rants.
It us fnbl tirne lwe begani to study
his job, and you see hie is my friend, and I've to what extent the product of the printing
got to stay with hlmi because lie stays withprs
hudb
e
acntl
frht
me, and 1 ain't going to, steal no more.'' l
rs
hud ebl
contbefrt
is fairly certain that this boy would have crirninality uvhichi appears to be on the hlibeen a criminal and, no doubt, some day an crease chietly in centres of p)opulation hoeinrnate of a penitentiary, a disgrace t0 himself, and a sorrow to a broken-hearted mother. cause of the indifference of those wlîose
But to some, wben they rend this narra- duty it is to ferret oiit and puiiishi the
tive of Judge Lindsay, there wifl arise the crîminals.
The excuse is soinetirnes adshadow of Mrs. Griündy, a lady who was vanced that no one has laid a charge. l'ut
ever fearsomne of witnessing a violation of the average man on the street is lotli to,
the proprieties.
Staid
mnids mnY be assume the role of prosecutor.
The initiarnazed upon reading that a judge--a reai itive should be taken by the King's ariny
judg-e--has had correspondeuce with a boy of officiaIs whose vocation it 15 to keep
wbose boybood years m-ere smnirched witb stragglers on the statutory thorouglifare.
criinlit,
mit1lî
will look for tbe
Just here let me aythat: it is far frouin
wound inflicted upon the judicial proprietics.
But we can affor1 to allow thc
judicial proprieties to blusb if we save the
boy.
The argument may be advanced
that Canada's population is not yet large
enongh, nnd that lu its cities there doos
bi
wou(1
not exist those conditions
i
justify a new departure of titis kind.
quite rec(lgnise the inadvisalility ofetb

my thongbits to suggest any interference
wi!th the legitirnate freedorn of the press.
but I bold that those -%b-o abuse that freedoin should lie called
to strict accolunt.
Bads of bealu are miost active *n safeguardinig our peopîle froin contagions dlis-

cases. Whcn au ontbreak of srnall pox is
reîborted vigilant eyes are upon the locality
affecteil and every effort made to, stamp ont
0fetb
l he pest. But wbat are wc doing to stop)
lishiîîg Juvenile courts in srnall places, but the importation of that literature wluicli
bias
a numnber of sncb localities could be group- a mtdiatuseffect
on the miorals
t1
aelas
W
f ouasryouîh
mo
Tliere is nuch work, however, for .hcl
ed.
sncb tribunal,, lu the larger cities.
Lt iS
re
opis
ts
ml
iiotiiiiwa
liow recognised tbiat had this new metbod tut
uibtoeweipr
moa
0f ealng
ithjuvnil ofendrs eenlu-literature The Pst Office Departrnent wll
troduced into the
United
States a fewntbudei.bti
onst
u
our
awneverrheless il,)tindant
generations earîler, miany wbose lives were otîier way. The provisionquantity iu soîne
of thoerria
sl)ent beiudi( prison bars would bave been Code regarding- immoral
pnl)lîcationý
is
Nvolt to take p)art in the honourable business
acclyadei
etr
activities of tîîe nation.
Lt is none too prntwical
aedcad ltt
t
eatnino
S0011 for Canada to make a beginning.
L
Ol
ewclwrbtcatnin0
Tbere us. bon. gentlemen, another con- the authorities to ascertaia to whatde'e
Ie wIchhasthe Crimiinal Code is viol:îted by iiewsprscrt
ditin o ou dy
ditin 0 ou da
prsen
lie wicbbasdealers, xvho seli publications, particularly
rnucb to do w'ith the success or fallure t0 flue young, whicli arc clearly of
immoral
of the Cbldren's Court, te wbicb I wvIsh to fendency. Thiese serinîs are not
to be found
direct your attention.
I have read much oth
tnerofteneç-s
stalîs, but tbey
about the effects of environmient at borne. uic on sale ilevertheless. They are
kept
evil companions on the street, heredity, lusceple.anarrediyaddot
poverty, drunken
and crimînal
parents, to the boy -%hlose udeals are on the down
temptation , waut of proper training lu gradle I arn qilite sure 0f iny gronnd, betbe school roorn
nnd parental
neg-lect. cause 1 have ilu uny possession somle of this
These are aIl large factors ln the making literaftie
I (olbt flot is a consider1vîlî
Hon. Mr. COFFEY.

i

_MAY 21, 1908SI
able factor in the uiaking of the bad boy. the noblest ideils; and tbey will become
pride and CanThe firux of Street & Smith, of New York, Oanada's stay and Canada's
glory in a time
appears to lie very enterprising in the pro- ada's bonour and Çanada's
Dominion wll
duction of reading axatter of this 'kilid. The flot far away when our younng
take its place ainongst the great
Illustrations are made very attractive for proudiy
the smlall boy. There is invariabiy the civilized nations of the worid.

fiourlshing of revolvers, fixe shooting of the
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (BC)Alaw
sheriffs and the thrilling escape of the out- sucb as is provided by the Bill before us
law. I wîll read the tities of a few of these is a great necessity. We read and hear
wxeeklies
every day of boys and girls comuxlttlng
offeuces and doing ail kinds of evil thinga.
If a Bill like this can in any way inake
'The Seeond Jesse Jamnes.'
better men and wonien of such children It
Wild West Weekly'.
Joe&s Bravery or the Su;Ierit will be going a great way. I shahl fot
(lientieniani
shot in the nick of time.'
discuss the Bill clause by clause, but 1
the Pistol
leading
,-.Gentleman Joe's Peak.' card, or
want to refer briefly to clause 28 whicb
Picic at Paradise
calis for the punishment of parents. That
But these publications, bon. gentlemen, is a most difficult matter to deal with. We
do flot reýpresent the worst class of immoral know that the majority of juvenile offentWne
wares imported into, the Dominion.
-A fanilly
ders corne from poor familles.
must also take into account the abominable consistirig of the fathier and mother and
immoral prints produced ln the United four or five eblîdren, may occupy only
States. to the suppression of which Anlthony tbree roorns, and when the father goes to
Comstock of New York ts devoting ill bis bis work. the children are, turnexi into the
energies. Would we had an Anthony Coin- streets liecause there is no rooxu for thein
There would be mucli,
stock in Canada.
ln the bouse, and they go about breaklng
work for hlm even nt the present time. windows and committing other depredaMay It be that machinery to purge bie set tions. Parents ought to bie punished to a
l motion. We bave an Act on our statute certain extent, but tixe trouble is lhow to,
books which calis for severe punishuxent of punish tbem.
The provision in this Bill
those who traffic !in Immoral publications. is too extremie-too drastic. It provides for
1 "sk enforcement of this Act ln the. name imprisoumeut or a fine of fifty dollars. 0f
especially of the children w'hose surrouaad- course the judge would have a certain
ings are girded with temptations to wrong amnount of dîscretion in the inflîctiou of
doing, and w-lose footsteps are teluding to- such a punishment. l'mention this in order
wards the raffish ciass. I ask enforcenient tixat the subject may bie considered in comiof this Act so that the contagion of a vi- mnittee, and the clause modified. Some pualclous literature, the product of tue Bohe- isliment should be infiicted. They go scotnaa penny-a-liniers of New York, may be free at present.
turned back at the boundarv line. I ask enHon. '.%r. LOUGHEED-My hon. friexd,
forcement of this Act so that the splendid
awaiting our jevunile courts mily not f romn De Salaberry is to be commended
worlz
be rendered fruitless. 1 ask that puislhuent for introducing this Bill. Nevertheless,
swif t and -sure and severe nlay be the por- ' t seefis omninous and rather foroýbodlug
tion of those wbose wares would foster lux- thiat it should fail to the lot of nxy- han.
It Is
morality amongst our youth. I ask foi *friead to assumne tixe responsibility.
glorify equivalent to the governuxent attemptlflg
punishuxent of those who would
devolves
crime by depicting criminals as beroes, thuc to evade the responsiblity which
sowing tbe seed of lawvlessness amongst our apon it to bring in this class of crimnal
I cannot but recaîl the fact
Canadian boys; ami as there is nothing sc legishatiox'.
iny
l the cîty as the patient lives ol that, ait the last c-ession of parliament,
sweet
hion. friend the leader of the House, on
the poor. should we not throw about th(
clldren especially of the unfortunate pooi behalf of the government introduced a sîmiunfortunate
a guardianship that will enabie theux t( lar Bilçhich met wlth anthis
governfate at the bauds of
are seeking
mardi la line with those wvho
Johnson, the Ilustier froin ]3aver
« ibid
Head. out

SENATE
mient ;it
wvas withdrawui at the eloqe of
the session instead of beiug crystallized
Into law. Thtis is a responsîbility whlîil
should l)eculiariy fall upon the governînent.
1 say advisedly that the people of Canada
are behind other progressive nation,% thpir
ia
legisiation upon titis particular
question.
The people of the United States are very
much advance of tijis country in dealing
witb juveuile criminal legisiation, and the
same reînark applies to England, Frquce,
Germany and other Europ&ean states, wlticli
have shiown- very muci more prog-tessive
thought iii titis direction titan w-e iu canada
have doue. The inattention of the government to titis particular subject seemis inost
lamentable, and not to admit of any excuse wlîatever. The governumeut bas bven
not only passive, but almnost criminally ne
gligent upon the subject. Thiere 15 scarcelv
a city in Canada, ia which we do not ind
somne philanthiropic miovement on the part
of maîlv men aud women w-ho have united
ln their desire to elevate the social and
ethical conditions of the community to a
very niucli higiier plane thun wée now find
Occupied, and yet the governuieut of Canada
ls talzing no steps to assist practically lu
titis sociological movement.
If the goerninent should not be moved ou moral or
ethicai grounds lu this direction it should
be moved on gronds of fluancial consideration.
Our criminal statistics show that
crime is iucreasing m~ore rapidly titan population.
I would direct attenttiont to the
îstatisties in the last Year-Bookç published
by the governnemit, in wivitii titis alarmin.- growth may be seen. Iu the hast YearBook. .publislied lu 190G. we have the
criminal statistics from 1r901 to 11905. This
Is tlue table of convictions for indictable
offences:

tions of indictable offences, far lu excess
of ou growth of population.
Hou.
ages?

Mr. SULLIVAN-That

is

for ai

Hlon. Mr. LOUGIIE ED-For ail ages. To
accentuate the importance of the subject
introduced by fte hon.*senator froîn De Salaberr 'v lu connection vvîth this Bill, ]et ie
p)oint out sonie st;iti.stics-lauininig statistics 1 rnilit say-as to juvenile crime w~ithin the D)ominion of Canada.
lion. gentlement will keep iu view that indictable offences are the more serions offeuces.
lu
1901 the convictions of children under sixteen years of age nuinbc-ed 1.017. Faitcy
lion. gentlemen, about oue-fiftiî of our criinai populationt
nler sixteen years of
age lu 1901, and theî-e were 882
-iet
tue ages of sixtcen and twenty-one. Thiese
statîsties. it scenis to nie, SIhou1l ilumpuess
11po01 the goveruîmeitt tite mbsolute necessity of takzing soine stepis tow-ards itald.ng
lltqiuy-ý into the necessity of adopti ig the
inost prgesv
legisiat ion w-hich caît bc
put oit our statute-hooks with refervuce to
.iu%-enti
deliqueuts.
Iu the Untited States.
aîtd ilu most of the progr-essive conties of
Europe. lthe goverumnetts of titose r-espective states have considered it not onlv desirable but ibsolutely- necessary that royal
coîttmis:ioîxs shtould he appoîutod to inquiî-e
into tite best ntetltods for tue suppression
anil iOl)ei~o5O of juvenilo crime; v,'t we
find on the part of lthe Dominion of -Canada. absolute inaction tou-ards the iiitroduetion of hegisiation of titis chai-acter.
We seemn to ho so iiînmeused. 50 ahisorbed
in the iterial levelopment of onu country, iii the developing of our res.oi-ces:.
in the building of railways, in the conuct
stîife,
tit
w-e
are
versof
party
Oflences.
apt t0 overlook eutirely the moral obli1901..............5,63
1
gations which fali uI)Ot us as a goverît1902...............5,680
I tlîink it
ment aud its administrators.
1903..............6,521
1901--------------6,754
slîould be pèculiarir the function of titis
1905--------------7,62tl
Senate to give the very best consideratiomi
That is to say in 1904 there ivas anit lto matters of titis kind, and, certaiuhy, titis
crease of twenty per cent lu the convic- brancit of parliament is very much better
tions for Iadîctable offenses over the year adapted. lu myv judgmeut, to give serions
1901, and iu 1905 an Increase of 35 per consideration to questions of this kind titan
cent of convictions for indictable effences tite Hous-e of Commons.
The only regret
over the number lu 1901. Thus each suc- I have about that phase of it Is, that the
cessive year shows an lucrease lu convhc- Bill is not introduced by the goverument,
Hon. lMr. LOUGIHEED.

MAY 21, 1908

981

that the governiment bias flot placed its ÉLu- xnethod of treatment to be measured dut
primature upoa the Bill and suggested we to the young offender, whose rnîsfortune
should make inquiry into such an import- bas been that he has been brougbt up ln
ant subject as is now before us. Without environnients not the best, in a home more
adoptiag the ro le of a prophet of evil, 1 or less surrounded by crime or immoralhty,
venture to say that while it ls very grat!- or pet-laps bas had no home at ail. Those
fying that thîs Bill lias been introduced are the cases whicb would be deait wltb
and will be discussed ia the Senate, yet largely under this Bill, and I have no doubt
I fear very much that it wlll nieet the fate wbatever front whiat bas been done already
la another place which wvas deait out to la some provinces where the attempt bias
the Bill of last session.
I would again been made to deal with juvenile delinurge, flot only upon this chamiber but par- quents, that notbing but good can resuit
ticularly upon. the members of the govern- froin the experimeat of putting this law la
ment present, the necessity of their being force.
In the province of Ontario, ns is
strougly irnlressed withi the responsibility we,1l known to rnany, great progress bas
wbich falîs upon thern as a govermnent to been made, and they have gone a long disgive the very best attention to aot only tance towards the provisions of this Bill.
the elaboration of such legisiation as this, The goverarnent of Ontario for many years
devoted themselves to progressive legisiabut its adoption ha a practical way.tion on titis subject and witlh most beneHon. Mr. I3EIQUE-I may be permnitted
ficial resuits.
Industrial homes, a separate
to say to the hon, gentleman, that the Bill
juvenîle court, care for the young in their
is now engaing the attention of. the Minhomes, have been provided, and, I tbink,
ister of Justice, and 1 have reason to beso far as is knowu at present, with marked
lieve that the goverumeat wvill take charge
sucçess.
W'ben the bon, gentleman front
of the Bill before its final stage, if flot lu
Middlesex w-as at the bead of the Ontario
this House, lu the House of Cornins.
govemnmnent, that government was enrtitied
Htou. Mr. KERJL-I arn glad to L-now to credit for having introduced most adthat the hion, leader of the opposition does vanced legisiation on this subject, and
not thiuk any flhe worse of the Bill because the former Attorney General the Honit cornes from my hon. f riend instead of ourable J. M. Gîbson. gave a great deal
front sorne of those responsible for and of study to the question, and showed an
charged wlh the duty of goveranent.
I interest in the young people, and la the
arn quite sure that after the way the Bill study le made of w-bat Is necessary to
bas been presented here, It Is unnecessary bring about beneficial resuits to those Who
to say anytbing furtber to cornmend it to havýe flot had the oliportunities of knowlng
I think it was a great testîmony
the unanimous support of the members of better.
this bouse.
The subjeet bas been before to bis heart as weli as to bis Intellect. 1
the House on a prevlous occasion, as bas was sorry to hear my hon. friend from
been stated, and we know exactly what London speak with reference to Deputy
It ha qulte
was thea said la support of the measure, Chief Arcbibald of Toronto.
and we ail appreciated it at the time. The true that Deputy Chief Archlbald does flot
condition of tblngs bas flot changed In that sec altogether eye to eye with ail the prorespect; but, on thé contrary, we are now visions of this Bill. but be Is a man Who bas
in a position more falrly to press forward been accnstomed to dealing with the crimhlegisiation on this subject and endeavour nal ciass. and bad much to do wlth the
to put It Into actuai practical use. There humanitarlan aide of the question at
T thhnk there are very few men,
is this to be said about the inatter; there tumes.
are always in a community like ours many la Ontario at ail eveats, who have doue go
who are averse to wbat you may cali radi- mach for the Improvement of their fellowcal changes la the way of remoiviag or re- men, especially of those W-ho corne withln
lieving from the consequences of 'tbeir the crimînal class. or at ail events before
faults those Who are guilty of crime, and the crirninal courts, as Deputy Chief Archlwho fail to see that there is a different bald. Botb in connection wltb that and in

982

'ATE
SEX

ýconnoction with tue Humanl Society, and lits
w-orlc for the protection o! dumb animnaIs,
1 think lie is entttled to ho lîighly cernrnendod, althougb ho miay not bave arrived,
frion bis point of view, at the saine stage
of advancement on tlîis question as the
bon. gentleman from London apparently bas
,donc. 1 f001 it us due to one wbe bas doné
good service to the peopleo f tbo city of
Tor-onto in particular and to the province of
Ontario, to say this with referonco to DepuI ami very g-lad tba
ty Chiof Arcbibald.
been Introduced, and glad to hoar
Bill bas
also tbat it is likely to become law lu sorne
rnodifiod forni, if not as it stands now.

to tliot mîghit appoar dosirable. These coni-

inissioners bave been sitting for a very consideroble time in Manitoba, and in the western section, also ln the ensteril parts o!
Canada, and bave paid a visit to England,
ond made n very careful lnquiry there as
to tbe mode la wbicb the trade and cerninerce ia grain w-as bein.- conducted there.
Suhsequently to their baving preparod their
report. wbich was sunmitted te the flouse
and no doubt is ia the bauds of lion, gentlemnen, a meeting w-as beld, at wblcb seve ral bon. members of tlîis flouse, took
part, and lu w-iicb the varions interests of
the railroad, aud grain buyers as w-uas
grain growers, wero f ully representod and
Hion. Mr. COMEAU-I w-as goiîîg to Movo laid their views before the governnent at
tlîe ad(jonirnment of tlîe debote.
Av orbatirn report of these
great lengtb.
is
lion. Mr. SCOTT-Tbc lion. gentleman procoedings bas aIse beon printod, and
no doubt in the bonds of bion. gentiein.
as well.
con discuss it lu commnittele just
the goveriîicnet
lion. Mr. CJORAN-Lf the bon. gentie- Aftor full consideration,
dlecided it was desirable to iiitroduce ai,
man is not ready to go on1 to-nigbt, wb
1Act for the purpose of arnouding the exlie ho snuffed out?
shoîl
Tbere al)Iwared to be no
isting systern.
arn content tO let d-oubt that cousiderable hardships bad been
lion. Mr. COMEAU-I
experienced by the grain gvowvers of the
It go to the Coniittee of the Whole.
cbiefly, 1 tbink,
Hon. 'Mr. ý,ULLlVAN-There are several Northwest. and 'Manitoba,
the arising. froui the dIfficultyý of obtainig promeiners who would 11k-e to discuss
Iper transport ; but, bowever tliat iniay be.
qunest ion.
there seou's to have been no doubt at 11l
that a very large and undue difference did
M.
lio. WERIf he on.genie
P
twihtefr
mail wkbles to inove the adjournmont of eitbtontopie
o te r
t h
s
thle to
ewe
the dobate lie lias a perfect right to do so. exs wee
h
o
eltegrain
bet
miers
gentleman bas 1street, so to spealc. and the prices wb!cbl
The SPEAKER-The bon.
makdeclared that ho is content to lot it go to the grain 'wos actually Worth, tftf",
ing ail reasomiablo deduction for the voist
theý Comimittoe of the Wbolo.
and nocessary delay in bondHon. 'Mr. CLORAN-Because he bas beon off transport,
lîng the groin. This is technically -knownl
snuffed eut.
as tbe spread, nnd I arn inforined by gençvho are conversant with the trade
SCOTT-Tbat is a very impro- tlien
Hon. M.Nr.
tlîat this, ln many cases, ainounted te a
per rernork.
totail
The motion was ag-reed to, and the Bill very large percentage Indeed on Ilie
value of the grain. 1 need bardly point ont
w-as reod the second time.
to this House, still less need point out
gentlemen from those provinces,
oao.
MIANITOBA GRIAIN ACT AMENDMENT
the extreine Importance, flot merely to the
BILL.
tbemselves but to tbe railroad comSECON
REÂING.farmers
CAIITWRIGIIT i)onies, and Indeed to the wbole commilHon. Sir RICHARD
lies !In our
moved the second reading of Bill (ZZ) An nity, of doing everything tîmat
po-ller to enable the fariner of tbe NorthGrain Act.
Act to nmeud the Manitoba
value of bis
He said :The House is no doubt aware w-est o obtain the full market
some g-rain with as small a deduction as posthat a royal commission was created
and intendtwo years ago for tbe purpose of looklug sible. To that end it is desired
td to extend tlîe present Grain Act over
into the worklng of the exlsting- Grain
Canadla.
Act and sug-gesting any amendmeats tiiere- eostern Canada ns over western
Hon. 31r. KERR.

M AY 21. 1908

083

1 have
At present the operation of the Grain Act and perhaps furtlier than that.
lias been confined to Manitoba undt the carefully exarnined the measure, and I may
Northwest, and I thin, lias extended as say that there are some few points on
far east as Fort William. This Act pro- which I desire to suggest amendmieuts
poses to extend- the coutrol of the grain when the Bill cornes before the commlttee.
trade and Inspection ef the grain until It I may say further, that 1 have sent a copy
reaches the seaboard. Beyend thiat, of of the Bill to the west to the leading procourse, we cunnet go. There have nîso moters of the *Bill, or to those wlio tool.
been complaînts made to us of the alleged au active part in havlng this legislation
shortage of graiu-that is to say ot the brouglit before parliarnent, and I have net
loss which is said to have been sustuincd lad time te receive an answer fromi thern
lu transport fromn Fort N îîliam to the sea- as te how the Bill in its present shape ivili
board. I tbink, ns far as I cun filid eut, suit them.
It will probably be the first
were exaggerated a of June before 1 receive information froin
those comI)laints
greut deal, although very often no dot
tlier, se that we will lie able to work intliere were cases ef individual liard- telligently ou the Bill, se far as their opinislip. StilI, the facts which were slnhînittud ions are concerued.
I may say as regards
to my department went to shiow tlîat, ap- the loss ef grain lu reaching the elevators
parently, not much more than on ai- n ver- at Fort William, I heard very grievous
ag-e one bushel iii 1,200 or 1,800 fel! shiort, complaints a few years ago, and the tarinaithougli tliere were ne deulit ludividital ers are not ale themselvcs to tell-hardly
cases where considerable less mnay biave an elevator muan in the country is able to
Heowever that rnay be. tell what lie does lose if lie loses anytlliug.
been sustained.
we desire te avoid that, and w-e propose te The grain is bouglit straiglit from the
appoint saluried efficers, men wlio have farmer, or the farmer brings is grain to
bitherto been paid by fees, for tlie piur- the elevator and places It in a bin.
It is
pose ef lookiug more carefully atter the not weiglied, and no distinct tally of It is
weig-hing of the grain wlien It is delivered k-ept.
E1e loads it to a lhue mark in the
nt the lake ports ou the easteru sidp.
I car, and lie thinks lie bas a thousand bushniay remark that mnu ef the provisions els tbere, but when It arrives at Fort Wil-which have leen introduced by us and recoin- liam it may be less, and lie thinks the
mended by the Commission, have been grain lias been lost inu transît.
I arn not
l)retty well tested lu the adjoining States, ale to formn any correct conclusion on
whiere a Grain Act closely resembuiug thut that point, aithougli I have lieard a great
-whichi we propose te introduce bas been lun
many ef the farmers say tley have lost a
force fer a very consideralle number of great deal et grain between the time it was
years. 0f course, this being rather ui tecli- put ia the car at Wolseley or Indian IHead,
nical measure, the details will bave te be
and the time it wvas unloaded at Fort Wilconsidered lu conimittee rathier than at the
lin. 1 bult an elevator a couple of yearg
present stage, and as it Is desirable If posago, lu which I divided the space ail into
sible thiat we sliould take one stage now%,
it is different from
lins, carlond lots.
and go into a Commlttee of the Whole as
Each
iny other elevator lu the country.
seau as possible, without further pireface,
bin just liolds one carload. We weigli it
1 propose te niove the second reading.
We
iiito the lin and slip it into the car.
Hou. '.%r. PERLEY-I do net see any ef do not weigb it when we slip it out, but
lny colleagues from the west liere, who I it is weighed wlieu it is placed lu the lin,
thouglit possibly would muake a remark or and 1 do neot Ijesitate to say thiat 1 have
two about the Bill. There Is ne doubt the neyer known a case lu whidh there was
farmers of the west, as well as their repre- any discrepancy worth talking about.
seutatives lu purliameut, whll appreciate any Therefore, 1 have concluded that the welgheffort the government may make towards ing of the wheat at Fort William bas lu
Improving the handling ef their grain from the main been accurate accerding to our
But there is a greater grievance
the time it leaves their furms until It Is scales.
than that-a great grievance -whidl iIs not
received lu the elevators at Fort William,

0,84

SENATE

deait w'ith in this Bill, and that is in regard
to procuring cars.
1 shall suggest au
amendaient that the metliod of getting cars
be changed entirely.
If a farmner or any
man gets iii a ioad of lumber or coal, lie
gets a certain tîme to unload if, and if lie
does flot unioad if In that time lie is charged demurrage for the number of days the
car Nvas ready for hlim to unioad. A man
may han] his wlioat to the station and order
R1 car, and his nîaine is placed ou a list.
T1iv are taken lu rotation.
He inay flot
get biscar for six weeks.
He uîay bave
bis wbeat iii an elevafor paying storage,
or lu a bin paying rent.
He gets a car
wheulever the railwav company have a
mind to give it f0 him. If offen occurs
that wheat is selliug higli ut a certain time,
and a fariner would lîke f0 dispose of bis
crop, and bie cannot get a car until the
comPanl'v are ready to give it.
You caninot
coînpel thein to furnisb the car, and they
bave the w-bol destiny of tlie farmner ini
their bîands.
Tbcy ean give hlm a car as
thîey have a mid f0. and they con do as
tbey have a mmnd to.
Thiat is one inatter
wbicli sbould be provided for.
A fariner
should be able te bave a car ~iîelieb wauts
If.
There is auother grievance wbicli I
bave brouglif to the attention of the Canadian Pacific Railwav. because that is the
company I arn speaking of; but the railways
companies are ail alike. There is the coinpany witb wbichi I do business. Tbey bring
a car iuto Wolseley. It ls'a cattie car, and
there may be a certain quantlty of manure
in if, and it is flot iu a fit condition f0 carry
grain.
Or perhaps it is a coal car wbicb
bas just been unloaded and contains a
quantity of coal dust, whicli mnakes It a
very objectionable car to put wlieaf Into.
It rnay be a car thaf lias had lumber lu If,
and there is a wbole lot of bark and otther
refuse lu it. which Is nof qulte so objectionable, because you can clean It ouf.
In
nine cases ouf of ten, the doors are not
there. althougli the coînpany provide doors
and
send them
up.
'You have .f0
send f0 a factory sometimes to bave a door
made, and you have f0 fix Up that car. The
farmer is flot competent to do that. Some
years ago, wlth my own hands, I put 150
bushels of wlieat I had lu the elevator
info a car, wheeled it in with a big carf
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.

that I bad for the purpose, wheui one cf
the officiais said to me: 'Senator, this car
bas tlie end completely off IL. It is a
faulty car and we cannot allow you to
have if.' I uaturally was green at the business.
It w-as in the early bistory of my
farming days, and I had f0 wheel if ail ont
again. When a car is placed at a station,
somefirnes a farmer bas to dlean it out
and repair if. and ual if up. The last fimie
I was af borne I saw a man going round
wvitli a liammer, with bis pockef full of
nails, frying f0 repair a car. I tblnk that is
verv objectionabie. It is on expensive method for the farmer and the railw-aY coinpauy, for the car is docfore(i up lii a verv
poor way and fliere may le %wheat
losf la
transit. If the farmers weigbied flie grain.
and kunew w-bat thoy w-ere putting lu the
cars. tbey w-ould bc lu a position te, lring
.an action for allr loss, but tiicv <ho lot 1,110w
how înîielî tbiey slip wbeui the NN*-beaf is îlot
Nweighîed into the cari.
I do0 ilot thinik t1hoNis a mon lu Wolseley, wvIer(e thiero are
several eievators. wbo can tell bow m)ucb
w-as put la the car froin bis elevator. excePf mYseif. We w-eigb Our grain carefuiiy
af my elevator so tbat we are able te go
on the stand lu court aîîd swear that we
put a tbousand bushels in tlie car, but w-e
will nof swear fbat thero was not a thonsand and five busheis. If fliere la anytbiing
over, tbe owner gefs if. but if there la an 'y
shortage or leakage w-e can swear w-o put a
fhousaud bushels there and cau prove bis
dlaim.
How-ever, that is not the general
mile. If a fariner pufs a lot of wheat in a
car lie cannof swear wliefher if is a tbousand or nine liundred busheis.
I confond
thiat flic cars should lie fiurnîshed to, the
fariner w-itli grenter regularity, that the
farmner sbould flot bave f0 fil] bis elevator
or warehouse wifh grain and keep it there
for six woeks waiting for a car wbon lie
miight bave a note due at the bank, w-hile
he cannot seli the grain ln the elevator. Ho
caunof obtain one cent on if there, but when
It is piaced lu the car ou the frack, he can
sel] flie grain and gef bis money and psy
bis note or whafever obligation If miglit ho.
Therofore. If Is important f0 the fariner
that wltbini a certain fîme after he lias bis
w-heat ready te sbip. thaf be sbouid be furnisbod wifli a car, and railways sbouid ho

M Av 21. 1908
compelled to furuisb cars witbin six days.
Then the railway bas a rule about putting
down the naines of applicants for cars lu
rotation. I tbink there were 400 namnes on
the Ilst at one time at Wolsely, and some of
the men wbose naines were so recorded, bad
no wlieat wlthin fifteen miles of the station.
Provision should be made ia the Bill wltb
regard to that. A man ten or fifteen miles
away puts bis naine down for a car. I
do not thlnk tbat any man should be nilow-ed to put bis aime down until lie bas
bis wbeat ready to load. I tbink also tbat
wben they spot a car-that is place it on
the track wherever you order it-tîat car
sbould be la proper condition to receive
the grain and the fariner should not be
asked to tinker at repairs wbich may resuit
ini loss 0f grain in transit.
The lion. gen-

tleman from Tentalion. jSaskatchewan (Hion.
MIr. Douglas) has "ome amendaient to propose. and we desire to look over the Bill
aud have the amend ment*formul ated. We
shahl consuit with the minister or any one
else; but we want tirne la wbicb to do it.
We desire also to bear from the people
la the w-est. I bave sent a copy of the Bihl
to a promineat denIer out there and I should
like to recelve bis answer. On the 'whole
tbe Bill will not be satlsfactory- as it stands
to-day by a great deal, but I hope the govcrament wihI assist us in making the -Bih!
a practîcal and satisfactory one.

d

dence we bave of it is the fact that coustant arnendaients and changes are being
made to Bis affecting the inspection of
I do not suppose the bon. gentlegrain.
juan would press this measure to committee until some time after the adjourument.
If there is to be an adjourument for two
weeks-which I hope will not be the casethere will be ample time for the hon, gentleman froin Wolseley to obtaîn the information hie desires.
My hon. friend wiIl have
noticed, froin legisiation which lias taken
place in the past-and this is a very good
example of lt-Uic difficulty ia attemptingto amend aay mensure particularly of the
magnitude, if I may so termi it. of this Bill.
We have lu this Bill 42 clauses amendingDoes miy
the law upon the statute-book.
hon. friend iiot tlmink it would be niulm
better to enact a nicasure consolidating tle
laws affectiing the inspeetion of grain iiistead of introducing a iiensure of thirty
Any one wvho decor forty anendments?
sires to ascertaju Uie provisions of the laiw
willl have to procure two or three statutes
iu order to learu the exact position in xvhiilm
the law stand1s, and to enable hlmi to corne
to a conclusion as to what bis duties are,
and wlmat the provisions of Uie Act really
are.
I amn quite sure that a monieit's
reflection will suggest to nur lion. friend
the propriety of adopting sucli a course
wben we are to deal so extenslvely with
I
any Act that is upon 'the statute-book.
confess that I have had some little experience of that nature-c--onsolidation of
measures containing some two or three
hundred. clauses, and I fouud it much better In the interests of those who were affected by the Bill to consolidate the wbole
law in one statute..

Hlon. Sir RICHIARD CARTWRIGHT1 donbt if any goverament that ever existed could latroduce a Bill that xvould be
satisfactory to cvcry farmer withia a territory of a tbousand square miles; but at
the saine time we shahl be glad to hear
any suggestions the bon, gentleman may
make. I have no desire to hurry the Bihl,
Hlon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGH-T-I
but I would like to give it one stage, af ter
lu my hou.
whicb these matters cau be, I tbink, more must admit there is great force
lu similar cases 1
frjend's contention.
advantagconsly discussed. I will be quite
it myseif.
willing to let the measure stand for a have nmore than once su.-gested
1 amrn ot prepared to dispute the soundness
week, and tbe details can be discussed la
As n matter of fact, I
of bis position.
committee.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-Tbe
bon. gentleman is qulte correct lu theiitatement be bas made, that It would be very
difficult to frame a measure that would
meet the views of every one interested,
particularly tbe farmers.
The best evl-

tbink It is quite possible that this Bill
may be considernbly aiuended before it
passes this House, and before It Is ndopted
by the other House; and I arn afraid It
would delay the matter too long If I were
to withdraw It and Introduce It as a general
I had proposed a hittle later, lu case
Bill.

SENATE
1 was called upon to do so. to introduce a
consolidated Act, but I walited first to see
how te present amnendinents would coinmend themselves 10 pariaînent aitd perbaps
also to sec ltow the matter wouid work.
We may require to go a good deal furtiter
titan I propose to go iu titis mneasure, as the
We ire 110w enlion, gentleman will see.
deavouring to go Ilîrougit witli a certain
number of amlendînents, wbicit appear to
have been agreed 10 pretty mnucit by al]
parties; but there are a great niany otiters
more or less of a contentions chlaracter, or
at lenst more or ]ess onles that would bc
dîsputed. wbichi we wvili hiave 10 consider
1 have il0 doubt iu another
a littie Inter.
session 1 will have 10 do as tlie hon. genltleian suggests. anîd bring down a consoiidating Act.

ACTING-SPEAKER (Hon. Mr. Powe)I call lte attention of the bitot. gentleman
10 lthe fact that Ibis Bill should be referred
10 lthe Committee on Railways, Teleýgrapits
and -Harbours. Il is moved by lte boit.
gentleman froin Ottawa
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Tite boit. getîtlemnan
froîn Ottawa lias moved tbnt ibis Bill be
referred te lte Private Bills Committee.
if lie bas mnade a inistnke lie shonld correct
itlihuinself.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Tbeclbon. gentlemn
te
chair is j)uttiitg lthe motion.
is out of order hli rising 10 speak wlîile

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Thie liont. gertleu-aît
Ottawa înoved a reference of ibis
fri
mmmd
ili1i 10 lthe Privale Bis Cotitiiittîc.
lthe chair undertatkes to refer it to lthe
hv~Io
Railway Coutmittee. I walit t 10k,
laI shallh e itîoved ?
lias lthe rigl to say wh

lion. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOW'EL-I do
not desire to be unde(irstood as suggesting
tite Nvîtldrawal of titis mneasure and t0 have
il was t1Y.
ACTING-SPEAKER-I tlik
a. consolidation of the grain iaw1%s ai pre(Iuty as Speaker 10 direct lthe attetîtioli of
init for
I morelv tlirow ont the
sent.
lthe lion. mlember frontt Ottawa te lthe fact
future action; but 1 inight say in addition
titat itis wvas n Bill whiei properiy sltould
10 ltat, if the whole lwwere consolidated,
Cotmiltee on Rniiways, Te'ego 1lte
the inendments whlch were proposed t0
1 understood lthe
grapis and Harbours.
be made 10 lte Bill nd any further amendlioit. stnater frein Ottawa le accelît iliy
just as wvell with
mients could be dealt %vith
suggestion; and I thtiik lthe boit. gentlemant
thaI niensure, and w-len il was completed
fromi Ottawa and te Speaker ari, qîmite
y ou Nvould have a consolidaîed mneasure.
able 10 keep themiselves rigil wilthout any
Hon. Sir RICHARtD CARTWIGHT11011 from lte litou. member front Victoria.
I ani verY lunch of my hon.
Quito true.
CLORAN-Before iakiug uîy
Hou. M-Nr.
frield«s opinion.
reniarksThte motion was ngreed to. and te Bill
Hon. GENT LEME N-Order, order.
'was read tbe second limie.
ACTING-SPEAKER-I shahl cahi oit lte
It beinýg six o*clock the Speaker left lte
Sergent at Artus te take lthe 11ot1. geltlechair.
man in charge if bie presisîs.
Recess.

After

ST. LAWLAKE CHAMPNiLAIN AND
CANAL COMPANY'S
RENCE SHiPi
BILL.
SECOND PEADING.
Honi. 'Mr. BELCOURT mnoved the second
reading of Bill (SS) Au Act respecling lte
Lake Champlain and St. Lawrence Ship
Canal Coimpany.
The motion was agreed to, aîîd tbe Bill
w-as road the second lttne.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT tnoved that the
Bill be referred 10 lthe Private Buis CommilIce.
Hon. Sir RICH'ARID CARTWRIIGHT.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I question thit pount
of order and-ACTING-SPEAKEIt-Order.
Hon. M.CLOIIAN-I rise 10 a peint of
order.
ACTING-SPEAKEPx-Whait
of order ',

is lIc point

Hon. Mn. CLOIIAN-Tbe poimtt off order
is titis, ltaI ait lion. seniator !i titis Ilotse
lte itonourable
prol)osing a Bill asked
Citairto1 send il to the Coinnîlttee on Privite Bills.

M&\ 21, 190S
AY
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tliat Is flot the proper commlttee.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I am nfot goiug to
conteud tliat lie was riglit.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If the lion. ineniber
frorn Ottawa is flot satisfied lie can rise
and say that lie wants It sent to the Fr1vate BUis Committee.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-He can, but lie did
flot do so ; but for the Speaker to say lie
will call on tbe Serg-eaint at Arrns to put
me out is an absurdity.
Hon. Mr. W%%ILSON-Tlie words ouglit to
lie taken down. Tliey are very unfair, and
w-len the Speaker decides a point of order,
if the lion. member is dissatisfied the only
course lie can take is to appeal frorn the
decision of the Chair and cali for a vote.

Hon. '-%I. BEICOURT-Wýouîd not tMis
Biii appîy to the provinces of Ontario and
Quebec '

Hou. M.%r.
SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Is it so provided

for

iii

Hon.

tlie Act?
MNr. SCOTT-Tlie Land Tities Act

only applies to the western country.
lias iio bearin.- la Ontario or Quebec.

It

lIon. 2Mr. BELCOURT-It is so stated
the Revised Statutes.

lu

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWE.LL-Has
not the executive that g-overus tlie Yukon
ierritorY power to lflss an ordinance giving tlie pow'ers of a corporation?
I ohserved tliat, ia the Lower H-ouse, notice lias
been gîven of a Bill to confer fulil elective
powers for -the election of nienibers to the
ACTING-S-PEAKEfl--Tlie question is ou Yukon counicil.
Would tliey not have tlie
the motion to refer this Bill to the Stand- p)ower, ulider thec constitution to lie gîveli
ing- Comniittee on Railways, Telegraplis themn, to pass aul Act for the incorporation
nnd Harbours.
0f the Coligrega tioni
to whicli this Bill re
fers?
Tlie motion was agreed too.
LAND TITLES ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
IN, COMMITTEE.
Thie House resumed in Commîttee of tlie
Wliole lu consideration of Bill (113) An
Act to aiuend the Land Tities Act.
(In the Committee.)

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-1 consulted tlie Minister of tlie Interior and lie saîd not, and the
Bill w-as sent to tlie Departrnent of Justice
I arn inclined to think it
to lie drawn.

is not lu Dawson proper; it is outside sonuie
p)lace wliere, probabl3-, the authority of tlie
counicil ln the town of Dawson would have
'-%r. SCOTT-Tliis Bill is similar to no jurisdiction.
Hon.
Buis introduced ia tlie oîd province about
Honi. Sir MCEZ
BOWELL-Tlîe
one hundred years ago, before these various whoîe of that country is under the jurisdicIt ap- tion of the Yukon counicil, Is it nlot ?
relilous bodies were incorporated.

piles only to unorganized territori-s of
Canada and lins no reference to Manitoba,
Alberta or Saskatchewan. The necpsslty
of lt arose froin a churcli wili was bulit
by tlie Ang-lican body up la tbe neiglibonrliood of Dawson. Thiere is no organization
tliat would have autliority to incorporate
a body up there, and this is of course only
a temporary Bill 3ust to suit the conditions
in the primitive state of tlilngs tliere, wliere
there, is no representative body. Wlien the
part of the country In whicli thîs Bill wil
prevail Coules under provincial Jurisdictlon,
it w-i be a very easy matter for the particular body to obtain an Act of Incorporation. in the meantime, It Is a makeshft
for the purpose of enablng the congregation to liold lits property.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn not very sure
that.

0f

Hon. -Mr. ELLIS from tlie colunrnittee reported the Bili witliout ameudmnent.
.NIAGARA, ST. CATHARINES AND
TORO'NTO RAILWAY COMPANY
BILL.
H-on. Mr. ELLIS IOved concurrehice la
tlie report of the Standing Comnnittee on
Railways, Telegraplis and Harbours on BiIl
(,82) An Act respecting the Niagara, St.
Catharines and Toronto RailwaY CompanIy.
Hon. Mgr. KE:RR nioved in nnendrnent:
That the said report lie not now. concurred

in,. but that the Bill be referred back to the

siid cornînuttee

for further

consideration.

SENATE
He said: It appeaqrs there was a mnistake tbiîîk it is a little worse.
Tbis Bill was
lu the drawiug Up1or tie clause with refer- referred to the cominittee fromn this Huse.
en)ce to the eofl(itiofls attacbied to the work. The committee appointed a sub-cornmittee
The St. Catharines road lias been partly whichi hrougbt in a new Bill altogetber.
built througlb towiîs and cities and they The Bill bas been redrafted, and notbiug
bave been grantedl by this Bill an extension of tlîat fact appears ln our minutes. When
of Urne for the coînpletion of the work, and we look iu our minutes to see what it
conditions have been attacbed to it with ineans, we find nothing.
Tbose amendrespect to the parts whicli have yet to be mnts sliould have been printed lu our
buit. The proviso is, if tbey are îlot built minutes; we bave a riglit to see tbenî.
within a certain Urne these powers fali, Those of us wbo are not on the Conmmittee
but the wording of the Bill makes it apply on Banking and Commerce have a righit
to the wbole of the work wbich bias already to see what those amendments are.
been buit as well ;therefore it is better
Hon. -'%r. CAMý%PBELL,-The
Bill lias
tbat it should go back to the committee for
been reprinted.
further consideration.
Hon. '-\I. SCOTT-The amendinents were
lion. Sir MACKE~NZIE BOWELL-Is It reprinted.
proposedl lu any way to extend tbe powers
Hon. )Ir. LANDRY-Wliere is tbe Freiu('h
of tliat coînpany or restrict tbein, or give
tbeîîi further rigbits in any mnunicipnality edition of it ?
Nvitliout the cousent of tie inuîîicipality?

Hon. _Mn. CAMPBELI-The
Bill was
ainended. Lt %vas not referred to q nb
coînmîttee, but was considered by the (-aumittee and redrafted and reprinte].

lon. '.\r. KERR-This BUi is one for an
extension of time for the completion of tbe
works. and there are conditions attacbied to
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-TI.at
iliat in favour of the cities and towuls,
ineauing the city of Hamilton and the city is not tbe point at all tbat my bou. fiad
of Toronto.
Tbese conditions, it wvas in- takes. I w-isb it distinctly understood tijat
tenided, sbould only be apphied to the ex- 1 do îiot rise for the purpose of obstruictiiu_
On the cýonteusionî of w-ork to vrhiicb timie ls now given, the passing of the Bill.
But this railway is already bulit. Part of trary. The mode in wbicb the report frona
its work is througli the city of $,t. Catha- the conimittee lias been presented to Ilie
If yon rend
rines, part of it is lu tie towns and vil- House is totally irregular.
lages along the rond between Hamilton and rie 127 you wil] find whîat tbe duties of
St. Catharines, part of it la ln CIifton or a chairman are:
Niagatra Falls, aud the effect of tbis Would
The chairmian 'of a commiittee shall sigal
be that the wbole undertaking might be with bis name at length, a printed copy of the
Bill, on which the ameudments are fairly
forfeited inistead of the part to wbicb ex- written.
tension is being gîven.
Now, lu this case the Bill as nnuended, ba-s
The amendmnit was agreed to.
neyer been preseated to the Ilouse, but
bas been reprinted. Lt is a totally different
WýIATER CARRIAGE 0F GOODS BILr,.
Bill from tbat whicbi wws referred to theý
I-N COMMITTEE.
commlttee. Tben the rule continues
Hion. '.%r. CAÏjMPBEbL moved that the
And shall also sign with the initiais of hiE
Bouse resolve itself hito a Committee of the naine, the several amendments made and
clauses added in committee to be attached te
Wbole on the report of the Standing Coinî- the report, and another copy of the Bill, witb
mittee on Bankiug and Commerce on Bill the anieadment written therean, shall be pre(Z) An Act relatiD.g to the Water Carniage pared by the clerk of the committee and
filed.
of Goods.
Now, the Clerk bas no0 sucb eopy. Whiat
Hon. Mr. LANDLY-1 sbonld like to cali sbould bave been doue was to report from
the attention of the House to the same ir- the committee the Bill as amended, witb
regularity that presents itsélf lu this case the ameudments attached to the original
as the one 1 pointedl out yesterday, ouly I Bill. and then the House, before adopting
Honi. Mr. KERR.

M AY 921. 1908
the report of the cornrittee, shou]d have
ordere-d it printed; but lnstead of the Senate orderlg- the printing of the Bill as
aiended, the cornmittee bas douie that ou
Its own responsibility and realiy iad no
authority. I arn xerely pointing this out
to show the irreguiarity whichi bas followed
the introduction of the report of thê conainittee and the proceedinga of the Iloiise.
The Speaker will understand the point Io
which tie lion. senator frorn Stadacora bias
calied tie House, and on reading Vils clause
lion, gentlemen avilI see whiere the !rreglularities are. 110w that Is to be g-ot ovPr
I arn not prepared to say. Witb Vie cn
seut of the House, I suppose we cau ordier
the original Bill to be piaced lu Vie baiuds
of tic coaimittce so that it avilI bp on file
and Vie anndiments attachced to, it. so that
iu considering the report of the comnititec
now, eitber l cornrittee or by tie Ilotse,
they would not have the orig-inal Mli lie.
fore thein.

Hon. Mr. ELIS-Could wve .1rneud
according to tlat înstructiiiî

il

Hoii. 31ir. BELCOULtT-It seeiU-, tj Ie
the procedure as departed froill.
Tbî'iî
avas a public Bill, and in the ordiuary
course of procedure would have been referred to a Cornrittee of Vie Whioie.
1
have not the proceedings before me, but if
1 reeollect righly w-bat %vasdoule, w-heui the
Biii w-as read tie second tiuie. it w-as îlot
referred to al Coînlitîce of Uic Whlîoe, but
it WIas understood and agi-ced to by the'
Honse thait iiistead of tue Cornuîiittee of tht'
%Vhole deaiii.g w-ith the Biii. it shoulid li
dleait w-ith by the Coiiiiiiittee ou Baukig
aild Commrerce, so as to affîn-d aui 01)10tiiity lfor the various par-ties w-odesaîe to
bie lieard t') apuicar.
It was feUt tihikt tic',
Cemîîuiittee of the Whole couild lot Ilîar the
parties, and tiîat it avas iin-ili mtore couVeienît that that slîould ie
'coute hi1 the
Coinuaittee on B;inkinig anîd Coanulierce.
I
lîe il. thea-efore. that tluere %vils a consent of this Flouse liat for Ille tinie blig
tue Comrnnttee of the WVliol - was to I>e rc'
piaced by the Cornrnittee ou Dankiug andi

flon. MIr. C.tMIPBE LL-Tiîe cornmnittee,
l subin ittiiug tiîeir report. recomilnended
tiiot the Bill be reprinted as it was amrided. and a c0l)y of Vie Bill as reprinted,
Commerce.
Thal coiiiiîîittce liaviug, ewith the oHd Biilavas subin;tted witb the
commrended thal the Biil lie 1-e-pniited, 1
rep )rt.
hake it tbat it la equivaîlent to a Couuiittpe
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL--The of tbe W"ilole îaîviîur given the order. awl
commnittee slaould bave reported that.
that now il ls being prope-lY ileait vvitlu ,u
Hon. M-Nr.
CAM,..\PBEII-They did report the way 1h la.
Thec wvhole proediire %vaus
tliat: Viey submittcd a copy of the Bili as depnrhed froua by unuffimous cotisenit of t1w
re-printeLl avill tbe old Biil attacied to il. Honse, andtihe Bamîkingll nu1d COuîIIIeriee
Hon. '-\r. LANDRY-The report of the Cornrittee substihuted froua Coirnrnittèc of
the Whoie House.
poinmittee reads as follows:
Yonr coiiuniittee recoînmend that the Bill
be amended with the printed re-draft herewith
subrniitted.
But the Bill bas neot been aînended like
that.
Wbiat w-is sent here was a re-draft
of the Bili, and it bias ijot been auaended to
conforrn witi the i)rinited draft.
So that
the Bill that lias i)eefi sent by Vis House
to the comnaittee stands lu the saine position ns aviien It: left here.
It Is flot arnended aecording to thae re-draf t. I do flot kuow
If it carne brickc ere, but If it did; It carne
avIthout tue amniedments being attadhed to
il. On the face of the report itself It Is
understood 'that the Bill Is not amended
yet. but tlîat the comnrittee recornrend tue
Biil be arnended ho confrrn with the redraft.

Hou. Mnr. LANDRY-I could uu'ierst:id
this report If the Bill avas te be reci)iuuaited
to a Couiiittee of Vie Wlîole. and thait sptcil coinrnittec would say :' Weil, luere ni-e
tbe amendmnents w-c propose. and w-e r-ccoîîurnend titat tie Bill be aneudfed according to the re-draft w-e are offeriug
u,
But If tlîat special coninittee lias talaIon
the place of a Cornrnttee of tie Who]e. ils
w-ork w-ns supposed to be flnal, and 1h avas
that couîrnittee wlîicb siîould have niade
the amndînent, and they slîould not huave
recommrended that it sbould he made lienr-.
Wbiat rigbt lias Vie cormithee to oa-der the'
printing of a new Bill?
Hon. ',%r. SCOTT-It
sense w-ny of doing- 1.

la
It

tue commnonwvns irregîxiar

SE.NLATE
to begin wltb ta nefer it ta a special coinThiere were a nlumber of vé-ry
mittee.
important interests nffected by the Bill,
and as a niatter of courtesy ta theut, in
order that they mig-ht be heard, as explained by the bon. gentleman fron Otiittee
tawa, tbe Bill ias sent ta tbe Canna
on Banking and Commerce for the purpose
of hearing thase objections. The ý-omniittee undentaahc ta frame clauses that la a
degree met somne of the objections, aud
The rule
that la the Bill w'e have biere.
w-bich my ban. friend bias read does not
apply ta public Buis. Lt was never contemplated.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes, w-e bave a
rule which says that a public Blîl may
be referred ta a cammittee.
Hon. M.\I. SCOTT-A

public Bill7

Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-Yes.
Hon. Mr. SCOTI-It la a great pity,
because the Blî11 w-as t'vo înonths before
tlîat conimittee. Tbey -%vre (lenling with
it befome the adjourrament w-ilîi w-as mlade
lin order ta give the parties w-ho had ta
cominunicate with Landau, ample tinte, and
a large arnount of labour w-as devoted by
the committee toa ncausideration of tbe
Bill and very important changes were made
ta meet the objections of tbose w-ho oppose1 it.
Honi 'Mr.. LANDRY-I dIo not w-aut ta
r-etard( the Bill, but I want ta point out
the irregularity of the proceediug, sa tbat
w-e may avaid it lu the future. I wjll flot
niilze any objection at ail, but wihl simply
caîl attention ta the facts.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
I
flot press any abjection ta the Bill.
stated w-len 1 rose a short tinie ago tbat
I only desired ta point ont the irregularity. I arn just as anxious as the han.
gentleman that the Bill shauld become law.
1 understood tbe hou. gentleman front Otta'wa ta say it w-as an unusual thing ta
senid sucb a Bill ta this committee. it is
governiment
1 bave kniown
often doue.
Buis. on w-hidli it bas been pointed ont
that tbere w-as (Iiversity of opinion, and
that certain iterests wene affected, and
instead of referring tbem ta a Committee
of the Wiole Hanse, tbey were sent ta a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

special committee for consideration, and
to the
thalt srecial commrittee reported
flouse. The ruIes provide how it shall be
(lotie.
Honi. Mr. BELCOURT-TbO lion. gentleman misunderstood me. 1 said the usul
procedure bad been departed front il this
case, because being a govertiment Bill it
would naturallv be sent to a Coîumittee of
the Whoie.
Tbe motion was aýgreed to, and the Ilouse
resolved it-self into a Coînimittee of tlue
Whole oil the Bill.
(In the Committee).
Han. Mr. CAM\PBELL-As the Secretary of State bas pointed out, thîs Bill
bas been before the coxumittee since the
16tb of March, and a good miany changes
w-ere tbere made iu it. Lt w-as very strong]y opposed by the shipping interests of the
country. but it the sugges_ýtion of the
Chairmani of the Committee, after two or
three clauses hnd been passed, a conference was beld with the representatives of
ail the shipping interests-a meeting between the promoters of the Bill and tbose
wbo w-ere opposed ta it, and as a resuit,
clauses were gonie over one by one, and
Tlherte were
ail prac-tically agreed upon.
one or tw-o or tbree new clauses added,
wbich the interesta of the shippers suggested. and 1 may- say that they w-ere al
nimiiiouisly a(lopted.
On clanse 4.
4. Where any bill of lading- or document
contains any clause, covenant or agreement
whereby(a) the owner, charterer, miaster, or agent
of aay ship, or the ship itself, is relieved
from reliability for loss or damage to goods
arising front negligence, fault or failure mn
the proper loading. stowage, custody, care or
delivery of goods received by them or any of
tbemt to be carried in or by the ship; or
(b> any obligations of the owner or charterer
of any ship to exercise due diligence to
properly man, equip and supply the sbîp,
and mlake and keep the ship seaworthy, and
unake and keep the ship's hsold ' refrigerating
and cool chambers, and all other parts of the
ship in which. goods are carried, fit and safe
for their reception, carrnage and preservation, are iu any w-ise lessened, weakeaed or
avoided; or
(c) the obligations of tbe maaster, officers,
agents, or servants of any ship ta carefully
bandle and stow goods, and ta cane for, preserv-e and properly deliver them, are in any
wvise lessen]led, weakened or avoided;

-.
N4y 9,1. 1908

991

that clause, covenant or agreement shall be
illegal, nuli and void, and of no effect.

shall net le coxîsidered as biîîding or conclusive on the ship, hier ownier, charterer,
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-The wordq lu master or agent.
Hou. «Mr. CAM'\PBELL-Th.it is a ncw
the 2lst Mne, 'Arising front the hariînful
Tt providles for tlic amoulit cf
or improper condition of the slîip's liold jsection.
or any other 'part cf the ship lu whieli damiage thiat the shipowner would be resgoods are carried,' are struck out, beca use pousible for, net exceeding $100 per packthe comrnittee thought the latter part of age unless a hi2her value is stated la the
the clause provided for that, and those bill of lading. This is te ineet such n case
as was stated by the AIL-in line people
words 'tvere unnecessnry.
lu 2%ontreal, wherc some imimigrant, who,
The clause was adopted.
came out fromi the old country clahîncd
On clauses 6 and 7,
te have lest a package wvorth $700 or $800.
6. If the owner of any slip transporting
The clause w-as adopte1.
merchandise or property fromn any port in
Canada exercises due diligence to niake the
On clause 9.
shi» in aIl respects seaworthy and properly
9. Everv ewner, charterer, master or agent
manned, equipped and supplied, neither the
ship nor the owner, agent or charterer shall of any shiip carryieg gooda, shaîl on demand
become or be held responsible for loss or issue to the shipper of such goods a bill of
damage resulting from faults or errors in lading showing, among other things, the
navigation or in the manage ment of the ship. marks necessart- for identification as fur7. The ship, the owner, charterer, agent or aished ia writing by the shipper, the number
master shial not be lield hiable for loss re- of packages, the quantity eor the wcight, as
sulting froni fire, dangers of the sea or other the case may be, and tbe apparent order and
navigable waters, acts of God or public enc- condition of the 'goods as delivered to or remies, or inherent defect, quality or- vice of ccived by sudh ewner, charterer, master or
the thing carried, or fren insufficeim-c
Of agent; and such bill cf lading shaîl ba prima
package, or seizure under legal process, or facie evidence of thc receipt of the gooda as
for loss resulting from anv act or omission therein described.
of the shipper or owner of the geods, his
Hon. -Mr. CAMPBELL-This la clause
agent or representative, or fromn saving or
attempting to save life or property at sea, d la the 01(1 Bihl. and the only change Is
or from any deviation in rendering such ser- providing that the ship must issue the bll
vice, or from strikes, or for loss arising withIt w-as
out their actual fault or privity or without or lading if a demand is made.
the fault or neglect or their agents, servants donc te meet the case cf the vessels plying
or employeca.
on thec Gulf of St. Lawrence c-oast, or on
These clauses are substituted for clause the Baie (le Chaleurs. wvhcre they eftcîs hand
6 of the old Act. Tt is adoptiug the Ilarter ln a box of fi-si and say, * ring nie back
Act instend of the Australian Act, v1ud wvc a bag cf fleur.'
Iu the original Bill they Nvere liahile te
bave also added the ýwords lu tlîe latter
n penalty if thcey dîd net issue a bill cf
part of flic clause
Or for loss arising without their actual ladiug and î'otlfy the consiguee cf the
fault or privity or without the fault or ne- arrivai cf the geods.
glect of their agents, servants or emplovees,
The penalty clause is struc-k ont cf tiis
or for strikes.
clause. It is c-hanged se as te ccnformi
That is a new part added ut tlie rcquest
with the Harter At
Of the ShIPipping intcrcst of flic eouîîry.
The clause w-as idopted.
We thought it only reasonable it slion'ld
be put ln.
On clause 12,
The clause was adopted.
On clause S,
8. The ship, the owner, charterer, master
or agent shah nlot be liable for bass or damage to or in cennection with goods for a
greater amiount than oue hundred dollars per
package, unlcss a higher value is stated in
the bill of lading or other ship documents,
nor for any loss or damage wvhatever if the
nature or value of such goods las been
falsely stated by the shipper, unleas such
false statement has been made by inadvertence, or errer. The declaration by the slipper as to the nature and value of the goods

12. Every eue M-li knowingly ships gooda
of an inflammnable or explosive' nature, or of
a dangerous nature, without befere shipping
the ifoods making full disclosure of their na~turc te, and obtainiing the permission of, the
agent, master or per.;oi iu charge of the
ahi p, la hiable te a fine of ene theusand
dollars.
Hou. M1r. KERR-This clause is absolute
and provides a penalty of $1.000 for know-

ingly sIiîppiing somnething m-hichla cs an
f
inflanmmable or explosive nature. It milht
ouly be explosive te a sinahi extent, and

SEINATE
there might be no practical damnage or
danger. Shiould wc flot make thiat Penalty
'flot exceediug $1,000.'
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It bas to be k-nowingir.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBEL-I tbink it should
be a very severe penalty.
Hou. Mr. WILSON-I understand fliat
this 13th clause -will give ample -protectlon f0 parties lu the iieig-hbourIiood of or
Supposing
where the goods are shipped.
they ship a certain quantify of goods and
they are put on flie vessel. The shipper
does not disclose the nature of thue article
shipped, and the ýfirst thing we kuiow, soîne
dynamite is put ou board aud serions dainage may lie doue. The owucrs of the ship
may muot lic aNware of it ndflic ship may
Ciould
stagrt off and injury may follow.
flie promioter of the Bill givi, ii., any furtlicr
information iii respect to the ohjecf of fIat
clause?

lion. mr. BOLCOURIT-In fliat case. the
o]IIns of îîrovlug the gonds Nvere of fliat
cliaracter would lie on flic sliipowmîer who
Tic would have f0 show
destroyed fhcm.
that the gonds weêre %vithin flie class of
goods described lu thîs section, and if lie did
desfroy gonds which wcrc of a claracter
wvlicli he liad no righf f0 desfroy, fthc slipper would have his rcmedy.
H-ou. Mr. WILSON-Can lmy lion. fricnd
fell me blow lie would be made hialle?
lon. '-\r. BELCOURT-I-e would bc
hiable lit comumon law. Hc could ouly destroy them if flicy wcre of the chînracter
described lu flic clause aud if fhe shîpper
denied that fheýy wcre of that cliaracter
thîe shipowner would have f0 prove it.
The clause

was adopted.

On clause 15,

15. This Act shiah corne juito force on the
first day of September, A.D., 1908.
lion. Mr. KERR-1 unîdcm'stand thmat shipHoia. Mr. CAM.%PBEL-I flîink we h.ave
pe~rs are cxtrezncly auxious to have that
f0 readl claurses 12 and 13 togetiier. I tlîink
thie conuhîlice vwill agree fliat if a manu da1te of flie comiug into force of flic Acf
They say it wvill lic very lu.
-nowiugly slips gonds of sucli a nature extended.
sliould be hienvily fiuîed. The next clause couveulent f0, bave il fhe arrangement
lie
iiecessary for the clîanging of tle but1 of
provideq fIat tlîe captalu or owner of a
if lie finds ladinig muade by fIat date.
vessel ina « destroy sucli goods
Hou. Mr. CANIPBELL-I have liad ni)
tbem, or tlîrow flem overhoard. or render
But the slîipper is res- comnmunicatioun fromn fli.
fhemi imnocuous.
ponsihie for ail damiage.
Ion. Mr. KERR-Tlîey %vere t ryirîg to
Hon. 'Mr. 'SCOTT

Quite riglit.

Mr. WILSON The clause ap)plies
od0f au11 inflamimale or explosive
fo0(l
nature. or of a daugerous nature, '%vitlîout
fIe slîîppcr, before shippiîig tlîe gonds, malcing full disclosure of their nature te the
Wlat do you inean by peragent. &c,
mission? The agent mur not know.
Ilmi.

Hlo n. '.\r. SCOTT-IUc lias got to, know.
Honi. Mr. WILSON Tliere is no mens,
except the previous clause, wbereby ftie
parties eau be punislied for enterîng those
goods. That clause also enables fhe owner
of fhe slip f0 destroy the gonds. Wliaf
redress lias the parfy wbose goods are being
desfroyed, if the slîipowner. cannot prove
fhnt flie goods wcre dangerous. There is
no provision as f0 how fIat Information
I tlîink flic clause is
can lie obtaiued.
serliomsly dpfective.
lIon. Mr. KERR.

sec thc lion. gentflemni.
Hon. Mr. C-lM\PBELL-Tlie reasoii w~e
imserted that date is, because fliat is mvhen
the faîl frade begins. Thc grain anîd floui'
is bcginniuig to miove across the occan, and
that is practically thc 'leginning of tlic
season, and clause 14 gives fhli pirotectioni
on aIl confracts nmade before fuis Act coînes
ilîto force. That wvas a clause put iii for
their protection, and wlien flic stcainship)
mcen lcft hiere fliey wcrc pcrfectly agrced
f0 this date beiîîg fixcd.
BOWELL-I
Sir IMACIENZIE
Hon.
undcrstood that fhiere was a inutual agreemecnt liefweeu flic promoters of flic Bill and
Under flic 14f h clause.
thc shlpowaers.
thîcy can enter lut o aiiy contract thîcy please
under flic law as if exists to-day sud be
exempt, if if is doue before flic Ist .Scptember.

MAY 21. 1908
Hon. Mr. KE:RR-Thiere would be no con-I
tract with respect to the carrying of the
fall grain, because the contract Is by the
bill of lading. I have notbing to do with
the matter -at aI, and assume no responsibllity at ail, but I know that ls their wlsh.
They called on me and I sald they bad
better see the bon, gentleman from York;
1 would flot take any responsibility about
It ; at tbe saine time I thougbt it riglit to
lay the matter before the hon, gentleman.
I do not tbinhi there -would lie any great
harm in fixing a later date. They spoke
of tbe lst January.

Hou. '.Ir. SCOTT-Yes, provision 1s

ad

for that.

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELLOtherwlse It would be of very little use.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
EXOHEQUER COURT ACT
MENT BILL.

AMEND-

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading of Bill (No. 116) An Act to amend
He said: The
the Excbequer Court Act.
object of this Bill Is to allow thA GoverHon. Mr. CA.M-\PBELL-They spoke about
nor ln Council to appoint anotiier substithe lst January ait first, but they ail agreed tute ln case of the illness or absence of the
on this clause. I have been here for some Exchequer Court Judge, and also for other
time and if they considered it of great
causes that miy arise. Really the primiary
Importance they could bave seen me.
Cassels miglit
object was lu order that M-%r.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Was lie free to devote lis timie to the inqiiiry
luto the administration of the Department
It Mr. Allan?
of M1arine and Fisheries.
Hon. Mr. KERR-No, It was one of the
The motion was ar-reed to, and the Bill
counsel.
was rend the second tijue.
The clause was adopted.
SIGNAL DUES AT HALIFAX BILL.
Hon. Mr. WATSON from the committee
reported the Bill as amended.
Thé anaendments were concurred in.
RAILWAY ACT A.NENDMENT

BILL.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT mnoved tbe second reading of Bill (No. 1352) An act respecting
Signal dues ait Halifax. He said: 1 shahl
lie very glad at a later stage to gîve a hisetory o! tbis subject, which is contained ln
certain correspondence I have, but the malri
point ls to make vessels of small tonnuage
free from those dues.

SECOND READING.
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT moved the second readlng o! Bill (No. 112) Au Act to amend
the Ralway Act as respects the Constitution o! the Board of Railway Commissioners.
Hon. '-%r. BELCOURT-Whiit wez the
He sald :The object o! this Bill lm to minimum before ?
enlarge the present board. It le fournd thiat
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The first law was
The
their duties are very numerous.
sîncv the passed ln 1859, and it appled to ail steamwork bas more than doubled
first appointment, and It le necessary that ers. Froin tume to time changes were
made in the haw before Nova Scotia eanie
the board should be increased.
into Confederation.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I would ask the
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-It would lie .1 very
hon. gentleman If lie would lie good engood tbing if the government abollsbed
ough to have the Bill printed ln French
Whether
those signal dues altogether.
before we go into committee.
sig-nais
they get more or Iess than te
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I shahl not brlng It cost I do flot know, but the revenues o!
the country ought to lie able to carry li
up unless It Is printed in Frenchi.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELLShahl these commissioners lie enablod. to
adjudicate on any question separately ?
63

service Iîke that.
The motion was agreed to, and tUe Bill
was read the second tume.

SENATE

994
MEAFORD HARBOUR BILL.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second réading of Bill (Na. 158) An Act respectlng
appears
'Meaford Harbour. Ho said :It
that by an Act passed before confederation, this harbaur was placed under the
contrai of the govorament, strange to say,
and now it is necessary ta mako same
changes as it is going ta bo an important
harbaur for one of the Pacific linos. The
abject of the Bill is ta define the ianrbaur
by certain baundarios, and ta make certain
by-laws of the municipal counicil legal. la
arder that the barbaur may be put an a
praper hasîs.
The motion w-as agreod, and the Bili w-as
SUSHWAP AND THOMPSON RIVERS
BOOM CO'MPANY'S BILL.
MOTION.
Han. '.\r. CASGIIAIN inoved concurrence
ln the repart of the Standing Committee ou Railw-iys, Teiegraphs and HarI6uurs,
o 49) An Act ta incarparate
on Biiill
the Su,ýhwap and Thompson Rivers Boom

the promnoters of this company want ta
obtain a monopoiy in that river. I may
say that the people Interested ln getting
this charter are sound business men. They
are ail lumbernien who have invested a
large sum of money in timber limits and
a saw-milliIn that country, and they ask
to be aliowed to carry on their legitimate
business which they cannot dQ unless theso
priviieges are grantod. They are prepared
to malze arrangements with any ather hîmbermen w-ho may corne on that river later
an and give threur aIl the rights they are
entitiod ta themselves. They do nlot ask
for any monopoly. I move that thre report be nlot naw cancurred in, but that
the said Bill be referred back to the committee for further consideratian.
Hou. '-%r. ELLIS-I can anly say that,
in my judgmont, the Bili w-as thoroughily
discussed la committeo. The hon. geutiemari bas nat montianed anything that w-as
nlot brought beforo the committee. The
asioainfrhus
no
Diiwa
aud ev-erything withln the roach of imaiýgina9tien and also within the reach of the

evidenc<e w-as befare the committee and
While I (Io nlot
ithoronghly canvassýed.
dosire ta influence the judgmont of lion.
Mr. BOSTOCK-1 have given notice of gentlemen pirticumariy, thue ban. gentlemnan
a
motion ta
refer
this repart
back, in is statement to 'the Hanse, bas menar
sevraltioned nathing that w-as nlot stated ta the
ta te cmmitee.
Ther
grounds an w-ich 1 think this should he cornmitteo vesterday. I feel bound ta makie
doue Th
reaonsgivei
b
tbý co]-I this statement, nat that I have any strong
mnittee for arriving ut their con-ýlus1on, 1
on the suhject,
show that they do not fully grasp the feeling better reasan for but unless there- Is
sending It back ta
saine
situation la that part of the country. I the camimitteo, the labour w-il] be in vain.
obtainod Information ta-day w-hich I caun
Han. Mr. DAVIS I listened w-ith some
ifiy befare the cammnittee, that I think
w-vll alter the dlecisianl they have reached. attention ta the ban. member fram British
t eterint dtai na-,Columbia. and it appears ta me thiat as
I d no popoe
because I thini: they eau ho much better w-e have considerabie time on aur bauds,
I sub- if any hon, gentleman is as mucb interested
discussed hefore the committoe.
mit that this Biii w-as not tharaughly dis- lu a Bill as the han. gentleman froin Yale
n
sk
ahv
trfre
li
ii
cussed la-the commnittoe, and that it w-as ;si
throw-n out becauso the clauses w-hir.i the hack ta the committee pramilsing ta subBili orig-innliy contained, w-hon it w-fs first mit further information. there shoul ho
intraduced, deciaring ut ta ho a worh- for rio hesîtation ln complying w'ith bis reCompany.

+11

c

t

.1

A,ut,,a

ý

f1

-

ý

w

s

e

l

The situatian
out there is a pecuilar one, inasmuch as this

da nat seo that any passible gaod can arise

camipany's operatians w-I be la the DomboIt, and thé w-hale question
inion Railwis one that bas nover been threshed out
There is also an opinion that
praperly.

la sonding It back ta the cammlttoe. uniess
the han, gentleman is prepared ta convince
the cammittee that the decisian at w-hich
they arrived as ta the right of this parlia-

la it w-bon it came here.

Hon. Mr. ELLIS.

Han.

Sir

«MNACr'DNZIE

BOW%ýELL-I

MAY' 91. 1908
ment to pass thîs Bill is Incorrect. This
Bill was rejected upon one ground snd
one ground ahane, that is Its constitutionality-that it Is wltbin the province of the
legisiature of British Columbia to grant ail
that is asked for, and that the passage of
It by the Dominion parliament would be an
Infringement of the constitutlonal riglits of
the province. It was on a simlar ground
that a Bill of a somewhat similar character
'was rejected last year. As the bon. senator
from St. John bas said, this inatter was
discussed over and over agaîn ln committee
for bours. We had the opinion of the Law
Clerk of the Senate agaiust It, and the
strong opposition of the provinces to the
passage of this Bill as an lufringement of
their rights.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Hou. gentleman
have referred to the opinion of the La-w
Clerk given before the committee. He wil
probably remember that I specially aaked
the Law Clerk If hae had considered ý%vbat
bearîng the fact of the railway ibeit belonging to the Dominion government bad on his
decision. and lie said lie biad not consldered
Jt before. That makes a very great; dîfference.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Not at ail.
Hou. Sir MCEZE
BOWEL-It
was pointed out that the lands wbicb xvere
affected by this Bill bad been patented
by- the Domninion goveriimient and that consequentlv brouglit tleie
withîn the question' of civil riglits and property withln the
province.

Hon.
'r. BOSTOCK-Tbe lands are
within the beit belonii--ng to the Dominion
Goverument.

came under the jurîsdiction of the province
of British Columbia. The committee cousldered this question carefully, and I cannot conceive it possible that any further
evidence could be procured to change the
minds of those who voted upon that question uuhess tbe hou, gentleman bas been
lobbylng-that Is a very offensive word I
know as understood by the people-among
the members In order to Induce them to
change their vlews or to briug others to
the committee who were not present when
tbe vote was taken. That is the only mens
by whlch hie could accomplish bis purpose;
but it Is very clear If there ever wnas a
Bill brougbt before parliament for cousideration which iufriuged the rights of
the provinces, this la tbat one. .1 know
some senators take a different view cf it,
and support the Bill on wbat tbey terni its
inerits, ou the ground that certain other
companies who are operating on that river
are trying to prevent the company that
aeeks this incorporation from doing that
whichi they sbould bave a riglit ta do. I
remove that altogether fromi my consideration and base my objection simiply
on the ground preseu ted in the report. and
that is that It ia a direct infringement on
the rights of the provinces. If we go ou
wmith this kind of legisiation, we mîgbit
juat as well abolish the local legialature
altog-ether, aud let the federai parliament
dca] witb ail local affaira. Evcrv sess;ioni
we bave beau iufringing upon pirovincial
righta, and If It Is to go on we migbt as
weIl petition the Imperial Parliament to
change the constitution and abolish the
local legisiatures and save to the country
the expense that they entai]. I very miuch
regret tbat mauy hou, gentlemen wbo share
nly vlew of tbis matter are not bere ta ex-_
press their opinions on this question. I
trust that the House wil ixot adopt the
amendmeut.
Hou. Mr. NERR-I uuderatand that the
bon, gentleman objecta to this Bih] on the
ground that the lands in the rallway baît
are not the lands of the goverument.
Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWiýELL-Tbe
lands wbicb are affected by this Bih] I said.

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOW7ELL,-The
lands are wvitbin flic beit whicb was transferred to the Dominion as one of the considerations given by British Columbia for
the construction -of the Canadian Pacifie
Railway through the mountains. Even If
there were force ln the contention of my
hon. friend, that because the lands are
within the railw-ny beit therefore it brougbit
this mensure wltbin the purview of this
parliameut. the moment the Dominion goverumeut pateuted that land it became priHon. 'Mr. KERR-The lands lu the railvate property and being private property way beit became tbe property of the Dom-

SENATE
inion government, and the question as to
the effect of that is before the courts today. The contention of the Dominion government is best expressed in a factum
prepared by the Solicitor General of Canada and the Attorney General himself ln a
case now before the Exchequer Court-the
King on the information of the Attorney
General of Canada vs. the Burrard Power
Company, Limited-the first paragraphs of
which are as follows:
1. That pursuant te the agreement of the

government of

British Columbia contained

in article 11 of the terms of the union upon
which the colony of British Columbia was
admitted into the Dominion of Canada, the
legislature of British Columbia by an Act
to grant public lands on the main land to the
Dominion in aid of the Canadian Pacific Railway, 1880, 43 Victoria, chap. 11, as amended
by 47 Victoria, -chap. 14, granted to the Dominion Government for the purpose of constructing, and to aid in the construction of
the portion of the Canadian Pacific Railway
on the mainland of British Columbia in
trust te be appropriated as the Dominion
Government might deem advisable, the public
land along the line of the railway before
mentioned as therein particularly mentioned,
and which lands are hereinafter called the
Railway Belt.
2. That both the Lillooet river, which is a
tributary of the Pitt river and the Lilloet
lakes from which it rises, are wholly situate
within the limits of the said Railway Belt.
The Lillooet river is about twelve miles long,
and is a public and navigable stream.
3. That the defendant is an incorporated
company, having its head office in the city
of Vancouver, B. C.
4. That on the 7th day of April, 1906, upon
the applicant of the defendant company, the
water commissioners for the district of New
Westminster, assuming te act under the Water
Clauses Consolidation Act, 1897, chap. 190 of
the Revised Statutes of British Columbia,
1897, purported te grant to the said company,
at the annual rent and for the consideration
therein mentioned, a record for 25,000 inches
of water (subject te certain reservation) out
of the said Lillooet lakes and Lillooet river
and its tributaries, such water te be used for
generating electricity for light, heat antd
power, and for milling, manufacturing, industrial and mechanical purposes, at.or near
lot 404, New Westminster district, and to be
diverted from its source at a point at or near
the outlet of the lower Lillooet lake and be
returned at a point et or near lot 404, group
1, New Westminster district, and to be stored
or diverted by means of dams, pipes, fiumes
and ditches.
5. That on the public lands forming part
of the railway belt and adjoining the said
Lillooet lake and Lillooet river, is a large
quantity of valuable timber, which is entitled
of right te be floated down the said river,
and the said alleged grant and the diversion
thereby authorized will materially interfere
with the said right.
Hon. Mr. KERR.

6. That the said alleged grant and rights
under the Water Clauses Consolidation Act
thereto attached will materially interfere with
the rights of the Dominion Government in the
railway beit.
7. That the oapacity of the Lillooet river
is about 25,000 inches and the alleged grant
and the proposed diversion thereby authorized will greatly diminish the quantity of water
in the said river and materiallv interfere
with the rights of the Dominion Government.
8. That the alleged grant and the proposed
diversion thereby authorized will materially

interfere with the public right of navigation

in the said river.
9. That section 91 of the British North
America Act, 1867, provides that the exclusive
legislative authority of the Parliament of
Canada extends te all matters coming within
the following (amongst other) classes of subjects:
The contrary was argued before the connittee, If one is permitted to refer to what
was said tbere, and I do net know how we
can answer the hon. gentleman's objections
unless we refer to it. It will be seen that
a decision of this character with reference
te this Bill, which relates to waters wbich
are in precisely the same position as the
Lillooet waters, and which relate to timber which is within the railway belt, and to
the invasion of waters which are affected
by it, and are in the railway belt, would be
a decision in advance of the decision of the
courts, which I think would be an unfortunate tbing.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It would be a decision in advance if we decided the other
way.
Hon. gentleman
Hon. Mr. KERR-No.
are not aware that-the Bill wbich was, before the committee was lot the Bill that
was asked for by these petitions, but a Bill
iras asked for and presented to the House
of Coimons which contained a clause declaring that the work was for the general
advantage of Canada. It was conceded tha+
if that were in the Bill, the jurisdiction of
parliament would have been absolute and
complete. and therefore both of these things
placed the parties at a disadvantage in tbe
determination of the question before the
courts. Under these circumstances, I do net
thlnk it is necessary for me to argue this
matter any further, because the case Is a
complete one, that there are matters ln consideration which were not presented, and
which might bave had a very serious effect
upon the very committee that sat there.

MAY 21, 1908
Let me say further that w-heu this matter
w-as being discussed-

servants, w-as a valid law, because it interfered with a civil riglit of action of the
party w-ho had sustained damage, and the
question came up lu tiat w-ay. Lord Dunedin said
The question in this appeal is as to the
competency of !the Dominion Parliament to
euact the provision contained in section 1 of
IV. ýEdward VIIL, c. 31 of the statutes of Canada. These provisions may be generalis described as a prohibition againit 'coutracting
out' on the part of railway companies within
the juriadiction of the Dominion parliament
fromn the liabiiity te pay damages for personal
injury to their servants.
It is not disputed tint, in the partition of
duties effected by the British North America
Act, 1867, between the provincial and the
Dominion legisiatures, the making of laws for
two railways is entrusted to the Dominion.
The point, therefere, cornes to lie withini a

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We bave the report of the committee.
Hon. 'Mr. KERR-ln arriving at that
report, the question w-as as to the jurisdictlen of the province and of its riglit, and
of the Dominion having its right, one under
section 92 and the other nnder section 93.
But it w-as understood by the committee
that the line w-as a distinct one, and that
either it w-as within the jurisdiction of the
province and a provincial right, or it w-as
within the jurisdiction of the Dominion and
w-as a Dominion rigbt. It was understood
by the committee that there miglit be no
resepondent mainIt very narrew compasa. The Court has upheld
c]ear line of demarcation of that kind.
tains, and the Supreme
was understood by.the cemmlittee that by his contention, that this is trulv railway
that
The appellant
the interpretation put upen the British legisiation. guise cf railway maintained. it is
legisiation,
under the
North America Act by the courts, there w-as truly legisiation as to civil rights, and, as
an overlappiflg of powers in any case, and such under section 92, subsection 13 of the
Act appropriate te
thiat wltere there is a distinct definitien of British North America
the province.
w'oric, or the aileged
the character of the
The construction of the provisions of the
been
Act of the compiany in question, is not dis- British North Ainerica Act has does frequentnet sem
their lordships. It
tictiy witbin one of the four w-ails of one ly before te recapitulate the decisions, but a
necessary
or the other class, that thiere is stili an over- comparison of two cases decided in the year
General of Ontario vs.
lapping power w-hidi in one case places the 1894, namely, AttorneyCanada (1), amI Tenant
Attorney Genarai of
matter within the provinces, nnd in the vs. Union Bank cf Canada (2), seemas te esother case places it w-ithin tlue Dominion; tablish these two propositions: firat, that there
demain in wvhich provincial and
that there miay be a joint jurisdiction, in can be a legisiatioli may overlap, in wvhich
that Dominion
other words, and so on, and that where
case neither legislation will lie ultra vires,
that if
does occur, and wbere the Dominion legis- if the field is clear; and secondly, demnain the
the
field is net clear, and in such a
lates, the Dominion Act prevails. When 1 two legisiations meet, then the Domuinion lew-as about to argue in that w-ay, the hon. gisIation must prevail.
gentleman answered it by saying thnt the
I have the cases wvhich are referred te,
course of judicial decision w-as ratier tend- there, but I w-i net cite them, because
ing the other w-ay, and 1 sald to him by w-bat I have rend la an epitome of the
w-ay of remenstrance that lie w-as mistakeu proposition. There w-as a misapprehienslon
about th-nt; but lie did not accept my state- as te the kind of legisiative autbority
ment. I would refer him to the latest de- ou the part of many members of the cerncision on the point, w-hich w-as a decision mittee, and I thinli this is putting the
of the Privy Council, to be.found ln appea] unatter rigit, tegether wîth the niosîtion
cases for 1907 sud to tie judgmeut of Lord the Dominion la actualir asserting before
Dunedin, w-ho dellvered the judgment of thE the courts of the country as te waters
court ln the case of the Grand Truuk Rail. which are within the railw-ny beit. and ls
way va. the Attorney Generai of Canada. sufficlent justification te send tuis Bill back
The decision states tint the Dominion Par for further consîderation by the committee.
liament ls competent to euact section 1, Ed
Hon. '-%r. BEIQUE-I desire te offer
VII., and so on. Tiat does flot conve3
out oi oniy one word agaluat this Bill. I entlreiy
much. It prohibits the contractlng
with the remarks made both by the
the part of rallway companies
us!i -agree
tion arose w-hether the !aw in respect o: bou. gentleman for St. John and the hon.
parties w-ho bad contracted ont ln respec' t gentleman for Hastings. The committee
of damages for personai Injuries to thel:r arrlved at a decision on tus Bill after a

998

SENATE

full discussion of the grounds, as to -whether these lands were the property of thxe
Dominion goverument or not. and the
other ground as to the clause being origin.
ally iu the Bill, declaring it to be a work for
the general advantage of Canada. I recollect that the solcitor, representing the
promoters, informed the committee tixat
the clause was lu the Bill, and that it biad
beeni expunged by a sub-coimittele of the
House of Commons, and the Hon. Mr. Emmerson who opposed the Bill, admiltted.
that the lands wvere for the time being
vested lu the Dominion goverament. Therefore, these are flot niew points. For my
part, for reasons that I stated. before, I am
flot influenced at ail by the ownersliip of
the lands, wbether tbey are owned by the
Dominion goverlment or anybody elsp. It
does flot affect thxe question of jurisdlction
to my mmnd, and it seems to me that If this
course is to be approved in this case, after
the Bill has been fuiv~ discussed before the
committee for two hours or more, If we -ire
to send it back to that committee, and especlly whien the report of the commulttee
was merely to, the same effect as thxe report made iast year. I belleve on practicaliy the samne measure, it w!ill be n precedent for a number of Bis wbich may corne
betore this House.

talzen before the Privy Council, where It
'vas decided that they belonged to the pro.
vince, but the Dominion goverilment did not
concede those rights. That is one point.
U4til tke dispute between the Dominion
goverfiment and British Columbia has been
decided by the courts, the case to which
niy hon. friend refers is ne referencý by
whlcb this Senate should be coutrolled or
guided, for the simple reason that we do
iiot know wbat the decision may be. Let
me say that the hou, gentleman evade-d the
point 1 made in reference to the ownership
of the land. Tbere 15 no0 doubt as to tbe
ownersbip of the lands within that beit
orig-inaly; but my contention was that
biaving sold those lands and deedod tbem
to private parties. it brouglt tbem witbin
the jurisdiction of the civil courts of Britisli Columbia.

Ibat is tbe point 1 made,

and the bon. gentleman nieyer touchied it.
Talze the lands that -çere given to the
Canadian Pacific Railway lu the Northwest Territories and Manitoba, that wvas a
concession to, them, and tbey belonged to
them and the lands could not be taxed
uintil they were patented ; but the moment
they were patented, they became- subject
to the local taxation in the province lu
which they were situated, and just precisely the saine is it w1th the lanxds lu
British Columbia. That Is the point I inade
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It Is to whicb my hon. friend did flot refer
only wlth the consent of the House that 1 eitber directly or indirectiy. The caso lie
have the right to say a few words, ln refer- puts as between the Grand Trunk Railence to, the cases cited by my hon frIencl way and the Attorney General of Ontario,
from Toronto. As no one objects, I take Is not a case ln point. It may be prestimpIt for granted that thls House consents tion to argue witb a lawyer who stands
to hear me.. I merely want to point ont bigh ln his profession on questions of tlils
that the cases to which my hon. frlend bas kind, but we do know
from experience that
referred, particularly the one that Ir. now there Is concurrent jurisdiction, as the bon.
before the courts, are flot decided. I slxould gentleman has poliuted ont, between the
like also to call his. attention and fihe at- DominIon government and the different
tention of the Senate to, this fact. We know provinces. Take tbe fishery question, for
that there bas been ln the past a dispute instancebetween the province of British Columbia
Hon. Mr. KERR-Did the hon, gentleand the Dominion government, as to what
their respective rights are la the railway man flot contend that the current of decisbeIt, whlch was conceded by British Coi- Ions was turning now from what It hnd
umbia to the Dominion government ln con- been, and was rather going towardq consideration of the building of the Canadian ceding to the provinces 7
Pacifie Rallway. The Dominion governHon. Mr. DAVIS-I rîse to a point of
ment claimed the right to, the mines and order. Both hon. gentlemen who are now
minerais la that beit. The hon, gentleman ôccupyinýg the attention of the ýChaniber
krnows very well that that question was bave spoken before.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

MAY 21, 1908

u

on its nieritsACTING SPEAKER (Hon. Mr. Bii lias flot been dîscussed
that there is stili information to -be elicited
~ower)-The hon. gentleman from Hastiu favour of the Bill. Now, what are we
iigs. when he rose to speak, asked. the perbelong
House to depart from the poor innocent members who do flot
tiiission of tbe
to bie unani- to that cormlttee to. think of this condition
isuai rule, and that appeared
Are we ln a position to accept
luousl * granted. No one objected, and, of things?
order the word of the hon. gentleman from Torherefore, I do not think the point of
onto, an emInent legal disquisitor on points
s well taken.
of thls kind, or are we to accept the conHou. Sir MACKENZIE BOW.ELL-41n
stItutional views of the hon. gentleman
deforence to my hon. f riend from the West,
is
from De Salaberry, wbose knowledge
Iwili flot pursue this discussion any furon the saine ground!
1equalir fundamental
ther. so far as I arn concerned; but the
For wborn arn I going
should have known, and 1I What arn 1 to do?
bon. gentleman
heir arguments are solid, briglit
If hie bad been to vote.
thilz would have known,
backed up by mien of exýI
atnintwatadbe
~ goganbrlatrnd
~
~
~
paying
perience like the hon. gentleman from Hasta bisfrenta
on iaste tiof tlkiugt
nds cae ings, who is opposed to the Bill, and like
on aised specialk.permison,
another bon. senator of great experlence
tanI lad
efc
1adspecial attentsion
who is opposed to the measure. There are
ha 1f hren
thenow
attndde to
rgtospe
can
that otliers wbo are in favour of it. Wbat
wasainy objection to it, end 1 added
11 do?
If there was aur objection I would not
Hion. Mr. WVATSON-\-Seud it back to the
ag-aLil address the House. 1 have great
and bis comrnittee and get more liglit.
respect for the lion, gentleman
Hlon. Mîr. CLORAN-That is probably the
kuowledg-e of the ruies. I have no more to
say upon the question. It Is for the Senate onî alentive for mue.
Bil,
to say wlietlier tliey will send this
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-No, adopt the retell -1v
back to cornmittee or not. -I can
0f the comrnlttee.
hon. friend tbat lie will bave ai jolly good port
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-But I cannot underfiglit before lie gets tbrough.
stand the position of hou. gentlemen.
Hon. '.\r. Mý%ITCHDLL-I thlnk it is the
Wc have .liad an explanatioli here from the
duty of hon. gentlemen present to get all
ast-a
nil the Cosnie tetlementlemn from
at
the information on this Bill, and the coino.gnimnf
h
te
can procure before
evidence they
ings, Toronto, St. John, De Salaberry, and
rnittee, to defeat or to grant it. and the
others, and tliey are ahl ut sixes and sevens,
pronioters bave sirnply asked to have the
how amn 1 goiug to cast au intelligent vote?
Bill referred back to the committee, and
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Weli, go0 out.
state that tliey bave some further InforHon. '.\r. CLORAX-I will not be so
it would be
mation la regard to it. 1 think
o mybnfindrmStaca frmr Stadaconaf
unwhse to kili this Bill until we bave the er
lion fre1
onor
r
us.
fsever
on the hon.
avor oere for that expression as I was
th
faci ts befor us aud arnla
from Hastings on account of the
to lie ornmtteego'nt-ipman
ferrng i bac
expression used by hlm, because 1 -know
lion. Mr. OLORAN-This discussion lias
the Gaelic wit is responsible for bis utterafforded rnuch amusement to me, and a
ances, and there was not tlie severity of
littie instruction. I find that eminent menitoue wbidli characterized the remarks; of the
bers of the Railway Cornmittee are -putting
bon, gentleman from Hastings the other
their views before this hon. Hlouse la a
night. It cornes to tbis-and it is what
contradictory fashion. We have the -most
1 have been argulug for during the past
eminent lights ou that committee on one
four or lBye years-that when a cormlittee
side. and the most erninent lights on the
makes a report, ut sbould mention the sub-other side. eome tell us that the Bill has
stantial facts upon whicli it bases Its decibeen discussed on Its merits, and should be
sion, and flot leave It to eacb IndivIdual
relegated to limbo. Other erninent menisenator of that committee to corne luto this
bers- of that comrnittee say no, that the
The

1000

100SENATE

House and to give bis view each one contradictlng the other. It shows tbat wben
committees make reports they should give
reasons for their judgments wben they
wish the bonourable Huse to accept It. How
arn I to judge between the bon. gentlemen?
Although I arn opposed to the BIHl-I think
it is one against the best interests *0f this
country, and Is infringing upon the rights
of the provinces-I belleve from the evidence which I have in rny bands, which is
nlot centradlcted, that it is an instrument of
injustice, un]ess otberwise proved before
the cornmittee. I will make It rny business
to attend the comrnittee, and hear evidence
to destroy the Impression rnade on my mind
that this Bil] Is unjust We have men who
have immrense interests in tbe country.
stating that it will work a great injustice.
W'e have the Monarch Lumber Company,
the Tbompson Lumber Ceompany, saying
that their rights are destreyed, and tbat
their usefulness will be gene. I will ask
the prornoters ef this Bill te say whether
their assertions are true or taIse, and I
wil] asiz the cernrittee if this parliament
bas a right to legis]ate on a question wblcb
-althougb I have not ail the tacts before
mue-is apparentlv within the purview and
jurisdictlon ef the local legisiature. These
lire facts of whicb we know nothing. We
who are net members et the cernrnttee are
alewed te go before the cornmittee as spectators but net te discuss-we are allowed,
but we are generally snuffed eut, wbicb
is the result of these close cemmitteesand get ne information.
The cemxnittee
bring- their report bere without any authority whatever, when we know that eut of the
cornmittee 0f forty semetirnes we find a Bil]
adepted by a vote ef 21 te 19. The rnlnerity
on tbat cornmittee bave bad ne oppertun!ty
of giving the reasons wby the vote Is
against the Bill. But the majerity present
tbeir report tbreugh their chairman, and
the Bill Is passed. I say that Io a f undamental errer ln our legislative system. We
sbould give every senator an epportunlty
of knowlng what Is transpiring ln the
ernrnlttee, and when tbe cernmittee make
their reports, the House should be la possession of ail the facts regardlng the case
se that bon. senators wbe bave bad ne oppertunity te attend the meetings of the
Ren. Mr. CLORAN.

cemmittee will be in a position te render
judgxnent honestly, fairly and lmpartia]ly
on the fleer ef the Honse when tbe report
Is presented. That Is my position, and on
that ground, altbough opposed te the Bill
ln its present shape, I wiIl vote that It be
Te-committed te the Railway ComnIlttee,
in order tbat I mtay bave a chance te bear
the arguments whicb are advanced before
that committee In regard te the Bill.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-I tbinkz the bon.
gentleman wbo bas just. speken wl]] vote
agaînst referring the Bill back.
Hon. M-Nr.
CLOP.ÂN--If you give mie goed
reasen.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That is what I intend te de. The bon, gentleman states that
he is net we]l posted, that the report ef the
committee dees net set eut the grounds on
wbjch the report was made.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-No, werse than that.
The .-rounds stated are centradictory.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The report reads as
follows:
The Standing Committee on Rtailways Telegraphs and Harbours to wbom was referred
B. (149), reports as follows:
The preamble of the Billlias net been
proved te the satisfaction et your committee.
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-One party sas-s that,
and the ether says ne.
Hon.

Mr.

LANDRY-The.

commnittee

states that.

1Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The majority states
that.

Hon. Mr. LANDIIY-They report as follews:
The grounds upon which your committee

have arrived at such conclusion are that the
legisiature of British Columbia bas full jnria-

diction te incorporate snch a company as that
which the Bill seeks te incorperate, and te
regulate the works and operations of the
cempany in ail respects, except in se far as
they may interfere with navigable waters, as
te which interference full provision is already
made by Dominion statute.
Ail which is respectfully submitted.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Was that one ef the
reasens fer commltting the Bil] te the special committee?
Were tbey te report on
that, or te report on tbe Bill as a whele?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbey report upon
the Bil] as a wbole. Tbey say it is uncen-

MAY 91,1908

1001

1001
MAY 21, 1908
decision arrived at might have been othèrstitutional, because the Parliament of Canada la asked to do a thlng wblch the pro- wise had those matters been considered.
vince of British Columbia alone bas a right
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-They were considto do.
ered.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-They were not seized
Hon. '-\r. BELCOUWI'-The bon. gentlewith tbat.
man from Yale bas told us that this comHon. Mfr. LANDRY-They were so seized pany is to operate witbin territory whlch
with that point tbat it la tbe ground on is Dominion propertr wholly. That its operOne bon. ations are to be on streams which are naviwbicb they niake thelr report.
gentleman said that because the govern- gable.
Ex ery one knows that navigable
ment bad property In British Columbia, that streamns are within the exclusive jurisdicproperty came under the jurisdiction of the tion of tbis parliament. If eitber of these
federal parliament. If Prince Fushimi, while statements is correct, and if It la so that the
passing tbrough British Columbia, had pur- matter was not fully discussed by the comchased property there, would tbat property mittee, I would have considerable hiesitation
corne under the juriadiction of the Japanese in adopting the report as read.
government? Or, take a case nearer home:
Hon. '-\r. L.NDIIY-But the report aiThe lsland of St. Helen belonga to the DoIndes to that.
minion government. Does any onie suppose
that it is thereby removed from the jurisHon. '-\r. BELCOURT-The facts on
diction of the Quebec legisiature and the w'hîch the committee found that the premunicipal authority? Tbe fact of the gov- amble was nut prox-ed, do flot appear to
ernment bein.- the proprietor of a piece of have been laid before the committee. The
land in a province does not deprive tbe statement is made by members of that
legisiature of its powers witbin its limita. committee that the matter was flot disThe other question raised w-as that the ori- cusaed in the Ilght of the txvo propositions
ginal Bill had contained the, declaration that 1 bave inentioned. Now, if it la so, that
the work wvas for the generai advantage of these lands are altogether Dominion lands,
Canada, and that it bad been dropped from and that the company la going to operate
the Bill before the Bill came to us. But on rivera w-vhidi are w-holly navigable, my
it waa dropped with the assent of Uic pro-* first Impression is that this parliament bas
inoters themaelves. They thougbt they had jurisdiction to pass this Bill, and if those
sufficient grounds for securing this legisla- facts are not established or disproved betlon without that clause. Sureir w-len the fore tbe committee, hoxv can we decide
Bill came to us w-e hiad to consider it as it this question?
How are those whio are
w-as wben introduced bere and flot as it not inembers of the committee to decide
bad been originally framed.
between the confiicting statements made
Hon. Mfr. BELCOURT-The committee here Ibis evening ? I arn not in a position
report that the preamble of the Bill bas not to gîve an inteilic-ent vote, and I shail flot
been proved, because they are not satiafied vote on the question of concurrence. The
that this parliament bas jurisdiction to pass, vote should not be pressed wben a number
the Bill. I have not the advantage of beeig of bon. gentlemen say that tbey have not
a member of the Rallway Committee, and information on which to express an opinconsequently do flot k-now. what discussion Ion. TheF can only get tbe information
took place In the commlttee. The practice by having the matter referred back to the
In both Houses la that unless some reason commlttee. It seems to me that bon. geni. shown to reject sucb a report as this, it tlemen wbo are prepared to vote on the
is adopted. I, for one, would flot attempt question ought to consent to refer the Bill
to depart from that practice, and would back te the conimittee so that those 'wbo
vote for the adoption of the report If I dld are not as enlightened as they are may
not feel some hesitation In doing so. The get further light.
hon, gentleman from Yale bas told us that
Hon. ',%r. LANDRY-When we show that
certain matters were flot presented or diseussed before the committee, and that the those mattera were discusaed la the com-

1002

SE-NATE

SENATE
100-2
nhittee, are we flot entîtled to dernd a
NoN-CONTENTS
vote ?
The Honourable Messieurs
Gilimour,
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-The hon. senator Baird,
Béique,
Landry,
from Ottawa admIts that ho was flot at Bowell
Lougheed,
(Sir Mack-enzie),
McKay <Truro>,
the meeting of the colmittee wlien this Campbell,
McMNullen,
iCis<:uF'ion took place.
Corneau,
Perley,
BUlis,
Poirier,
Forget,
Power.-15.
Hon. Mr. BEIjCOURT-L amn not a rnemberi of the cornnittee.
The Senate adjourned until to-rnorrow at
three o'clock.
Hon. Mr. MýcNMULLEN-The hoD. gentlenian could have been present. If hie
THE SENATE.
liad been there, he would have learned that
the question Yiias discussed on both points
OTTAWA, Friday, May 22, 190S.
that have been mentioned. I voted for the
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
report after hearing that discussion, and I
o'clock.
arn lu favour of concurring in it now.
I
do flot think the Senate should stultify itPrayers and routine proceedings8.
self or the cornrnittee by sending bark aAN
DJU
MET
report of this kind when the colmittee[AN
DJU
MET
has rendered a decision on the matter after
H-on. Mr. MeS WEENEY rnoved that
full discussion. It Is absurd to talk of whlen the Senate adjouru to-day it stand
this parliarnent hnving jurisdiction over adjourned until Tuesday Juue 2nd liext,
any portion of lands in a province, sjxuply at three o'clocLk in the afternoon.
because the property is owned by the Donilion. Mr. SCOTT-I arn advised by rny
nion government. If that position were colleagues that It rnight not be la the pubsound, the Dominion could become pos- lic interest to have suecb a long adjourusessed of any portion of the lands withln ment. I thInk a compromise rnight be arthe lirnits of a province, and thus deprive rang-ed. and the Senate miglit meet on
the province of Its jurisdiction completely. Mouday evening June lst.
I look upon sucli an argurnent as untenHou. '-%r. DOMYIýILLE-You cannot get
able. I shall stand by the report of the here Mýonday.
comrinittee which was adopted after due
and careful consideration.
Hou. -Mr. SULLI-A-N-I have no objection to the rnotion; but I regret very much
The Senate dlvided on the amendmuent, that the indisposition of rny hon. friend
which was adopted by the follow-ing vote: frorn Moncton lias necessitated- this rest,
anîd I hope hon, gentlemen will corne back
CONTENTS:
quite restored to hiealth.
I am sure that
after the assiduous mnanner ln whlch tbey
The Honourable Messieurs
h.-e attended to thelr duticý particularly
Beith,
McLaren,
the hon. gentlemuan frornmu o,
that
Belcourt,
MeMillan,
this rest is well tirned.
At the saine tirne,
Bostock,
Mitchell,
Cloran,
I would advise the hbon, gentleman from
Riley,
Coffey,
Robertson,
Moncton flot to be so Intimate with the
Costigan,
Ross <Moosejaw),
hion. gentleman from Halifax, because he
Davis
Ross (Halifax),
DeVeýmer,
Roy,
cati nover atternpt to keep pace with hlm.
Domville,
Scott,
My object ln rlsing was to state that the
1'
Fiset,
Talbot,
Gibson,
Watson,
Motion which I made yosterday with closed
Jaf ray,
Wilson,
doors. oxtendlng an invitation to the ýSenKerr,
Yeo,
ate to visit Kingston, was not a junkettlng
McGregor,
Young.-29.
McHlugh,
affair, nor was it a festival. The InstiHon. 11r.- LANDBY.

MAY 22, 1908

1003

1003
MIAY 22, 1908
tution In Kingston, wbich is a very ImportHou. Mr. LANDRY-Wbose fault Is It ?
ant part of the inilitia of this country, bas
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know a single
been under a cloud to.a certain extent.
Instance where complaint has been made
Hon. Mr. PER.LEY-Tbis bas nothing to egainst the Bureau that it bas been found
do with the motion for adjournment.
on Iaquiry that they have been at fauît.
Tbey
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-It Is now under They caunot print without proof s.
the control of a young Canaclian, and are flot allowed to, priat la advance while
there is a particular reason why it sbould proofs are lu arrear.
be inspected by a body like this. I tblnk,
Hon. '.%r. LANDRY-Tbey have the
therefore, it would be weli for me to lm- proofs. They were revised and returned
press on the Secretary of State that this weeks ago and we bave flot recelved the
Institution being of such a nature, the gov- revised edition yet.
erament sbould grant at least a certain
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I will make Inquiry.
amount to carry it on. This motion to adjourn prevents my fixing any day with cer
THE BUSINESS 0F TUE SESSION.
tainty, and therefore I must postpone th(
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I
mratter indeflnitely.
I simply desire to
makze the statement that the Invitation I miglit put a less difficuit question to the
I noticed some time ago
bon. gentlemau
gave is not a junketting party at al].
au intimation was given in tbe House of
The motion was agreed to.
Commous that a Bil was to be introdicend
CIVIL SERVICE COMISSION.
affectiug the Civil Service. Wbhen may we
expect tbat Bill ?
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Does the bion. SecreHou. Mr. SCOTT-It bas been- before
tary of State know If the report of the council on severai occasions and changes
Civil Service Commission has been trans- hiave been made la it; but I fancy we shall
bave it wben we uxeet again. I think It
lated into French and prIhted?
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-I am flot aw-are; but wllli be ready to be Issued by tbat time.
I presumne it bas been done.
I tbiuk It It is only lu galley form now, and not
yet revised.
sbouid be printed by this time.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-Then
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I will luove that we
we shall iikely have it 1before next session
be supplied with copies of it.
0 f parliament ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTTh ave no objection.
lion. 11r. SCOTT-I hope so.
PRINTING 0F REVISED HANSARD.
Hon. Mr. FERGU1SON-May I Ak i.
Hou. 'Mr. POWELl-I wisb to say a word what position is the Land Act ? My hon.
about a matter wbicb is cognate to tbe friend wili remember we passed a surquestion brought up by the bon, gentleman veyors' Bill at the beginning of the sesfromi Stndacoua.
The last revised -Senate sion wbichi is dependent for Its practicai
' Hansard'1 wbicb we have received is dated operation, on Its handmaid, the Laud Act,
tbe lOtb Aprîl.
Tbat is more than a montb passiag. Last year we passed a Surveyors'
ago.
This is the worst condition of tbings Bill and bad. to repeal it, because the Land
we bave ever experienced.
OccasionalIy Act was flot brougbt forward. Shall we
tbe revised 1Hansard' bas been a week bave to do It this year again 7
behiud, but in tbe present case it is about
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hast I hgard of
six weeks bebind.
I must say that the It was about a week ago. The Minister of
department of printIng aeeds very mucb to the Interior was asked If It was ready,
be stirred up.
and he said it wàs. I presume wbat lie
Hion. Mr. SCOTT-I am quite sure that meant was that It was ready for printing.
If iaquiry Is made, lt will be found thàt It I do flot know whether It bas been prlnted
Is flot tbe fault of the printiag depart- or not, but it bas beefl finally settléd by
meut.
the Minister of the Interior.

1004

1004
SEINATE

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wbat about the
Insurance Act?
7
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-The hou. gentleman
knows as miich as I do about It. The
commlttee took [t out of the hands of the
government, and It lias been tbere since.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-What about the
Boundaries of Manitoba Bill ?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They are
ferent cases.

dit-

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
One is under
the *Irrigation Act and the other, where
the man went into possession ln 1880 and
made improvements.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It appeirs rather exceptional that the government
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That la in statu quo, shouid sel! apparently by private sale a
school section to Joseph Fisher.
too. 1 hope it wl! be brouglit downi.
Hon. MNr. SCOTT-I presumne it is ini
Hon. M'%r.
FERGUSON-And the Hudson
connection with the sale of some IrrigaBay Railway Bill?
tion lands where the area is larger than
THIRD READINGS.
160 acres. How-ever, I wiii have that InBill (113) An Act to amend the Land formation when the Bll cornes up again.
Tities Act.-(Hlon. Mr. Scott.)
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-UnBill (Z) An Act relating to the W'ater- der the provisions of the Act setting asâle
Carniage of Goods.-(Hon.* Mr. Campbell.) lands for school pur-poses, provision is
BillMM An Act to inicorporate the Sy- made that they must be soid by public
ncol of the Diocese of Keewçatin.-(.Hon. auction. Why is that rule departe1 fromn?
MNl. Ellis.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-These
are speciai
Bill (YY) An Act respecting the Crown
cases. In one case the part- entered inito
Lif e
Insurance
Company.-(Hon.
Mr. possession twenty odd
'years ago, and ini
Lougheed.)
the other the lands are soid under Ihe Irrigation Act, and this property would be
EXCHANGE 0F LANDS BILL.
inciuded ln the area that was soid. HowSECOND READING.
even, I wlll get that Information before the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the qeeoud Bill tak-es another stage.
reading of Bill (163) An Act to authorize
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
the exehange of certain school lands for
wvas read the second time.
other Domninion lands. He said this affects two pieces of land, one reiatIng to GOLD AND SILVER PLATED WAIIE
Joseph Fisher, of 'Millarville, Alberta, and
BILL.
the other to Martin A!tken. In the latter
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
case, the party lias been in possession of
Hon. M-\I. SCOTT
moved the Second
the land from 1880. I presume lie went
on the land not knowing It was school rending of Bill (AA) An Act respecting the
land. The Act requires that these sales Sale and Marking of Manufactures of Gold
shah! not be muade until the Minister of and Silver and Gold and Silver Piated
the Interior selects other lands of equal W are.
He said :This Bill has heen before the
value for sehooi purposes.
House for sevenai years, and has .been
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Can my hion. postponed from time to time.
friend say what Joseph Fisher Is paying
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It Is not prInted.
for this particular section of land ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It lias been printed
severai times. It [s a copy of a Bill tîtat
we passed here, and from time to tie we
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Could rny hion. have held it back because of a disagreefriend, before we go Into commlttee, get ment between the parties ln the trade in
reference to the standard,
whether it
that Information?
shouid be aine or ten carats. That Is pracHon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
tically the only point. They have finý«IllY
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I have flot been
advised.

MAY 22,1908

1005

MAY 22, 1908

1005

agreed to leave it to the government.
I
have nlot asked my colleagues what their
verdict wouid be on this point, but the two
parties were contestlng that particular
question, whetber It would be legal to
Irnport into, Canada gold of less than 10
carats, a very large number of men maintainlng that fine carats was the quality
moat ln demaDd ln Canada, and that di,_pute bas kept the Bill back. They bave
now made a compromise, and It Is Important to have the Bill put tbrougb, because
it Is alleged that the United States, lu consequence of the duli condition of trade
there, Is inunda7ting Canada with an lnferler manufacture of both gold and silver.
Their trade ls duli at the present moment,
and our manufacturera are complalnlng
that they are being undersold by i'"ferler
goods, and they desire to have this PBi1
passed this session in order to protpct
their trade. I hope the Senate will aliow
the 'measure to go through.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What has the
governrnent decided on ?
I
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-1 do not kn,'w.
was one of those who advocated 10 carats.
The bon, gentleman from Beamsvllle put
.a Bill through this House a year or two
ago fixing the standard at nine carats.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-No, ten.
Hon. Sir MÂ\ICKEI\ZIE BOWELThTat
was nlot carrled.
Hon. MNr. SCOTT-No, it did flot go
through the Commons. The first Bill was
not to go hnto operation until it was proclaimed. Then we passed a Bill, la the
begînning of the session, that the former
Act should not go lnto operation until the
firat day of next session. Now we 'nil]
ahlow a Bill to pass which bas the sanction
of both aides, and It la ln vlew of the tact
that they are forced aow to corne to an
agreement, because the advocates of both
the nine nd ten carat standards are auffering from Inferlor gooda that are dumped
into Canada f rom the United States, and
they say: ' Give us any Bill that wli protect
our Interests.'
Hon. -Mr. FERGU SON-Have they agreed
on nine or ten carats ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Both aides snid that
they were willing to take it elther way

now. Deputations calied on me and stated
that they were willing that the government
should make it nine or ten carats.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-What la ln the
Bill?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seema te nme
an extraordinary thing to IntroducP a Bill
on a controversial question, leavlng the
The goveranent may
controversy open.
be as much at sea la agreelng between
themselves as the rival manufacturera
were. I would suggest the judgmcnt of
Solomon, to make it nine and a haif.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I would be quite wifling to heave It to the Senate to decide
when It cornes up. We devoted fully a
month to the measure last year, and we
heard evidence from all parts of the country, and liad petitions read, and the parties could not agree, but we passed the
Bill, and I thilnk it 'nas ten carats thecu.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-And then next year
my hon. frieud froui Beamaville introduced
a Bill In thîs Hlouse fixing it at nine carats,
and I dld not oppose it, because the feeling seemed to be in faveur of letting It
go at that, and so it went dowli to the
other Chamber, nnd it was hield up there,
and the tirne for the Bill to go into operaAs it
tien was extended a f ull year.
stands now, that Bill does not corne Into
operation for another year. The Bill w'e
propose to subrnit at the present tîme
wouid supersede that, and 1 have no objection to leave it to the Senate to say
whether the standard should be nine or
ten carats.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Do I
understand the hon. gentleman to s9y that
there hnd been a conference between the
retallera and manufacturera, and that th,,y
had agreed upon it ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, they agrseed upoa
ail points except the question of uine or
ten carats, and they agreed to leave that
to the government, and I presume they
would wlth equal confidence leave lt to the
Senate. They sald : 1Give us a Bill la
any shape. because our trade la aufferlng

1006
1000

SENATE
SEINATE

from the dumping of United States goods.
Give us a Bill, fine or ten carats.'

book, but not now in operation-that is
what the hon. member means 'by this Bill.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-D]d
they make their representation to the government ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Coiiid
that flot be made before the Senate ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, tbey have made
some chlanges in detail upon n'hlch they are
able to agree, but the main differýence is 'ln
reference to the standard.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-But If we have
not the Bill before us-

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They wrote the government and sent deputations to Interv!ew
the government.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I understood that the retaîlers and manufacturers had mutualiy agreed upon the different
clauses of the Bill, minus the question of
the 9 or û4 or~ 10 carat gold. Then I asked
whether a memorial bad been sent te the
government to tat effect, and if so 'whether they would lay that before the Se.uata so that the members of the Senate
could read it and form their own opinion
as to the terms of the agteement into
whilh they entered.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, well, let the order
be discharged.
The order of the day n'as discharged.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know that
There
it n'as in the form of a memorial.
w-ere letters addressed to the dIfferent
mnembers of the government and thé principal opposing parties, a large firm la Unmilton, whose vien' the hon. senator froiii
Beamsville wanted to sustain. whlch n'as
In favour of nine carats. That manufacturer called on me n'ith one of the miembers
for the clty of Toronto.
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGEED-MNcNaught.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-And they botu then
and there said: 'We n'ant the Bill put
We hiave not ourseives agreeq1
thr-otgh.
whether the standard should be nulle or
Wle are leaving it to the govtexi carats.
erniment to decide. but we arc wiliing to
take the Bill at niine or ten.'

CANADA SHIPPING ACT A'ME.NDM\ENT
BILL.
REPORTED FROM ÇOMMITTE
The House resolved itself into Comnmittee of the 'Whole on Bill (NN) An Act to
amend the Canada Shipping Act.
(Ili thc Committee.)
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe attention of the depnrtmcnt lias becul

calied to an accidentai omission which n'as
made in the Revised Statutes and on n'hich
they sent me this miemorandum:
At the present time there is no penalty for
emphoying an uncertificated master or miate on
inland waters or on the ininor waters both of
whsich are described in the interpretation
clause, for serving as such master or mate.
Section 96 l)rohibits that, but la the
Revlsed Statutes the penalty -was omnitted,
and they desire to correct the omission l
the Revised Statutes and resto're the iaw to
what it n'as before the anudmenit w-as
The section they propose to isert
made.
is as f ollon's:

(a) E-very person ivho, having been engaged
to serve as master or- mate of any ship trading on the inlaad waters of Canada or on the
ini waters of Canada, or on coa.sting voyages, as the case may be, the master or mate
whereof is by this parliamenit required to
have suchi certificate of competence or service,
sails or- takes such ship from any port or
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-When we are place in Canada iii any sucli voyage, as such
reading- the Bill the second time, n'e must master or mate, without being at the tinie
of such certificate
ta
know n'hether it is going to be nine or ten entitledthis and posse-zsed.
parliament required, or who emaas by
We must bc reading the Bill ln ploys any persan as master or mate of any
caratfs.
any such voyage, without first
sonie forni, and we must have that point snoh ship on that he is at the time entitled ta
ascertaining
settied before we can rend it a second time. and possessed of such certificate, &c.

Hon. MNr. SCOTT-I cannot decide non'.
As this merely replaces the Ian' as it w-as
The Bill is in the printer's hands.
before the Revised Statutes wns passed,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If this notice iny hion. fîiend w-i not object to me introcovers the Bill as It is non' on the statute- ducing it non'.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

MAY 22, 1908

lu

man fram the lower provinces-that the
exercise of this power wouid be very injurious to business lu the lower provinces
where we have a sbortage of persans qualified ta act as masters and mates; and ln
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- order ta remove a donbt whlch I think
It is mentioned ln the clause ta wivbch tbis may exist as to, the power of the minister
is atteached; I move the Insertion of that to limit bis refusa! only ta certain parts of
clause.
tbe country, 1 move tbat this be added as
a subclause ta 75A:
The motion was ndopted.

Hon. '-%r. IOUGHEED-No, but I would
point out to my bion. friend that if that be
tic amendment and the penalty Is not mentioned-

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTMy bon. f riend opposite called attention ta
This Is the explanation whicb
section 35.
Tbey say
the departmcnt bas submitted.
that the wreck commissioner deals witb
certificates only if the case be removed
f rom bis court; if lie is prohbited fromn
giving judg-ment, an incompetent or careless master, mate, pilot or engineer may go
on exercising bis calling, until a suit for
damages ln' the Admiralty Court is deterniined very likcly mouths afterwards. Tbat
clause is intcnded ta prevent the interference by certiorari or otherwise; but then I
It
cal! my bon. friend's attention ta it.
does nat prevent suits for damages being
The
entered in tbe Admiralty Court.
wreck commissioner bas no power to try
Perbaps my hon. friend wlll walve
suits.
furtber objection now, and If lie finds anythlng seriouslv wrong, his objection can be
renewed in the Commons. The only other
clause that was in doubt was clause 3. I
referred ta tbe minister on that subjeet,
and the explanation lie gave was that this
clause need not be exercised of necessity,
but that lie desires ta bave the power in
case it may be necessary ta use it for the
protection of our citizenis wba miglit lie luterfered wlith by thec action of the United
States authorities. The minister desires,
bowever. to have that clause passed.
Hon. M-\r. POWER-I quite understaad
the position, but, after aIl, Uic view of the
minister. wben you corne ta interpret a
It may be held
statute. may not prevail.
that the minister's Interpretation is nat
the correct one, and I tbink this provision
Is of sa mnucli Importance that there sbould
be no doulit as ta the power of the minister
ta limit tbe prohibition, so ta say. I pointed out. 1 think on two occasions, and my
view was sustained by other bon. gentie-

Such refusai may apply to eil Canada, or
may apply te one or more provinces, ports
or places, at the driscretion of the minister.
That is a provision that can do no harm,
and it wiIl remove ail doubt as to the minister's power ta exempt the lower province
from the operation of this clause.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
may say I called tbe minîster's special attention ta the hon. gentleman's suggestion,
but, after full consideration, the department were of opinion that It would flot be
advisabic ta limit tbe restriction ta certain
Any sucli procedure, tbey say,
provinces.
would render the prohibition practîcally inoperative. inasmuch as It would be possible,
if a man were refused an examination iii
Ontario, ta go to some otber province and
I would suggest ta my lion.
get onc.
friend that hie will allow tis ta pass, and
lie could have the matter brought up, and
perhaps more fully discussed, ln the lower
I amrn ot able ta accept the
Chamber.
amendment.
LOUGHEED-I cannot sec any
Hon. M-Nr.
possible reason for my hon. friend's amendment. It seerns ta give the widest possible
power ta the minîster. I presume my hon.
frlend bas the greatcst possible confidence
iii the ministers of the present day, nt any
rate.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWEL-But
they may not continue.
Hon. -Mr. POWEll-I move the adoption
of the amndment, and it can be voted
down.
The amendment was declared lost on a
division and the clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. WILSON, from the coinmittee,
reported thc Bill ýwth amendments 'wbicb
1were concurred ln.

1008

SE--ýN-ATE

1008

SENATE

SIGNAL DUES AT HALIFAX BILL.
IN COMMITTEE.
The House resoived ltseif Into the Coinmlttee of the Whole on Bill (152) An Act
respecting Signal Dues at Halifax.

is on behaîf of these fromn the Halifax Board
of Trade. The tax on big ships and ocean passenger beats is not objected to, those connected with them getting the benefits and

appreciating them.

If the whoie tax were abolished the signal
station at Citadel could be dispensed with and
the pay of the staff of signalmen would be
saved to the department. The signal staff at
(Ir' the Commlttee.)
Camperdown could aiso be dispensed with, and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The earliest legisia- the Marconi wireless 'station *nst beside
tion on the subject was lu 1859, w-,hen Camperdown could wire to, the C ntrai. telephone station in this city. The circuinstances
what were known as colonial dues of five are as above stated. The age of the signai
shu1lingý were Imposed on every vessel station, since 1749, and the benefit 'te people
who have business with the mail
would
apparently without regard to size.
Sub- justify the retention of the signal boats on big
tax
sequently, an Act was passed cbanging slips, and the signal officers at Citadel and
that to a higher duty. Frein turne to turne Camperdown.
legisiation took place. As far back as
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN, from the commitchapter 634 of the Act of 1859, a resolution tee, reported the BiII witbout amend''ent.

was passed by the Halifax Beard of Trade
asklng the goveruiment to exempt vessels
of 150 tons and under. Nothing secins te
bave been doue witb that. although representations and reports have been made
frein turne to turne.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-By
those dues now coilected ?

whom

are

MEAFORD HARBOUR BILL.
ICOMMITTEE.
The Hlouse resolved itseif inte a Coinnîittee ef the Wnhcle on Bill (15S) An Act
respectîng Meaford Hnrbour.
(Ili the Committee.)

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The year before confederation, the pariament of the old province of Canada made an appropriation for
a harbour in whnt was then known as the
towvnship of St. Vincent. It was before
the town ef M-\eaferd was estabiisbed. The
money hiavinig been expendecl, necessarily
expressed the opinion tbat the charge ought
mnade it iu these days n public harbour.
te be rernoved altogether. I have bere a
'When Meaford grcw up, tbe people of the
letter dated Marcb 2, 190S, wblcb gives
town naturally teck, charge of the harbour
the reasons for keeplng lt up. The writer
and niobody seemns te biave interfered witb
says:
thein.
They have spent a good deal of
As to the service rendered I beg to state nioney on it, and the object of this Bill
thqt Militai-y Outlook at Citadel Hill has for,
over a century kept watch for vessels entering is te 'transfer te the rnunicipaiity any
this harbour, and in conjunction with the riglit the geverument may bave ln the 'baroutlook party at Camperdown near the xnouth
of the harbour, lias kept record of vessels pass- heuir.
ing Halifax geing east or west. In the day
Houn. Mr. LOUGHEED-Does the geovtime certain flags or balls give notice te the
merchants and citizens of vesseis off the bar- ernient get any revenue eut of this barbour, and when vessels were entering, the
bouse flag of the ship was displayed and the bour ?
owners made ready to receive them.
Since
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbey Impose touls.
telephoning euperseded flags and liglits; the
work i's now doue more easily, but as large
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Dees the révships corne, especially mail boats, many other
Seople than the owners or agents desire te enue cover the expenditure ?
now. Customs officers, post office officiais.
cabmen, wharf employees, port physicians and
Hlon. '.%r. SCOTT-I think se.
immigration and railway people are able to
attend to their duties till ship arrives, and are
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI,-Tbere?
net required te hang around the landing pier
for hours awaiting an unreported vessel. This are many of those barbours ln the west
notifying does not apply to schooners or evea
sailing vessels. Really no services are render- where they have power to lmpesA tolîs,
ed for tihe last-nçamed vesseis. The oomplaint but thiey are under local control excluslvely.
Hon- Mr. WILSON.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-By tbis geverninent.
A great dcal of correspondence bas taken
place as to the necessity of keeplng up
the station. It Is a point knewn as -Citadel
Hill. One bon, gentleman ln the discussion on tbe second reading of this Bill.

MAY 22,.190S
Honi. Mr. LOUGHIEED-A-,l the petition
sks for is the administration and ftie con.1
Wbat precedent is
over the harbour. Anything thnt lias beeti tr-ol of the harbour.
iere for vestiuig iii wlîat one miglit terni
douc there lia-, been voluntarily contri- fi
a rural mun icipality an important barbour
buted by the town.
f this character
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,--Are 0
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It lbas only becoîne
fie dues which are collected af Me.iford
nportant because the Grand Trunk Railcontrolled and expiended by the hiarbour il
~ay is making it a terminal. and important
commissioners or do fhey corne iuto the '%'
raffic is gro-%ing up there.
fei
governinent?
Hon. 3fr. LOT'GHEED-Tbat iakes the
3fr. SCOTT-No. the biarbour Is
Hon.
.olicy more questionable.
p
for the benefit of the town.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The People Of Mýeaautbority
no parliamentary
ford have

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-So f ar. the goveruilent of Canada have taken no iuterest
v batever ln the harbour. Sinice confeder ation the goveruiment bave not expended
a ny money there. The spirit of the towil
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
as led tim f0 say: 'Thougl we bave
Hov. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELT-TlieI io authority, %ve will go ou and improve
miner barbours of Ontario are orgaulized
lie harbour.' They have done so, and this
uxîder an Ac-et cf parliameut the sLtle- als Bill is carrying ont tlie Nishies of the
ti.The dlues aud f0115 aire regufflated
people and g-iviug them control.
by the law under whichl tbey net, bat tlie
soeni to
Hon. Mr. ROSS(aia~I
mneys collected are appropriafed by the
which are appoint- me that the people tiiere have been lef t
barliour conîmissioners
of
ed by flic governmient for the beliefit of [ike our tirst parents, f0 the freedonm
By
their own wvi1I f0 do w-bat they like.
the harbour.
this Bill everytbing but the ownirsh!p is
lion. Mfr. SCOTT-This is differévnt. The
t-ransferred to the municipality.
governmeut of Canada thouglît it necessary
Hon. Mr. SCOi, 1-They are entitled to
f0 have a liarbour iu thaf part of Geora considerable if. The dues that they impose wili have
bay and expended
gian
uponi if before confederafion. The to be approved by fthc Governor l C4'unaniioun
township also seeins to hiave speîît nioney, cil.
of
peofflHon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Thie
but there Nvas no parliameufary autlîority
involed f0 regularly place the town of Meaford made this harbour.
Meaford. wlien it becaîne a fown. lu conHou. '-\r. SCOTT-Practically. The flrst
The spirit cf fIe
trol of tue harbour.
nmouey was expenlded by the old goverlipeople prompted tliem f0 volnntari.ly- con- nment, and 1 fanicy it was very littie.
tribute from year to year towards the
Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELL-M.ýy
iniiprovemieuit Of the harbour, and fuis legislion. friend froin Nova Scof la is looking
lation is for tue purpose of transferring
the ownersbip of if virtually fron flie upon the- barbours of Outario very mucbi
in the saine ligbit as fbe barbours of the
governmnu f0 the municipal counicil.
lower provinces. We should lic very glad
Hon. 3Mr. LOUGHEED-I would point iiideed if the governiuent w-ould net toont fliat apparenfir the Crown is îlot di- wards us as they do towards fhe maritime
vesfing itself of fIe properfy in thc har- provinces in this particular. Thiaf lq. rnakbour, but is transferring the control f0
ing -the iîarbours and dredging thein out
fhe municipality.
at the expense of the country. UnfortuHon. Mfr. BELCOURT-In wbonî will nately for us, we have had to do ail thaf
fthe title of fIe barbour le vested ?
This hiarbour, like
af our own expelse.
SCOTT-Iin the municipal many others on the lakes. has been conHon. 3fr.
council. Tliey wîil make tbe by-laws and sfrucfed and maintnined and improved at
thc expense of the local residents, and now
practically coutrol if.

Hon. '.fr. LOUGHIEED-It is proposed
f0 vest the hiarijour l the municipalîty
and let thein administer if as a municipal
properfy.

REVISED EDITION

1010

1010
SENATE

the proposition is to give the municipality
more poxver in order to enable themu to
make the barbour safer, and that too flot
at the expense of the government, but at
the expense of the people who use the
harbour.
1 wisli tliey would adopt the
sarne pollcy here that tliey apply In the
lower provinces;
lt would give us an
expenditure of tbree
or
four liurdred
thousand dollars that we do flot get now.
Hou. Mr. ROSS (HaIfax)-Spealdig of
the liarbour of Halifax, in which I arn
more directly interested than anyv other,
we do flot get money for dredging.
The
only public monley spent there is for the
public service, for the mail
and
trade
steamers bet-ween Great Britain and Hallfax in the winter time.
The Lord bas
given us the benefit of a good harbour
that we can sal in and out of it at ail
times without a shovelful of dredging belng reQuired.
Hon. -'%r. SCOTT-The municipal eoincil of Meaford have sent in a certificate,
showing that they have expended during
the years I have mentioned $13.507.
The
wliole expenditure lias been practlcally
tbrough the enterprise of the town. Tliev
have built up the harbour and aire entitled to the control of it.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK, from the committee. reported the Bill witbout amnendment.
The Senate adjourned until Tueisday,
the 2nd off June. at tbree p.m.

THE SENATE.
OTTAwA, Tuesday, June 2, 1908.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree
o'clock.
PrayerS and routine proceedings.
DIVISION 0F LEGISLATION BETWB'EN
HOUSE 0F COMMONS AND SENATE.

by a more equal division of the initi-itioa of
private and public legisiation may be secured
between the two branches of parixament, and
adoptiag rules governing debate which will
limit the time of discussion so as te better
expedite business.
Be. forwarded to the bouse of Commons by
the proper officer of the Senate..
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I was
under tbe impression that the feeling of
senators was averse to proceeding witb this
motion any furtlier,.and it was understood
by many hon, gentlemen that the resolution would be allowed te drop.
I hope
the lion, gentleman from Wellington will
flot proceed.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Oh, yes, I malze
the motion.
Thie House divided on the motion, which
ivas adepted on the following division:
Contents:
The Honourable Messrs.
Baird,
Beith,
Béiqiie,
Campbell,
Cartwright
(Sir Frederick),
Casgrain,
Cioran,
Comeau,
Derbyshire,
Domville,
Douglas,
Gibson,
Jaffray,
Kerr,

McDonald
(Cape Breton).
Mcllugh,
MeMalien,
McSweeney,
1?îley,
nos,~ <Halifax),
Ross (ihddlesex),
Roy,
Scott,
Shiehyni,
Talbot,
Thibauneau
(D La Vallière),
Watson,
Young.-28.

The IL) -ourable Mes
Non-Contents:
Boucherville de,
McLaren,
Bowell
MNCMillan,
(Sir Mack-enzie),
Mitchell,
Davis,
Owens,
Edwards,
Perley,
Ellis,
Poirier,
Ferguson,
Power,
Kirclihoffer,
iRobertson,
Legris,
Thompson,
McKay (Truro),
IWilson.-19.
DELAYED

RETURNS.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-May I ask. my
hon. friend the leader of the House. If
Hon. 'Mr. MeMULLEN moved:
that return of whicb I spoke last week
That a copy of the resolution passed by the bas yet been received ?
Senate on the l9th instant, as follows:
Resolved that the Senate deems it expedient
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, it lias net, I arn
te invite the House of Commons to co-operate
with it by means of a joint committee to con- sorry to say. It lias been prom;sed from
sider the advisabilityofdivising methods where. time to time. I can do no more than reIlon. Sir MACKENZT1R IOWELL.
MOTION.

JUNIE 21 1908
He proquest It. They promised to send me a Killarney hias called attention.
poses, I believe, to move an amendment
part of It, but they have not sent It yet.
whlch I consider would be quite reasonTHIRD READINGS.
able.
Bill (NN) An .Act to amend the Canada
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-At the end of clause
Shlpping Act.-(Rt. Hon. Sir Richard Cart- 5, I move that the words be added > 1Exwright.)
cept subsection 2 of section 14.' Ail the
Bill (152) An Act respecting Signal Dues other clauses are repealed and I wlsh to
at Hall! ax.(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
retain that subsection. It provides that
Bill (158) An Act respectlng Meaford Har- when the welghmaster finds a car bas been
bour.-<ýHon. Mr. Scott.)
damaged on Its wiy to a terminal elevator,
he shahl make a note o! It and report the
SPRATTE DIVORCE BILL.
same, as was provided ln the former Act
SECOND READING.
It la a very necessary provision, end mnasHon. Mr. PERLEY moyed the second mucb as lt ls flot lncluded. ln the other
readlng of Bill (BBB) An Act for the relldt Act, I ask to bave thîs retained lu the Grain
Act.
of Hattie Spratte.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I give notice to Uhe
hon, gentleman lu charge of this Bill tliat
when the third readlng of lt ls moved, 1
shaHl cali tlie attention of the Senate to
the substance of the evidence and see if
something cannot be done. to have the Bill
rejected.
The moion w-as agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second Urne.
MANITOBA GRAIN ACT ÂMENDMENT
BILL.
IN COMMITTEE.
The bluse resolved itseli into a Conimlttee of the Whole on- Bill (ZZ) An Act
to amend the Manitoba Grain Act.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTAil the rest Is repealed wlth the exception
of subsection 2 of section 14, I understand ?i
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Yes.
The amendment was agreed to, and the
clause as amended was adopted.
On clause 9.
9. Section 19 is repeated, and the followens
substituted therefor:,

19. No discrimination shall be made between
persons desiring to avail themselves of warebouse facilities.

2. Every publie terminal elev-ator warehouseman in the Manitoba inspection division shall
receive for storage any grain tendered to him

la a dry and suitable condition for warehousing, in the usuel manner in which terminal
elevators are accustomed to receive grain in

the ordinry and usual course of business.
3. Grain so receive-d shahl in ail cases be
inspected and graded by a duly authorized
inspector and shall be stored withi grain of a
On clause 4,
similar grade.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT4. AUl grain billed to any public terminal
the
This, as hou. gentlemen wlll notice, In- elevator within leave Manitoba inspection divithat inspection division
sion shall not
cludes eastern transfer elevators. ~h
without being officially weighed and cleaned,
purvlew of the Act at present is confined unless by the consent of the shipper. ware
5. Every eastern transfer elevator
to Manitoba, and the terrltory west of houseman shall receive for storege western
Port Arthur. This extends lt to the east- grain tendered him through the oidinary channiels of transportation, in the usual manner
eru transfer elevators.
in which eastern transfer elevators are secustomed to receive grain in the ordiaary and
The clause was adopted.
usual course of business, and in such parcele
Ou clause 5,
or lots as are shipped.
6. Every esstern transfer elevator wareSir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- houseman shahl keep a true a.nd correct record
Hon.
This repeals certain sections which refer of each parce or lot of grain received bZ him,
noting the namne of the boat and number of
to welg-hmasters. These are ail inclnded the hold from which taken, or the number of
In the Inspection and Sale Act whlch covers the car, the billed weight, the actual weight
by him and shortage or overage.
eastern and western divisions witb onsý as weighed in of the bin in which stored, and
*Fhe number
exception to which my hou. friend froin in case of a transfer in the elevator the num-

(Iu the Committee.)

1012

SENATE

SENATE
1012
Heu. MNr. SULLIVAN-If we leave eut
ber of the bin to which transferred, the date
of shipment out of elevater with the number the words 'Net dlean,' It would be mucli
of car or name of boat and number of hoid; better, and we would net be iegalizing
and in ail cases where a certificate of grade
accoxnpanies a lot or parcel of grain the this iniquîty.
identify of such certificate with the lot or
parcel of grain shsall bo preserved. Hie shall
Hon. '.%r. PERLEY-Suppesing I ship a
keep a correct record of the naine of the ehip- cariead of grain, and It cornes te Fort
per, the party to be advised of the shipment
That Is a terminai elevator.
William.
and the consignes.
7. The identity of each parcel or lot of west- W'hat wîi they de with it If it is net dlean?
ern grain shipped to an eastern transfer eievator shail be preserved, except that different
Hon. Mfr. YOUNG-My hon. friend does
parcels or lots of the saine grain may ho
binned together when there is not sufficient net grasp the meaning ef the clause. This
space in the elevator to keep the parceis or refera te grain which la beiug shipped still
lots separated.
8. In ne case, whether in a public terminal further on.
elevator in the Manitoba inspection division
Hou. '-%r. PERLEY-It dees net say that.
or in an eastern transfer elevator.
It says: 'The public terminal elevater.'
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThis clause defines the duties of the public
Hon. Nlr. YOUNG-It refers te grain
It embodies re- ieaving that terminai elevator.
terminal warehouseman.
commendations whicb my bon. friend wiil
Hou. Mr. PERLEY-It weuld net go inte
find set out ln the Royal Grain CommisIt is semewhat lengthy, but the terminal elevater there at ail.
sion report.
It was very fuily discussed at a joint meetIf My bon.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Oh, yes.
ing ef ail the parties concerned, and tbey friend fromn Wolseley shipped a car ef
finaily acquiesced ln It as It stands.
wheat, billed it te Fort William, and afterHon. Mr. YOUNG-I propose te meve an wards cbanged bis mind, and ordered It te
ameudment to this clause te provide that the east, that car wouid corne under the
aIl grain suiail be weighed before It leaves operatien of this clause.
the Inspection division, but shall net be
Hon. Mr. PERLE'Y-But it weuid net go
cieaned uniess the shipper desires it. A
sbipplng feed grain, whielh It into the terminai elevater at Fort William.
man may be
wouid be a disadvantage to dlean, and
It bas te leave
Hon. M1r. YOUNG-No.
therefore I want te provide that whiile it the inspection division.
shall be obiigatery te bave it efficiaiiy
Hon. Mr. PEDRDEY-If it is shipped ln
wcighed, It siiah only be çleaned by conHe shail the boat, it bas te leave the inspection
sent ef tlie ewner ef the grain.
have tbe right te say whether It wiii be division?
cleaned or net; but it must be weig-hed beHon. Mr. YOUNG-Yes.
I
fore It leaves the Inspection division.
propose te aniend clause 4 te ma-e it rend
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I tbink. the werding
as feiiows: ' Ail grain billed te any public ef it is very ambigueus.
terminal elevator wîthin the 'Manitoba inHen. 31r, YOUNG-This grain may be a
spection division shall net leave that inquantity ef ents or bariey, or it ny be
spection division witbout being officialiy
or anything else, and yeun must
weiglbed, but net cleaned uniess by consent feed w-beat,
net enferce clining- under ail circu!nof the shipper.'
stances.
Hon. -Mr. CAM-%PBELL-I de net like that
Hon. 'Mr. PERLEY-This clause refers to
I tbink It shouid be
phraseelogy at ail.
wheat.
If grain requires cleining
left ns it was.
whv sheuld It net be done?
Hou. Mr. YOUNG-No. It refers te ill
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It may be fer cattie grain.
food.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-If Rt is put inte nu
cornes elevater wbere there is other grain it bias
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Gran
down very dirty, and it sbould be cieaned. to be clined.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG

JUNE 2, 1908

1013

1013
the wbeat the owner sbould lie paid for it,
and tbis clause was lnserted for iiat' purpose. So far as putting lb In the banads of
tbe 'Inspector, you find the quantity certlfied by the bIspector.

JUNE 2, 1908
Hon. Mr. Y'OUNG-Oh, yes, but this does
flot toucb that class of grain at ill.
The subclause as am, nded - was adopted.
On subclause 10,
10. Every public terminal warehouseman in
the Manitoba inspection division shall pay or
make allowance ta the owner for aIl domestic.
grain of a commercial value in ecreenlage, as
set forth in section 135 of 'The Inspection and
of the
Sale Act' as amended by chapter
atatutes of 1908, to the quantity assessed b>'
the inspector.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-This la a very difficuit clause to work out, as you can readiiy
understand from the tact that somietimes
the percentage of domestic grain is s0
smali that It may not bie wortb wbile to
keep an account of It. The cost of sepa-.
ration may bie more than the value of the
I
domestie grain taken out of the car.
move that the clause bie amended lby aýddlng after the word 1screenings'1 the following: 'On ail cars graded by the Inspector
cieaned to dlean for domestic grain.' That
la, I wouid place on the shoulders of the
inspector the duty of decidlng whon cars
contain sufficient domestic grain to warrant tbe cost of cleanlng. Under section
135 of the Act the ixiipector must on bis
certificate place the percentage of dlrt
wbicb a car may contain, and wlIlcb the
terminal warehouseman Is supposed to dlean
to make tbe car grade the grade for which
bie bas given bis certificate. I tbought tbe
clause would be more reasonable and satisfactory, to place tbe duty on the inspector
to mark, a car 'dcean to dIean ' for domestic
grain, wbich ivouid bie a notice for the
terminai elevator that tbey had to account
We
for the domestic grain in that car.
know that there are some kinds of domestic grain whieh we cannot separate, sucb
as barley from 'a-lent. It could fot beseparated at the terminal, and it would be unfair to tbe terminal man to compel hlm to
pay for sometbîng lie couId not get out,
and wbicli would flot be of any use to
bim.
Hou. Mr. DAVIS-Wben a car of grain
ls going down nowv If lb ts markcd by Vie
Inspector at Wyinnipeg 'dlean to. dean'1 it
la a notice to tlie elevator. The object of
this clause ls wliere for instance oats gets
into wlieat. 'a-len the oats is taken out of

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-You bave tu elbber
trust the elevator man or the inspector,
and I prefer to trust the 1nspector.
HEon. Mr. DAVIS-I tblnk ive sbouid
lenve the clause as It la.
Tbe clause was amended and adopb ed.
On tbe lltb subelause.
il. Every-public terminal warehouseman in
the Manitoba inspection division shall insure
against fire, with companies satisfactor>' to
the commissioner, and to an amount approved
of by the commissioner, all grain received,
handled or stored by him.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Is bie only going to
lnsure sgalnst fire ? Grain may bie damaged otherwise Vian by fire. For lust:ince
an elevator might burat
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHI-TThat la ail I tbink we can do ut present.
_Hon. Mr. DAVIS-A man ls lcensed. to
run a terminal elevator. Suppose sometbing
should occur by wbicbi the owner uZ g~rain
I
In tbat elevator sbould sustain ,oss.
hiilc we sbould lie Insured against bliat
as well as agalnst bass by fire.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWIIG HTI aut afrald we could not go furtlier.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Will Vie words: 'To
au amount approved of by Vie commissioner' relieve Vie companies of any responsibiIity sbouid tbe amount approved b>'
the commissioner not bie sufficient to cover
Vie lbas ?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIt wouid not relieve thie company. lb mizlit
possib]y relieve the warehousemian._
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I am afraid it would
relieve the company If the approval of the
commissioner is required. The company
amount lie approved of. In Vie case of
an elevator lb 15 dililcult to follow the lnsurance, because the. elevator may lie full
to-day and biaif empby to-morrow and full
again the next day. The quantitles Vary,
. and I sliould like, to see the responsibliby

1014

SENATE

SENATE
1014
of keeping up the insurance placed on the fair to other companies who would bie
terminal wareliouseman who la there and willing to insure fixe grain.
knows fromn day to day the amount and
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTvalue of the grain in the elevator.
Ail I can say ls that this matter was very
HSon. Mr. DAVIS--But the terminal ele- thoroughly threshed out between -ahlfixe
vator man, If hie dld flot consider It neces- parties Interosted, grain growers, bankers,
sary to put enough insurance on, is flot grain agents, and everybody represented,
always a responsible man. He hag mil- and tbey took no particular objection to the
lions of dollars worth of grain pass tbrougi commissioner having the power tg veto difSome companles are not
bis elevator, and the publie must be pro- feront companies.
tected. What have we the warehouse com- quite su good as othors where a large
missioner for, If we do flot put some respon- amount of property ls concerned.
slbillty on hlm?
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I think the words 1to
thxe amount approved by the commissioner,'
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe commIssioner would decide what insu- are ail right, because that oftcial knows
rance shohld be put on thxe grain, and ho exactly the quantits of grain that [s In the
would bie guided by the circumstances of elevator, and thxe amount that would bie
necessary to Insure the grain for; but surethe case.
ly it [s going a little bit too, far to place
Hon. Mfr. DAVIS-I think the clause is ln -the hauds of the commissioner thxe deail right as It is.
cision as to whlch Insurance company these
Hou. Mr. POWER-If the view of the people should insure ln.
bon. senator from Kiiiarney la correct. thxe
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I do flot think it
better way would be to striko out the makes much difference, bocause they find
wcrds: 'And to an amount approvedl ot it difficult enougli to get companies to lnby the commissioner.' In fihe case ot Insu- sure fixe grain.
I do not thlnk the coinrance generally the owner himself Insures. missioner could reject a single Companly,
He fixes the amount but hoe cannot recover because they require to insure ln them ail.
for more than the amount of the loss.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I move that we IuHon. Mr. YOUNG-Not lu terminai ele- sert thxe word 'fuIly ' after the word
vators. They are ail now insuring grain ' shall' and tixat we strike out the word
within their buildings, and it is of great «and to the amount appror'ed by the coinThis clause mens that they
con1soquonce tixat they should bie clxarged missioner.'
with the responsibiiity. Take a terminal shahl Insuro for the full amotint.
olevator company that bas two or tiroee
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRI'GHTbuildings. Whon a shipper ships grain hoe I should somewhat doubt-aud I would
does not know ln wbat building It will direct my hon. friond's attention to thisbie stored; the grain may bie put ln any whether It would not bie wisor to leave this
one of the three elevators, so that the ter- power to the commissioner, because the
minai elevator man is ln a botter position tendeacy lu somne of these terminal elevato keep the grain fully insured ; lie is rigbt tors Is not to lnsure sufficiently.
on thxe spot and knows what is golng- on.
DAVIS-Heur, hear.
Hon. M.%r.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Does this al)ply to
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTtermInal elevators oniy ?
I am also told that there ls considerabIe
Hlou. Mr. YOUNG-Yes.
difficulty lu gettiug the requisite amount of
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-This clause gives the Insurance.
commissioner power to favour any InsurHon. Mr. DAVIS-Botter louve It alone.
ance company hoe chooses. Wby should the
Hon. Mr. WATSON-We migbt add thuat
commissioner decide what company wouid they shail fully insure against fire.
be. satisfactory to hlm for the insurance of
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-ThB-t would lio botthe grain?7 It simply gives hlm a power of
ter.
discrimination which I do not think wll ibe
Hon. Mr. YOUNG.

JUNE 2, 1908
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIn many cases the insurance companies
will flot Insure for the full value.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-That is the trouble.
You have to leav'e somne discretion with the
commissioner.
He la a hlgh salaried officer, and, as a rule, grain growers have
confidence Iu hlm.
I should rather trust
the commissioner than the terminal elevator man.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-But the commissioner la flot on the ground.
He Is lu
Winnipeg, and the terminal elevator is lu
Fort William.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-But hie recelves reports.
Hion. Mr. WATSON-I understand the
elevator companies do fully inaure the
grain; they have to do that or the banks
would not handie the business.
Hon. '.\r. YOUNG-It seman to me that
the clause ns it stands Is unworkable,' because if the commissioner approved to-day
of the aniount of insurance ln a terminal
elevator, to-morrow hefore word could lie
sent to hlm, the amount of grain lu that
elevator miglit have donbled, and It would
be a case of continuai approval.
I think
If you charged the terminal elevator man
wlth the respoinsibulity of keepiag the grain
fully insured, and if lie insures lu companies tbat are approved by tlie commissioner, that is as good a safeguard as you
can get.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-It seemns to me if
the words ' Fully !nsure'1 were inserted,
then the wordS 4up to the amount approved
by the commissioner' are unnecessary, liecause y'ou ha:ve put upon the wareliouseman the obligation to, have insurance on
the amouat In the elevator.
The amiount
whlch would be sufficient to-day miglit lie
totally inadequate to-morrow. If the responsibllity for the lasurance la tbrown
upon the warehouseman, the moment lie
knows that a larger quantity of grain lias
been stored lu the warehouse, hie wi Il malce
such representation to the Insurance coinpany, and shaîl be ohliged by law to cov*e
that extra quantîty of grain uiion receilpt of
it and the coamissioner wvould flot linov
anything about It.
Tlîe only inan wlio
actually knows tlue amounit of insurance
required to cover the grain is the warehouseman, and I think hie slould be coinpelled by law to, fully insure.
Then th,,
responslbility Is eutirelv with the inan ivho
takes the grain, and not with the commissioner, who would not lie on the spot. and
would not know.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I would sooner talze
chances wlth the commnissioner.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Thie commissioaer's
office is la Winnipeg and the public termInal elevator miay lie in Vancouver or Fort
William.

Mion. Mfr. DAVIS-I w-as going to point
out to the lion. gentleman fromi Beamsville
that if the terminal elevators of the liresent time were in the hands of the Canadian Pacific Rallway or the Canadian -Northicru Railwny, or of persoaàs we wotild have
absolute confidence in, it w-ould hi a di fferent proposition altogether ; buit tiiese
elevators have heen leased to independenit
companies, some of them straw compales,
no douht about that, and does iny hion.
friend wish to, leave the Insurance of this
vast amount of grain in the bands of peo
pie just by saylng. 'Yon shiail <10 so and
so.' Supposiug you say that the man w-ho
operates the terminal warehouse qball lusure ; and supposing he does not lusure,
and there la a fire, who la going to pay
shippers for their grain ? And if the comnuiissioner is living lu Brandon or Wliunipeg,
surcly there mnust be telegraphic connection between the two places, so that lie
can find ont what Is going on fri
lime te
lime.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Is there no person la
Fort William with wlîom the commIssioner
la ln touch?

Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Under the Bill
as framed, the commissioner does flot insure it.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Supposing- he has iiot
insured. and there la a fire, and the people
lose their grain. what about lt?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Supposing thie elevator man has insured and the comnîissioiier
bas approved1 of ItL and thiere la not enougli
to go around.

1016

1016
SEINATE

Hou. Mr. DAVIS-But lie sees that it is
Hon. Mr. WVATSON-I wouid net bave
lnsured, and they have to put enougb in- the cominissioner put the man wb.3 owned
surance on It to satisfy hlm, and lic knows tlie whcat ont of court.
that the insurance is there.
Hon. 3Mr. DAVIS-This
clause is not
Hon. Mr. CAM,%PBELL-If
the word putting hlmn out of court. This matter was
fully' is inserted, and if we strike out fuiiy discussed and ail parties iuterestcd
the words ' te an amount approved by the lu tlic west were heard. Thc grain growiers
commissioner,' I think it will answer tlic aiso are satisfled witb the clause. and I do
not thlul, wc shouid toucli it. There will
purpese.
lic dissatisfaction if w-e alter it.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-If you provide that
Hon. M1r. GIBSON-Snpposiug the vaine
the commissioner shail le notifled every
day of the amount of insurance ng-cessary, of the grain rose 10 te 15 cents a busbei
and sè that there is proper protection, 1 aifter it bad heen piaced in the elevator,
sbouid it not lic incumibent upon the wareshould lie satistied.
lieuse man te increase the amount of the
Hoa. Mr. ELLIS-I think it would bie Insurance ln piroportion te the ilicreased
better to icave thc clause as it is. The value of thc grain ?
question mnigbit continually arise as to wlieHon. Mr. DAVIS-That is bis business.
ther It wvas fully insnred, aud lt wonld
iead to any imount of litigaticu. It is a
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-He -wonld bave te
great deal better te let some official autho- increase the insurauce, in order te keelp it
rity appreve of thue ameunt.
fniiy insured.
Heu. 'Mr. DAVIS-The terminal elevator
man get so mucb for storing and cleafliing
the grain, and it covers insurance and
everytbiug else, but we should bave some
governmeut officiai te see that the grain is
properly insured, and I think that wc had
better leave the clause as it is.

Hon. -Mr. DAVIS-It wenid be very bard
te decide wbetbcr it was fniiy insured, because tlic price of grain miglit cbange twic,in a day, and the insurance wenid h.ave te
lie changQd cenitiually. I think wie bad
lietter icave it in the bands of tbe commissioner.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-If yen are geing te
tlirew the respensihility ou tbe commissiener as to the aunt
of insurance, it:
seems to me tbat if yon went into court
under sucli circuinstances and sued flic
terminal elevator muan for the loss of your
wheat, be wouid plead tiîat the commissioner liad approved of the aineunt of insurance. aithougl it migbit be oiy ziO cents
on the doliar-baîf the I)rice of the wbeat.
My idea is tbat we sbould remove ail doubt
as to tlie liabiity for the insurance on fthc
grain. If the warehouse man wiere te determine the amount of insurance satisfactory te hlm, It miglit lie only 75) cents ou
thec dollar of flic vainc of the wlipat.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRI1GIITAs I understeod tbe situation, it wias semewbat lu this way :Ail parties who appeared
liefore us admitted tbat there was a difficuity lu ebtaini ng absolntely full
insurance.
I thinlz everybody is agreed on

that. If -ive aiiew the cemmissiener te
say te thec ward-bouseman:
'Yeun inst
keep on yenr ivareliouse an insuraiee practicaiiy equivaient te the ameunit of grain,
but yen can boid it at tbe average price;
1 tbink we are geing as far as we can
Mweil de.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Tbe terminai elevater man wenid ebject te tbat and wovuid
say : 'Wbien my eievator l a lf fulil of
grain, I waut onir tîuat amont of insurance, and wbeiu it is tbree-quarters full,
I want tlic proportionate anount.'

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Supposing yen should
sue a terminal warehousemnan who lad not
piaced more than one-quarter of the amount
Possibly tbe bon. Minister of Trade and
of insurance ou the grain t4at lic should Commerce is rigbt as te the use of thc
have donc aud lie was net a man of nucans, word ' fniiy.' If yen strike eut the 'iords:
liow couid yen recover anytbing ?
'Approved of by the commissiener,' yeu
Hlon. Mr. CAMPBELL.

JUNE 2, 1908
would accomplish the object and make lt
safer. In reference to wbat the bon, gentleman fromn Prince Albert (Hou. 31r.
Davis) bas said as to the ].-nowledge tbe
commissioner bas of wvhat was going on. I
refer bim to section 30, which ls amiended
by tbis Bill, wbich coinpe]s the Nvarehousemen to make a statement from time to
thne of tbe amount they bave ln store,
and by the ameudment proposed tbey rnst
state the amount of insurance they are
carrylng, and should they at ny tiine be
carrylng too littie, then the commissioner
sbould lmmediately notify tbern of it and
bave It lncreased.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-The elevator man
bas to deliver the grain lie receives, and
lt is to bis interest to see that it is fully
insured. I have an elevator of iny own,
and I insure the grain before I putt it iii
the elevator. I would not have to get an
insurance on ten thousand bushels if I
only biad five thousand bushels. I plaice
an insurance on five thousand busbiels, and
when I get another tbousaad bushels, I
maise the insurance one tliousand dollars.
I do this ln my 0w-n interest. because if nmy
elevator is burned out and it is only half
Insured, I would be a beavy loser.
I-on. Mm. DAVIS-That is the bor. gentleman's 0w-n grain.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-No, lt is everybody's
grain.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-But the bon. g-entleman is esponsible for it.
Hon. '-%I. WATSON-I do flot think my
amndment is necessary, and I w'iil not
press ItL I think the words :'Shahl lnsure agaliist fire' will cover the case.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWýýRTGHTI do not object to strike out tbe words:'And te tbe amount appmoved of by tbe
commissioner,' because I see that that may
]end te confusion.
The clause was amended accomdingly, and
adopted.

immediately give ivritten notice of the facts
to the oommissioner and to thz- owner, if tihe
owneres address is kaown.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-flie very same quesIf the commissioner
tion cornes up bere.
is in Winnipeg, and this man is at Fort
William or Port Arthur, bow long would
It take to give notice in writing to tbe
It w-ould
commissioner or the ownor?
Provision should
take four or fixe days.
be made to wire hlm.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-My bon. f riend forgets that the inspector acts at Fort William.
Hon. '.%I. DAVIS-But you use the word
Could be not act in the
commissioner.
case of the insumance as weil?
Hou. *Mr. YOUNG-He is required te
consuit the local inspector or bis deputy.
Hon. 11r. DAVIS-I more that it be
changed to 'comnrissioiier or grain inspector.'
Hon. Mm. YOU-NG-11u the first instance
Then, in additue inspector is notified.
tion, it is necessary to notify the commisIf you strikze out ' commissioner '
sioner.
and require notice te be g-iven to the luspector, it wll be only repeating the notice.
Hon. Mm. DAVIS-I would
missioner or inspector.'

say. 'Coin-

utteisctrs
r.YUG
Ho.
aiready notified.
Hu. :'Mr. DAVIS-But he does net take
the responsibility of orderîng anythin, to
If lie tbinks it is abselutely
be doue.
necessary that the grain sbould be elevated,
to tr3y and cool it, be does so. aud if be
finds tbe elevatiug is not sufficieut to save
the grain, you require hlm to ask the conimissioner w-bat shall be doue with it. Now,
I wvant tbe commîssioner to be notified at
once so that be ean advise tbe owner aud
give bim an oppertnnity to do somethlng
The difficulty I see is that tbere
with It.
is no connection at ail between the first
and second part of the clause.

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Why
,On snbclause 2 of clause 16:
not add the words 'Written or telegraphic.'
2. If it is fonnd, after snch examination, It migbt bappea that the owner iived n
that the condition of the grain is sncb that thousand or two thousand miles nway. and
its fnrther detemioration cannot be prevented it mlgbt be necessary to notify hlm at once
by me-elevation, or if after re-elevation it is
stili out of condition, the warehonseman shall to take action.

SENATE
day, or the day alter. tiiese cash tickets
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHIT1 have ne objection te chanýging it se that may be exchanged lu the way I have miennotice shalI be g-Iven by w-ire or by letter. tioned.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Couid they flot deHon. Mr. YOUNG-It is the practice anyma nd It whien the cash is refused?
way te wire.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-They may. On some
The subclause was aniended and ndopted.
lines of railway there are only three trains
On clause 22.
a week, and as a consequence JI is diffi22. The foilowing subsection is added te cuit to keep nioney at some points in the
section 54 -as subsection 4 thereof:
,country. There is also an aversion on
4. In every case where grain has been delivered at any public country eievator or the part of country inerchants, wblo are
wareheuse, and a cash purchase ticket issued generalsy the paying agents, to, carry
therefor te the persen fi-eni whom such grain large suins of uîoney in their safes. Thiere
was received by the wareheuseman, and sheuid
his paying agent within twenity-four heurs is aise this to be considered ;w hile reafter demand by the liolder, neglect or refuse ceipts may be ruuning day aftcr day iu
te redeein such cash pur-chase ticket. the said
holder raay at once, upon surrender of such quantities requiring eniy $400 or $500 cash,
cash ticket, demand. in exchange therefor a. they may suddeniy increase te quantities
warehouse sterage reccipt bearing saine date
or $4,000.
and place of issue, and for similar grade and requiring $3,000
net weight of grain as %-as shioin on the cash
Hon. Mr. PERILEY-How Nvou]d that
ljpoii return ef
purchase ticket aforesaid.
the said cash purchase ticket te the ware- happen '
housemnan, he shall at once issue in exchange
Hon. Mr. YOUNG;-Through fine weatherefor to the holder a wvareliouse storage receipt of sanie grade and quanltity of grain ther cenling on.
as show n on the face of said surrendered cash
purchase ticket.
Hon. Mr. PEIlLEY-Tliey sheuld have
the miouey there te mneet the emergency.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTTihis refers te the issue ef storage tickets.
Hon. Mfr. YOUNG-The increase of reThere w-as a groat deal ef discussion about ceipts is iargeiy due te climatie conditions.
this clause, and titis is the shape in whidhi The grain may be fit te thresli, and there
it was finaily acquiesced in.
may be a large iniher of thresiiing niaHou. Mr. YOUNG-This is a very iiiiA fariner selis his iond
poertant clause.
of grain, and. gets a cash ticket fer IL. He
gues te the party wlie des the paying, and
sliouid it so happeu that there is no cash
ou hand at the time lie presenlts that cash
tieket-he may presenit at any time that
suits binii-he has the option of coming
back te the eievato- man and changing- the
transaction frein a sale te a case of storNew, tînt is a rather complicated
age.
way of doing business, because in the
country elevators, an elevater eperator
sends te bis principal every night a statement shewing thie amount of grain hie lias
On the basis of that statepurchased.
ment, bis principamls, who inay be buying at
a great many peints, add ut) their purchases
and deai with the selling ef their grain the
Wlth thîs clause as It stands
next day.
they may have a statement made in good
faith that there is se mucli grain purchased
at a certain point, but sliould thère be a
shertage ef cash at tbat point. the next
Bon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEI.T

chines brouglit te the neighbourheod of
the station, and the deliveries in that casio
The ebject
would very largely incýrease.
ef this clause, as I uuiderstand it, is te
pretect the fariner from a grain dlealer whe
may be unable te pay euie hundred cents
en the dollar. The fariner May have seld
bis wheat fer cashi at a satisfactery price.
but if hie finds there is ne cash on band ho
may naturally feed aiarumied as te the solvency ef the cempany ho is dealing with,
and he wants to get hiniseif inte a saler
position by changing the nature of the
transactien froni a cash sale te sterage.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Ceuld hoe net find
eut if the nmoney is there te pay for the
grain b efore hie delivers ?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I propose te imend
the clause by striking ont the words:
'Within tw-enty-four heurs,' and iuserting
inistead :* At any tinie on the day ef Issue.' Then If a lu-n selis his grain at an
elevater and presents bis check for pay-

JUNE 2, 1908

1019

1019
JUNE 2, 1908
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-But there is nothlng
ment and finds tiiere is no money, lie
could change the nature of the transaction. liera te pravent tham chengîng the pay
lu that case, nothing would be disturbed. point.
The operator's statement at niglit would
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-If there was ne time
be correct, because anythlng of this klnd fi-mit, the fiolder of the cash tiecet could
that occurs wfll have occurred before thec aithar change It fer a storage certîficate
report Is made out at niglit, and It leavcs or ha miglit kaap It lu lis pecket for a
the farmner ln a position to take bis choice 1considerable tima. In the meantime, the
if he doubts the solvency of thie company price of wlieat miglit run up tan or fiftaen
lie ls dealing wltli. If lie finds there Is ne cents a busha], and lie couid spaculate with
money to pay hlm, ha can go back to the bis ticket.
elevator and say :'GIva me a storage
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-That is riglit:. but in
ticket.'
the meantima a man wlio lias ne mnoney
Hon. 'Mr. DAVIS-There is no objection te pay for tke wheat wil ba enabled to
to that. The object is to, prevent men who trada on the capital of the fariner. Supare buying grain from trying to finance L)osing lie changes lis payiag peint te
on the fariner. If you allow them to pay soe
place w-liera the farmner cannot gat
for the wheat with paper whicli on pra- to it w-ithin twenty-feur heurs, 100k, et
santation is fennd to be of no value, the the position lie w-ill put the fariner lu.
fariner should be allow-ed te keap possesHou. Mr. YOUNG-Ha weuld neot do thiat.
sien of his grain until hie is paid.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Ha îniighit; thara is
shou]d like
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-I
further censideration of this clause. Would nething liera te pravent him.
this mnake it imperative on the farmner to,
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-If a fermner finds tiiet
take lis ticket to the office and demand lis hae cannot get bis pay frein au agent, hae
cash, and if ha did net get lis cash lie may w-li net sali te that man but go te lus
go back te the alevator and get a storage cempetitor. Ooml)atitien regulatas that.
ticket ? As the clause reads now, lie eau
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-There is ne compatigo and demand bis cash, and If lie dees
neit tlien get it hae can go back et any tue tien around thosa aiev-ators.
and ask te bave the transaction cýhanged.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-I would suggest
WVe should ha more careful lu dealing witli te change the clause by striking eut the
this subject.
If a1
werds 'Wýithiin twenty-feur heurs.'
w-euh] the fariner salîs lis grain and gets a cash
Hon. 'Mr. DAVIS-Whare
ticket, hae might go the salne day and expiyinýg agent ha lecated ?
change it fer a sterage certificate, or hie
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Thie clause is net could keep it if lae liked, and wblen lie w-eut
imperative on the fariner; lia cen de as te demand bis moey, if ha did net get it,
ha ies. Ha can kaep the cash ticket In hae ceuld mnaka the change.
hlis peckat and go homle with It if lie lîkas
Hlon. Sir RICHARD CA-ýRTWRIGH-Tte do se.
The ferm:er is inet cemipelled te accapt anyHen. Mr. DAVIS-But ha is obligad te thing but cash fer lis wheat.
Lt is absemake the change the semae day if lie makres intely et lis owin discretion.
New, this
it et ail.
clause %-as vary fully thrashaed eut, and w-as
Hon. -Mr. YOUNG-If hae finds there Is finally accaptad et the tima by ail the
I speak witl very
ne moey fer lis ticket, hae enu make the parties as it stands.
great diffidence on a snbject on w-bld sevchange.
ai lien. gentlemen hava persenai kiuewlHon. '-%r. DAVIS-TIare Is nothiug liera adge, but It appears te me that w- alid
as -te whara the pay point shial lie.
batter ha rather cautious about altering
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Th-rle pay point Is ai- clauses that have heen thoroughly conways in tha tewn whlera the dellvery takas sidarad, wltliont knewing w-lera the changes
wonld land us.
place-

020

SENATE

Hon. Mr. DAXIS-Better leave it alone
then.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI ama rather anxious to get this Bill to the
House of Comnions where It would be fully
considered also, and I do flot want to eliminate or alter any of the clauses that have
been fully considered, unless a very clear
case is made ont for the change.
Hon. Mr. YOU.NG-I have submitted thc
amnendment heeause I bave bad soine practical experience ini these inatters.
If you
give sncb latitude as is proposed in this
clause to change the whole nature of a
transaction, what bas beenl pointed out b!
the bon. senator froin Beamsville will occur mnu a time-thiat is, a ruan w-ill carry
bis ticket around iu bis pocket for weeks
until he flnds be can mnake a profit ou it by
exchianging it for a storage certificate.
Every (lay a report is mnade fronu the couiitry elevator to the prinucipal, and on that
day the~ bank is arr'anged with and a sale
is arranged.
If youi allow this proposed
change of tickets to be madle within tNwentyfour hours, xîot a single statenient made
either to the banik or to the principal would
be accurate ntil the twenty-four bours
bave passed.
Now. that is not reasonable.
Hon. '-%r. BEIQUE-I appreciate the ohject of the hon. senator froin Killarney, but
I would draw Lis attention to this fact,
that a fariner w-ho bas deliv-ered bis w-beat
late lu the day miay flot have tuine to go
and ask for payment, and theni Le woul
be foreclosed and would bave no meaus of
getting bis wheat back if he could niot get
the cash.
Hon. %Ir.YOUNG-Whien the fariner delivered bis grain hie madle a bargalu an(]
the plice was sett]ed.
It is only n question of faith.
Sonie of the best companies
are at tinies short of cash throughi the
trains not berng frequeuit on the Unes w-here
they purchase.
Hou. -%r. ROSS (M-Noosejaiw)-The parties
concerned la this legislation came to thé
conclusion that this was the wisest thing
to do.
We may try to favoui men wbo
are eadeavouring to do business witbout
mouey; tbe point is. if tbey have flot money
to pay for the w-heat they ought to have It.
MvNl
hon. friend is trviing to mnake out a
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

case where it would be impossible to bave
the cash forwarded to pay for tbe grain on,
this particular brauch.
I live on that
branch.
I know there is a daily train for
passengers and express.
Thiere is a daily
train for grain, and whiere should the difficulty arise in this case?
I do flot sec flint
there is any especial need for changing this
clause at ail.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Are there nover any
accidents on the line. by whîch a train
might be delayed ?
Hon. Mr. YOUiNG-I mention that branch,
because the last time I was up there, they
did flot rua daily trains over it- I coul
mention Unes wbere there are onlyý three
trains a w-eek. That does not iiiterfere
with my staternent s0 far as these hunes
are concerned. But w-itb regard to mny
hon. friend's statemnt about doiugg businiess without mouey, w-ly does lie want to
increase the trne duriug w-hicb thev ean
do business without money- to 24 hours ?
Wbiy bave it one day ? Surely if it is an)
actual case of a dealer not being able if)
pay one bundred cents on the dollar, it i'q
not fair to keep the fariner ont of the pos5session of bis graini for 241 lours.
Hp
should bave tbe absolute right to doiuaud
that grain or the money immediately. So
that my hon. f riend's argument does niot
appeal to lue as being a reasonable one for
the fariner, if there is a jiustification foir
bis fear. Recause if I ain going irîsolvent
la 24 bours, I can have that grain assigned
to îny other creditors and leave hlmii ont
altogether. I think rny imendmpiit is n
proper one, that the farmer should humediately be put lu possession of the cash. on
deinand, or of bis grain.
Hou. '-%r. DAVIS-Take a case under
this Bill Thiere is going to be a prov'ision w-ithi reference to flag stations.
Is a
flag station a paying point ? Supposing
the fariner came in 20 miles witbi n load
of wvheat to a flag station, to the elevator,
and he gets a ticket frora a buyer for that
grain. The payiag point is at a town
twelve miles from the station ; are you
going to force thiat man to go inito the
town and be back by twelve o'clock at
nigbt, to say wbetber Le is going to accept that ticket or not ? I think 24 bours

J UNE 2, 1908
JUNE 2, 1908

is littie enoughi time. Let the clause stand
as it is. It has been well considered.
Hon. Mr. CAMNPBELL,-A farier wiîl
seli bis grain aud get a ticket for it. He
goes to the eashing office, and unless thic
cash is paid within 24 bours after demand
Is mnde, Le can ask to have bis grain restored to hlm. Whien n fariner demands
cash and does not receive it, hie is entitled
to bave bis grain returned to bim qt once.
Hon. '.%r. DAVIS-Supposing -i min Lad
gone around witb a ticket for a week, and
w-leat Lad gone up to two dollars a
busbel ln the meantime, wliere w-orild you
be then ?
Hon. MNr. PERLEY-Twenty-foiur hours
is accommodation enougli, and not n minuite too muelb.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-That tixne is g-iven
to the railway peole te pay, and therefore the owlner of the grain would have to
w-ait.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-And pay "board
for linseif and bis teain.
Hon. '-%r. YOU-NG-TLe amenduneut
I
propose is in favour of the fariner wbo
lias a bona fide case in w-hicb le Lonestly
doubts the ability of the buyer to pay.
Hon. MNr. CASGRAIN-You canuot expect hlmii to wait 24 hours to sec if bcecau
get bis money.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-On a sale being madec
hy a fariner to au elevator nian under the
proposition of my hon. friend f rom Killnrniey, the moment le gets n receipt for
the amount of grain Le Las put ini tbe elevator. Le Las a right to demand thne money,
and if paymient is refused, Le Las thie rigbt
to deiliand a warebouse receipt for tbe
grain to Le beld as Lis own property.
To
give the man 24 Lours to make up bis
mmnd as to w-hetber Le is going to accept
a pay ticket or a w-arehouse n-eceipt, mnigbt
place himi in tbis position. On going back
the next day, for tbe money or for a warebouse receipt le migbt Le told that the
elevator mn Lad assigned In tbe mpantime,
and tbat Le Lad put the grain that Le Lad
boughit the day before out of bis owii
bands, and tbe farnier Las no redress wbatever? . WLen a fariner selis Lis grain,
and bas flot perfect confidence lu tbe buyer

1021

Le should Lave the rigbt, if flot paid at
once, to demand a w-arehiouse receipt. Under the Bill as it stands now, the merchant
or dealer who is supposed to pay for this
grain, may say 'I bave not the montey to
pay to-day, but under the Act I have 24
Lours in w-hicL to pay you that money.'
That gives hlm 24 Lours ihl ivIich le cail
assigui the grain to sonne one else and defraud the fariner.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThere las heen a misapprebelisioî.
The
case as w-as explainled was this in certain
sections of the Northw-est, w-here tiiere is
a great deail of grain delivered, it often
liappens that the grain buyer lias not sufficient money to meet the deînands made
upon hlmn, and the farie-, for lis owîî coinv-enience, clîooses to accept a caslh ticket.
Yen nvill reineiner that nething in tlîis
eau compel a fariner- te part witî luis grain

unless lie receives cash.
If lie takes a cash
IHe mi- take
ticket. that is at bis option.
a cash ticket and heMd it under this clause
for a week. or a mointh. or auy tiune Le
chooses to hold it. only w-lien lie does present it, tbe ageýnt must pay wituin twentyfour hours or must give a storag-e ticket.
That is aIl the clause doeq.
Hon. '.\r. CA.MPBELL-I do niot thîink
tlîey should Lave twenty-four hours.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTTLe trouble is tluat it is ditticuit to. keep
sufficieut amounts 0f meney on band always to meet the necessities of the trade

at points rather distant from banlls or
piaces whiere you cau obtaiîî accommodation; and for that reason buyers were supi)osed to be given twenty-four Iîours within
nvhichi to mmake paynnent; but thils clause
ineither compels the fariner to deliver Ilis
grain without cash, uîor does it compel Limu
to deînand it w-ithin tweîîty-four hours.
That is a favour grauuted to tlue grain pur-

chaser. not to the fariner.
Hon. '.%r. DAVIS-L gives the farmner
the right to go and exchange lis casb ticket
for a wareliouse receipt.
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTBut w-Le» the fariner does demiand it, le
must get Lis cash or lis g-rain.
He is not
compelled by this clause to accept the caslh
ticket.

1022

SENATE

1022

SENATE

Hon. Mr. YOUING-Takie a railway with
one train a day, and it leaves Winnipeg
in the morning before bank bours, and
there was a shortage in cash with the
We will say that
buyers the day before.
that shortage arises at four or five o'clock
110w are you going to
la the afternoon.
get that money in twenty-four hours under
It is impossible. If
the clrcumstances?
you are going to do that make it fortyeigbt liours.

Hon. Mr.
wired from
bank.
Hon. Mr.
tleman will

DAVIS-I coulil get money
the bank In Winnipeg to, any
YOUNG-Surely the bon. gennot argue tbat there is a bank

at every buying place?

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Within three hours of
it.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-There are haîf a
dozen buyers la every town of aur importance, andl I have neyer known, in the
town of Wolseley where I bave liveil for

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThat was suggested, but great objection
twenty-five years, a case where a man
Twenty-four hours was
was taken to Lt.
not get bis cash for bis wheat.
a sort of compromise arranged between the coulil
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Does the bon. minîster
representatives of the farmers and the reaccept that amendmeat?
presentatives of the grain buyers.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARITWRIGHTHon. Mr. YOUNG-You can see that it is
no good, as far as gettiiig a supply of No, I prefer to keci, the clause as it is.
These questions were fully discusseil and
monley is concernedl.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-There are binks all
throiigh that country niow.

this provision was agreed to. If niy hou.
friend desires this matter shonld ho re-

considereil on the third reading, I have no
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The conditions that objections, but I sbould net Ilke to accept
arise ont there are altogether differenit it here.
from the conditions that arise il the east.
Hon. Mr. POWEll-I move that the
We have points w'bere the increaise of grain clause stand.
is very sudden, and a large ainount of
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTmoney is used up after bnniking hours in
one day, and it takes, tbirty-six hours to get
money from some other banking centre. It
cannot be belped. We have a large country and long distatnces, and the great bulk
The
0f the banking is doue iu Wlinniipeg.
money is distributed from there and unless
we bail sufficient tiiue to mneet the shortage
of money that occurs after banking hours,
at outside buying points, when it cannot be
wired for la time to be sent up on the nei
train, then twenty-four hours is not suffi
dient.
But the true principle is that the
farmer shoulil have bis choice immediately,
and no complication wiIl arise.

No.

Do you mean
banks at ail buylng points.
to say they cnnnot get money la those

1 am flot going to offer an ameudment, but
I whll say that If there Is legislation wbichi,
to my mInd, looks unreasonable, It Is just

The amendment

wvas declared lost.

The clause was a(lopted.
On clause 24, snbelause 3,

3. The receptaclé shahl be prox ideil by the
warehouseman, and the sample shall be placed
tiierein in the, preenc of th. owner. The receptacle shall bo secured by a padlock which
teowner of the grain shall provide, and the
,Pe of which he shall retain. The warehousenman shall ho the custolian of the receptacle
and sample.
Hon. Mr. YOUING-Tbe owner of the
grain bas the key, and the elevator man
bas a sample, andl be is running a sort of
Hou. Mr. DAVIS-It is not necessary to post office as far ns samples are concerned
There are wbere' there is a lot of binning being doue.
senil money froni Winnîpeg-.

little banks.

sncb a clause as this that will cure ltself

Hon. 'Mr. YOUNG-A. denier may have
in one year.
credit lu a bank in Winnipeg, andl if he
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I own an elevator,
wired to a brancb of that banIt lu the country, they would flot advance the money to and I do not propose to give auy farmer a
blm unless tbey were authorized to do so. key, *but I shail bold possession of the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

JFYE 2, 1908

1023

JINE 2, 1908

1023

key of my elevator myseif. He will bave
bis Iock and I will have mine.
The clause was adopted.

ing the grain to such elevator or warehouse for
sale, storage or shipînent at the ti-me of such
delivery as to the proper grade or dackage
for dirt or otherwise on any lot of grain delivered, a fair and proper sample shall b.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I propose to niove to drawn in the-preseuce of the person deliveradd as subsection 4 of section 60 of the ing the grain out of each happer load as delivered, and at least three quarts from samnAct, the following :
pies so taken shall be forwarded in.a suitable
4. No persan, flrm or corporation, operating saca properiy tied and seaied, express charges
a public country elevator or warehouse shall prepaid, ta the chief inspector of grain, and
sehl assign, mortgage, pledge. hy-pothecate or shall be accompanied by the request in writcharge in any manner whatsoever any grain ing of either or bath cf the parties aforesaid,
stored in such elevator either in general star- that the chief inspector will examine the
age or special bin, which grain is not the sole sanpie and report on the grade and dockage
and absointe property cf such aperator. In the said grain is in his opinion entîtled ta
would rece:xve if 6hipped to the terminal
the ovent of any operator so selling, assigning, mortgaging, hypothecating, pledging or -;.its and subjected ta officiali nspe-ctîc.
charging as aforesaid any such grain. then,
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Tlbat la a rensonab'n
upon conviction, the licence for-such elevatar
or warehouse shall immediately become for- proposition on ail kinds of grain except
feited and void. and such aperator. shall onont
ymd
adhtisntequconviction be liable to a penalty of not lessee em
madta
so
h
us
than five huudred dollars and not more than tion of grain being- in or eut of condition.
one thousand dollars for each offence, in addi- Supposing n Man is buylng grain, and the
tion ta the forfeiture cf said licence; and no
sale, assignmient, pledge, mortgage, hypothe- 1country operator thinks it la tough nnd
cation or charge in any manner wvhatsoever bad, and the owner says it is not bad. He
shall be valid as against third parties lawfully claiming such grain; and further at 1wîll take a sampie of tbat grain and send
the making cf any assignment. pledge, mort- it te the chief inspecter. It may take tbree
gage, hypothecation or charge, the aperatar or four dnys and then perbaps a dny beshahl make affidavit declaring that the grain
se pledge is the absolute praperty of the said fore it reaches the inspecter, the condition
operator, and showing the amoun t cf grain in of that grain as it is lu the elevntor cansaid ehevator, the amount in store for other ntb
eemndb
h npcobcut
parties, and the amount belonging absolutely
ebedtrndbyheiscebcas
to such operatar.
tihe dampness miy bave entirely disaplion. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGH{Tpeared. The country elevator is not In a
I would suggest te my bon. frieuci thiat it position to refuse the grain if the inspecter
would cave time and unnecessary discus. saYs it la fit te warelîouse. Another clause
sion ut this stage if be wouid kindiy give says that the country eperator is net Obliged
notice of tiiat amendnient nnd bave it on1 te receive grain that is net fit for warethse order paper, se that we couid cousider housing, se Yen wiil bave a ceufiict Of
lt, and wbea we corne to tbe thîrd reading opinions, and I was preposiug, lu order te
I wlll be able te state whether 1 can nc-I make that clause workable, to add In thse
cept it er net. It la almost impossible te 27th hune after the word 'otberwise,' tise
cousîder ameudmeuts of that
cisaracter words 'except as te condition.'
Otherthrowu into thse middle of a Bill like unis wise the clause weuld net be workable.
nt this stage. I wouid Ilke te bave the Tbse clause operates except wben the conamendmient before me to compare It and dition is lu question.
to consuit thse Law Clerk about it before
H.
S.
TiAPT
(CA'pD
l'r_
comIug to any conclusion.
I wlll accept that amendmeut.

Itýi-d

Hou. Mr. DAVIS-I wiil accept thse suggestion of thse right bon, gentleman, provldlng we bave an opportunlty te discuss
It on thse thîrd reading, aud wIli give It as
a notice of amendaient.

Hon. Mr.
grade.

DAVIS-That

will

apply ta

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-And dirt.

Heu. Mr. DAVIS-Where there la a disOn clause 25,
pute about grade and dirt this wili appiy.
25. Section 65 is repealed and the following
Hou. Mr. YOUNG-Yes, because yen cansubstituted therefor.
65. In case there is a disagreement betweea neOt force a man te take luto bis clevator
tise purchaser or thse person in the immediate grain wfficb will net keep.
charge of receîving thse grain at sucis country
elevator or warehouse and the person deliverThe ameudmeut wns agreed to.

1024

SENATE

1024

SENATE

The clause, as amended. mas adopted.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Before consldering
clause 28, I would like to call attention to
the section in tise Act m-here a complaint
Is made agninst au elevator-section 67 of
the original Act. I amn referring nlow ratiser
to an ameadment whichi -would corne ln
i
before you reach clause 28 of this Act.
propose that the followiag subsection be
added as subsection (e) to section 68 of

the Act.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThis is a new clause entirely.
Hon. Mr. YOUN-Yes.

Hon. '\r. WATSON-I arn not prepared
to accept an amendaient to this clause, but
it appears to nme it la a mistake to provide
I kaiow lots of people
the size of the car.
who order -10,000-poulic cars, and the coinipany may supply CX0,000 or S.000-pounid
I would rather have seexi a proca rs.
vision that where a small car was asked
for, if the company could nlot furnish a
car of the size ordered, tliey should not
Thiere are
charge for the larger size.

pleÎnty of

farîners

w-ho

could

îsrovide;

freight for the 40.000-pound car but not for
As a mnatter
a car of n larger capacity.
of fnct. the 40.000-pouiid cars are going out
of use.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHITHon. MNr.PERLEY-lf so. it is possible
I would asi the bon. gentleman to adopt
the comipanies will not have cars of tlîat
hou, gentlethe course I suggested to the
size at ill and they should nlot be obfiged
man from Prince Albert.
to fumniisb them.

proM-Ny
Hon. Mr. YOIJNG-Cýerta1aly.
posed amendaiient reads as follows:
Upon receipt of suchi complajat thse Coin-

missisoner shall notifv the ow-lier of tIse country elevator or warehouse and furnish hum
ivith a copy of the coinplaint and the date and
place of holding thse investigation.
It is obvions thiat it would lot be fair to
try thse case w-thout the owner of the elevator hnving an opportunity to be heard. He
should in justice have notice froi the commissioner Nwheni and wliere the investigaThat is aIl my
tion Nvas to be held.
to do0.
amendaient propo5s
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTLet it stand as notice for an amendaient
when we go into cou'imittee ag-ain.

WVATSON-This clause ineas
Hon.I.
tlîat cars of the size aske(l for iliust lie furnishied, and the shippers will have to wait
Very oftel l tise
until they get tîsei.
Northwest they will have to wait wveeks
for a 40,000-pound car.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-This provides that a
mian miay order a car according to bis reIf an elevator msan is allowed
quirements.
to order a car according to bis requireinents lie mlg-ht order ail the cars avaîlable.

Hon.' Sir RtICHARD

CARTWrRIGHT-

It does inot l the least interfere w-ith the
existiaig arrangements as between the eievators and the farmers.

On clause 30,
TIse clause was adopted.
30. Section 89 is repealed and the following
substituted therefor:
Hon. '-%r. OWENS, fi-oas the colinmittee.
89. An applicant rnay order a car or cars ac- reported that they liad made somne progress
the
coi-ding to his requirements, of any of
standard sizes in use by thse railway company, wvlth the Bill, and asked le.qve to sit again
and in case he requires to order any special to morrow.
standard size of car shail have such size stated by thse station agent in the car order book,
The Senate adjourned until to-rnorrow at
and thse railway conipany shahl furnish thse three p.m.
size ordered to such applicant in his turm as
soon as a car of such specified capacity can
be furnished by the rail way company at thse
point on the sidiag designated by thse appliTHE SENATE.
cant in the car order book. Ia the event of
the railway company furnishing a car or cars
at any station and such car or cars net being
OTTAý'A, Wednesday, Jane 3, 1908.
of the size required by the applicant first entitled thereto, such applicant shaR nlot lose
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
his priority but shall be entitled to thse first
car of the size designated whichi can be deliv- o'clock.
ered at sucli station at such applicant's dihPrayers and routine proceedings.
posai as aforesaid.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG.

JUNE 3, 1908

1025

JUNE 3, 1908

1025

it in lier mind that if she could ever get a
chance she would sceek a divorce. She went
Bill (DDD) An Act te incorporate the
se far as to say she could not get a divorce
Alberta Soutb western Railway -Company.In the States, flot being a resident, and in
(Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell.)
Canada she. could onlly get a separation.
So titis latent to get a divorce existed lieSPRATTE DIVORCE BILL.
fore there was any evidence of crime on bis
THIRD READING.
part.
Her evidence on that part Is as folHon. Mr. PERLEY ineved the third rend- lows:ing of Bill (BBB) An Act for the relief ef
Q. You made up your miid after leaving
Hattie Spratte.
St. Albians to a certain course of action?-A.
Yes.
lion. 31r. CLORAN-Before the motion is
Q. What was that ?-A. Weil, I would
carried, I wisli te fulfil the promise I made nèver live with him again, and I wauld get
divorce if
yesterday te cail the attention of tbis hon- a Q. Did you 1 could.
subsequeintly discaver any ground
ourable House ta tise document I have lu *~hich you feit justified vau inI sa proceeding?
-A. Not ta get it in Caniada. 0f course there
rny hand, entitled, 'Thse Senate of Canada,
vaýs non-support and drunikenness, and I was
in re tihe petition of Hattie Spratte for a gaing ta the United States ta get it, and then
Bill of divorce from-George Allison Spratte, titis letter came from this girl and I deterthe report ef tUe Camimittee ail Divorce.' mined to try and get it here.
Now this letter is the revolving point
Really, I cannot ulhderstaud law any peri the %N-ole situation. Slhortiy afler sbo
son could . after perusiug titis document,
conscieittiouisly vote for the adoption ef the tcf t St. Albans, lier biusband w-ent to WVinShe met bimn
Bill before this Flouse.
The evideuce ulpeg. That was lu 1905.
uponi m-hich lion, gentlemen have te base after 1905 and while lie -was lu Wininipeg
Tbey
tlîeir opinion and arrive at a decision in she was stopping at lier fathier*s.
the matter is mast inadequate; in fact tbis liad opportunities of meeting betm-ceu 1905
evidence would not justify aîny court or and 1907. In 1907 she w-as in lier fatlier's
jury in coming te a decisian in fuvour of home, wlien a letter, a supposed letter,
letter,
supposed
ta bave
alleged
either of the piarties te thus divorce petitian. an
There is absolutely ne legal proof w-hateve- corne from a certain party il St. AIin regar-d te the crime upoil w-hicb the cein- bans wvns received. That letter w-as adrnittee base their decision aud express their dressed to bier hiusbnnd wha -as away
She undcrtaak ta
willingness te grant the petition of Hattie w-orking il Winnipeg-.
open tbat private letter. It is a peculiar
Spratte.
She w-as a girl of seveitteen w-len
she married lier father's Uaok-keeper. Tbey letter written hy n girl of impure chai-acter;
lîved together frorn 1,W1 te 1905.
Mr. shie was a servant in tlie botel at St. AIShe
Spratte w-as in the emplar of lier father bans, a scullery girl in the kitchen.
botli in the hatel and on certain w-arks writes and does not sign lier name, but
tlirougliout that district w-here tliey lived. simply the initiais J. M. B. Shie writes
H1e finally left it 190.5 ta take a position fi-rn Fairfax, unlder date of Jauîay 23,
wlth the Central Vermiout Railway, in St. 1907, te the effect tbat since lie lad left
Albans.
H1e went thiere ahane, and a-fter à slie had hecome. the mother ef a dhuld.
No-w tbat chlîd, according ta lier 4t-idenice,
wvhile wrote ta 'Mrs. Spratte ta follaw bir,
that lie liad a good position and w-as able wns bonii seven months before shie w-rote
ta take care 0f lier.
Slie wvent down ta St. tbîs letter-born lu June, 1906. Slie unAlbans and lived there oaly six weeks w-itlh ~crtakes te write this letter ta Spratte,
hirn. wlien slie lef t birn and returned to lier stating tbat she liad becorne a mother and
home, in June. At that tinte tbe only evi- it is bis f>înlt, and that lie ouglit te bear
Tbat is the olily evidence of misconilnct on bis part w-as that the consequences.
Hfere
lie was given ta cigarette smoking, and, dence of wrong-doing on bis part.
sornetimes, ta intempérance; but surely this is an unsigned document cbarging this,ý man
bonourable House will net grant a divorceý with adultery. When this letter finds its
on sucli grounds.
At this time the young w-ay into M-Nrs.Spratte's liands. rigbt tbere
wife w-as wanting ta get a divorce, and aîîd thiei shie takes steps te secure a diThe proceedings started the end
liad abseiutely no reasan for it.
Sie had vorce.
BILL INTRODUCED.

BREVX5ED EDITION

SIENATE

102

1026

of last year or the begîuning of this year.
She la put on the stand before the committee and examined, and w-bat la ber evidence ? She is asked:

Q. IXow long did you remain at St. Albans?

-A.

About six weeks 1 think.

Q. Thon what did you do ?-A. I had to

corne home because he was drinking and could
flot pay the board bill.
Now that w-as the oniy reason she bad
to leave hlm lu St. Albans.
is a

Hon. Mr. PEIILEY-Tbat
good renson.

pret y

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Is that n reason for
divoree ?

'Çow, here is a woman w-ho up to the
reception of this letter hnad no suspicion
against ber hiusband, giving her solemn
decinration that until that letter was put
in.ber hands she lad no suspicion against
The examination continues:
ber husband.

Q. It was merely accidental?-A. Quite accidentai.
B3- "%r. Haiglit, of Counsel for Petitioner:
Q. And after the receipt of that lettex', 1
understand froni vour former answer to my
question, you did îîot live or cohabit with
your husbIanid?-A4. Oh, n, 1 did not.
Q. And you say that in June, 1905, you left
your husband?-A. I loft hum.
Q. And after that date. did lie contribute
at ail to your support?-A. No, neyer.
Qè.Nor to the ýýupport of your chlid?-A.

Hon. Mr. PERLEY-It w-as n good reason for' going horne.
CLORAN-But not for Ieaving
Mon. M-Nr.
..

s1. .iiudI1

%vJii a v

w

#

~

n

13v

the Hon. Mr. Wilson:

Q. Von left on account of information ynn.

received in a ]etter-is titat it?-A. No. 1
i i not get the letter until after I lad left
h ii

Ai-

vorce,
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-She couid flot remain there andà starve to deatb.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-She states distinctly that she left St. Albns çvlth no charge
as rining
agansthimexcpt hathe
li w-s drnkig.
agaist lm tht
ecep

There is thc admnission 0f the m-onia
IIIirself tbnt the mnan w-as innocent of nnything
w-rong until she got the anonymous ietteî
signed ' J.M%.B'1 Then they bring a Miss
Bushey. w-ho w-ns supi)osed 10 represent
JMB.the sigrner of tlic letter, and she
ont to be a scu]lery girl from the
tins
Spratte bnci
otel nt St. Alins, w-bore M.Nr.

The evidence la very short,
been boardiog.
but I wl bave to rend it for bon. gentiein en w-ho have flot taicen the pains to peruse lt. to see the grounds on w-hich this
drin-inghe
culdnot
ay Ls
bord
i
divorce is nsked.
Jenie Busley of FairSIe knew enough of tbe iaw to be able fnx, cook. w-as duly sw-orn andi tcstified ns
to tell ber frieads thnt she couid flot se- Ifîo-:
cure a divorce in the United States, floti
I am liviing at home with îny parents at
being a resident there and couid not get' R
Afar hatNorth Fairfax, Vermout.
hes grond,.
in Cnad
on Cnad
Q. Diii yon ever meet one George Allison
int
Afer
la
onthes grund.
The evidence ISP'Rtteý-A. YeFs
she la asked tbis question.
Wh@rkaboutsý A. At St. Albans House,
proceds:-Q.
Hon. ',%r. PERLEY-And w-as not able
to pay the board bill.
Hon.'-%r. -N.atually ifhe
LORA

Q. In consequence then of the recip of a
letter from snme woman in Fairfax, Vermont
C u determined to apply for a divorce i [
Canada?-A. Yes.
0 Is this the letter now showvn Von- which
you received ?-A. Yes.
Q. And is this the envelope in which it
came P-A. Yes.
Q. Hlow drid you corne te open it ?-A. lt w.u
handed te me. Oixr girl brougbut it upstauirs
and 1 thought it was for myseif. because my
letters were always addressed Mrs. George
Spratte, and 1 opened it.
Q.And you fouad what?-A. The letter.
QAnd in the letter was an accusation
against your husband of the seduction of the
gr-By the HIon. Mr. Wilson:
Q. Haci you some suspicion of your husband which cansed you te open that letter?
-A. No, nothing of the kinci.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

Q. And w-htt were you doiag there P-A.
Cooking
ia the
Q. You were cooking that?-A.hotel P-A. Yes.
That iras in
Q. What time was
Ai igui£t, 1905.
It la quite essenti tbat the month should
The evidence proceeds:
be rememibereci.

Q. And what was Spratte doing P-A. He
was working at the f roigit depot.
Q. 0f what railway, do you know?-A. 1
bhink the Boston -md Meuine, or the C. V.
(è. Trhe Boston and Maine or the Central
Vermout?-A. Yes.
Q. Did voun meet him at the hotel P-A. Yes.
Q. Did le cuitivate your acquaintance?A. es.
Q. And wbat ultimately did this acquaintaîîce develop? Did he profess any attachment
to yon? A. Yes.

JUINE 3, 1908

102'

Q. Did hie make any promises to you P-A. cliaracter w-as never looked into, but wliose-

Yes.

evidence w-as accepted.
The evidence pro-ceeds:
Q. And how long m-as lie at St. Albans?A. Me left St. Albans shortly after hie found
I was to have a child.
If hie lef t in Septeraber or Augnst, she
did flot bave mucli of a cbild because tlie
child w-as bora on 3Otb June.
The evidenceý proceeds:
There 15 no0 proof whatever that Geo.
Q. And did vou do anything?-A. I did. I
Allison Spratte was at St. Albans within liad him arrested.
Q. And what did lie do P-A. He tan away.
the nIne months wliereby it couid be dlaimQ. Is that your signaturef-A. Yes, it is.
Q. Did -ou write that letter P-A. Yes, I did.
ed that lie was the father of the chuld. Site
(Letter filed and rnarked as Exhibit No. 2.)
swears It was in August that lie met lier.
Q. It that pour liandwritiag- also on the en'She swears tlue chid was born on the 3Oth velope ?-A. Xes.
Q. And that letter was posted liy you at
June, and it is strange that a Nvoian of thîs
Fairfax post office. in Vermont?-A. Yes.
kzind. when she was put ia the box. once
Q. And addressed hy you to Depot HarbourP
bier eh-tracter is admitted to bie bad that That was the terminuz of the Canada Atlaiitir IRailway at that date-A. Yes.
lier evidence w-as flot corroborated..
Slie
Q. It is add-ressed to George Spraïtte, Depot
was never asked hy the cornmittee if MNr. Harbour?-A. Yes.
Q. You are spoken of ini the petition as
Spratte was the only man with whorn she
Jenny Barchow.
What svas vour inaiden
was acquainted.
There is no proof that njame P-A. Jenny Boncliard.
By the Hon. Mr. Bostock:
Spratte w-as the man.
It w-as for the comQ.Wlen
marrýied?-A. I
mitteé to find out.
The examination con- ried seven were vouago, Octolier 25. was marmonths
tinues:
Now there ls the entire evidence, and

Q. What were they ?-A. That hie should
marry me.
And under cover of that promise did anyQh.
Yes.
thigDtakey place P-A. any
QDid
uhave
relationship with
hlm P-A. Me.
Q. To what extent did that go?-A. 1 had a
child by him.
Q. And is that child stîli living P-A. Yes.
Q. When was that child born P-A. June 30,

Q. Who was the father of that clild?-A. it is not even evidence. hecouse it Is conGeorge Allison Spratte.
tradicted by the ootb of the fatber of the
S.The
respondent in this matter?-A. Yes.
Do you know wliere this George Allison petitioner. The question w-os put to hlm
Spratte came from P-A. Me carne from Cani several times : 'Now describe your son-mnada, Parry Sound.
liw,' and hie describes hlm as a amaîl
By the Hon. Mr. Lougheed:
Q. He told you so ?-A. Yes.
man, and lie was aslzed if lie had flot red
~By Mr. Haight, of counse]. £or petitioner: hair, and lie said no lie hod blot red liair,
Q. Did you see this lady, the petitioner,
and hie w-os asked: 'Are you sure lie lad
there with him P-A. No, 1 did flot.
and lie said: 'Yes,' lie w-as.
Mrs. Spratte bas sworn that she was six not red hair?'
weeks in St. Albans, and if tbis womaiiý,s WVe have lis ev'ideince contradicting the
evideace is correct, would slie flot naturally m-ontan's, w-ho is supposed to. have lad a
child by Spratte, and there w-os noc .attempt
lie anxious to see who lie w-as living w-itlit
St. Albaons.
*Slie spent six weeks in St. mode to have this Spratte id,>atified by lier
Albians, and this coolz says sie neyer saw lia any shape or formn. Petitioner's father
lier.
This woman's oatli is taken as gospel SiDnply says. when lie w-as isked the -questrutli.
No attempt w-as made to identify tion as to w-bat sort 0f a nmon lie w-as, tbat
tliis George Allison Spratte, and I venture lie was a small m-an w-ith iglit liait. Me
to say tliat this witness was either mistoken w-as asked w-as it flot red, and hie says:
or was sw-earing to w-bat w-as false, because 'Weil, it w-ns liglit in colour.' Tbey tried to
she swore that the man w-ho cafled himself makea him say on biis oatli that it w-as ted.
George Allison Spratte was a shiort thickz- But bie could flot soy it. 'Now, %vbatproof
have we that George Allison Spratte w-as
set man wlth red hairn
Now, Spratte had
the respondent ln tbis case ? Why was
flot red bairn
The evîdence proceeds:
not tlie w-oman's evidence tested and ber
Q. n hat sort of looking man was hieP?-A. cliaracter investigated ? Tâen you w-Il! teHe was short. thick set, and had red hair.
Q. What were hds heibAtsP-A. Drinking member this famous letter written on June
mostly, and smoking cigarettes.
23, 1907, about a year and a liaif ago, Mrs.
These were the only two bad habits Spratte w-as asked in regard to bis letter
sworn to by the oatli of this woman, wliose as follows:65J

1028

128SENATE

By the Heu. Mr. Wilson:

Q. Yen loft on acceunt cf information yen

roceivet inl a lortter-is that itP-A. Ne, I dit
net got the letter unctil sfter I bi left hlm.
By the Oliairnaa;:
Q. Rlas there been -botwren youreself and
your huasbauti any connivence with regard to
e portition for tItis divorce wh'ateverP-Â.. I
do net know w-hat yon mean.
Q. Any arrangement betwreen you andtihlm
of eny lcind w-herehy thse aýpplication sliould
Le matie fer -this divorce P-A. No.
,Q. Or th-at ho sheouki net defonti lU-A. No.
Q. Has there beon any collusion betireemi
yen anti hlm at aIl lu reference te this matter P-A. No, net at ail. 0f course, ho lied
titis letter, sente iaw-yer lu Winnxipeg had
writtoa te Ottawa, but I have net lied anything te say te Mr. Spratte or any writings
or undorstaudian at ail.
Q. Ne ceunivauce cf aiiy kinid with hlm?A. No.
beon any centenation o! thse
Q. lias tee
eflence sinice it came te vonr knew-iedge P Have
von since thon cehabiteti with hlm or forgiven
hlim P-A. Ne, I have net seen hlm since tlie
loeer came. The lettor cante last May.
Did lie at axîy timmie nînke oertures te'
Qý.
yen te conte bar-k te Iliste anti sk te ho forgiron P-_A. No, itet sînco I receiveti thet letter.
Thoi only timie ho asked inte te te lire with himi
w as w-lin I w-ont -te St. Albsns.
Tite lettor camie last 'May. HeIre is a lottor writtonl ou Jaunry 23, 190î, undt this
w-mnswamrs she oniy gel il lu nay.
Why w'as thiat tact net proeoti m ? Wlxy
-as net this contradiction breuglit beforo
the attention of tho cemnîiiitte t! Tise Nvlbole
thinig seemo te sule te bo a clnmusy fabricatien cf ovidesico, by gotting titis girl te
taIre tlie respemisibility et lînving sigmîcti
B. 1 unsi *ratImor astonishoti
the leIter J. M'%.
tUaI tlie bigbost court cf tUe Dominion la
te be calleti upon te rentier n verdict on
I have spokon te
evidence ef titis kUnt.
mombers lu reforence te the case, andi tlmcy
say tîtat if they were on a jury tlmoy m-ouild
ste more tiîink et coesuilmî a lniai on
thut kMat et evidence than tlîey -,vonid cf
I bave ne brief for
lîaaging themisolves.
'Mr. Sprntte: but taIre tbe evidence cf te
father cf the petitionor -w-li was more or
leas intereste inlu hm, andi sec whst ho
says. fis ovidence restis as tellews:Charios Aleuzo PhiLlips, nf tIse boira ef
Parry &undt, ra.ilroad contracter, father of
the Petitiener, w-as duiy swoec anti testiflot
ns fellow-s:
Q. WàLat is yenr eccupatien?-A. I have
boon radlrosti centrncting fer seulo time.
Q. Yen are tho father of thse potitieeerPA. Yos.
Q. Your age?-A. FifityhTe.
Q. Omcupatioxn eat tihe time of veur daughtor's
isuerriage P-tA. Heitel-koopor.
Hon. Mr. CLOIIAN.

Q. Yeu w-e-o the proprietor of the Canada
Atiantic, noir cailedti he Kinling HeteiP-Â.
![es.
Q. Yen remiember the circuinrstauce of yenr
clanghter's marrago P-A. Yes.
.Q. Aliter your daugliter'r miarriage to George
Allison Spratto, can yen toil me, shortiy,
wheat Spratte diti, w-bat emýploymûunt ho w-as ln?
-A. Hie iras employeti hy îiîe for a tinte, 1
thiuk, dnring the winter, ntil spring, andi
then I think, lie wont to Depet liarbour, andi
w-orked lu the office ot the Canada Atlantic
ltaiiway there during that summonr, I think.
Thon I thiuk lie caine hack. andi I ain net sure
whlere lie w-eut. I tliuk hoe weut about that
tiine te Oakville, anti lie werked for me andi
lived inl a bouse for tire qx throe months; next
te J udige McýCurryxs bouse, near the hotel,
sud worked for me I thiu until the folloirxngz epring or summer.
Q. Doing wv-bat P-A. Oiorkiing lu the office.
Q. In the bote] P-A. Yes.
Q. Duriing that time w-as hoe eontribnting te
yeur daughter's upot-(eanswer.)
Bv the Hon. MNr.MMui:
Q. Was lie îna.rried thoni-A. Yes.
By MNr. Haiglit, cf ceunisel fer the pebi'houer:
Q. Wliore iras your dangliter living?-A.
eil, during th-st surniter, or ut loast I do
uot kueir w-hetlier it w-as that sumumer, that
winter 1 -think ait w-ns-w-oh. I do net kueir.
How-over, I knew they livoti there a littie
while sus-wap, anti thou tlieî- camne back andi
lirot a.t the hotol.
Q. Spo-aking mn- of the tine tlse«y occupiod
the heuse nest to .ludge McCurry's bouse, dxd
Spratte pay the relit cf the roreotY. de yen
know, or do yen kuer auvthig about it? if
yen do net, sar se P-A. I do not roxuomber
u hothor lie diti or not.
Q. After quitting ithat 'liuse, you say ho
yeur hiotel P-A.
w-as stili clorkiug areni
W"ell, w-hile lie was living tliere. hoe w-as ceorliinz lu theo hete] tee, ant ieio I coulti net get
aleng w'ith hini.
Q. Yen coulti net get aloun! with hus, w-hy?
-A. Woll, lie w-as drinkiug tee hopavily, exîd
I hati te let hinm go, anti lie went te Toroato,
aud w-as lu Teronto for I do inet know liow
long, soine little time, anti lie fiually caine
back te Parry Soundi agalu, andi camne hack 'te
the lieuse, anti w-as thero I think nearly al
iiter, nil I gct a position for hlm with
I w-as imtereslted la a
Joline9ton &Beveridige.
lumber contrsct up at Ponogssing. Hie weut
clerking Up lu -the camp there.
Q. That is up ia Alg-oma P-A. Yes. Thon
hoe came back and w-as round there a short
time.
Q. Wes lie de;-oting himiself te his w-erk in
sny isort of proper fashion during titis time?
Wlien lie w-as up et Jolinston & Beveridge'sg
irere you satisfied witb bis services tliere, andi
titi lie leave P-A. Vieil, ithey were
w-li
througli srith him there. They got thronglî
witli the contriact anti quit.
Q. During the w-hole course cf their marrieti
lite ithet yen observeti, wlhait if enytliing did
Spratteoocntrýibute te lis wifes anti dhugihter's maintenance and support P-A. WeIll rery
littie, I thinli. Ihlid te kop tliem praetically
ail the time.

JUINE 3, 1908

Sucli evidence w-ould le ail riglit in a
civil action against the man for non-support. Then tlic fathier is further exnîoined
as foilows:-

Q. During the whole course of their rniarried
lite that yon observed. what if anything did
Spratte contrihute te bis wife's and daughter's
maintenance and support?-A. Well, very
litIle, 1 think. I had 10 keep them prncticaIiy.al1 the time. Es-en when they were living iu the bouse Ihcv got tIse most of the
supplies and living from the hotel.
Q. Wha.t sort of pereon weas Spratte? What
sort of a looking mnai w-as hie? Yen bave not
any, picture ot him?-A. No.
Q. What sort of a iooking inan iras hie?A. 1 do net knoiw that I eau describe hlm
very weii.
Q. Sma.il or tall?-A. A smaii man.
Q. What was the colour of his hair?-A.
Light.
Q. White or red?-A. Weil, il was a kin<l of
a light colour.
Q. Was il inclined te white or sandyi'-A.
-No, il ias net redx It iras more a lighter
t w-as net sandy. It was a kind of
coloni-.
ligliîei colour.
Q. Was il a sort et reddish? flave you gel
a good perception of coleut ?-Â. I should neot
descrihe that very well.
By tlîe Hon. Mr. Wilson:
Q. Was. il brown or red?-A. It was a kind
et reddisli il was neot Isrown.
9. Didi he bave any nmarked hatbits P-A.
Drinking w-as tue inost miarked.
Q. Was there aîivthing eIse thNt lie did
that marked liiii at ail in any other w1y, aîîy
ether habit that yon kîsow of? Did hc smoke?
-A. Yes, lie sumoked; a very heavy cigarette

12
1029

to the legisiators and thse courts to blP us
to restriet the evils of divorce. Wë" bave
had here recently an eminent prelate of
the Catholic Church froin Ireland, Cardinal
Logue, and lie is marching band and biand
çvith aIl thse ministers and bishiops of ail
the civilized
througlsout
deîomnitions
world in seeking a rernedy for this evil,
Here is w-bat lie says:

I have watched and studied the divorce
problemn heie witb a good deal of iîjterest,
aad the time has corne for all religions bodies
to urjite upon thi-. subject. It bas beeni a
great pleasure to nie te note that the ministers of ail the sects are united i preachinig
agaîîîst it. It le not entirely a matter of religion. The weifare of the state d-enassds
that somiething should be done iii Ibis country
1
te check this evi .
A continuation of the divorce evil ineans
tihe degradation of the race. The reason for
tbis is verv evident-the welfare of tihe
famiily being the foundation of the race.
TIse only object that emiint prelate eau
hiave is to secure the welfare of inankind,
eand ns maciih staliility to SocietY as cIll
bc secured, anîd tb:t st.ability rests iargely
on the sanctity of the inarriage tic. Whien
I introduced a Bill lu regard 10 this ioatter
a couiple of months ago, I did se spontaI
neously, and witiîout consulting a soul.
did so after reading- several criticai divorce cases, and w-heu 1 feit it mly duty
sm oker.
to asic the Senate to takeý part iii Élis figlit
Q. Do voen on- %%by he wcnt le St. Albaas?
Do yeu k-now wby your daughter wont there? for deceut îuiaaiood and wouîaullood, 1
-A. Yes.
feit that Ibis Holuse should îlot permit :Iny
Q. And se far as i-ou knowv cie w-eut there
with bimn at St. Albans? ruffian wvhoin we declare hvy 011 votes tri
te mneet hlmi anti live
-A. Yes.
be a ruffian, to hring rulu uipen innocent
Q. Did bie neot tell voit se at auy time Ihere- parties by alloNving Iimui bc usarry agaii.
atter p-A. 1 do net kiuen- that Lie did.
It is not witia mny jurisediction or duty
Bv the Hon. Mr . MeMullen:
Q. 'Niat w-as his condition before lie got to interpose anv obstacle lu the 'way of
married te your daugbîter?-A. 'As far as 1
the riglits or ý%vislies of pariles seeking diever saw hlm, il was ail right.
Q. Whoeu did yen notice lie began le drink? *vorce ;but Nve have the power and autho-A. Shortîy after lie gel married. He was
checkc tîse
clerking foir nie corne tîme before, but 1 rlty, under the Criimainal Code, 10
neyer noticed îîin drinking very much until *evIi course of any man w-bou w-e deciare
after lie was miarried.
to, be unwortby the tille of husband. I took
N.ow, there is the entire evîdence in this tIsat step o11 nî own responsibility and
case, and 1 ask this bonourable Housd,
wîtlîout consulting iny one. Il has been
on behaîf of tIse
the comrnîttee. nolt said that I acted
anRT the gentlemen of
te grant this Bil. 1 bave made no argu- *clergy. 1 douht if tise clergy wouid npnient ; I have simpiy put the evidence ai Sprove of my action. because some coneider il more or less a toleration of
fnirly as possible before the House, andJ
evil: but I n2yer Isad an opporasic ln the naine of our fathers and mo -tise
Iu ail My
of consulting tlein.
if w-e caunot abo -tunity
thers and our familles,
as
llsh divorce altogether to have it restricte ipolîticai experience, the clergy Nvere,
of thie far as 1 arn concerned. niy inost poNverful
1, on behaîf
as far as possible.
1 bave lad the most active
clergy of thus country of ail creeds arnd opponents.
i oppostion of the clergy frous the hisglest
denoniluatiosis, f romi bisbops down,î appea

1030

SENATE

1030

SENATE

down. I knew what it was to be a strong
Liberal thirty years ago, and to have the
fulminations of the church against me. I
remember when the people were asked to
vote against mie because I took a certain
I
stand on the Manitoba School Bill.
know wrhat it vas to be denounced fromn
the pulpit twenty-five years ago, because
I stood up for hone rule. I have gone
through ail that fire. have stood it ail, and
the causes for which I worked are triumphant and I am still alive. The home
rule cause, which was then looked upon
with suspicions, is to-day triuîmphant, and
bas become a plank in the platforn of the
Liberal party and is the policy of the young
men of the empire. When I am told that
I have taken up this matter for the sake
of the clergy, lion. gentlemen do me a
I .ami acting in the
grievious injustice.
interests of imiy country and of the people
That
I an supposed to represent here.
is why I introduced a Bill to restrict the
evils of divorce, and I am happy to say
it was enly lest by1 a majority of one.
Later on I shall, if possible, present a
Bill along the saine lines, whereby aill
persons divorced and who w'ere the cause
of the divorce by their own evil conduct
shall not have the privilege of rèmarrying
in Canada, and if they renîarry outside the
limits of Canada, they shal not have the
right to come back here vithout rendering
I
themselves liable to arrest for bigamy.
am led to take that action fron what I
have been reading lately. Here is a paragraph from the Montreal 'Star' of May 23:
Neiw Brunswick divorces.-Several sensational
cases have been instituted.
(Special to the Montreal 'Star.')
Fredenicton, New Brunswick, May 22.Some sensational divorce cases, in which the
principals include residents of bath Monoton
and St. Stephen who are prominent in the
upper social set, as well as ln business ciroies,
have been instituted in the court of the province.
One of the cases is that of Madeline Whitlock vs. Julius T. Whitlock, of St. Stephen.
Her husand is cashier of the St. Stephen
Bank, and ex-mayor of St. Stephen.
Mrs. Madeline Douglas Edith Clark asks
for separation, a mensa et thoro, from her
husband, Robent Clark. Mrs. Clark is a niece
of the late Sir Alexander Gault, of Montreal,
while her husband is the manager of the
Bank of Montreal.
Dr. William A. Ferguson. of Monoton, ie
asiag for an absolute divorce from his mife
BertHo.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN.

Edward A. Harnis, of Monoton, is asking
for an absolute divorce from his wife, Beulah
Longfellow. Mr. Harris is a member of one
of the best families in Moncton, and bis wife
is a daughter of P. S. Archibald, one of the
cornmissioners of the Central Railway, being
a member of a highly respected £amily.
Hon. Mr. DO'MVILLFE-What has New
Brunswick got to do with this case?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I am discussing the
divorce question, and I say it is mny intention to introduce a Bill to restrict the evils
of divorce as far as it is possible to do so
I find it is necesby our legislation.
sary to introduce it under the Criminal
Code to proteet society against the decisions of courts, so that the court in any
province where they have the right to
grant divorce shall net have the right to
give both parties, the innocent and the
guilty alike, the privilege of re-marrying.
Here are several cases on one day in
New Brunswick, not ordinary people, but
people who are supposed to set an example to the rest of society, who are seeking
divorce. What are the ordinary classes of
society to do when they see such a formidable number of the leading people, who
should be examples to their fellowmen.
taking sucli a step ? And now I come to
I
the last argument that I have to offer.
want to read a telegram relating to a recent divorce case in the United States. It
is as follows:Mrs. Alfred Vanderhilt's divorce.
New York, May 25.-Mrs. Ellen French Vanderbilt was granted an interlocutory degree
of divorce from Alfred Gwynne Vanderbilt
bv Justice O'Gonman in the Supreme Court
to-day on the report of David McClure, the
referee, who was appointed to take testimony
and determine the findings in the suit instituted by Mrs. Vanderbilt. Justice O'Gornan
confirmed the report of the referee that Mr.
Vanderbilt had been guilty of misocnduct and
directed that Mirs. Vanderbilt be granted a
judgment of absolute divorce.
The divorce decree provides that Mir. Vanderbilt may marry durin the lifetime of Mr.
Vanderbilt, but prevents him from marryixig
during her lifetime. The custody of Wan. H.
Vanderbilt, the only child of the marmage,
iras awarded te Mrs. Vanderbilt. No provisien was made for alimony in the decree, nor
was the subleot alluded te in the report of
Referee McClure.
Now, here is a step identical with the
Here is
one I asked this House to take.
one of the judges of the United States taking upon himself to prevent the guilty party

JUNE 3, 1908

1031

JURE 3, 1908
1031
[ion, gentleman imiself. Hîs people revere
lu regard to the case now
re-marrying.
hefore the House, I have doue my duty as bim as hie dilates on the smasbing hie gives
a citizen of tlis country and as a senator to the Divorce Cominittee in speeches such
ta direct attention ta the wvbolly inadequate as we have llstened ta this afternoon-the
evidéeuce on whici we are asked. ta grant saine speech ta which we have listened on
Without consuiting any one, many occasions, and as the poet says:
tCils divorce.
if I can find a seconder, I miove that this And s4il they gazed, and still their wne
grew
Bill be flot now read the third time, but
That one smali head could carry ail he knew.
that It be read the third timie this day six
It is a marvel ta themn, but hou. gentlemonthis.
men, the man witb a mission or a hobby,
Hon. Mr. KIROI-HOP1riFER-Ia iny young while 0f ten no doubt a very deserving and
days there was a class of entertainers whio estimable creature frequently degenerates
used ta go aronnid the country giving- recita- into a most unmltigated bore when hie Is
tions and rendings fram prominent authors. s0 constafltly ohtruding it on people who
With themn w-e used ta have 'an evening are'not anxious to hear hlm on the subject.
Now,
wl Scott,' or 4 a Nielht wi Burns.'
Now, ta judge by the han. gentleman's atit is nat oftcn we have opportunities for tacks on the Divorce Committee, one would
amusement or relaxation of this staid aid imagine that that cornmittee w-as a collecSenate of ours, but when we have, it'seenis tion of innocent and very irabecile aid genta degenerate iato whiat wve might cal 'an tlemen who are quite unable ta judge of
It is not aften I the value of the evidence put before thein;
afternoon w'i Cloran.'
take any notice of the persistent an peri- that they revel so much in the granting
odical attacks w-hicbi the hon. gentleman divorces, so auxiaus ta do it, that they
makes upon the divorce tribunal of the Sen- grant divorces just for the f un of the thing,
He considers that hie bas a mission, and without taking any notice of the eviate.
and that mission is the abolition of thie dence put before thiem.
1 should like ta
Divorce Comm ittee of the Senate.
say It, and 1 arn sure 1 will not bie contradicted by the members 0f this Hanse, that
Han. Mr. CLORAN-No.
Committee is a very fair reHon. Mr. KIROH.HOFFER-Or the doing this Divorce
presentatiail of the average ability and InH1e is abaway with divorce altogether.
lu this House. -We
Lt pervades ýwhat telligence that there is
sessed with that idea.
are no orators, as Brutus is, w-hase tangue
the hon, gentleman is pleascd ta caîl is
and can make the worse apmi, and the report of the committee lias draps manna,
pear the better renson, but three senators
on hlm the samne sort of effect that a red
the legal
Lt Is ta this that on our commlttee are niembers of
rag bas on a mad bull.
profession, and the rest of them have atwe are indebted for the frequent flights
ta a high degree of success and eleof oratory and bursts of elaquence witb talned
vation ln other professions or lu business ln
which tbe hon, gentleman entertains us on
the country and are highly respected wberthese occasions, and I do not wonder at the
ever they go, and are as capable of Intellireports Nve hear from hlm of the wonderful
aur friend
upon bis con- gent appreclation of evidence as
Impression which bie makes
whomn Thackaray mlght have referred ta as
stituents and f rlends In Griffintown, or
I
Shannon shore.'
whatever the classlc suburb is that bie Is 'The Cîcero of the
thlnk It Is an outrage for any member of
accustomed to hold forth In, and the Ima slur upon
pression hie makes and the way In which hie this House ta try ta thraw such
hon, gentleInfluences the Horans and the Dorans and the Divorce Commlttee as the
Is so constantly la -the
the Clorans, and as the aid Irish sang says: man from Victoria
That hie Impresses some
-habit of dolng.
The Keiieys, the Reillys. the O'Shaughnesseys, members of this House I amn absolutely cerThfe O.seys and Mary Maguire
tain, because the last time hie delivered, bts
Bow down ta him low, as waiking they go.
ire being lmpressed by whnt eloquent speech hie succeeded la conivertlng
because they
they s0 0f ten hear of hlm. that hie ruas the my hon. friend beside me (Haon.' Mr. PerThat we hear In a great maay Iey) ta such an extent that hie voted wlth
Senate.
My hon. friend
cases, but It generally cames back ta the flm on that occasion.

1032

SENATE

SEXATE
1032
(Hon. Mr. Perley) 1 bave had here beside tieman. The education w-hicbi enables him.
me for the last tifteen or sixteen years, te make tbese speecbes, ouglit to enable
an bon. gentleman wborn I have used to 1dm to read tbe evidence teo. About this
second mny motions ail that time.
I think poor girl in Vermont, 1 w-nnt to say that
it is dfisgraceful that lie sbould have gone tbis w-as one of tbe most pitable cases
back on me.
But jnst now he sees the that we ever bad before«us, >one of theerrer of bis ways, and wiil not vote wlth inost cruel cases that 1 bave hnd toeconthe lion, gentleman on tbis occasion. It is sider. The bon, gentleman tries te tear
hardly wortb w'bile for nie te refer te the to pieces tbe evidence given iii the letter
evidence, and the particular points w-hicbi of the unfortunate girl. I slhal i-ead tbe
this bon. gentleman (Hon. M.Nr.
Cloraii) witlî letter because it is a niost pitiful appealaIl bis legal acurnen wvas able te make out
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Is it truc ?
against tbe decision of the coniîittee. 11e
stnted that this divorce w-as recomnrended,
Hon. Mr. KILICHHOFFER-Wbat riglit
nccording to bis idea. becanse the rnaiî
bias the bion, gentleman to cerne hiere aud
smoked cigarettes and dranlz whisky, and
say that tbe evidence furnisbied te the coinclaimed that that w-as the only evidence w-e
inittee on oatbi andi net centra(lictéd is net
bnd against him.
11e ilso tlîougbt It very
true? Tbe man charged w-itb the offence
bard that w-e sbould decide ag-ainst tîmis
runs aw-ay. The papers filed in tlue case
man because bie ran aw-ay after bie bad
show that lie w-as persouallv scrved w-ith
been arrested by t1ils w-oma.n foi bier sednca notice ancl given an opportiiiiiitv te détion.
The bon, gentlemian w-i remiembèr
fend himself. New-. be does net corne lietbe old siyinz tlîat lie w-ho figbits and profore our tribunal. dees net make an. apibably (loeý etlhr tliigs .and rmus 1%1,l'y.
pearauce, and yet. in spite ef tbat. the
will ]ive te fight .notlîcr cla-. andl that is
.,
lion, gentleman waqnts te tb-ew a slnr on1
the reason ç-iv the ijanj gird(etl np bis loins
the evidence giveu by tbis unlfertunazte
and gat hlmii ont.
But ainother matter
girl w-boin bie had seduced.
Here is the
struck mie a:, cur-is. Tie lion, gentleman
letter of the unfortunate girl, w-bicb is net
reading fronm the evi<ence-bie read it over
carenll-asto the eolour of the bair of contradicted, and sbe herself appeired biethe, dog that bit. and tuned him alrnost fore tbe cemrnittee and under eath corrobydrophobic on the question. H1e read the berated everv w-ord ef it:
evidence of the fatheFairfax W., R.F.D., November 1, Box 48,
January 23. 1907.
Hon. Mi-. CLORANIlie onghit te know.
Dear George,-As I heard yeu were iii Depot
Hon. 'Mr. KIItUHIOFFEII-He read the Hýarbour I theuglit 1 wenýld write yen te leBt
1 bad
evidence of the fathier ef the petitioner and yen knowsupprizeflot fo-rgotteui vou-yen w.ill ne
donit bie
te hear from'e me but I cant
tried to sbowv tbat the father could not tell seeme te get yen eut of my mind although I
w-bat tbe eleur ef bis son-in-law-'s bair have tried te thiak yen did'net thiuk se mucli
of me as yen *prtended te untili you ruined
w-as.
'He read tbe evidence to n certain me. O George thuink of how yen left me te
point.
Mlien askzed about the colour ef the bea-r my shame and disgrace Oh if 1 had
bair the father of the girl said, ' It w-as a neyer meet you but 1 did and learii to love
yen, it seems as thougli I could net live and
kind of reddisb; it was not brow-n,' and my bear my shame alone, now I amn geing te ask
hon. fîiend stopped shoî-t w-ben lie got that yen a faver as long es you have cause me this
disgrace
give me eue cemfar.
H1e lef t out w-bat follow-ved lu order shame andthat is te will youand let me kuow
fort and
write
to make n point of tbe admission ef the what yen are doing as I swear I will fiuid yenu
if I týraveil ;the wor.ld over as you know I have
father that the man's bair w-as red.
sold my body and seul for yeu, yen may
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I rise to a ques- blame me if you are wihere you are te-day but
iton of privilege. 1 arn accused of falsely yen kuew better Oh George-dif yeu onld bave
been in m.y place -the 3Oth June and suffered
rending te the Senate the evidence.
I wheit I did and broughit a dear little babjy bo-y
ask tbe hou. senator te read the part w-bore inite thse world te bear its mothers disgrace
God feirbide, and everýy time I look
the father speaks of tbe colour of bis son- littie muonce fiace 1 can gee yen before inte its
me, as
in-law's bair.
hie is the very pictnre of yen. Oh for thse boys
sake write and let me know you are not; se
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I amrn ot go- heatless as the ' ail say yen are as yeu knew
ing to rend it aIl over for tbe hon. gen- I did thàngs for yen I would not do for my owvn
Hou. Mr. KIRCHHOFFE1I.

JUNE 3, 1908

JUNE 3, 1908
brother, if you will write and let, me know
you have not foTgotten your Jea as you used
to rýal me 1 wil not lisn a woSd that I have
ever heard frome you as you do not know
what 1 have suffered since you went away I
will a-sk you once more for babys sake ta
write and let me know where you are will
say good by and God bless you.
I remain ais ever.
J. M. B.
Tbe bon. gentleman makes a great point
because this girl is oniy à kitchea girl, a
cook, and therefore bier evidence ougbit flot
to be accepted. This is tic letter that the
bon. gentlenman says is flot fit to bé read
bere to titis ilouse, and be wants this House
to censure the conmittee, and tic divorce
Blill bere on wbicb w-e bave reported to
be turned down ont suci an arguament as
lie presents here to-day. I say it is a disgrace to ask the I-buse to (Io anythinig of
the kind.
The SPEAKER-Thc question is on the
motion for the third reading of the Bill.

Hon. 31r. POWER-The lion, gentleman
front Victoria bias inoved an ant-endment.
The SPEAIKER-Thc ameadment w-as
îîot secoaded.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The hon. senator
frorn Rotbesay w-ill second tic motion.
Hlon. 3flr. DOMVILLE-lt is always the
rigit of any bon. gentleman ia aay legîslative body to get a seconder.
.
Hon. '_%1 1-IRCHHI-OFFEft-Salator
Periey w-ou]d niot bave seconded it.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Senator Perley
w-as flot quick enoygb. As I say, every
hon. inerner lias a rigit to bave bis motion seconded and I think it is a good
tiing because every question siouid be
I have not iooked lato it very
tested.
carefuliy ; la fact I do not RIte a good deal
of the evidence taken in the comrnittee
because of tie frivolity of It. Young people appear tbere, and w-hei tbey are good
looking tbey are often asked a great rnany
questions. 1 do flot tbînk we shouid bave
those cases brougbt bere at alI. lu New
Brunswick w-e have a divorce ýcouirt of
our own, and there are divorce courts in
Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island.
Altbough I second the motion of the bon.
senator, I cannot say tbat I approve of tic
w-ay he bas brougbt the question of di-

1033

1033
vorce ln New Blrunswick before this House.
That province bas a court of its own and
Very
wnshes its dirty linen at borne.
littie is heard of divorce ln our province,
and now for'the first tirne we are going
to have on the annals of this flouse some
unfortunate transactions that have takent
place in New Brunswick. 1 neyer, beard
of thern before, aithough I corne frorn Newv
There may b)c sorne
Brunswick aiyseif.
scandai alieged against people in New
Brunswick, but that is an experience everywhere, and I cannot believe ail the reports
w-hidi cornte f ront New Brunswick of tbings
alleged to have taken place there. I think
thc tirne bas corne for a change in the
method of dealîng w-ith. divorce ;cases ;
of this
they should be settled outside
Why should ive have to deai
Chaniber.
witb these unfortiiaatc affairs and read
over ail thc evidence taken ia sucb cases.
The matter rests with the govertinent, and
1 hope tbey w-i find some w-ny of relievîug
tus Chamber of the duty of dealing with
divorce. Let us send tbern to the courts.
It is no part of our prayer book or litany
and I do *not tbink there are imany ienibérs of thtis flouse w-ho, if tbey voted as
they would like to vote, could be found
to endorse bringing divorce cases into the
Senate.
Hon. Mr. McM'-NULLEN-I mnust express
and
niv% amazernent at tbe arndment
speech of the bon. senator froîn Victoria.
Frorn w-bat I know of the, Divorce Coinrnittee, it is a mîitter of pain and regret
to tlîern w-leu evidence is given that elearly
shows that an applicant for divoree lias
ground for It making it ur duty to recoinrnend the relief sougit. lu every instance we have taken great care tliat thc
oit
evidence cieariy establishes adultery
the part of the respondent. 1 do flot tbink
there ever bas been a case before this
Chamber better sustaiaed by evidence
than the one now under coasideration. It
In
is a case clear beyond ail question.
additioùt to that we have the evidence of
the woffian w-ho carne before the comrnittee and cleariy established tie fact that
niisled
dellberately
had
man
this
a young
w-as
bie
stating that
ber,
and
marriage,
and promising
rnan
creature
tbe poor
in that w-ny led

1034
SENATE

1034

int
trouble and bimself into disgrace.
I take no exceptions whatever to any man
holding views contrary to the granting of
divorce under any circurnstances. At the
saine time, if I were one of those, 1 would
feel it my duty flot to take an active part
lan opposition to a Bill where tbere is a
clear case proven, or refrain from votinýg
I do not challenge the right of
âltogethèr.
any senator who bas conscientious convictions against grattting divorces to do that.
ln the face of the evidence miy hon. friend
bas ini bis bauds, in the face of the statemeats made by tbc wituesses who came
bafore the comimittee. 1 must confess that
1 amn amazed at tbe proposai that this Bill
for the relief for Hattic Spratte should be
If it had been an ordinary
thrown ont.
indiviîiual who had neyer rcceived tbe education, wbich one lcariicd lu the lawv is supposed to bave, bad takeit bte position thie
lion. gentleman bas cloue. I could easily
understand it; but I canniot understand a
man educated ln tbe law and in bte value
to be atbacbed to evidence, baking the pos5ition bliat m7 bon. friend bas assumned. If
ever there was a case before tiis House
enbirely deserving of relief. I think it is
F rom ber
the case of this poor woiman.
appearance and conduet before the coinmittee, and bier inanner of giving evidence,
she was evidently a decent. respectable. lutelligent wornan, a %vomnan that would be
an ornament lu any înan'ils home. and sule
evidently had been deceived liv this mani.
a fact wbicbi w'as clcarlv proven, and backed Up by the evidence of the woman from
Vermont.
If we are to grant divorces at
ail, I do flot see liow we can refuse tlîis
petition.
Witb regard to the question
brongbt np by my lion. ind esteemed friend,
wltb regard bo granting divorces, or bavilng
a divorce court for the Dominion, that question bas been discussed. from year to yeir
for many years.
Sir John Macdonald was
opposed to it on tbe grouad tbat It would
encourage divorce.
They biave divorce
courts lu New Brunswick and Nova Scotia
and British Columbia.
If you take the
number of divorces granted lu those tbree
provinces. wbere tbey bave divorce courts,
you will find that there are more per C5l)ita
la these provinces than la any other province.
Tion. Mr. McMULLEN,

Hon. -'%r. DOMVIýILLE-Tle lion. genîtleman sbould give some autbority for that
bald statement.
Hon. Mr. MýcMILLEN-1 refer mv lion.
I will witbdrawv the
friend to the returas.
statement, if I do not prove that there are
more divorces graîîted in the provinces
wvbere tbey biave divorce courts, per capita,
than la tbe other provinces wliere no divorce courts are estabiished. The question
is wbether it is wise to encourzlge divorce.
On bte otber side of tbe Hune, divorces are
graated on the most flimn.y pretexts. H-ere
I)runkenwe limit them to one offense.
ness or smoking cigarettes are not grounds
for divorce uader our law. A short
time ago, wben I was travelling iii the
l
a inorning
United States, I read
paper lu St. Louis that oit the previous day
there had been some 32 divorces granted
by the judge iu that city, ani bbcy u rged
lutii to consider some more, but lie said
that bie tbougbt hie bad donc a pretty good
I looked over bte list to sec
day's work.
tbe grounds on wbicb these divorces badi
been granted, and la one case I noticed
that a lady got a divorce froin ber hushaiiil
because be saored too loudly and site could
not sleep witb hlm, and she brought a lady
wbo lived across the road, 66 feet away. to
prove that sbe could bear biti snoring front
that distance.
The result was sIte got a
We do not grant ilivorces on suci
divorce.
grouinds lu Canada. antd God forbid that we
sliould.
We dlaim te be a p)eop)le of better
chunracter and bi-ber statnding thlun to consider for a moment a separation betweeni
uttan and wîfe on any otber ground tian
one, and that lit every single instance whtcre
the committee bave recomntended bo tbis
House a separation betweeut man and wçife
bhiat offettce bias heen proved to the satisfaction of tbe cominittee. and In titis cage
lb bins been proved quite up to the bult.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I wishi to ask
tbe hon, gentleman wby7 lt is we are bothered witb aIl bbese Ontario cases?
Hle
lias talked about New Brunswick but I
htave neyer searched the records there.
Wlty flot beave Ontario cases to Ontario,
as New Brunswick cases are left to bbab
province ?
Hon." Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-My opinion
wibh regard to bbc propriety of tbe Di-

JUNE 3, 1908

1035

JUNE 3, 1908

1035

vorce Committee beiug a tribunal by which
divorces are granted bas been expressed
often in this House, and I say that lt is
a disgrace that the divorce cases sltal be
tr!ed by par]iament and sent to the zountry and given publicity. I think tlue lion.
senator -who lins just resumed his sent is
wrong about the nuniber of divorces granted in Nova Scotia. I bave tlie auithority
of the judge wlio tries tliose cases, that
there have been Iess than three divorces
a year in that province siace confederaWe consider It to lie the correct
tion.
tribunal because the poor man can go
there as wvell as the rich. But here you
have a tribunal for tlue rdcl, to '%hiclu the
poor mani cannot appeal, and, consequently,
the number of divorces is reduced. I was
complimenting the lhon. senator froin Victoria upon the very nioderate way in whicli
Soinetirnes I
he spoke on ihis subject.
thlnk hie speaks a littie strongl.r, but I
any
thouglit lie was equal to almost
preacher in the country in is moderation
when lie spoke about this matter. There
was one impression whlch lie made upon
my mmnd, which is not quite clear-perhaps it may be clear to the conimittee-wlio is the father of the chuld ? 1 do flot
think, the comniittee thiemselves are very
I only rise. as I
clear upon that point.
snid before, to protest ag-ainst the Seniate
belng the tribunal by wlich divorces are
granted.
The aimenduient was declared

lost.

The main motion was agreed to, and the
Bill was read the third time and passed.
MANITOBA GRAIN ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
REPORTED FROM

COMMITTEE.

The House resolved itself again ir Conimittee of thie Whole on Bill (ZZ) Anl Act
to amend the Manitoba Grain Act.
(In the Committee.)
On clause 37,
37. The following subsection is added to
section 110 as subsection 2 thereof:
2. Every person who buys grain on track in
carload lots, shall keep a true and correct
account ia writing. in proper books of al
grain bought by hlm in such carload lots,
and shall deliver to the vendor of each such
carload lot of grain a grain purchase note,
retaining hîmself a duplicate thereof; which

note shahl hear on its face the license season, the license number of such track buyer's
-tfi
license, the date and place of p uchae
naine and address of such trac k ibuyeri, thie
address of the vendor, the initial
naine and
letter and xt.umber of the car purchased.
the approxinuate number of bushels and kind
of grain containled therein, and the purchase
price per bushel in store ait Fort William,
Port Arthur or other destination; such grain
purchase note shall also express uponl its
face anl acknow-ledgenuent of the receipt of
the bill of lading issued by the railiway coinpany for such carload shipaient, the amount
of cash paid to, the vendor in advaace ns par-t
payaient on account of such car lot purchase,
also that the full balance of the purchase
mney shall be paid to the vendor ininediately
the purchaser shahl have received the grade
and weight certificates and the raiiway expense blli. Every ,udhl grain purchase note
shal bie signed by the track buver or his
duly appointed agent, and* the vendor shahl
endorse hjs acceptance of the ternis of the
sale thereon as well as lis receipt for payment of the money adv-anced himi on account
of sudh carload lot sale.
W7
Hon. McNf. ATON-Wbat protection îs
there for the seller of grain to get bis
inoinev from tracz h)uyers?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHe must look after that liiself.
Hon. Mr. WAT.SO-N-You can malze conditions withi an elevator man but flot wivh
a track buyer.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I suppose la that case
lie does flot have to take a cash ticket or
He may iusist on receiving the
order.
înoney.
The clause Nvas zadopted.
On clause 39,
39. The following section is inserted imineùiatelv after section 118, as section 118a:1*1a. Évery railway comipany shaîl place
painted lines inside of each of.its cars used
for the carriýLge of grain, indicating thw
height to ivhich the varions kinds of grain
cati be loaded therein, and no car shahl le
loaded with any kind of grain above its appropriate line. 'The person loading any sudh
car shahl stâte in the bill of laging, prior
to its being signed by the agent of the railwav
conupany, that the car is loaded to or belowv
s4ud uine, and such agent before signing the
bill, shahl verify such statement. The bill
of lading so signed shal bie prima facie evidence of the loading. and no charges for loading in excess of the quantity so limited shal
lie against such car. No railmway coxnpany
that fails to equip aay car as aforesaid shahl
collect *any charges for the transportation of
gratin in saiâ car abo'-e the regular tariff
rates for carload lots.
2. The contravention of any requirement of
this section shahl be an offence agaiast this
Act.

1036

SENATE

1036

SEiNATE

Hon. Sir RICHARD) CARTWRIGHIT1 call the attention of the House to this
clause, because it is new andi was flot f u]ly
discussed before.
This 15 an extract frern
the grain Iaws of thle State of 'Minnesota,
and is expected to relieve a great deal of
the friction and comnplaint whicb, I arn infermed, arises frein disputes as to the
quantity of grain that mnay be Ioaded into
eacli car.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Before that section is
carried, I want f0 subinit a srnall amnendment thnt 1 fhink will very properly corne
la at this point: that is wirhi respect te
spotting of cars.
My preposed amendment reads ns follows:
No car shall be eonsidered spotted utitl it
is eleaned aaîd mnade in a fit condlition to receive grain.
I miglit say that at a g-reat nnîniiv railwav points where the a Ivvagents distribute cars, fhey are not particulr1 11boulttlie
mianner in whîchi they ea
tileiln.
111ey
very oftea ship cattie in box cars, and the
cars are brought back and the agent lias
thei spotted at the elevato* or leadig platferm, and they may be quarter full of
Inanure, or the deors inay be broken and
tlîeY mnay flot be in a fit condition te carry
grain.
The railway comniijes comiplain
of the ]ength of tirne tlie farmiers kecp cars
at ]oading p]atforms>.
Sonietiixues a farnmer loses balf a day in cl,Žaniiig tlie car and
sometimes a fui] dlay. before be is fit te
receive grain.
I contenld tlîat tlic railway
agent should sec that that car is ciearied
and puit in a preper condition to load graini
befere the fume from whicb it is spottced
shal] count.
Hon.- Sir RICHARD CARTWRiIGHITIn that connection, wbile I daresay tiiere is
a great deal te be said ln regard te coinpciling the railway cempanies te bave their
cars in proper condition, it seeins te meý te
be one'of those flîings which belong more
particularly te the Railway Comîmission
Board whicli we bave crcated fer the express purpose of dealing with just sncb
matters as these.
I think it wouid be betfer te leave tlînt te their charge rather than
nttempt te inflict if on the Commnissiener
of Grain who will have enougb f0 de witheut if.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Tbe Grain Cominiissiener ceuld ask the Railway Commission
te issue an order te sec that it w-as doncý.
Hoii. Sir RICHARD
Tlîat ceuld be done.

CARTWý7RIGHT-

lion. '%r. PERLEY-It seenis to Ille
seinetliing of fhiat kind'sbould be donc in
Lie intcrests of tbe Comnpany, and I wvil
tell tie lieuse why.
The car niay *bc sent
te a farmier who is net a railroad man. Lic
is anxieus te put bis grain in the car. He
is net a carpenler and is net conversanit
w-itl tue condition of tbings, and lie înay
load up a car wvlichli as a crack on the
side. and it leaks ail flie way te
iîîc
or Fort Williamn. and 1w- the tiîne it reaches
its destiniation it lias lest 100 busliels.
Ir
the niian wlîe put tue grain i
t li car coifl
sîvear te the amnount lie put iii the car, lie
wvoulid have ai) action aga1iist tlic railway
cemiîy,ii.
but lic cannot do if.
I kniow
every busliel I put inite cars froîin niy elevatoir. and 1keel tracc of it fer the very purpos5e of reinedyiîîg sucli a case as fliat. Lt
is !ii the iiiterests ef the railway that the
car qlhoiild be lu a fit condition, anid
the ordinary farier cainuot put a defective
car iii sucb condition.
Tlie car slioul( be
tceed
to tlîe fariner lit a proper condition te receive flic grain.
In lia't wayr
agreat deal 0f <iifficulty weuid be everconle. and( it weuild l)e a safeguard te the
railwaY conîpany.
Take flic case of a
Doukhobor or Galician.
lie is net prefidient in miecbanics and dees neot undeýrstaiid
lîow te fix a car.
H1e accepts the car, anid
takzes if for graute(l fbat it is aIl riglif, and
he ]oads bis g-rain.
Tîtat car mnay leakz aIl
flic -ay te Winiiipeg.
I have often liad te
fill up a crack la the side of a car. but an
inconupetent Man will net do tlîat, and loss
results.
If I ewned a railway, I weuld
net allow tiieni te send eut defectii-e cars.
Heu). Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIt seemns te mie tiiose are niatters wlîich belong exclusively te the Railway Coinissien.
We bave erganized at great expetîse
fuis railway commission for fbe express
purpose of dealing wîtlî sncb emplaints
.and they ought te dca] with theýse matters.
Hon. '.%r. WATSON-I shiould like te cal]
flic attenitioni of flic House te fhe fact that
section 92 of the Manitoba Grain Act pro-

1037
13

JUNE 3, 1908
vides for the allotmnent of the car in good
order and condition.
I thinik that would
be sufficient to cover it.
The elause was adopteil.
On clause 40,
Section 125 is a.mended hy inserting-, in the
-tbirdI lne thereof, after the wordis ' public
terminal warehonseman ' the words ' or of an
eaetern triansfer warehouseman.'
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThis sinîply brings the eastern transportation wvarehouses under the î)rovisious of
the section.
*Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I do not see any provision for goverument agents biavin- authority given to tliem at these transfer elevators at Fort WVilliam. It nay be said
the government eau appoint
inspectors,
and they go there ani take charge; but I
tbink there should lie a clause iu the Bill
giving them power to examine the elevator
bins or qnything else they wisli to examine.
Hon.Sir
ICHAD CATWRIHTpower.iGH
Hon. Sive RHARD
Hon.

Mtr. DAVIS-Net

hn this Bill.

Hon. Sir RICHA.RD CARTWRIGHTIt is under the Manitoba Grain aud Inspection Act.
The clause was adopted.

Hon. Mr. POWER-One can readily understand that a girl of seventeen is mnucli
less likely to make trouble in itny sinali
commiiunity than a boy of seventeen. There
is inuch less risk froin sending a girl ef
seventeen to a home thaii there is fromn
sending a boy of seventeen to a homne; and
then one of the objects of this legislation
is to prevent the moral toile of a cbild froni
heing lowered by being treated as an ordiinar
crinîihial. The moral toue ef a girl
is a mnuch more delicate tbing than that
of a boy, and I thlnk suie needs more protection than a boy does.
Hon. 31r. BEIQUE-Another objeet is to
inake it agree with the provincial statutes.
Ontario lias a statute whilîi I thinik is to
the saine effecr, and uniess we adopted
the clause iii thks formn it would comne ifl¶0
conflict withi the Ontarlo statute.
Houi.

Mr. De

BOÙCIIERNVIL''-NNiatt

is thc law lu the prov-ince of Quebec ?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-There li; no law of
that kid in the province of Quebec.
Hon. Mr. De BOUCHERVILLE-Is theré
niot a law by whichi instead of seuding a
cluild te jail bie is sent to a reforinatory
sehool ?is
not the age for girls lower
than for boys in'the province of Quebez ?

Hon. 'Mr. BEIQUE-I have flot the QueHon. Mr. McSWEENEY. frein thoý coin- bec statute before mie, but 1 will look into
mittee, reported that they liad miade soine it.
progress wvithi the Bill, and asked leave
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-In other countries
to sit again to-morrow.
they bave fixed the age for females up to
JUVENILE DELI-NQUENTS' BILL.
eighitèen years. It is ail in the direction
of protectiug the girl. We ought rather to
IN COMMITTEE.
bie abreast of. the rest of the world thau
The House resolved itself iiuto a Coin- behind theiu in a mnatter of this kind.
mittee of the Whiole on Bill (QQ) An Act
Hou. 31r. WILSON-You must bear la
respecting Juvenie Delinqueiats
mind that a girl of seventeen is more ma(In the Cominittee.)
ture than a boy at the age of twenty.
I
On subclause (a) of clause 2,
can uuderstind tluat a g irl requires more
,(a> 'eûhi1'
means a boy apparently or ac- protection than a boy, but I do iîot tblnk
tueliy under the age of sixteen yeare, or a tbks will protect girls.
girl apparently or actually under tihe age of
seventeen years.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In ail the legisiation
Hon. Mr. De BOUCHERVILLE-I think

that ought te be chauged. Girls are more
advanced than boys, and It would be more
reasonable te say girls of sixteen and'boys
of seventeen.

that bas taken place la this country and
abroad, the age of the girl bas liten oe
or two years bighber than that ef the boy.
It bas been recognlzed that the girl requires more protection.

1038

SENATE

1038

SENATE

Hon. Mr. De BOUCHERVILL-Ifi the
province of Quebec, a girl, under sucb
circumstances, is sent te the reformatory
scboi.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-if the bion. menuber
will allow this clause to pass. 1 wvilI look
Up the question, and at the third reading
will consider thait point.
Subclause (a) %vas adopted.
On subclause (b),
(h) 'industriial. sohol' means any industrial sohool or juvenhle reformator-y or other
reformative institution or refuge for chidren
duly approvedl by the Lieutenant Governor in
Councîl in any province.
lion. Mr. POWER-When this Bili becornes law, it wiil, to a certain extent. put
the industrial schoois throughout the country out of business. As it is now, uifder
Dominiion 'statutes wlîich alply to iiearly
ail the provinces, there is a provision
that young people under the age ef sixteen
shall be deait Nvith by the courts la a
certain way and iu cases of conviction sent
te idustrial schoois. 1 put themi ql uancler
If tbis Bill becomies law that
one titie.
apply te ail
This Bii ill
wnill ceasc.
young persons under the age of sixteen
they will be deait with under this Bill.
Except to a very limiited extent. this Bill
mnakes no provision for those youug people
I
beini committed to industriai schools.
would suggest to the lion, gentleman that
be should consider that mnatter and piepare somie amiendnient w hici ýwill eniabie
us to use the industrial scboois to a greater
extenit thon the Bill proposes to (10 in it:,
present shape.

during the period of wardship cause snob
child to be rerturned to the court for furjther
or other proceedings, inolnding discharge upon
parole or release f rom an institution.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I propose to add the
following te Cils clause
l>rovided that in any province ia which
there is a suiperintendenit of negleoted and dependent children appointed under the authorit *vof any provdnacial Act, ne child shahl be relw;ased by the judge f rom an industriel school,
without a report frein snoh su'periintendent
recoai'xnding sncb release.
Ilon. Mr. De BOUCHERVILLE-Wiil lie
lie subjected te another proceediag wlben
lie is 21 years of age?
disbe
Ilon. Mr. BEIQUE-He wiil
The words ' to an institution '
eharged.
N-ouid net mena aniytbing, and it mnay net
lie lu accord with the rest of the Bili, because the subsections 'providie for the coinmiitting of the chuld te a foster bouse, or
even in aprivate family.' 1 want te eniargé
that part of the section by inserting the
words ' if lie lie in aur way coiînmitted,'
and, ilieii at the end of the clause, for tlie
saine reasen, I strike out the word institution ' anîd replace it by the word coiniînitîiient.' He le a ward of the court until
lie reaches 21. and then, ipso facto, lie is
not at ill under thiis clause.- This aîneîidnient was suggezzted1 to nie because of the
svstemn obtainiîig nii Ontario. Iii tiîat provinice there is a superintendeat of nieglected and dependent chlldren, acting nder
the provincial statute, aîîd this oficer is
iiîtrusted ýwîtl very importanît duties. anid
it was suggested te nie tbat ne clîild slîould
be reieased under tlîat paragrapb -%v)thout
a faveurabie report being made by tlîat officer. After tbe child reaches 21 be would
be îîo longer under this Dii.

BEIQUE-It is flot miy uniderHon. McNl.
standing ef the Bill that it n-111 interfere
0f course
with the lindustrial schools.
that the
Hon. Mr. POWEll-Suppose
there may be a smailer numiiber sent to
ciild -%hei liad been sent te this institution
tbe industrial sclîools, becauise ether mneans
f
oie 18, tben he bas
will be tried befere having recourse to lias attaiîîed the
ceased te be a chuld under the defiaition of
that :otberwise it will îîot interferc withi
Dees the
the second clause ef the Bill.
sucb schoois.
bon, gentleman tbink It is quite cevered ?
adopted.
Subclause (b1) was
moment the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Thie
On clause 16, subciause 3,
ciîild lias corne under the operation of thls
3. Evory suoh ohild, wihether allowed te remain at home or pi.aced in a foster home, or Act, then lie îuay remain a ward of the
commiitted to an institution, shah1 continue court and remain under the operation of
to be a wcard bhv order of the court until it
has been discharged as such. werd hy order ftic Act uintil bie reaclies tbe age of 21.
of the court or has reaohed the age of twent 'yhe subclause was adopted.
one yearis; aad the court mey ait art tiîne
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JUNE 4, 1908

1039

JUNE 4,

1039

1908

On clause 17, subelause 5,
5. A parent or guard-ian shall have the
sanie r.ighit or appeal firoin an order made
under the provàsions of this section as if the
order had been madle on the conviction oif the
parent or guardian.-

the law cf the province, then lie should net
remain any longer under this Act.
On the

Hon. Mr. WILSON-lt seems to me that
this is a pretty bard provision.
If the
child has not committed an indictable offense so as to render himi lable to be coinmitted for it. yeu make the parent responsible for any damiage that may be imnposed
by the court.
I understood that the law
was intended to nvoid having children appear bèfore the public as crirninals.
This
clause virtually malzes the chuld, a criminal,
and even goes se far as te make girls of
16 years appear as criminals, and se held
responsible and tbat fact published to the
world.
It seems to mie the promnoter of
the Bil] might consider w'hetbier lie cannot
release. to some extent, the penalties that
wou]d attach to the wrong-doing.

Thse order of the Proviincial Searetary may
be made in advance and te applyr te ai cases
of commitment *mentioned in this section.
The Act would net be workabhe if thse
Provincial Secretary had te give an order
ln every case, s0 that If my amendment is
accepted it wihl lie open to the Provincial
Secretary to order that ln aIl cases where
the chld is committed te a Chuldren's Aid
Society or to the superintendent of Neglected or Dependent Chuîdren, or to an Industrial School, lie shaîl be deait wlth under the Iaw of the province.

othier band, If lie remains under this Act

hie siuould net be under the law of the province.
I propose te add further:

Hon. Mfr. POWER-That is a very important amendnsent.
Hon. Mr. ROY, frei the commaittee, reperted that they had macle some progress
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-This clause is ber- -%vith the Bill, and nsked leave te ait again
rowed f rom the imperial Bill which I have to-morrow.
The Senate adjeurned ntil three e'cleck
ln my ha«nd, and sucli legislation exists lu
France. Belgium. Denmark., Sweden, Nor- to-morrew.
way and a number of other countries.
Hon. '-\r. SULLIVAN-Tiiere is a good
deal of difference between Canadian chuldren and the chuîdren of those countries
the hon. genitlemiii lias mentioned.
Hon. '-\r. POWER-I thinkl this is one et
the most admirable clauises in the Bill.
Parents, as a ruIe, are responsible for their
children. and they sliould be se beld.
The clause was adopted.
Clause 18.
18. Whenever ain order hias been made under
the next preceding section, ceînmitting a child

to a children's aid society, or to a superin-

tendent of negleeted children, the child may
thereafter be deait with under the law cf
the province in the saine manner in ail respects as if an order had been laifullv made
in respect cf a proceediDg institnted'under
authorjtv cf a statute cf the province.
I propose te add te tlîis clause the follew-

Ing:
And froni the date of .such order the clhild
shaR1 cease to be a ward cf the couoet, and except fer new offences, he chai] not be dealt
with under the prov:isions of this Act.
Under tue previous section the child remains a ward of the court until bie reachies
.21.
If the child is te be dealt with undler

THE SENATE.
OTTAWVA,

Thursday, June 4, 1908.

The SPEAKER teek the Chair at Three
o'cleck.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
PROROGATION.
Hen. Mr. PERLEY-Before the orders
cf the day are -called, I sheould like te ask
tihe leader of the Heuse a question.
I
observe tlsat a notice ef motion bias been
given te adjeuma the Senate tili next
week, and I cannot find any signs of prorogation la sight. We are now ln thse
sevents mentis of the session, and I shouhd
like te know something about wheu lt wilI
end, because 1 have some work at home
which I want te attend te. When I left
Wolsehey, in November hast, I neyer expected I would be bere the whole year,
and did net arrange my business so that
I could be away for sucli a hength of time.
Oaa the bon. leader of the House give us
any intimation as te when parliam2nt Is

1040

SENATE

1040

SENATE

Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I
amn astonished
likely to prorogue? 1 canuot go homne during the short adjouramlents and have to that the hiou. gentieufan froin Toronto, a
Iawyer of higli standing, should raise a
remain here.
question of order. He ought to lcnow betHonl. Mr. SCOTT-I did not catch the ter.
The hon. miaister states that the
pertinent part of the question.
opposition are delaying the husiness of
is parliainent, and iu consequeuce of that hie
question
Hon. 'Mr. PE1tLEY-My
cannot tell w-lien parliarnent is likely to
-sihen wll parliamient prorogue ?
prorogue. I hiold that the opposition are
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That depends or' the siîuply doing their duty.
friends of the hou. gentleman in the other
The SPEAKElI-That
is not anothe-r
Chamber. Lt lests with tiin.
question. 1 thouglit the hion. genltlc-r-eîan inHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Altogether witli tended to put n question.
theni ?
LIon. Mr. PERLEY-I did, but the ansThe important
Hou. '-\r. SCOTT-Yes.
wver of the minister led to this.
part is the passage of the estimates, th,Hon..Mr. FERGUSON-The hoD, gentlesupply required to keep up the public service in Canada, to pay the various arnounts man is iu order in spealciug on thec motion
due for public works, to keep up the In- to adjoura.
tercoloniial Railway and a variety of otlier
Hou. 'Mr. PELILEY-I more tlîat w-e adpublie charges. 0f course that caiiuot be
Joula, seconded by the LIon. Mr. Kirchdone -hile the opposition hold uI) thc govholIer. -Now eain I spcalc? I say tlîat a
e ruie ut.
parliamient that is eiected by the p)eople of
FERGUSON-Are the goveru- Canada is supposed to he elec7ed t(, govHon. M-Nr.
nient mieasures downi ?
ern the country and adîninister the affairs
of the country w-ith advantage to Canada,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
and a certain proportion of the representaHon. Sir -MACKE-NZIE BOWELL-AII tires iu the other House thinik affairs have
not beeun managed satisfactorily to Candown ?
ada, and for that reason they are making
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon, gentleman inquiries into the p)ublie expenditure anti
bas nio righit to discuss the auswer of the various other mnatters in the departînents
min ister.
of the gorernment, so as to regulate thinigs
Hon. _Mr. PERLEY-Thenl 1 will asc and keep thein within houuds. That is the
anlotber question. I anticipated this trouble duty of an opposition, and 1 go tfurthier to
aud I w-vill now move thiat the Senate ad- say that 1 think tbe goverament ought to
bc as anxious as the opposition to sec that
journi.
niatters are done propcrly and correctly
The SPEAKiýER-Tliere need not be a and to see that nothing wrong is donc.
motion to adjouru, because if the hon. But -whlen tlue goverumeut does not do
gentleman has a question to put. hie is that, the opposition feel that it is incumiquite in order.
bent uipon thern to look after it.
TUey
Hou. '-\r. KERR-I rise to a point of have been trying to get at the bottoni of
order. There is nothing before the House. various expenditures, and Investigate the
conduct of men la the employ of the gorThe SPEAKER-There
is a question erument, and they are delayed iu that lnwhich the hon, gentleman is about to asc. quiry hv members supporting the goverunient iu the other House, aud that is w-bat
Hou. Mr. PERLEY-How eau 1 get my
keeps us here seven or eight or nine
remarks in ?
months. I w-as lu the Honse of Commous
The SPEAKER-The point of order is tbis moruiug and saw two committees of
not well taker' because the hon, gentleman inquiry aI wvork. w-hidi commnittees w-ould
bias a1 question to put.
have nothing to do if the husiness of the
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.

JUNE 4, 1908

1041

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The returning
officer may, under that clause, biave an arthey ivere obstructed, ns othier persons who rangement witbi parties outside by whichl
have been willing aîîd mixions to inake lu- he could put particular marks on and tlîus
quiries have beeui obstructed. The Frani- disfrauchise as rnany of bis political opchise Bil1 also bas been the object of coni-. ponents as lie cbooses.
siderable attention by the opposition. Tlîey
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No fraud lias beoîî disare disatisfied wltlî it, and that is the
The reason I stated 'unwitcovered yet.
renson. to somne extent, why ilarliament lias
tingly,' is because la the case to whichl 1
been lield up. I amn not a law-yer. iior a
have referred It was flot contended timat the
doctor, nor a philosopher. and I (I0 iiot
returning officer did it with any criîninal
to be a very great statesman.
profess
latent.

country were properly conducted. The opposition wvere trying to .-et information and

Hon. Mr. WATSON-Hlear. lienr.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Tlîat is aIl out of
Hon. '-\r. PERLEY-But I have conmnon order.
sense. whiclî seemis to nie an unknown proThe SPE.AKER-I would draw the atduct on tue otlier side of the House. I arn
going to ask the menîbers of the goveriimient-)ecanqe tlîe3 fra mcd fuis Franchise
Bill-what clause 17 mnens. It reands as
follows:
Section 173 of the said Act is aînended. by
adding ai the end of paragrapli C thle following proviso0
Providedl lionever that no ballot paper slîall
lie rejected on accounit of aîîy writiug, nomber or mark placed theneom 1w- any deputy
returniug officer.

I should like t0 have the lion. gentlemau's initerpretation
means.

of wlint that clause

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-An election was contested sorne tîmie ago lu consequence 0f
the deputy returniîîg officer uniuteîitionally
puttinig marks on thie ballot paper, and a
judge of the court Lheld that although tue
ehection N-as regular la everything, and
that there %vasno criminal latent la mak-ing those marks, it liad the effect of throwiag out all the ballots on w-hidli the marks

Placing n mark on a ballot
appeared.
gave the returning officer the opportunity of
It
disfranchising any voter lie wislied.
arose ln a case in the county of Wentworth,
whlere the court held that la consequence
of the deputy returning- officer unxvittingly
putting certain marks on) the ballot, it bad
the effeet of throwing ont those ballots.
and uîîseating tie mian wlio received the
majority of tie votes.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-But tlie clause
rend by the lion. gentleman does not refer
to marks put on unintentionally.

Hou. *Mr. SCOTT-Any marks at aIl.

tention of the House to tic fact thit tliis
is (liscussing a Bill mlîich is 110w before

tlie otiier House and ive cannot discuss it
umitil it coînes hiere.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-His
Honour the Speaker is righit in bis decisiOîî,
and I do flot intend to discuss the question
I can only reof the rnarking of ballots.
lient wbant lias already been said by the
lion. seiuntor frorn Mýarslifield, that it opens
the door for any nrnou lit of fraud. I could
.-Ive a number of instances wliere it lias
I amn surpriscd at the aniswer
happenied.
given by the lion. 'Secretary of State to the

question put to lila

by the lion. senator

froin Mai.rslifield, whien lhe said thiat tue gov-

erniuent liad brouglit dowa ail lis measures. Th-, Civil Service Bill lias flot been
brouglit down, and there is no Indication
of what the Insurance Bill is to lie or whien
It is to corne. The Premier said that these
Bis were to be introduced and considered
this session. If I were to express an opinIon It Is this, thiat neither of tiose measures
at tbis perlod of the session sbould lie
brouglit down, and the government would
be justiýfied lu not pushing tliem this sesTbey are very Important In their
sion.
character, but to tell us at this bour, after
the staternent made by the Premier lu the
otiier House. that ail the nieasures the goverrnent intended to deal wltli this session
have been brouglit down, is contrary to the
record.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-If I amn in order I
should like to say that according to clause
17 tliey could not-

REVISED EDITION

1042

SENATE

1042

SENATE

An bon. GENTLEMAN--Order, order.
The
order.

SPEAKER-Wiiat

is the point of

Some
hon.
GENTLEMEN-The
gentleman bias already spokèn.

hon.

The SPEAKER-The lion. gentleman has
Spokeni twice.

federai law, the federal law wiii prevail,
and therefore I think it is unfair that we
should take away from the local authorîties
the riglits tbey passess.
I do not see that
this will niake the matter better; It will
o nly make it worse.

Hon. MNr. BEIQUE-The bon. gentleman
wiIl hear in immd that this Bill creates
Hon. -.
%r. FERGUSON-Tlle hon. senator the certain acts mentioned in subclause
from Wolseley only gave the floor to per- (c) of clause 2 juvenle offences, -and brings
mit the Secretary of State to answer a ques- the act under the provisions of this Bill If
tion.
1 wisab to protest against the customi it becomes law.
It is intended in case a
ln Élis House of hon, gentlemen calling provincial leg-isiature bias any legisiation an
.order, order,' as they bave done this afterthe subject, as they have ln the province
noon.
If any one wisbes to raise a point of Ontario, ta give the Provincial Secretary
of arder, lie shauld rise l bis place and do pawer to issue an order directing that any
sa, and the chair will decîde.
chiîdren commltted ta an industrial1 school
The motion was witbdrawn.
or ainy of the institutions referred ta in
clause 18 shahl be praceeded with under
THIRD READING.
the provincial Act instead of under this Act.
Bill (Sl Ail Act resl)ectiig the Lakce We cannot go any furtber than tha.t.
It is
Chniplaqii and St. Lawrence Slîip Canal provi<ling that provincial legfisiation shail
Companv.-<l{
N. ir. Belcourt.)
supersedle tbis law if the Provîncilhl Secretary tbinks It advisable.
JUVENILE DELINQUENTS' BILL.
Hon.
MNr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-My
IN COMMITTEE.
abjection is just there.
'ne are interferThe honse rcsuined iu Commnittee of the
ing1 withi a local law.
W'bole eonsideration of Bill (QQ) An Act
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no. it does neot
respecting Juveile Delinquents.
interfere.
Whiere the two Acts are in bar(Iu the Commlittee.)
iioav. it prevides tbat the provincial law
Heu. Mr. MEIQUE iovedl that the fol- shahl prevail.
lowing be substituted for clause 18:
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-l miay further cahl
18. Whenever an odrer lias been made un- attention te clause 31, whiere it says:
der the next preceding section, cemrnitting a
child to a children's aid society, or ta a super31. Nathing in this Act contained shah] ie,
intendeat of neglected and dependent child- constructed as having the effect et repealing
ren, or ta an industrial school, if Sa ordered or over-riding any provision of any provinby the secretary of the province, the child cial statute relating ta neglected or dlependent
may thereafter lie deait with under the law children; and when a juvenile dehinquent who
of the province in the samne manner in ail lias not been guiity ef an set which ia, under
respects as if an order had been lawfully the provisions of the criminal code an indicmade in resepect of a proceeding instituted table offence, camles within the provisions 6f
under authority of a statute of the province; a provincial statute relating ta neglected or
and from the date of the issuing of sucli order riependeat children, it may lie dealt with
the child shahl cease to lie a ward of the court, either under the provincial Act or under this
and, except for any new offences, hoe shall not Act as mav lie deemed te be in the best interlie further dealt with under the provisions of ests of sucli child.
this Act. The order of the provincial secreThe amndaient was ag-reed te, and the
tary înay lie made in adrance and ta appiy
to ail cases of -commitment mide uinder this clause as amended was adepted.
section.
On clause 19,
Hon.
Mr.
DeBOUCHERVILLE-This
19. No Protestant child deait with under
does flot nieet the objection that I bave this Act shaîl lie committed to the care cf any
taken.
By this Bill we are amending the Roman Catholic children's aid saciety or lie
piaced in any Roman Catholic family as its
Act of a local legisiature.
If we take It foster home; nor shall any Roman Catholie
upon aurselves to amend the legisiation of chid dealt wjth under this Act lie committed
the local legfisiatures, thon whenever the to the care of any Protestant chihdren's aid
society, or lie placed in anv Protestant family
sections of a local law do not agree wlth a as its foster home; but this section shfall not
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.

Jl-,"ýE 4, 1908
JIT\~E
apply ta the placing of children in a temporary home of shelter for chiidren, established
u nder the authority of a statute of the province, or, in a muaicipality where there is but
one chîldren's aid society, to such children*s
aid society.
2. If a Protestant chiid is coinitted to the
care of a Roman Catholic children's aid
society or placed in a Roman Catholie family
as its foster home or if a Roman Catholic
child is committed ta the cars of a Pr otedant
children's aid society or piaced in a Protestant family as its foster home, canti-ary ta
the provisions of subsection 1 of this section,
the court shall, on the application of any çerson ia that behaif. make an aider provilding
for the proper commitrnent or placiiug of the
child as required by subsection 1 of this section.
Hou. '-%r. SILIV7A-.-Tbis clause ignores the titie of the parent altogether. If
that is the intention of the Bill, I bave
nothing ta say; b>ut I lbald differently xvitb
regard ta the vexed question of religion. A
child up to four or five years of age belongs
ta the mnother. but froni seven years of age
onwards. I think the father lbas a riglit to
the chlld. when It is able to decide for itself. I do not know xvbat age this Bill
takes cognizance of.
Hon. «.Mr. BEIQUE-My hon. frlend is
dealing Nvith the subject matter of clause
16, wbicb bas been already adopted. Tat
clause gis-es power to the efficer ta remove tbe child frorn the parents, In certain cases.
oee
Hon. Mr. SUL LIVAN -S upposing
parent is Protestant and the otlier Catholic.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The
child.

father lias thec

Hon. 'Mr. BEIQUE-Yes, tbe fatiier bas
tbe cbild.
at
Hon. 31r. SULLIVAN-I tbinkc
young ag-e the mnother bas the child.

n

InterHon. '-\r. BEIQUE-We cannot
fere wltb tbe law. If tlue mother bas tbe
prior riglit, tbe law will apply.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
clause declares that ini a munilpality w'here
there is but one Cbildren's Aid Soclety, a
chlld, no matter of w-bicb religion, inay be
sent ta it, independent of the pareDt or
anybody else.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I bave followed the
wording of the Imperia] Bill wbich Is very
wide.

1043

4, 1908
1043
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-There bave been
terrible rows ln England about the sanie
question ; It upset tbe wvbole country, and
1should like ta guard agaînst sucb agitation in Canada.
Han. Mr. PO0WER-I wvish ta direct the
froin
gentlemani
attention of the bion.
Kingston ta the fact tbat clause 16 gives
the court the power ta allow the cbild ta
reinain lu its borne, subjeet ta the visitations of tbe probation officer, and, of course
if tbe father, or, the father beiug. dtead,
the rnotber of tbe child Is able ta show
that hie or sbe is prepared te briug tbe
cbild up properl3-, the judge of the court
wvIll natural3- allow the child ta remain
la its borne.
The subclause w-as adopted.
On clause 24,
24. Every probation offcer dulv appointed
under provisions of any provincial statute
shall have in the discharge of his or hier
duties as such probation officer all the powers
of a constable, and shail b. protected fromn
civil actions for anything doue in bona fide
exercise of the powers conferred by this Act.
clause
Hon. Mr. WILSO-N-Does tbis
ernpoN-er an officer acting under this Act
ta do anytbiug-, wbether it is eonsistent or
incousisteut withi it, and fiee hlmn froni
ny action ? F-ias lie full and absolute
power ta do as bie thiukzs proper ? The
Act gives bixn very imnportanit privileges
One
and very imuportaut duties to peirfori.
clause gives hlm Pî;ývel! where a Roman
Catbolic child lias been placed iu .1 Proi
testant fanuily, if any one miales -- rePiÙcsentation ta hlm. ta bave tbiat child talzen
away. We are grautins absolute power ta
Iilmi without auy restriction w-bateve-, and
bie caui sluîiply quote this Act as bis protection.
Han. Mr. BEIQUE-Tliese probation officers are made officers of the court by this
Is tbe protection wbicbh is
Act, and tis
always afforded afficers of tbe court, proOthierwise
vided they act lu goad faitb.
tbey would be open toalnl kiuds of actions,
and the Act 'would not be workable.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbis
only gives hlmn tbe power that is vested lu
a constable now.
Hon. 1%r. WILSON-We kuow tii. powers of the coustables, and, w-e know thiat

1044

SENATE

1044

SE~ATE

thiey exorcise tliose poweis very frequeiitly,
,lot ini the hest iîtercsts or justice, and
thîey are îîrotected frein civil action for
anytlîing done lu the honi fide exerrise of
the lîowers conferred hy tlis Act. If tlîey
say tlîat tlîey are aicting houa tidai under
this Act, tîeîs tîmere is mio redress toa mny
one who iiiay suifer frein tlîeir conduct.
If v-e are passing tiuis Act for thse protection of juveniles, we slîauld sec tiiot
they shahl îot he se dispasedl of as ta hecaine criiluals. 'Tli effeet of this Act
aupar ta, mue theo lirdening et juvewnl
nule criminals ratlier tlian reformîing tîei.

did net sustain the pr'Ohationl officer ln the
action lie took.
The clause Nvas adoPted.
On suhcelause ?3, of clause 25,
3. Where there is no cliildrenl's aid society
iii a city or town in which. this Act is in for-ce
the court shall appoint three or more persons
ta l>e the juvenile court coinmittee.

Hon. 'Mr. POWVER-It is desiraie ta
11u suhclause 2 there
atiiend sn>lue3.
is a provision that there shial ho tw c juveisile court conimitteos, anc to deal witlî
Protestant children and the otiier îvltl
Cathi lic cliildin. a nd 1 tiiink thle sainle
Hait. Mr. SCOTi-.\y liain. frieud slîould provisions slîold he exrended ta thîls clause.
reinenuher wlio the probations afficers are. I suggest to the lions. gentleman tliat lie
The>- are select3îl friii pîeople wlvho take sliauld addi to, suhlausiie 3 tiiese wvords:
a great iuterest iii tue. clild ansd l
As regards Proteitamît clijîdren, and three
.111(c, tlîev (Io mot possess thosO or lucre other pe1-sol1ý te lie the juvemîlle court
mu if
qualities niy liois. frienjî refers to. tlîey are cominitte-, as regards IBomîan Catliolic clîilduîîfit for the position. Thîoy go ista a i' s
have ne objection.
i. BIE-1
where fatmer and isitiior are figliti.g. or
ndf tliey bring the chlld
The subclause vasuîîoîded and adcpted.
perhaîîs drimilzrds,
away and protect it lis order tlîat it inay
îg to mîsove tlîat
Hll. MibcQUbecoie a vaulomenlier of society. )oes
ta this
the follow,ýinr clause he added
thse lien. gentleman sas- tîtat iny anc acting
capacîty slmould miat be protected clause
lus that
Wlîerever no probatiomn officer lias beeii apwhen leoking after the vital interests of
the pirovincimal autlority, amnd
the w-ell-lîeîug of saciety! poimîted under for sucs lias been priîedh
the child and
remiuneration
Tise Act is no usqe atheru-ise.
mnunicipal grant, public stil)scriptioli or- otlieiWise ' the court shahl, witlî the conicurrýmîce of
I-ou. '-\r. WILSON-We are ail desirous the jnu enile court couiiîîjittee, ap)point o11e
as pirobiationi
of mlaking cvery c -ild as it grows nip a or more suitable ;er-soîls ta act
officers.
useful inexîshir cf society, but we iuay
Han. '-\Ir WILSON-Aiii I ta iind(erstand
differ as ta tise mals of accomislisliiiig
that. Here %ve pnass an Act ta permit a that the court appoints certain persans, as
clsild being talzenl avvay tramn its parents a juveîîile court comîniiittce, anîd these offiand put is other charge, and wha is as cers with the apprfovfl af the court mnay
solicitous for tue wvelfarP of tlîe clîild as appoinît a prohationi olicer ? I uiîderstood
M e put yaîîig. clildren is ordinary constables Nvere ta act. as the
tise parent?
tise lîamdq of ai) officer and tlîat officer lias officers unider this Bill.
Hie
aissolute power anid comitral aver tiei.
Hon. '.\r. BEIQUE-Oli, ne.
may do giivtinig umider tihe Act. and
I say tlsat lt Is an nlie ls protected.
Hou. M\rl. WVIISON-I-erC -,ve find thsat
reasonable proposition ta ivake, and I ain -where tlîere is ne Clîildren's Aid Society
fearful that hnstead of ]essening the cri- hli a city or ta'vn lu whlîi tîjis Act is iii
msinai juvenîle class it wlll Increase tlîem. force. the court shahl appoinît tlîree or more
I do flot see nny reason wby we shîiould *persans ta lie the juvenile court camimittee,
pass sucs a restrictive measure.
.and then it says tHe caurt shall witlî the
concurrence of the juvenile court cominittee
Hon. MNr. SCOTT-I have lîad sane filappoint a probation officer and lie is ta have
miliarity witlî the w-orking of tîme Act. My1ail the pom-ers and ahl the immnities prosou lias heeîs president of one of thiese sovided by tîxis Bill. It niay he ail riglit.
cieties for years, aîsd I have lsever hieard
an inistance wliere the whole camninuiti * Thse clause w'as 9dapted.
Hon. Mr. WILSON.

JITNE 4, 1908

1045

marily, or otherwise deait with as mn the case
Ou1 clause '28,
before a justice.
wilfuliY of a preliminary hearing
28. Any person whlo icnowingly or
PONVEL-I would ask the liou.
lion. M.%I.
or, coniivES at
encourages, aids, causes, ahets
what lie tîinks of tiuis case; supdelinquelCY,
the commission by a child of a does any act gentlemanl
knowingly or wilfully
or who
is accused of a criminal
or contributiiig to a pose thiat a party
proucngprmotîî
on a girl under the age of sixteen,
a juveîîilýý delinbeing or becoming çerýon is the par- assault
child's
that that
quent, whether or not such
being, does the hon, gentleman think
ent or guardian or the cliild, or- who, being case shoulci be tried lu a chiidren's court?
of the child andà
the parent or guardian
that
able to do so, wilfully neglects to do
Hon. 'Mr. BEIQUE-YOs, with the diswould directly tend to prevent a child's
which
yscin7
ng
é
eto
cretion g-Iven to the Jdeb
being or becoming a juvenile delinqueiit, or
a child
to remnove the conditions wvhich. relicer
. as aclolted.
The clause
a juvenile delinquent, shall be liable on sumor a
mary conviction before a juveaile court
On clause 34,
hundred
ryct
to a imprisonnmelt for five
u nfrei
.b
justi ce, or to fine not exceeding a period not
dollars
u nfrc nayct
This Act may b
exceeding one year, or to both fine and imi- or34. town by proclamation, notivithstandifl g
aimse
ojutc
has not pwzsed
prisonnient.
moecondi- that the provincial legisiaturesection 33 of this
2. The court orjsiena
an Act such as referred to i
under this
in Council je satisfled
tions upon nny person found guilty
to such Act, if the Goveriior for the due carrving out
section, and suspend sentence subject
aniy timie that that proper.facilities this Act have heen proconditions; and on proof at
pass Of the proviýions of
11maty
municipal
or towni
such conditions have been violzited
vided in sucli city otherwi>e. by the
Original conviction.
sentence under the
counicil thereof ou
in Couincil 1111a,designate
2. The Governor
nie thiat
a
judge
Hon. '-Ir. WILSON-lt strilces ii(lviIlilia superior court or counitv couirt the cityor or
ver
in
iiilý,
thi isinendd.to
ind~id.iljustice, having- jurssdiction
ver
ntened
0 iake
tinsis
or
tomvn in u-hich the Act is so put ia for-ce,
an1 officer to sec tliat chljdron are 1)rotectecl.
qualified perniav appointas some other duly jiudge for such
(loin-g wvrong
to sec a
juvenile court
on, to act
If one happonls nunertke child retran hm,
0
and oosico
or- percitv or tovn, and the judge or- justice
and
soni so designatEýd or appoiiited shali have
What ha a
lie is hiable te tliis penalty.
ail the powers
city or tovnjuvenile court.
iii sucli
The least offence iny. ho a exercise Act conferred on the
by this
delinqflency?
cities
Hou. '.%r. WILSON-By thîls clause
pr
Y
pnot
does
one
ventiuqelydi
are empowerod to punt the iaw
md towvns
heoniosrespnsibe.
vent t 010
1-ow about rural sections? We
SCOTT-No, it is only if you la force.
Hon. 'Mr.
tîme protection
to comm11it have township societies for
encourage, nid or assist a child
would this onable tîmo townof juvenihes;,
crime.
an application?
clause covors il] ship to muahe snch
Flou 'Mr. WILSON-The
BEIQUE-I -thuikl so, because
Hon. «M\r.
If we know that a chîld is
that I dlaim.
othier porhavec we have added the words ' Or
doing wrong and do imot ta1lze stops to
a province.'
tions of
hlm punished, w-e are contributing.
thmh
Hon. Mr. SULLIVANI1 do not
ien. -Mr. BEIQUE-A person who would
of the kind
not aid or en- they wouhd require anytbing
inerely knlow of il, if ho did
the moral
pur- in townships or villages. because
courage it, would flot come within the
is purer than ln
wording atmnosphere lu sucli places
This la the
of this clause.
vie
iu rela- cities or towvns.
whvlîi la usec inl the Crirninal Code
Hlou. Mr. BEIQUE-I thimîk it would bée
tion te matters of this kind.
portions of
I well to add the words 'or other
Hon. Sic 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-As to a province.'
understand the clause, It Is a provision
The clause was amefldod and adopted.
child lu
puiiisl any one who encourages n
Hon. 'Mr. BEIQUE-I mnove a recondoing- wroflg.
to age.
aideratiou of the clause in regard
agea of
The clause w-as adopted.
t makes a difforence between the
On cause29,
I niove thiat the age bie
and boys.
0,girls
On lase
Lt will bo more
any made uniform-16 years.
29. Prosecutions for offeaces in against of a.
respect
of the criminel code
provision
court in accord with the othîei-statutes.
child may lie brought in the juvenile hearHon. Mr. ELLIS-I ami very sorry that
preliminary
the necessity of a may be 6unmnariy
without
to thia. belng before a justice, and
sum- the hon. gentleman consents
disposed of where the offence is triable

1046

SENATE

1046

SENATE

cause, notwitlistandiug the criticismas of
yesterday, a girl requires more care than
a boy, and it would bave been mucbi better
to have left the clause as lt la ln the original draft of the Bill.
Hon. .'%r. BEIQUE-I have corne to tbis
conclusion because ail the other statutes
make no differeuce and I amn afraid It
miglit create seine confusion.
Hon. -'%r. ELLIS-That is ail very wèll,
but a 17 ycar old girl, notwithstanding tbis
Act, may be taken into an ordinary police
court and wliatever is vicions and wicked
would be demoustrated as before, and she
The
would lose the benefits of the Act.
hon. gentleman hias doue so well that-one
feels disposed te praise iin for bis work.,
but lu tbis case bie is too easy.

corne in and clajimed exemption, and it la
not considered desirable tbat Obinese students over 17 should be allowed to attend
schools in British Columbia witb ordinary
w-bite cblldren of tender years.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I suppose that students entering for Instance under 15 or 16,
deslriug t0 go tbrougb thteir regular course
will bie compelled. to withdraw wben tbey
reacli tbe age of 17, uuder the provisions
of Iis Bill? The clause merely exempts
students under 17 years of age fromn coming into the country.

Hon. Mr. POWER-If a student proposes
to go to a day school la British Columbia,
I can understand tbe fixing of seventeen;
but suppose a case which somietimes happens, 1 tbink, that a Cinese studen wishes
or Toronto University,
Hou. M.ir. BEIQUE-I wauit te follow tbe t0 study at McGill
me tbiat 17 is a 10w age.
imiperial Act and the Ontario statutes as far it seems to
Hon. Mr. W'ILSON-lt struck nie the lias possible, and I think it will disarm opposition lu the other chamber by making lt mitation of 17 was a litie preinature, and
Tbey
Ibat an older age shouid bie fixed.
uniform.
wouid bardly coiplete their educalion nt
Tbe clause w-as aniended and adopted.
17.
Hon. Mr. ROY, from the committee, reHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTported tbe Bill witb amendmeuts.
Tbey are uot iuterfered with in the sligbîtCHINESE IMMIGRATION ACT AM-%END- est deg-ree.
If a inan of fifleeu cornes la
MENT BILL.
bie can go on sîudying tili bie is 35 or any
age bie likes.
IN COMMITTEE.
The House resolved itself into a CommitHou. 31r. WILSON-I understand that,
tee of the Wbole on Bill (00) An Act to and I understand w-e have officers w'bo eau
ameud tbe Chinese Immig-ration Act.
guard againsî students coming in under
(In the Comuuittee.)
false prelences, and a bona fide student
of 17J years should uot bie excluded.
Ou clause 2,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHITThe object of Ibis clause is simply this:
certain abuses bave occurred under tbe old
statute under wbich men of mature age
clairned exemption us beiug cbildren. Here
we define wbo the chuldren may be by introducing tbe word minor, and by limitiug
the students wbo may dlaim exemption te
students wbo are under 17 years of age.
Hou. Mr. POWER-Is not tbat rather a
10w age?
Hon. '-%r. WILSON-Would the right bou.
minister state wby the limitation is te
students under 17?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTBecause parties mucli over tbat age bave
Hou. Mr. ELLIS.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHe ls not excluded, but bie inust pay bis
$500 like nny other Chinaman.
Hou. Mi. WILSON-If lie cornes la under faise preteuces, let tbe officers attend
te tbat matter, but bona fide studenîs
should be permiîted to corne.
understand
Hon. Mr. McMe2ýULLEN-I
tbere la an arrangement wbiereby tbe province of British Columbia receives somneIbing like one-baîf of the per capita tax
imposed upon Chinamien euteriug Canada.
I notice tbal the Chinese are geattered
pretty weli over tbe whole Dominion. You
will nlot find a village or towa wbere there
I should
are flot baif a dozen of them.

JUNE 4, 1908

1047

1047
JIJNE 4, 1908
to k-now whetber It is tbe Intention of it 'subject to sucb regulations as may
11k-e
the governrnent to continue that systern ? frorn time to tirne be made by the GovIf Ontario is going to bave her fair share, ernor ln Council, duly certLfied teacbers.'
or perhaps more than ber share of tbe Tbe present Act provides:
Chinese cornlng. Into Canada, and dolng
Subject to the approval of the minister, duiy
ail kinds of work, she should be entitled certified teachers, or who are bearers of certificates of identity or other sirnilar docuto a per capita aiiowance as well as Bri- mnents isaued by the governent or by a recognized official or repiesentative of the govtisb Columbia.
erninent, whose subjects they are, specifying
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- their occupation and their object in corning
I arn afrald it gets Its share ln the case into Canada.
You repeal that portion of the Act and
of people who enter at an Ontario pont,
and you can bond tbem throughi If you nelegate tbe' power to the Goverror ln
like, froin a Britishi Columbia port to an Council to rnake sucb regulatlons as be
Is that with the intention
Ontario clty or village, but It would be thinkzs proper.
very difficuit to carry out what wy bon. of adopting sncb regulations as wili limit
friend intends, that after a man bas en- the Importation of Obinese into thls countered British Columbia and stayed a little try?
wbile and goes elsewhere, the province to
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTwhich be go2s should put ln a dlaim for Not specialiy, but the object we bad lu
a part of the tax.
view Is this, as rny hon. frlend wIll see :
Hlon. Mr. McNfMULLEN-Tbat is the point NVe bave bad a certain amount ef trouble
I arn caliing attention to. I know that frorn parties eorning to our ports and pre'when they get to Ontario tbey pay their sentlng certificates, say frorn Mexico or
tax, and Ontario gets its share. Four- places of tbat kind, wbere tbey bad been
fiftbs of the Chinese land lu British Co- accredited or signed by resident Chinese
lumnbia, stay thene a little wbiie aud tben diplomatic' agents, who bad got tbem
corne to Ontario, and we recelve no allow- through Influence wltb the British ambassador or British minister, perhaps, who did
ance at ail.
not want to squabble witb them and was
Hon. '-\r. WILSON-Ail the rnoney goes required to have a Ilttle power of control
to British Columbia.
oven thern. it Is a privîlege that la subHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- ject to being Rbilsed a little. The United
I do not wajnt to pursue the rnatter too States authorities bave rnade rather strong
sectionally, but I iuay say this for Mny complaints to us that quite a successful
friends In British Columbia, that lu pro- business ln the way of smug-gling Chinaportion to their population tbey contribute rnen Into the 'United States was done by
exceediugly well to the revenue, and I do certiflcates of tbis kind under wbicb tbey
flot thînk w-e could afford to raise tbe carne Into Canada, and then made their
question as to the comparatively arnal way into the United States. We bave bad
ainount that wouid be Involved ln this a -good deai of trouble with tbat and 1
tbink we bad better take a littIe power to
matter.
say wbat -will constitute proper certifiHon. Sir MACKENZIE -BOWELL-It cates. It la not that I Intend to rneddle
goes beyond that. The permission to corne with the Introduction of Chinese of tbe
into the countny Is about tbe same as the bigh class lnto Canada at ail.
oid law, wlth tbe exception of liiting
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-There
the age at whicb Chinese studelits shahl
be perniltted to corne into the country. I is another point that thîs will rneet, or
take It that If a student cornes ln at the that this is Intended to .reet, and tbat le
age of 16 be would be able to rernnin un- the granting of bogus certificates by corntii he was 20 according to this law, but panies tbat are in Hong Kong and other
you bave ornitted a portion of subsection portions of Cbina. I lcnow that thp govC of section 7. Instead of tbe provision erament of tbe United States bave bad
-çwhich Is ln the old law. you bave made that difficuity.

SENATE

1048

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWVRIGHTThat bas been done occasionally.

tectiiig the United States
tiiere can be no objeetion.
1 The clause %vasadopted.

againist

thua,

lion. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wbîle
On clause 3.
,-#e desire to be o11 very friendly relations
3. Subsection 3 of section 7 is ainended by
iiilth the Urited States, I do flot kinow that inserting alter the words 'Chinese origin 'i
line th'ieof the woî-ds 'under sevenwe stunk pass laws especially to protect the first
teen years of age.'
the introduction
the United States against
Hon. Sir MACIKENZIE BOWEL-I sup0f Cluinese into their country if they think
tîxat questhe pose tlue governunent bave given
proper to go, nor eau I understand
tion tiiorouglî conisideration ?
passage of any Iaw by our parliameat that
wilI prevent tIse smuggling of Chinese frein
Hion. Sir RICHIARD) CARTWRIGHITIWe did.
Canada into the United States.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI would flot do0 that, but I should flot like
te encourage turning Canada into Ia kind
of base for sinuggling Chinese into tlue
United States contrary to their law.

Hon. Sir MACKENZI E BOWEL-It
seei te mle fIat if tliey are to le aduuulttcd
af al], the age iniglit be a littie lilgier, say
18 or 19.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIf ýyou put if higler tlian flat Nve fiiud fuat
people object stu-enHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No, the Britishu Colunibia
attcuding
thère is no desire to en- uously ho young mcae of 1S or 19
1 eau uuderstand
their scluo<ls. The lion. gentlemuan Imows
courage it ; but the point I unake is this:
ef tIc privilege. Clii
oute of the explanatiolus given by the lion. fîe-e wvas an abuse
mcn %vent te the scbools for
gentleman is that we aire passing flua law nese young
exemption frein
principally ho protect the United States tlue puriiose of obtaining
WC the capitation tax. Lt was not inteuded
Chinese.
thec importation of
from
bc dlonc.
L-now ýwhat the effect bas been la the past, tixat that sbould
the opium trade. At one
particularly i
The clause w-as adopted.
time there wvere thirteen or fourteen refîOn clause 4,
ners ef opium in British Columbia, principally lu Vancouver, but also la Vietoria.
4. Section 19 of the said Acf is luereby reThat arose froal the wording of law, mlichl pealed and the following is sub-tituted thereA heavy duty for :
was passed by Canada.
19. Persons cf Chiliese enigin inay pass
was put upon the refined article, and a through Canada ius transit froni ene port or
low duty upon flue raw material or thc place out of Canada te another port or place
in or out of Canada, without previous
crude opium. The resuit of that wvas the 1eifher
payment cf the tax cf five hundred dollars
building np of 13 or 14 refineries la Brn- iiaposed by this Act: provided that such pasaccordauce with, aiid uuder
tlsli Columubia, and wlien they came te liu- sage is made ia as are miade for the purpose
such re& ulations
quire into mluat becaiue of ftie refined ar- by the overaor in Council.
ticle, if was fourni that it w-as smugglee
liou. Sir RICHARD CARTWIRGHTinfo the United States. Therp. is no questior
îny lion. friends w-Il look at clause 19
States, lIr If
Then tlue Unifed
about fluat.
la the Revised Statufes they will see tînt
order to meet fluat stafe of affairs, reduced
there is very liftle change there. It is
the dufy upon fhe crude opium-lt wa,
almosf identically flic ame. On the third
very bigli at the time-and that resulteÈ2
lhue it rends :'WVbereas if w-as wlthout
la shutting up aIl the refineries lu Britisl
and it is now wlfvihoiit previeus
belig lin -pnymenf'
Columbia, and flue raw mnaterial
rpayment.'
porfed directed into the Unifed States; the.,
POWER-That la surplusage.
Hou. M.Nr.
could manufacture there', and save then
MI
trouble and risks of smuggling-.
the
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHThon. fricnd smiles, but I fhink he under
Justice appeared ne,
Now, a SThe Departmeilf cf
facf.
stands fliaf thaf w-as'the
te fbink se.
fhis law~ is going to have tbe effecf of prc
Bon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

1049

JITNE 4, 1908

JJTNE 4, 1903 in addition to the said penalties 1049
also
section,
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Whft
are the regulations now ? If a Chiuamau
lands at Vancouver and wvants to pass
through the country te the United States
bie goes on the -Canadian Pacifie Railway.
He bas to pay the $500 before lie is permitted to bie transported througlb the country, lias lie nlot ?

be hiable to deportation.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThis clause is intended to nniend the prosent section and iakie it full enough to
enable us to deal vitb parties who evade
the law, and afterw-ards to deport tiemn.
This wvas reconhrended by the Depnrtmnt
of Justice In consequence of certain legal
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTdifficulties that met us lu dealing witli
Unless lie is, lu a. sort of fashion, bouded
the ingenious Joliit Chinamen, who got into
tbrough.
the country at Sydney or some port in the
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Now
maritime provinces, and w-ho are' likely to
you make a provision that hoe caiî h trans- spend twelve montb's ia j-i il instead of
ported throughi lu bond under such regu- paying $500, and w-ho beat us on that.
lation. Will the railway be hield responHou. 'Mr. BOSTOCK-I sbould likoe to
sible if bie escapes ?
know w-by the last part of the clause is
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTleft ont with regard to people çwlo ai<I
Yes, if they let hlm go w-e can collect and abot the Ciniamen to do so nnd se '?
W'e have collected lu «. good
the $500.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGIITiflaur cases.
I do nlot understand that. There is a clause
BOWEL-Il which imposes a beavy penalty on people
Hou. Sir «MACKENZIE
know tbat, but you are relîeving thein of. w-ho nid and abet the Chinese te evade the
it now, unless you mnake a regulation hold- law.
ing tbemi respousible.
Hou. Mr. WILSON-They miglit ail be
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWIRIGHTNo. The ouly alteration is the introduction of that one word.

of Ciniese origin, and iinay have pid their
tax, and yet you hold them responsible
and liable to deportation.

Hon. Sir RICHARD) CARTWRIGHTHon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the
Chinaman is comiing to Ontario, to be a. Yes, if they commit the offonce described
resideut boere, British Columbhia does flot Iu the previous subsection.
w'ant the $300.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-You makze no provision bore that if they boe of Chinese
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI do flot kuow m-iether it wants it or flot, origin they are hiable to bie sent out of the
country, ev-eu thougli they hjnd paid their
but it wi]l not get It.
full tux of $500 ?
The clause wvas adopted.
On clause 5,
5. Section 27 of the said Act is hereby repealed and the folloiwing is substituted therefor:27. Ev-ery person of Chinese origin who-<a> lands or attempts te land in Canada without payment of the tax payable under this
Act; or(b) wilfully evades or attempts to evade any
of the provisions of this Act as respects the
paynient of the tax by personating any other
individual; or<c) wilfully makes use of or attempts to make
use of any forged or fraudulent certificate or
of a certificate issued to any other person for
any purpose connected with this Act., is
guilty of au indictable oflence, and liable te
imprisonnment for a terni not exceeding twelvE
months or to a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, or to both.
2. Persons of Chinese origin shall, if guilty
of au offence under the last preceding sub-

Hou.
Yes.

Sir RICHARD

CARTWRIGHT-

Hon. 31r. WVILSON-That clause would
bardly be fair.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe bon, gentleman. bas flot deait very
much with John Chinainin. Ho is an lugenious niortal and difficuit to catch, and
wve biave to Insert stringent provisions lu
the law reg-ardiug hlm. If hoe lias been
guilty of wilfuhly inakiug- use of forged or
fraudulent certificates, thon we provide for
bis punislimnt.
Hon. Mr. WVILSON-Tlie clause says that
if hoe be guilty of nny of the offences mon-

1050

SENATE
1050

tioned in the preceding sections. if hie is of
Chinese origin you send hlm. out.
Hon. Sir RICHARD
It ls a trebie penalty.

CARTWRIGHT-

Hon. Mr. WILSON-Lt is a pretty heavy
penalty.
Hon. Slr RICHARD CARTWIRGHT-Lt Is a heavy penalty, I grant you.
Hon. Mr. MclMULLEN-In case a penalty
Is hmposed of $500 or imprisoumneut for 12
months, aad he puts lu 12 imonths ln jail,
what is doue with lm then?
Hon. Sir RICHEARD
We can deport hlm.

CARTWRIGHT-

Hlon. Mr. McMULLEN-The question is,
will hie be deported?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThis gives us the power to deport hlmn.
Hlou. .Mr. MecMULLEN-It hie goes to juil
for 12 months rather than puy $500; lie
wouhd be earning good wuges.

EXOHEQUER COURT ACT AMýNENDMENT BILL.
THIRD READING.
The flouse resolved itself into a Coiniuittee of the Wbole on Bill (116) Au Act
to amfpud the Exchequer Court Act.
(lu the Committee.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The main object of
this Bill is to enlarge the occasions when a
substitute for tbe judge of the Exchiequer
Wbat is cahhing
Court ma.y be appoiuted.
it up at the present moment is the fact
that JTustice Cassels lias been appointed to
make an iuquiry into the Departmeut of
'Marine and Fisheries, aud he considered
that somne arrang-ement should be made for
the carryiug ou of the business of the court
whlle be was so eug-aged.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWrELL-Is
this for the appointment of another official?
Hlon. -Mr. SCOTT-No, it is for the appolutmeut of a substitute while the judge
is absent from bis duty through llhness, or
because he is lnterested lu a case or If hie
bas other judicial duthes which makze It
impossible for hlm to hear wlthout uudue
delay any cause or matter.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTSome -ChinWe hiave cases of that kind.
ese were imprisoued ia defauht of payiug
They
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Will my hon.
a fiue, and tbey put us at deflauce.
said 'juil pretty good.'
friend explain the circumstauces wichb led
up to thîs? It Is understood thut Judge
Hou. Mr. ELLIS-Is there not somie con- Cassels decliued to receive any emolument
You say persons of for bis services..
fusion lu clause 5?
origiu, shah!, if guilty of auy ofChinese
ýHon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
fence under the hast preceding subsection
Why himit It
to deportation.'
'be hiable
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-Was that the
to the last precedhng subsèction?
position taken by the Judge?
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Yes, he declined to reHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRLGRITThis clause was specialhy drawn by the ceive any emolument, and he declined aise,
Departmieut of Justice, hiaving refereuce to uuless some one was appoiuted to discharge
special evasions of the law, and I would the duties of the court.
not cure to alter it ou my own responslHou. MIr. FERGUSON-BUt the judge
Where the Depurtment of Justice
bility.
declined to receive auy emolument for the
draws a clause to meet a speclal defect lin
office?
the law,' I would hesitate to alter it.
Hon. M\r. SCOTT-That I understood was
The clause was adopted.
iu bis letters te the Premier. Ther'e is nothHon. Mr. COFFEY, -from the committee, iug said about that Iu this Bill.
reported the Bihl whthout ameudment.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-L asked the quesThe Bihl was then read the third tnme, tion because virtue *has been made with
and passed under suspension of the ruhes. regard to the judge decllniug to receivé any
Hon. Mr. WILSON.

JUNE 4, 1908
einolument for bis services.
MNy hon.
frlend is flot aware that the judge canflot accept any emolument for any service
of the klnd.
Under the Exchequer Court
Act it is provided ln section 6 that the Judge
of the court shall fot hioid any other office
of emolumeut, either under the goverilmeut
of Canada or under the goverament of any
province of Canada.
Therefore it was no
particular menit on the part of the goverlment or the Judge regarding saiary, because lie Is precluded under the Exehequer
Court Act froni taking any emolument.
Now there la another point; subclause 2
saya: ' Ias other judiciai duties which
make [t impossible for hlm to hear without
undue delay aay cause or inatter.' I preaunie is the one that is intended to warrant
the appoiutmeat of au ad hoc judge in
pince of Judge Cassels.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mr. PERGUSO-N-Wýili that mneet
the case of the aî'pointment of Judge Cassels to inquire into the administration o!
the Dèpartment o! Marine and Fishieries?
Hon. '.\I. SCOTT-So 1 believe.
That
[s the opinion of Judge Casseis himself.
The clause was drawn after correspondence
between hinm and the 'Minister of Justice.
It occurred to me that the clause was not
broad enough, and I wrote the Minister of
Justice a note on the subject and afterwards cilled on hlm and dlscussed the matter, and he said It was wide enougli.
Hon. '.%I. FERGUSON-Is the investigation of a depnrtment and of the management of a department a judicial duty?
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-That la the opinion o!
both Judge Cassels and the Minister of Justice.
Hon. '-\I. FERGUSON-It may be made
to cover it, but I doubt if such an investigation cau be regarded as a judicial duty.
Hon.
Mt.
SCOTT-Other gentlemen
thought it was nt wide enough, and I held
the Bill over until 1 bad an opportuaity o!
consnltlug the Minister o! Justice about It.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Ali this arises
froni the vicious pninciple o! the government appointlng judges for work of titis
klnd.
The whole country was open to
them to make appointments; it was quite

easy to have had that investigation conducted by a layman, either by the commissioners who lad doue a certain amount o!
work iii connection with it, or if there was
no confidence lu theni, by some one else
besides a judge. This appointment Is made
unden the Inquiry Act and I have a serious
doubt as to whether the word Judial applies to sncb «an Investigation.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If the judge hîimseif
and the M.ýinister o! Justice think the Ianguage sufficient w~e
ednthv
ay
scruples about [t.
Hon. M. FERGUSON-W'e have kuown
this Minister of Justice to make mistak-es
before.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Minister o! Justice pnides buxuseif on the care witb whichi
lie drafts n Bill. and he la satisfied.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
very o!ten bappens that people wbo pride
theniselves on their superior kcnowledge
make mistak-es like ordinary men. Did xve
not pass an Act a !ew sessions ago to
prevent the appolntment o! judges to luvestigate or to act on conimissious, whichi
led to the threatened resig-nation o! some
Judges-Judge Ouimet for instance ?
Is
this Bill for thue purpose of over-riding the
provisions o! the Act? We kuow very
well that the appointment of a number
o! judges to certain commissions to make
Investigations in the province of Ontario
caused a good deal of trouble. At one
tume there wene three or four judges
whose time hiad been occupied for months
as commissioners, thus interfe&lng wlth thé
administration of justice, and this led to
the passage of nu Act by the Ontario legisiature authorlzlng the appolntment of
two or three other judges offerin-t to I
thein places. Their time was occupled lnvestigating certain questions which mlght
have been Investlgated by men who were
flot judges. To sucli an exteat was that
carried that It necessltated the appoiutnient
o! other jndges.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat had nef erence
to persons who occupled seats as directors
ln companies; tiiis is only a temporary luqulry.
Hon. Sir «MACKENZIE BOWELI,-But
the cases to whlch 1 have called the bon.

1052

SENATE

1052

SENATE

gentleman's attention were oiily teinporary.
As soon as the investigation of the suliject was over their dufies ceased. but fthc
judicial business of thec country suffcredl
jnst lui proportion to the time occupicd
We ail
by themn in their investigations.
know the causes îvhich have led to flic
introduction of this Bill. Noîv, umîder flip
old government, when similar cases occurred the government made, thec investigtion them'selves. The head of tii, (lehartnment, on finding thiat wrongs hand bevin
committed, cither d ismissed or' pu nished].
and ln some cases sent tue offenders to
jail. Why coiihd not tlec head of tue luresent governineiit have pursued the saine
course and save ail tbis troubîle anîd expcîîse?
It is ail very Weil to Say tlîat Judgc Cassels unlder flic law, cannot, and as lie dclclarcd imself, will îîot aceept any rcmuiieration for lus services, as coiii.sioner,
but lis appointmnent to thiat dutY ne(tles.u
fates tbe appointinent of another l:îveî
to act la bis place as E'xcliqucr Court
jiudg-e, andl be will have to be paid. Wlîat
I contend Is, it -%vas the duty of the head
of the departînent te have made thaf inivestigation, and if lie found the parties
guilis. as was intimatcdl by the Royal Conimission. he should bave takzen action to
punish thein. It is iperely an evasion of
bis duties by the liead of the departient,
at the expense of the country.

declined t0 mention names, but they pointed out the fact that Irregularities bad occurred in the departmeDt and It was the
duty of the head of the department to niake
the investigation and flot to refer it to a
j ndge.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlie
lion, gentleman says some of tlie charges
were so indefinite that if was necessary
to appoint an outsider f0 make the investigation. Some of the charges werp direct
enougli.

meiers of the Senate, but of tIi,' great
Liberal party of Canada.

lIon. Mr'. FERGUSON-My bon. friend
the Secretary of State bas pointed out that
hoth the _Minister of Justice and Judgc
Cassels have agreed that the Word 'mudicial' is w ide enoughi to cover the niatter.
Ihey are îîot the parliament of Canada,
great and Wvise as they are, and welI
p<stctl as they are in matters of this
kind. Wc wvith the lower Ilouse are
flhe parliamcîit of Canada and make thc
law. and lhave a righit f0 consider it ini oui*
on-nl V1a.Y. Thîis Investigation that is being
is limier
coliducted byv Jîdgc Cassels
the Inquiries Act and flot under any
t
A%. constitutiiig a judiciary, andl it wvould
haive beii quite coipetent initier tlî:ît Act
to liave :ijipoiîîtd say Mr. Courtncy, the
f the first commnissin, to inake
olaila
tuie investigation. I imagine it docs not in1ake
the worlz ans more judicial if pcrfornicd by
Judge Cassels than if performed by Mr.
Courtncy, bnt if the duty hadt becii ciitrnsted f0 Mr. Courtuey, could any one
sav that it ivas jndîcial ? 1 thinlc not. It
is under tbe Inquiries Act and had a hivman been appointed I do flot think tlic
word ' judicial ' would cover bis duties.
Hon. '-\r. SCOTT-I quite recognize that However, If fthc governlmcnt is satisficul
flic investigation might have been imade with it, 1 shali not press my opinion.
by the head of tic deparient, but the
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Thie word 'jndieial'
gravaien of the report was se serions and appears to me to have been inserted hîcre
tue charges so indefinite, it was thouglit to justify the judge in doing what- a jndge
flic appointinent of an indepndent person ouglît not to do. It seems to nie that a
to inake the inquiry would be more satis- juidge occupying a pijsition in any quperior.
factory to parliamient and thc public. That court onglit liot to enter on this business.
is -the reason that promptcd flic apipoint- 1 have no hiesitation in stating so, and 1
nment of Judgc Cassels.
believe if is the opinion not only of some

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No naines were mDentioned.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
The commissioners
mn-kes no difference.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Hon. Mr. TALBOT, froin the commlttce,
reported the Bill wlthout aniendment.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that fthc Bill be
read the thîrd time on Tuesday next.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-i notice in fthe discussion iii the House of Coinnions that whien a question was asked as

JUNE 4, 1908
JUNE
to the investigation by Judge Cassels as
ta wlîat bad been doue and wby the investigation had flot been proceeded witb, the
Premier's answer was that the Judge ws
busy attending to, Exchequer Court business, and that the Bill authorizing tbem to
appoint some one ln bis place to disebarge
thé duties of the court was stili ln the
Senate, and hnd flot been passed, aud consequentiy they were flot ln a position ta
appoint some one ta, transact the business
and enabie Judge Casuels to proceed witb
the Investigation. Now, ln order that the
Premier shall have no furtber excuse of
that kind, I ivouid suggest, as there bas
been no amendient to, the Bill, that It be
rend the third tinie presentiy, aud the
Premier wiii be reileved of the necessity
of tbrowing the responsibility for the deiay
on the Seate.
Hon. Sir
We accept
The Bill
and passed

RICHARD CARTWRIGHTthe suggestion.
was then read the third tume,
under a suspensioxi of the ruies.

SECOND READ[NGS.
Bill (CCC) Au Act to amend the Inspection and Sale Act as regards grain.-(H1ou.
Sir Richard Cartwright.)
Biil (DDD) Au Act to Incorporate tha Aiberta Sothwesterui laiiway Comnpany.(Hon. Sir Mackenzie Boweii.)
SCHOOL LANDS EXCHANGE BILL.
REPO1ITED FPLOM COMMRITTIEE.
The I-louse resoived itseif Into Committee of the W'hoie on Bili (163) Au Act to
nuthorise the exchange of certain schooi
lands for other Dominion lands.
(lu the Couittee.)

1053

1053
4. 1908
they have plcked out tue very best sections
they couid fiud, and uow at this period ln
the history of the country, after s0 many
settiers bave gone iu, and so mach land bas
been taken. uness due care Is exercised,
depend upon It; the schooi fund wIii suifer
by the action wbiclh wili be taken la cases
I can understand the diffiof this kind.
If the iaw gave power to the govcuits.
erament ta fix a price for the land, and sel
It, theu they couid put a value upon It
themnselves; but the Act provides that It
must be sold by auction, and under those
circamstances you elther bad to put up the
property for sale under the provisions of
the law. or take the course whIch yoa have
taken but wliy could the land not be put
up nt auction sud soid. subject to payment
for the Improvements which are upon
If that %vere doue, titea any
the lots?
fraud w-hichi mighit arise iu the exchiange of
one land for another would not occur. Are
these lands la any portion of the country
that contains coal or other minerai? Thiere
are soxùe of these scbool sections upon
whlch valuable coal deposits exist and It
sboiîid be nscertained by the goverament,
before taklng this action. that there Is no
minerai of value upon the lands, and init
the lands wblch are ta be substituted for
thege should lie of equal value.
SCOTT-I think the country
Hon. M.Nr.
înay rely on the M.Iailster o? the Interlor
liavlng ln vlew the ver'r great Importance o?
qee!ng fluet lands o? equai. or probably
greater. value are transferred to the school
lands. It lq queh in Important fund thnt.I
have neyer hieard anybody ques4tion the
methoil of maklng tue exchange whenever
The quid pro quo lias
It bac; been made.
nlway-, been equivalent fo the land. If not
'unre. Tt muqt: be eqtlivgient.
Hon. Mr. 4ERIGUSON-Do mineraIs exIsf upon these lands ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ob, no.

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbis
Biii, unless l)roIeriy admiuistered, îuighit
resuit in înauy acts of tvrong-doiiug beiug
las thle goverumeut sufficient
committed.
evidence to justify- the n iiiuiiklng the
Hon. 'Mr. SULLI VA N. from the cornchange whichi they propose to make lu sub- mittee, reported the Bili without aauendstituting- some of the sections of land for ment.
And have they ascertained whe- MARKING 0F GOLD AND SILVER
others?
ther the lanîds which are to be substituted
PLATED WARE BILL.
for the ones which are to be deeded to the
SECOND READING.
parties îvho have become settiers upon
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readTImere Is no
thein. ire of equal value?
doubt that iu the'settiement of these lands, Iag o? Bill (AAA) An Acf respetlng the

1054

SENATE

1054

SENATE

Markjng of Manufactures of Gold and
Silver, and Gold and Silver Piated Ware.
He said: This la a reprint, practically,
of the Bill passed two years ago, and the
operation of wbicb frorn time to tline was
suspended and postponed ln the hope that
parties who differed ln reference to certain details would corna to an agreemnent.
They finaiiy did corne to an agreement
whIch was chlefly on the standard to be
adopted. One set were ln favour of a
standard of flot less than ten carat gold
The
to be Imported into tbe country.
others were In favour of nine carats. The
Bill fixes the nine carats standard. The
Bill ray go to a second reading now, and
we can take tbe commrittee stage next
week, and dîscuss the clauses. Tb-ý parties were unabie to agree on tbe standard,
and tbey left It to the government, and
the governrnent bave flxed it at nîne carats.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tbink not.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The clauses ln
thîs Bill. are those that were adopted by
parliam ent 'with regard to plated goods
two years ago.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tbiak so.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The only point
of dîsagreement la as to the standard belng
nine carats or ten carats ?~
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-1 think 80. but there
are smre other matters deait 'with lni the
Bill. The parties comprornised wlth regard
to the other clauses.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-To my mmnd, the
main menit la the Bil] was to, put a stop
to the sale of those plated goods on the
guaraatee that they would Wear s0 rnany
ryears.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
done away witb.

that bas been

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--But
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
thue manutacturers have not agreed on that was read the second Urne.
recommendatIon.
The Senate adjouraed till Tuesday evenHon. Mr. SCOTT-The parties did not Ing next at eigbt o'clock.
agree on tbe standard, but they said :
'It Is now Important tbat some Bill should
pass, because American gold and silver
THE SENATE.
ware is being dumped Into Canada to the
OTTAWA, Tuesday, June 9, 1908.
very serious disadvantage of tbe Canadian manufacturers and w-e are quite conThe SPEAKER took tbe Chair at Eight
tent now to let It be nine or ten ; but o'ciock *p.m.
give us a Bill.' The bon. gentleman fronu
Prayers and routine proceediags.
Bearnsvilie, atter the first Bi passed, lntroduced a second Bill, whicbi was adopted HAMILTON, GUELPH AND WATERln this Chamber, fixing the standard at
LOO RAILWAY COMPANY.
aine -carats. It went tbrough the ConiPETITION PRESENTED.
mons, but was beld over till the beginning
of the next session. However, the wboie
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middleseit)-I inove that
question wili be open for discussion when rules 24-A, 10S and 112 be suspended
we go into committee.
in so far as the sanie relate to the Hamiland Waterloo Railway Coi-'
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There were two ton, Guelph
pany.
points of controversy over this Bill, as
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not propose to
betw-een the aine and ten carats for gold,
and also with regard to silver-gold and object to this motion, but I think we are
siNver piated ware--wbich 1 think wag getting into a very loose way of doing busiývery much the more important. .[ cannot ness.
remember whether the Bill of the bon. genHon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, bear.
tleman froni Welland lnterfered with the
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbe uniforni pracdecision of tbis House and of parliament
two years ago, witb reference to gold and tice, up to the present session, was tbat a
peti-tion was presented asking leave to
silver plited goods.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JUNE 9,1908

1055

JUNE 9, 1908

1055

present a l)etition, and the petition so presented set out the ground on which the
party asked to be allowed to present a
petition.
Now, apparently, we bave got
lnto the %viiy of moving that the rule be
suspended, and thea the petition cornes ln.
It is directly contrary to the spirit of our
ru les. I amn not opposing this motion, beeause we have ahlowed several of these
motions to pass, but 1 think we are getting lnto a very objectionable practice.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-Wben shall we put
a stol) to tijis '
Hon. -'%r. ROSS
ýhbit the practice la
quired by the rules,
cede'ut set hy the
KZillaruiey.

<Middlesex)-I
agrec
not preeîseiy that nebut I followed a prebon. geutieman froni

Colis, assistant, qualified as deputy Inspector.
By paragraph 2 of the schedule to chapter 25 of 62-63 Victoria, Statutes of 1899, ail
Inspectorà and their qualified deputies were
to become inspectors and deputy inspectors
respectively without necessity for furtber
qualification or appointment.
This applies
to D. Horn, T. M. Horn and Geo. Serls. The
others bave qualified by examination.
At
these examinations 136 samples of grain are
submitted representing 408 marks.
0f
these 85 per cent Is the minimum required
to qualify for inspector and 75 per cent as
deputy Inspector.
PAYM-NENTS

TO ED'MOND TASCHEREAU.
INQUIRY.
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY lnquired:
The SPEAKEIt-The
bon,
gentleman
1. Does the governinent know whether Mr.
bas siniply folIowed two prezedents set Ednmund
Taschereau, of .Quebec, notary, was
witbiin the last two wveeks, but it was re- elLployed as notary and ini that capacity signmarked by sone bion, gentleman nt the ed the deed of agreement entered into on the
19th October, 1903, between the
aufliotime tbat we sbouid revert to thé old con- rities and the Quebec Bridge federalRailway
and
servative ruie. and I tlîouglbt somc-body C'ompany, relating to the financial obligations
contracted
would rise to maintin the principle ;but Company? by the government with the said
wbien I did put the question, tbe Senate
2. Hlow mach ias he paid for that transaction and by whom P By the government or by
«%as unanimous.
the Company?

3. How mach, in addition, did hoe receive
Hon. Mr. ROSS-WelU,' atter this I
fs'om the commissioners of the Transcontisuppose we sball follow tbe old rule.
I nental Railwey, for having as notary verified
beg to present tbe petition of tbe Hamil- the titles of ownership of certain lands ac-

cjuired by the aforesaid commission for the
ton, Guelph and Waterloo ltailway Coin- passage of its road?
Apart from what it has already paid him,
pany and mnove tbat the saie bie rend at
does the Transcontinental Railway Commisthe table.
sion still owe anything to Mr. Edmond Taschereau P
The motion w-as agreed to.
What amount? And for what services?
1I.-PECTOrtS AND GRADERS 0F GRAIN
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-The following are the
AT WINNIPEG.
answers:
1. Yes, -Mr. Edmond Tascbereau was emINQUIRY.
ployed as notary to the agreement of the
Hon. 'Mn. PERLEY inquired:
19tb October, 1903, and witnessed the exeFor a list of names of grain inspectors and cution of the sanie betwecu the goverument
gradens of grain at Winnipeg, Manitoba, and and the company.
wvhat examination for qualilication dîd they
2. The sum of $606.05. which included
pass befone appointaient?
travelling expenses to Ottawa, deposit and
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-The following is a list copies of deed. paid by compnny.
of grain inspectons and persons qunlified to
3. The folloiing suins of money were
grade grain, w-ho are stationed nt Winui- paid by the Transcontinental Raiiway Compeg. M1an. :-Di-id Horn. Cbief Inspector; mission to '-%r. Edmond Taschereau, for serThos. H. Horn. deputy inspector; Geo. Senls, vices la connection with verifying tities and
deputy inspecton: Jas. D. Fraser, deputy ia- obtainlng deeds of lands for rigbt of way:.
spector; C. S. Langie, assistant, quallfied
Bill of October 31st, 196$677.21
as deputy lnspector: W. W. Cummlng, asBill of December llth, 1907 ....
520.00
sistant, quaelifie-d as deputy inspecton; Frank
Bill of April 13th, 1908 ........
746.00

SENATE

1056

He w-ns nîso pald $745.48, for disbursements for certificates froni registrars, &c.
There is an outstanding bill of $184 rendered for attendances, w-hich lias not been
passed. pending a rate te be fixed by the
Solicitor General.]
QUEBEC TE7RMINUS COiMM-\ITTEE.
INQUIRY.
Honi. Mr. LANDRY rose to, direct the, attention of the 1Seitate to tlie followiiîg facts:
I. Oit the l4th May instant the Hon. Mr.
L.-; dry asked the governiment the following

III. The report of the Auditor «eneral for
ho file months euding on the lst Mardi,
907, contains at page W-298, the following
e ntry:
<a) Legal expenses, Ulric J3arthe, attendince nt. Quebec Terminais Committee meetngs, 6 days at $10; sundry expenses, $19.30;
expenses swearing in con.. A. Taschereau,
tables, $29.20, $108.50.
<(b)At page W-303, the following entry:
-Barthe, Utric. investigation re Horsey and
Earle; receiving depositions, 4 days at $10;
expenses, $11, $51.00.
And that hie will asIs àt the report of the Auditor General
s-hieh contains the truti or the answer whIch
lias been put in the moufli of the lion. the
leader of the Senate?
.Who furnislhed the hon. minister wjth the
answers whichli e bas given?
Is it the intention of the governmnent to discontiniue the payanent of such sunis of money
to inen who appear to be iii the exr.ploy of
companies of which Mr. Parent is stili the
iresident?
I1911. M.Ir. SCOTT-Tlîe foo)\iiig is a
copy of a letter receiveLd froin the secretary
of the Transcontinental Rflaiway Commiiis%av 23rd. lf908, ini expIasion. undei date -.
t
nation of question No. 61, for lthe S
Julie 211d, 1908:
Ottawa, May 23, 1908.
Dear Sir,-Referring to notice of motionHon. Senator Laniidry-a plrea ing on page
806, Minutes of 1roceedinig. of the Senate, 1
have lhe hionour to advise:
The ansiver of the leader of the Senate w-as
correct; The coînmissioners have nothing to
do with the salary and disbursemients of Mr.
Barthe as secretary of lie Quebec Bridge
Company. The goveriiiient. it is understood
frein the aliswer made, liad paid niotliiig to
Mr. Barthe for services as secretars of the
Quebec Terminais Conm.ittee, but -tle coinmissioners have paid Mr-. Bartlîe for suci services for six days at $10 per day, and sundry
expenses amounting to $19.30; niso the suin of
$à1 on account of the investigation re RHorsey
and Earle.
I have the honour to be,
Your obedient servant,
(Sgd.) P>. E. RYAN,
.Secretary.
L. K. Jones, Esq.
Secretary, Departinent of Iiailways and
Canais, Ottawa.
Ottawa, June 2, 1908.

<ai 1. Has there been at ans tume, and particularîs during the period comprised bietween the let July, 19V6, and the lst May,
Iown under the
1908, at Quebec, a committee kn
line of the Quebec Trermnus Committee?
association, or or2. Froni w-lii comipai,
ganizàtion, did this cominittee proceed?
3. Who iras the presidemît?
4. Who acted as secretary,
5. Who were tue mtemtbers 'of it?
6. Whiere were its sittitîgs lield?
7How inansy sittings hias titat committee
Onl what dates?
held'
S. Has the goveriiîtuent paid anything whatsoever to the presidenit or to the secretary of
titat coninittee,
9. Hou mnuch to eachi?
.10. And umîder whaat authority?
<b) Hie obtained, amngst other answers, the
following ones:
4. Mr. Ulric l3arthe, on w,ýotion of the coininittee.
8. Nothing iras paid to anybody.
II.The saine day the Hlon. Mr. Landry likewise asked:
(a) 1. Over a.nd above the sunis which. have
been paid çto Mr. Ulric Barthe as salary as
secretary of the Quebec Bridge ani Railway
Company, or as reimibursement of his travelling expenses, have the comnmissioneî-s of the
Transcontinental Railway paid any other
nioneys to the saine Mr. Bai-lie?
2. Wheii, for wîhat services, and what
amounit?
3. Aiongst these payriients at-e thiere any
w-hatsoever %%,hich have relation to, his presence at meetings of a comînittee known under
the name of the Quebec Termnus Committee?
4. Under this head, liow muoh hias been paid
to hini, and et what date was eachi of such
payments made?
5. What iras the awîuunt of each of such
lion. '-%r. LANDRY-Tbat is froni the
pavuients?
secretary of the National Transcontinental
nnswer hie obtained the follow- b) Asîd for
Rtailway Commnission?
îng information:
HFon. Mr. Scott.-The ailswers to the honHon. Mýr. SCOTT-Yes.
gentleînan's questions are as follows:
1. The commissioners hiave nothing to do
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-W .lieu I first asked
with the payment of the salary and dishurseiments referred to.
if there w-as a comnittee kniovn as the
2. Answered by number one.
Quebec Terminus Comrniltee, and w-ho was
3. There are no such payments, and moreover answer to this lias alread'r been given its president and w-ho acted as secretary,
under questioni 8, otder No. 19 of May 6.
and if the goverument bad pald anything
4. Answered by above.
to the secretary or president of tbat coin5. Answered by above.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

J UNE 9, 1908

1057

JUNE 9, 1908

1057

the answer I received. was
mission,
No' But the National Transcontinental
Railway Commission bas paid somnethlng of
wvhicb we have an ackaowledgnîent 110w.
They bad paid $108.50 and $51, so the answer given first by the National Transconti-

nental Railway Conmmission was not correct-not in accordance with wbat wve find

In the Auditor General's Report, and I was
Is

asking where is the trutb to lie found.

It to lie found lu the Auditor General's Report or la the answer givea by the comnThe coxnmissioners say that the
mission?
answ-er of the minister is correct: that Is
If it is tlîe samne
flot an nnswer at ail.
party tInt gave both answers, the first
answer is a contradiction of the second
answer.
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-Thnt nîay be; I arn
flot responsible for that.
Hon. M2\r. LANDRY-But the government
should bie responsIble.

QUEBEO BRIDGE AND RAILWAY COM.%PANY.
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
The order of the day bein,- called:
Hon. Mr. LANDRY lnqtired:
When the govertiment, in 1903,>concluded a
financial arrangement with the Quebec Bridge
and -Railway Cornpany, did it then require,
and has it made it one of (the obligations of.
the contract that the cgn.Ianiy should foithwith subscribe additiuiial shares to the
aniount of $200,000?
Has the cornpany caused this addi.tional
sumn to be subscribed?
By whom, giviag the names?
Did the cornpany nf.terwairds devote the
amount which it so obtained to pay for works
ohargeable to capital, or lias it not rather emplnyed almost the whiole of tlîat sum, to wit:
$188,721, in payrnent of the discount at which.
securities of the conipanyý had becti issued, the
builder of the piers of thie bridge having cousented to extinguish a claimi of $283,279 whichi
hie had against the coit.pantiy by taking debentures of the said company to the amount of
$472.000, that is to say. at a disco uni; of 40 per
cent?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have not No. 5 on

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I deny that the my paper. As I said hefore. the lion. genitieman fires a lot of questions at mie.
governument are in any w-ny responsible.
Hon. 3fr. LANDRY-Thlýt is My riglit.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-They are officiais of
Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-And lie expects tliat
the goverlment, and the goverument must
be responsible for tlîe answers they give. 1 shall have auswers that Nvill îlease hlmii.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-ThIit is your duty.

,Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
The SPE.RER-W'Iat subjeet
hon, gentleman discnssing now?

is

thec

Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-He knows tlint there
is a scandai afloat about Queliec, and tries
to expose it here.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Tbc hon. gentleman

Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-The lion, gentleman is
debating tlîe question, and lie bas no riglit bas no0 right to impute motives. He is
to do so.
entirely ont of order. I have a duty to
perform, and I pcrforn lt and lie sboulci
Hon. 3f.LANDRY-1 be,- the lion. gen- not impute motives.
tlemaqn's pardon; I have a perfect riglît to
The SPEAKER-I think the wholc prodebate the question.
ceeding is irregular, because the bon, genHou. Mfr. SCOTT-No.
tleman dîd not stick to the order paper.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Tbat is the bon.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I beg the hon. genI have calleil gentlemani's fanît.
I bave.
tleman's pardon.
attention to certain f acts, and 1 have a perThe SPEAKER-Has itemi No. 4 been
If the hon.
fect riglit to discuss tbem.
disposcd of ?
gentleman wvill look at my motion lie wvil
see that I caîl attention to certain facts and
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Not so far as I amn
propose to ask, n question, and I arn per- concerued.
fectly wltbin my rilht lu discussing tbe
matter.

The SPEAKER-WIII

67
aSVISED EDITION

It stand ?

SENATE
1058

1058

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The bon. minister
can have no objection to Its standing If
hie bas no auswer.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I have nothing ta say.
I have no answer ta that.
QUEBEO BRIDGE AND RAILWAY OOMPANY.
INQUIRY.
The order of the day heing- called
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inqulred:
That hie will eall tue attention of this Honse
ta the fact that Mr. Hoare, the chief engineer
of the Quebec Bridge and Railway Company,
of which. Mr. Parent is president, has recelved fram the Transcontinental Railway ieComaiea
mission, of which the sarne Mr. Parent
presideat, certain ainounts during the yeare
1904-5, 1905-6, 1906-7 and 1907-8, and that hie will
inquire-Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have nlrcady answered this question Na. -4, and the ban.
gentleman 'will get ne further answer.
lion. Mr. LANDRY-Tlie hon, gentleman
,.nswered No. 4 of the urder of the day of
a fortniigbt ago.
Han. Nfr. SCOTT-I ain flot going ta
answer it again.

The answer
at the Urne tfley are put.
cornes back days after, and iii the multiplicity of questions the bon. gentleman puts,
lt ie quite impossible to follow the varions
stages of the notices. They ail relate to
the saine questions, either to MNr. Hoare,
Mr. Taschiereau or the Quehiec Bridge Company, and they get so confused and mixed
Up that It is absolutely impossible for any
ordinary Intellig-ence to keep up with the
intricacies of the hon. gentlemnan's inqulries.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That -would be a
good reason for a manî of ordinary intelligence ; but as the ininister lias more than
ordinary intelligence, It is a v'ery poor
answer lie bas given.
au ail unHon. MrcEGSNW
derstand that it is quite difiliuit for the
lion,. leader of tbe Ilousc. if lie werc deiîendig upon bis owil liffustry. to follow
aIl the notices: but nîiy lien. friexid is perfectly Nvltllin bis riglit in hringing tlieii
up, and the goverumiient is net se pool' that
îny lion. friend is deprived of ail clerical
assistance.
The SPEAKER-The lion, gentleman is
putting a question. It is only a inatter asi
ta whiether tbere is an answer ar no answer. If tiiere is no answer tUa notice is
adjourned.

Hon. Mr. LANDPY-This la a liew question. No. 4 of n fertnighit ago, was one
relating ta Edmond Taschereau ;but No.
4 of to-day bas net been answered. If tbe
Hon. MIr. FERIGUSON-It calis attention
hon, gentleman is îlot prepared ta give an
ta certain facts and makes inquiry, and gives
answer we shall lot it stand.
a riglit ta discussion in theý fouse. I tried
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have no answer ta ta, interpose the same rernark with regard
it. No. 5 1 have answered and I have ta item No. S. We can ail sympatîize
answered No. S.
wvitb the hon, leader of the flouse. Thiese
and
LANDRY-No 8 bas been ans- questions are somnewbat cornplicated,
Hon. Mr
a great nuilier of tlîem ; but I
tbere are
wered under the caîl of No. 5.
submit that my hon. friend slîould get
prepared ta answer
Hon. 'Mi. SCOTT-I
sncb assistance as would enable hlm tb
what le Na. 9 oiu tUe ordeýr paper, and trace tliern and follow them out, because
question 7 as put first.
the lien1. genitlenman iS undoubtedly la bis
Hie
will we dispose riglit in asking tiiese questions,
The SPEAIER-How
bet-ween
a discrepancy
lias discovered
of item No. 5 ?
an answer given by the minister and
Han. Mr. SCOTT-I have answered tbat.
the Auditar General's Report. This is
flot
is
it
and
matter,
Hon. Mr. LAiNDRY-I beg pardon. The a
debatable
bon gentleman sbould take the orders of open for any person ta shut out disthe day foir to-day and not the orders of a cussion upon it. Because a certain question arises across the floor of the flouse
fortniglit ago
frorn Stadasend thern ont ac- betwéen the bon. gentleman
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-I
calla and the lion. leader of the flouse, they
£cording ta the nuîîîbers on the order paper
The SPEAKER.

JUNE 8, 1908

1059

JUNE 8~ 1908

1059

cannot narrow Lt down to a simple question
and answer, they cannot do that, when it 18
We know that
a matter open for discussion.
the hon. gentleman f rom Stadacona is a very
industrious man, and that lie Is a very Intelligent mian, and doas flot ask questions
here unless lie bas a public objeet ln bis
mmnd witb regard to tbema; and althougli
It may give my hon. friend the Secrctary
of State a great deal of trouble--and we
know it does-yet the hon. gentleman Is
perfectly witbin bis rigbt ln asking questions, and I would suggest that my bon.
friend should get sucb assistance as will
enable hlmn to answer the questions intelligently.
Hon. Mr. SCOT'f-Surely the bon. gentleman, with -bis farniliarity with.the ways
of goverament. does not suppose that -any
-ssistaince 1 could get would affect the
a
anLswer ?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-You would get
the numbering correctly.

He cannot do more than he is
get it.
doing.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Surely the Board
of Railway Commissioners cannot enap
their fingers at the hou. gentleman or at
this House. If they do It, tbey sbould, be
brought to tnsL.
Hon. Mri. SC.OTT-There is a question
of the bon. gentleman's before the Railway
Commissioners for the last two months, and
I arn told the clexiks are busy prepaxiing it.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That Is not the same
board.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSONý-M\y former question was asked of the Itailwvay Commissioners; but this is a matter connected witb
the Transcontinental Railway Commission.
They are two different affairs. Tbey bave
a perfect righbt to answer questions asked
iii this Ilouse. and they canuot be allowed
to snap their fingers at us.
DISBURSE'MENTS OF ED'MOND
TASCHEREAU.

Hon. «Mr. SCOTT-That la only a detail.
Can I go to the Railway Commiission to
INQUIRY.
get them to prepare those questions, and
Hon. Mr. LIANDRY-If the lion. gentlebave tbein tell me that they have much
will be kiad enoughi to take up the
more important business, and put me off?9 man
orders of the day, lie wIll see that item No.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Oli, no, they can- 4 bas not been answered, and bas been ailowed to stand.
not do that.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I nnswered the long
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-With reference to the
Transcontinental Railway Commission and question on the oxideh paper, No. 8. I bave
other departnments, wbere I amn able to re- answered wbat is marked No. 5 on my order
monstrate with mny colleagues la council, it paper, but it la some other number on the
is a different matter; but the Board of Rail- bon. gentleman*s paper.
way Commissioners are a perfectly indeHon. Mri. LANDRY'-That is No. 7 on
pendent body, and they snap their fingers the orders of the day.
Tben as to Nos.
at me, and say ' we bave too mucli import- *5 and 0?
aqnt business to attend to to answei thosE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have not got answers
Those questions are irrelevant.1
questions.
I will
to those, and I arn not Ilkely to.
If 1 would produce the answ'ers 1 receiVE rend wbat I have got.
That will be tbe
they would surprise the hon, gentleman. better way.
It is inquiry No. 7 on my
lie does not propose tbat I shall give al]
paper, and rends as follows:
my time to ferreting ont these details lIr
1. When were the disbursements of Mr. Edencli department?
mond Taschereau fixed at thxe amount of
this
Hon. '-%r. FERGUSON-I think that Il $745.48 by the answer given to what House on
period of
May 20 instant, incurred, L.e.,
just what the bon. gentleman sbould do.
time do they coverP
reimbursernent
2. Wdxen was thxe demand for
Hon. Mr. ýSCOTT-Tbe questions go toi
presented?.
3. Did the reimbursement take place in one
ln
special officer lu my department -wbo
and the same payment, or was it made in
quires 1Why is there not an answer?' Th( several instalments?
mnister wants an answer and he canno' t4. At what dates?
674

SENATE

1060

0f bothi Houses on the priliting of parliaThe answer to that is:
ueent.
NoNo. 1. The disbursements cover froin
H-oul. Sir \I.CI-ýENZIE BowELr,. The
vember 2, 1906, to August 29, 1907.
No. 2. September 5, 1907.e
~omttee seemi to djeeîîî it inadvisable to
No. 3. One PaYment.
print many of the rcturrus wvhieh are brougbt
1 notice that the reiown to parliameuL.
the printing of
Hon. Mr. LANDItY-That Is No. 9 o1 ito- port before us recommends
oie return, and that return affects the reday's order paper.
port of the Comimittee of the Privy CouiiHon. Mr. SCOTT-Tlbeu the otber answ-er cil, dated l3th Marcb, 1908, and is conwhlch 1 bave is to No. 8 on mny order paper. nected xvith the celebratioli of the Quebec
That is the only
Honi. 'Mr. LANDItY-No. 10 ou time order tercentanary, aud so ou.
1
to bc printed.
paper for to-day.
return recomxnended
that inniediateir follow-ing the renotice
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-The inquiry is:
commending of the printing of tliat return.
1. Ras the dlaimi of Mr. Edmond Taschereau
non-printîing of no less
for the arnounit of $184, as indicated hy the it recomninends the
I bave counted
answer given ta this Ilanse on the 20th May than 72 other returuis.
instant, beesi piid P
looking over thiix 1 find
ill. and in
2. Whist i- tise nature of the services for thetu
giving
which Mr. Tasscherean asks payaient of that many of a very iniport.Init cliaraCter,
sutul
information iii reference to the administra3. At what daite were thse preteuded services
tion of thie affairs of the Nortlîwest Terrisendered P'
4. At whist dite diii Mr. Taschereau present tories, iid in Manlitob-a, the 1nilil)er of timiho tise gov eriuîieit this claiin.' for $184?
lie~r lieense.eS. tise nuniiiber of the coal areas
Thse answers are:
tliat luave been granted ho gecntlemnif flot
1. No.
only l this countr * but also lu the United
~ths hmybc po.,sible tbiat tile gexias notary ait registry
2. Attendances
offices. and other public offices aud special tlemen wl-ho moyed for those returns in the
attendance oiitsude of tise city of Qnebec flouse of Colunons, biaving discussed thenil
lu acquiring tise titie ho thse right of way there. are s.itisfied Nvitlî tue informationi
of thse National Transcontinental Railway.
that tliey bave recelved; but ibose who bave
3. November 6, 1906, to June 30, 1907.
not band thse advantaige of listening to the
4. l2tli Marcis, 1 tlîink it is, or 1Sts, 1908. debates and have flot liad timie to rend tue
1 canuot make it ont.
reports la the Commnons ' Hansard 1 migbht
re- obtain and wotnld obtain, if many of those
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Tben tiiere just
a great deal of informains Nos. 5 and 6~ to be answered on to- returns were priîîteil,
mation whichi would lie of benefit to the
Let hbose two stand witb
day's orders.
reader. and impart a general knom-ledge to
No. 4.
the public of the maiiuer in wlilcb the lands.
Honi. M-Nr.SCOTT-Tbie department demines and tituber lmits bave heen adminiscline 10 answer tue question and said ut tered l the Northwest Territories and !in
w-as irgumnentahive.
I
.Manitoba and the mnines of the Yukon.
notice also that retuiras affecting- the adTHIRD READINGS.
mîinistration of affairs iu the Yukon TerriBill (82) An Act respecting the Niagara, tory are also recommended not to beý prlnhed.
St. Catharines aud Toronto Railway Comu- Iu fact, every return that bas been laid
pany, as aiieinded.-(I-on. Mr. Casgrain.)
before parliament which has been cousiBill (163) An Act to authorize tise lex- dered-if tîmese returns have be
consichange of certain scliool ln'nds for other Do- dered-by the rrintîng Committee-ftre orminion lands.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
dered flot ho be printed. There are many
of thein. I freely admit, wbicb are not 0f
PRINTING 0F PARLIýAMENT.
sufficient public importance to jnlstlfy tise
-. .WPII REPORT OF C0MMlflTIEE
F
expense of printing thetu ; but if bon. genÂDOPTBD.
w-lji read tbe memoranidum of wbat
Hon. ',%r. ELLIS inoved the cousideration tlemen
tbey coutain they w'i]l couse to tise concluof tise fifhh report osf thse Joint Committee
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JUNE 9, 1908

1061
16

ing printed. 1 have nlot iooked over the
wboie of the Iist. 1 have no dloubt the
is quite righl
the majority of the coinmittee, being min- judgment of the cominittee
a
to suppress thé informa- as to the inajority of tbein but such
isterlalsts, desire
return as that to Nvhich I have referred, It
tion laid before parliament on very contrebe jîrinited.
versial subjects, and wbic b las created, appears to me, sheuld
as tbe chairman knows, a grent deal of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I siîould like to
the government
comment adverse t0
know what priuciple is usuially adopted by
tlirougbout the wbole country. I ar n ft
the Printiflg Cominittee ivitlî reference to
going to oppose tlic passing of tlie motion
In
the printiug of public documnlts ?
that the lion, gentleman bias made, but 1 Iooking over this report, one iust irredeem if my dnty, affer casting my eye slstibly couie to the conciCSon that the
over tiiese 72 returns, f0 cali the attention poiicy of the committee is te suj)press the
of the Senate to tbe fact that tbiey are nlot printing of documents whicb -%vouild be of
ordered to be priuted. My lion. friend may immense importance to the public.
A
say that nieunbers of the comnmittee came
items in this report are
njority of the
to the conclusion fliat if was noi eesr
of very great consequence to the public,
ivas goiuig to
te print these returns. 1
involving as thc.%do question., of the inost
venture an opinion-perliaps I bad better
important public polîcy. Tiiere is scarcely
neot do lt-as to the probability of tbe non- one of these returns that lia., iot evokcd
investigation of flic returns by ina'îy mcmnvery considerable discussion~ iu the Flouse
bers of the coiînmiittee. Be that as it maY, of Cominons. yet ive flnd tliat they are not
there are tue facts and 1 ask any lion. mei- to bieprinted.
The very*ý lirst item, to
sion that tbeY ougbt to lie printed for the
information of the public generally, unless

ber whîo takes an interest lu the subject
te look at the returus, and 1 arn satisfied
lie wili corne te the saine conclusion that
I bave reached, that miany cf themn ought
te lie in tbe possession of those Nvlio take
an interest iu tie affairs of the Dominion.

whicb reference lias beeu ma:de bv the
hon. senator froua Marshlielîl. jivolves practically a bistory of the National TlransconIt would be very iintereit(ting
tinental.
readlng if these reports were printed.1 te
determine the fallibility of tie governinent,

predietiaiis as to
rion. Mr. 1,ERGUSON-I wvould cail at- particularly as te their
te the lengtli and tlue cost of the road and
tention te tue lirst numiber ordered nlot
Lt Nvoild be inlie printed, 39-f. 1 bave beeli on the Print- the actual expenditure.
mnuch

that the road is
ing Coninittee, and knowv very vreii that terestiug to know
and is
a rigbt and lef t longer thau w as lirst estiiated,
if the comnuittee ninke
the couutry very îîîuch more than
recommendation for tue printing of docu- costing
lHe Nvill lind tlînt
cost.
ments, the public records will become the anticîpated
wltlî refereuîee to the Rloss
altogether too voluminous, and ftle ex- the information
bas îugitated tue couîntry, is
pense ivili lie enormous; but it seems te rifle, whvicbi
over the
lias been an alunost lidiscrimi- nlot to be priîuted. If lie turnz,
nme tbere
Tbe page lie ivill tiiud that inf'ormîationi which
print notbing.

nate conclusion te
returii to -%viîci I cali attention was ordered on tic 23rd Marcbi last, and calis
for orders in colincil, &c., relating te the
lengtb of the National Transcontinental
Railway and tbe estimated and the piroballe cost cf saine. This is n matter of
immense importance, relntiflg to an expenditure of ever $1()0,000,000 and it is
very important that tbe information sbouid
bie accessible net only te members cf parlianient but to thc whole country. Tbat
is a return wbichi ougbt te lie considered
of sufficient Importance te warraut its lie-

bas been furiîislied liv investigationi and
otberwise as to the alienatioii of oui timber, coal aud other public resources, is
to be suppressed. If lie ivili look througb
tlie list lie wll tind also as the lion. sena-

tor froua H-ast.iiuugs bas sid, that those
items involve. practîcally. a general discussion of the policy of thîe goveruimenit.
yet ail tbat liformnation is net to bie placed
before tbe people. If thle policy of the
Prlnting Committee bie te suppress everytbing which would be of inferest to the
people concerning tue administration of the

1062

SENATE

1062

SENATE

governiment, we can readiiy undersltand
wby they make
thi,
recommendation.
Wben you contrast the Importance of those
subjects with the one report which is
ordered to be priuted, namely: the Quebec
Battlefields, one cannot fail to be amused at
the mental attitude of the commlttee whlh
would regard old historie subjects as belng
of much more Importance to the people
than subjects Nvhiech concern us to-day, and
for whiell we are paying dearly.
Hou. Mr. ELLIS-I mighit say that the
commnittee is comiposed, as lion. gentlemlen
know, of members of both Houses of parliament and also of both parties. I might
say, without disclosing the business of the
committee too mnuch that I do Ylot recollect
any motionî being nmade by aaybody to
print those papers. NVhien there is no motion before the chair to print, tiiere ls no
autliority.
1 do iiot thîukz the cominittee
lias auy particular polîcy. A.lmost ail of
these papers appear in some other formn.
Take for inistance the point raised by the
hon. senator froîxi Marshfie]d, as to the return No. 39-f, that appears in the reports
of the National Tra nscontin ental1 Railway
Commission, or -whatever commission bas
that ia charge, and wvhen you go tbrough
almost ail of tliose reports tbey appear In
some forai or other, although not in the
forai of the returau.
That no doubt inifluenced the iuids of the committee very
considerably, and is probahly the reason
why they are flot recommnended to be priuted, because those that are of any value for
put-lic information are printed in some
other forni.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
what other form ?

BOWELL-In

Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Tlhey are printed, for
Instance, as a part of the report of the
National Transcontinental Railway Comnmission.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-These are aIl returns laid on the table of parliament.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-They are moved for by
members of the Gommons or Senate who
desire particular Information, made Up by
the department for their particular use, and
many of those papers are used by gentlemen who bring subjects beforr the House
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

and are called for by thein and form the
hasis of speeches and discussions; but the
maatter can be found lu the original reports
-at least most of the matter.
I may say
that the caîl for returns bas increased. to
sucb an extelît thiat the committee was
fairly al)palled at the expenditure whichi tue
publication of tiiese returuis or es-en biaîf of
them would entait on the country.
The
natural disposition of flîy mind, so far as
iny miiid lias any natural disposition, lu that
miatter, is to print everytbing, but it would
involve such au enlormous outlay tliat I amn
satisfied 1 %would not stand well in the
estimation of thîe counltry if I acted iii tha«t
way.
lon. '\r. YOUNG-You cotnld blamle the
goveriiiiient for tuie incre:îsed expexîditure.
Flon. NIr. ELISTîelinciple
of ecoîioînvy ~viicliilled the conîîîîiittee prevented tilu
goîing tuo far.
1 presuine the
illutilitv 0f nlianvY of tiiese retturus froilî thlat
point of view <lQ(i(led the conmittee.
I
Nvould say to lion. geniîiemleîi, if tiîey would
followi the returuis as îlîey are brouglît down
ln this House or the otiier Hlouse, and if
any bon. getea
uetirbanch
0
parliamient desires to have a particular
paper printed, -lie can always mnake representations of that kind to the cominittee;
but wlien it Is left f0 the judgmient of the
committee, 1 do xîot see what yon cax do
except blanie the chairmau.
Hon. Mr. LÀNDRY-I would caîl the
lion. gentlemiaî's attention to Item 182 relating to correspouidenice betweeil Sir WVilfrid Laurier and Judge Cassels, on the subject of the appointiiient of flie latter f0
make an investigation relative to the civil
service.
Tlîat %-vi be a verY- valuable
document f0 be printed.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbat
Commons 'Ilýtasard.'

is ail in the

Hon. ',%r. ELLIS-I shah., endeavour f0
impress the committee witli the view expressed by the hion. senafor from Hastings.
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY--There are some
other returns like that report on the Civil
Service Commission.
Hon. -Mr. ELLIS-Thaf w-as ail printedan extra five or six thousand copies were
printed.

JUNE 91 1908

1063

73 items, turns and see that those wvbicbi are of real
Hlou. Mr. LADI-fthe
importance are printed.
ouly one is ordered to be priuted.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Wben 1 was first a
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Some years ago, member of the counmittee, Sitting in the
a very frequent practice was to order the H-ouse of Commous, the returns were flot
publication of sucb parts of any return as brougbt to the committee at aIl.
The comnlhad flot already been printed in sorne othier mittee sat and without 1,T owing wbat they
It would be very improper to re- were doing, ordered one thiug to be priuted
torni.
publlsh a great deal of this information and another thiug not to be printed.
Now,
about. say, the National Transcontinental every document or file of documents is
Railway, ichie had already been in a re- brouglit into the committee, unless it happort of the Railway Commission. I presume peus to e la in te bauds of a member. Some
tlîat report does nlot corne Up to a very late of these returns corne la great piles and
date. and the object of the member wv1o the very appearance of them probably apasked this question w-as, nîo doubt, to get palled the committee. .I w-i keep lu mmnd
late information and the comnîîttee would wiuat my lion. frieud lias said and perbiaps
flot be at ail warranted la ordering a great it wlll influence the committee.
rnanv of these returns tlîat were already
The motion w-as agreed to.
printed to lie printed a.gain, but important
recent than
Informati 'on whicli was more
IIAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
anything could be obtaineti lu the report
I'Ný COMM%,ýITTEE.
sholld have been publjslied ln coiniection
The Iluse resuuuied in Committee of the
with this very important subject. -No better
(PP) Au Act
reason could be urged. for the publication Whole, consideration of Bill
the
of this information than the fact that it to nniend the ia ilway Act as regards
preferential charge created by the Issue of
rniglit be useful ia the eveat of an election.
securities.
11on. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
(Iu the Comrnittee.)
practice somne years ago was to print docusuffi',%r. CASGRAIN-Wheu the House
Hon.
mients w-hichi were nlot eonsidered of
cient importance to go on the records of the bad tliis Bill under consideration before,
journals, for circulation among mnembers I said 1 bad obtained furtber information,
Othier documents to wbichi attention and soine hon. memnber froui the othier aide
only.
bas been cnhled bere would bave been cou- suggested that 1 iiust have got it from
sidered of sutficîent importance not only to some nuysterous source.
print for circulation, but to be inserted ln
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWiELL-That
It ls
the journals for future reference.
depends ou w-bether the lion, gentleman
muchi ensier when you are discussing ques- ivas a spiritualist or not.
tion., of this kind to bave tbem under your
Hlon. 'Mr. CASGRAIN-I fouud some
buand than to look througb a number of rewas the practice wbcn I was one on this eartb w.bo had charge of the
ports. That
on that committee, and took a good deal of compilation of the Raîlway Act of 1903.
interest la the pTintlug of parliamnent, and Lt wvas the law clerk of the Departmeut
1 thinik it would bie well to retura to that of Railw-ays and Canals, '.%I. H. H. HanWhlen discussing it witbi hlm at
There can bie uo sard.
practice In the future.
policy In doing- othierw.ise except the sup- first lie xvas not nbsolutely clear about It
I wish to be In bis mind. However, I went back to
pression of ail documents.
distiuctly understood that ia any remarks hlm, and lu the interval hie had occasion
I make 1 bave no desire to apply thern to *to examine bis notes and refer bnck to the
the chairman of tbat commlttee, bçcause I records hie had kept, and lie consented, at
amn sure If a request were made fer the my request, to gîve me a short letter which
prluting of aur particular document, lie 1 wlll read to the commîttee. It la dated
However, It la May 22, 1908, aud Is as follows:would ralse no objection.
sometlulug to which more attention should
My Dear Senator Casgrai,-In looking over
be pald. and the members of the commîttee my papers in connection with the preparation
if posof thîs flouse ought to Investigate the re *of the Railway AmLt, 1903, to ascertain

1064

SENATE,

1064

SENATE

sible how working expenditures happen to bie
giv.en priority over mortgage bonds of raiway
coinpanWes alter you had directozi iy attention
to tHe saine, I have corne to the conclusion that
it did.not a ppear to have be-un the intention
to give working expenses 6uch priority. If
yen %vill refer to section 301 of the Railway
A.ct, 1903, which 1 believe is a rep-odu'-ti(n of
the sîrnilar section of the old Act of 1888, you
wvîll notice that penalties are gîven. sncb
priorit «v,and I think that in cýnsoIiditinig and
cai-rying tho-e provisions into the rnortgige
section of the Railway Act of H~03, working
cxlieîditures have been added to it as a prier
legislation. I amn of the opinion that working
expenditures could only ask a prior len in
respect to rent and revenue, not of property
and assets, as distinguished frorn rent and
revenue.
Mr. Hansard is now an Independelnt
lawyer practising law~ Ia Ottawa.
Hon. '-%r. LOUGHIEED-It would seeni
to me that the reason why the Act should
renialu as it is is all the stronger, because
it must bave been the deliberate Intention
of parliarnent, when the Act came before
parlianicut for discussion, that the old Act
should bc so far duîîarted frorn as to give
priority to these l)articular dlaims over
property and assets. What iny bon. friend
lias read siiînply proves this fact, that it
wvas not the intention of the law clerk of
the departileut that the iaw slîould be as
it is to-day, but after the Bill was introdueed, parliajiient mnust have deliberately
departed from the text which was prepared by the departînent, and bave passed
the Act as ive fiad it to-day. 1 have spolzen
so frequently on tis
subjeet, expresslng
the views which I hold, that I do nt
intend to again crave the indulgence of
the House to state the obje3ctions which 1
bave already urged. Stili I amn ns strougly
of opinion as I was when this Bill was
first introduced, that it -is iu the public
interest that the Act should remain as it
is to-day and that the ameudment shonld
tiot bu accepted.
Hon. )Ir. SCOIT-It is well to secure
the opinion of members of the bar on t is
subject, and wben the question was up before, expecting thint it would be fully discussed, I brought fromn the department the
inortgage given by the Canadian Nortbern.
It was drawn by, I thînk, Mr. Lash and
drawn on the old form, entirely ignoring
tue legisition of 1903.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What is thie
date of the mortgage?
Hon. Mrh. CASGRAIN.

Hon. 31r. SCOTT-A year or two agoat ail events since 1903. If I bad known the
subject %vas to corne up to-nighit I would
have brought that document here to show
that sà good au autbority as Mr. Lasli, wh-lo
is considered one of the best authorities
on the Railway Act-should have failed to
have bis attention drawn to, the fact, buenaise the rnortgagu covers ail the plant of
the coînpany the saine as mortgages former13- did. Thenl there wvas another, thiat ivas
only filed the other day-I forget the naine
of IL I intended to bring lt to show tliat
anothier inember of the profession who is
engaged. ln preparing such mortgages, wvas
evideatly of the sanie opinion; bis attention
lîad flot been drawu to the Adt of 1903,
not supposing any change lîad been mnade.
Because it seexus t0 nie that if it ivere
lzniwîî, it would certainly weaken the value
of the inorîgages on1 railway Prolierty, anid
%vould bu rcgarded, so far as îîast ycuars
are concerned, asa breachi of failli iy the,
That is the vicw
parliainht of Canada.
I to0k of it, and I stihi lîold the saie view.
A niortgage is a dlocumient rccogni7ed by
everybody. Lt i a lieu oh1 a property, amîd
Wilîeil i S a OrVSI niOrtgage- il i a firSt
charge. niot subject ho any other charges
except taxes and sucli impositions as, may
lie placedt on it by the inuinicipaqlity-.
I

rnerelY mention those twvo cases as sliowing
tlîat the profession, ah aIl events, bail not
grasped the changes made in tlie lawv.
lin. Mr. LOIJGIEED -ill
iv lion.
friend explain bow a. rortgage wvould otlierwise bu drawn? Hie overlooks the fact that
the nîortgage would bu drawn iii conforinity with the Act covering everything; but
the Act then steps in and says that if tue
revenue is uiot sufficient to cover the runîiing uxpenditure. you enter upon the corpus to furnislh tue balance. The morhgagcs
referred to by miy hion. friend wouid lie
drawn perfectly correct, and the stahement
lie lins made is flot a statement iii favour
of the proposition advanced by lte promoter of the Bill.
Hon. '%r. POWElL-I am just a little
surprised at the ground taken by the leader
of the opposition. If repairs, wages and'
working expenses were to take precedence
of the mortgage, the rnortgage wou]d naturally set titat out.

JUNE 9, 1908

1065

JUNE 9, 1908

1065

Hon. M'%r.
FER.GUSON-No.
Hon. '.%r. POWIEL-Yes. It would, necessarlly, because a mortgage gives to the
mortgagee the legal riglif f0 the property
under, certain conditions.
lion. Mr. CASGRAI.N-Gives the legal
estate.
Hon. Mr. POWER-If thé wages of employees, the cost of repairs, and the running expensés 0f the road are to take
precedence of the mortgage, then the mortgage must set that out.
It gives a legal tille to the property. suliject to tiiese chiarges. 1 think that is a
perfectly clear proposition.
If flie hon.
genitleman blînsef were to undertakze te
draw a rnortgage on properfy .where flhe
-wagcs of flic employees who were workinig. on a faim, Ray. werc to, fake precedience
of the niorfga.ge, lie wvould take vcry good
caire te put tlîat la the mnorfgage.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It
secms f0 me that we are introducing a new
system of gevernment. Wc have a consolidation of a very important Act of Parliament regulatin- and affecting ail the railAn important
ways i the DomIniàn.
change is made la the law, the change
heing evideatiS for the purpose of securing
the l)a3nieiit of delits that are incurred f!)r
thîe purpose of keepiag thed rallways in runiing order. We find nom, flat tliese fwo or
fhree words -whici -have been added te fthc
clause affect f0 a certain extent the posi-'
fion of those w-ho hold bonds upon flic ro.ad,
and ini order to induce us to change
the Iaw which wvas deliberately passcd by
both bouses of parliament, w-e are askcd te
take the decl arafion of the clerk of one of
the coiiiiiittccs, %vliosays tliat two or flire
words that werc not intended m.ere laadvcrtenf 1' put in fthc Act. If tlîis 'wcr: a
matter of no importance, we could undferstand that fliere may have becai soine error
or blunder la tic drafting of fihe clause,
but the amendaient wiceh w-as made, -%as
of sucli an important eharacter, that parlaîniient is uow asked f0 change If in flic
inferest of flic bondlioldcrs, As a precedent la xnaking sucli a change, w-e have
fthc Secrctary of State instancing mortgaxres
m-bichli e says have been drawn, and by
one of flic clcverest-I thlnk I amn safe la
sayîig tliat-railway solicitors in flic Domi-

jalon, Mr. Lasli, witliout a knowledge of the
provision of the law which authorized the
granting of the mortgnge, or, ln other words,
fliat lie was s0 negligent of bis duty (w-hidi
I aia -not prepared nt ail f0 admit, knowiu,- Mr. L,îsl so wl, and having been connected with hlm la various branches of flic
administration oft fli affairs of this counftry for so rnany years) tint. lie couid lie
guiltyv of nu act of fliat kind. It ls flot
compiimeatary citiier f0 ftie law clerk. w-ho
drafts flic laws, or f0 tlîe Minlster of Railwvays, f0 fell us flînt tlîey s0 blundered in
flic consolidation of the Act. as fo add la
clauses words whicli arc of vital importance
f0 thiose who hoid tlîe bonds upen flic rond,
and thaf it w-as siniply n error and a
b1inader. Lt iq îîot cemiplinicatary f0 flic law
clcrk. to th.fli iaisteir of Railways and Canais undcr wliese supervision these clauses
wvcre draftecd. andi certainly is net com-liiaenfary te 'Mr. Laslî. wlicîi parliaînenf is
fold ic lias drawva or drafted morttraces
ma-in flic lawv was îrovliat
witlîouf
ering f lise inortgagcs. If a manxiholds a
liolds fhc proiînortg-agc on a ftrin. dit
lîcrtv. but it dees iiot give hlmi priority of
daimii ovcr flic herses and plows and other
farniiing utensils w-hicli arc necessary for
flic w-orking of fhliand. If the ow-uer
tails la ftic paynieit of bis interest, lie can

lic suced, and those cliatteis can bic scizcd
under executiexi te stîsqfv flhc doit.
That is ail tlîis amendnîient f0 flic Railway
Acf providesy that la -case -articles are pur-

chased and are not paid for, flic creditor lias
flic right to go and fake possession of fhem
under an execufion and sdil flim f0 liquldate flic delît incurrcd for flic purpose of
running flic rond and kceping if la operat ion. My bon. friend's desire lS f0 remove
thc security wiiicli flic credîfor lias upon
flic nivable property.
The xnorfgage ot
flic boudhoiders would liold flic real estate;
fliat is tlicy w-ouid hld flic raiiw-ay ltself
and cverythilig connccted mvith if. but under
ftic provision now made by this iaw%,as I
undersfand it. if removes flic security which
flic ordiaary credifor woild have for goods
and articles suppiied for flic working of flie
road. He ftcils us fliat if lias iuîtcrfered
w-ilî flic sale of railway bonds ln flic English
market. Tbft may be. If may have a great
deal more importance than a lay mind would
affadi f0 if ; but f0 suppose for a moment

1066

'ý;E--?ÇATE

1066

SENATE

that thése words were added to that clause
without knowlng what their effect would
lie, and that It was done unlntentionally, la
asklng us to believe a great deal more than
I arn prepared te lielleve.

considered to ha the first preferential dlaima
and charge upon the company and the f ranchise, undertaking. tolls and income, rents and
revenues, and the real and personal. property
thereof.
The first three lines were placed there to
make it liarmonize with section 138 whicb
established a priority to working expendiThere is no question about that, and
ture.
even if we were to, strike out the words lu
clause 138 the other provision would
is
But there
be clianged.
have to
another stronger evidence as to what the
intention of the Minister of Itailways and
of the department and of parliament was
in the revision of 1903. 1 turn to section
430 of the Act, w.berein it says:

Hon. Mr.. FERGUSON-Since tbe question was before the comniittee the last time,
I have looked more carefully into it than I
had previously done, and I think if rny bon.
friend had exained tlie matter, lie would
flot have proposed tus amendment, and I
further sulinit that if this amnideut is
carried, tbere will liave te lie a great inany
more nmendrnents made te, the Act in order
to produce harmony,
There was a certain l)olicy w'itb reference
If any company bas been convicted of any
to this subject ndepted in 1903, aud the
this Act, such penalty should
that so far penalty under or charge upon the property of
evidence is niost convincing,
bû a first lien
from tbis change having been tlle result of the railway, assets, rents and revenues of the
accident on the part of sorne clerk in the company.
But if iy. hon. friend wvas to strike tbese
office, there is every evidence it wvas done
a definite purpese by wvords out of section 138 lie would have
delihcrately and for
friend
those w-ho bad charge of the revision of thon te repeal thils section. 'My hon.
will direct the shakoes bis Ilead. If lie does net see that,
the Railway Act in 1903. I
lion. genitleman's attention te Ibis clause, I despair of convincing lm of anything.
138, that we are prepesing to amlend, and Section 430 gives nbsolute priority to penalfromi which. we are propesing te strike eut ties of ail kinds over bondbolders' interest.
the words 'property and assets.' As far as
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Tliat remains.
thit clause is concerned, it weuld give priHou. Mr. ]FERGUSON-If the lion. genority te the îuterest due boudholders over
ticinan la going te establish anether princiwerking expeuditure.
by- the nmendment lie inakes te section
iteretI)le
ASGAIN-ot te
Hon.Mr.
iterst.138. h'o would have te repeal section 430 l
Hou Mr CAGRAN-Nt te
The
Hou. Mr. FEROUSON-It w-ould change in order te make theni harmonize.
as tlie property and effect of clause 430 being lnserted in the
the prierity, as far
1903 exactly conforming with the
assets are coucerned, lu faveur ef tlie bond- lwof
holders as over Nvorking expenditure, which other change of those two words lu -138,
includes a great many thiugs, taxes, in- and the w-erds I bave already read lu secsurance. wnges, rent of rolling stock, and a tien 141, again barnionizing, shows there
number of thinga ef that kind. Whlen we w-as a settled pelicy on the part of the
leok at section 138, my lien. friend ne deulit MNinister of Railways and of parliament in
I have
thouglit lie liad done tbe wvbole thing, but 1903 with regard te tbis subject.
if ho will turn te section 141, lie will see miade inquiries, and I find that tbere wvas a
that it was amended. It stoed 95 In the old strong reason for making that change,
Act. and those words were inserted In if one of whichi arose lu tbis way: In the early
whicb shows tbat the policy of -the Act was history ef railwnvs lu Canada, rolling stock
exactly in accordance with section 138 as was purchased out of the proceeds of mortThe words were gages and bonds, and only the maintenance
it stands new ln the law.
of that rolllng stock was lncluded In workinserted there:
Subjert as hereinbefore provided te the pay- ing expenditure. A different practice lias
ment of penalties and the working expenditure grown *up with railways at the preInstead or purchaslng the
sent time.
on railways, etc.
reîîing stock outriglit, te a very large
Tlie section further says:
rawy.
tl
lasd
oth
And te any lawful restriction or exception dege
contained in the niortgage deed, the 6ecuritiee 11
gre
I
ns reasedb te
the
Grand
rwlnthGad
sauthorized te ha issued should hae taken and Hon gntlemaneem

JUNE 9, 1908

1067

1067
Trunk Pacific Bill went through, there this question the other day, the -opinion
was a provision for about twenty millions that îio inatter what we did in this Act no
of rolling stock, aad it wvas provided that matter how incongruous we made it with
rolling stock -was to be rented. Not only reference to this subject, that the riglit ot
that company, but other companies wvere the province to tax the railway Nwould reRdopting this practice. The interpretation main. and that it would be able to get
clause of the Rnilway Act was elhanged to a prior p)ositioni for its claim la enforclng
mieet tbis very important situation, nnd in payînient for taxes. I was under that Implace of wvorklng expenditure heiug defined pression, but I have investigated the subas It was lu the old Act, as inerely main- jeet silice, and have consulted with a very
tenance of rolling stock-that would bave emniet authority, whio tells me that that
been repairs and such as that-Lt was viewvs is flot correct; thiat this parliament
made to include the rent or bire of lias undoubtedly the right to rua and manAs I have already re- a-ge our raIlways and pass legisiation necesrollng stock.
marked, the practice ln previous ycars sary for runniug themn, and although the
liad been to bny the rolling- stock out province has the control of property and
of the proceeds of the bonds and mort- civil riglits, yet !i the exercise of our augages. Now it is proposed to get it ini thorîty this parliaient would be paraanother way, and last year w *e passed a mouat. and if a confilit %vould arise,
13i1 on the subject, faeilitating the giving of the rigbt of tijis parliament, to give an
security on the part of railways for rolling inferior position to taxes ns against the
stock that they may have Iiired la this wav. province, wouluI be conclusive. At any
and la securing the purchase of rolling rate, the eifect of nîy hon. friend's motion,
stock. The question liad become a very as it wvould put wvorking expenditure lu an
much more important oiie ln 1903 and since inferior position to the iaterest of bonds,
that on accouat of the rillways &iring- taxes would. go with It. 1 think the rigit 0f
rollIng stockthe province is clearly expressed in the
British North America Act wlth reference
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Ini Canada?
to, property and civil rights, and the rights
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-In Canada. 1%v of taxation, and we should flot put nnybon. frlend knows very well. 1 tbink w.' tbing fl the law~ fi the ivay of the
all know pcrfectly iveli that la 1903 that province taxins- the railways and of collectw-as the plan adopted by the Grand Trunk ing their taxes. and iot' make it inferior to
Pacific, and ail] their flnancing la their Buis different ns to wliat is done, but 1 think
provided for that, and the mortgnge the any other charge whatever. Then with refergovernment was to get upon the aissets of ence to insurance . there ought to be
the Grand Trunk Pacific to secure the no question that it is very inuch In the
bonds for the western division was made Interests of the boadholders lhat the terto exclude rolling stock that would be hlred minais and workshops and valuable proln that way. Some hon. gentlemen re- perty beloning to the railway should. be
f erred to taxes. Under the old Interpre- insured. If they were burned or destroyed,
tation clause as wvell as under the new one, the security would suifer,. and it is lu their
taxes are included in working expenditure, interest that such a matter as insurance
and my hon. frlend's amendment wlll place sbould be provided for, and that is iucluded
taxes la an Inferior position In that regard. with the worklng expenses. Then we corne
Ify bon. friend admitted
Miy bon. friead shakes bis head anii differs to wages.
agreelng with him, there was somethlng la the point with referfromn that; I despair of
becaixse working expenditure, Is made to, ence to wages, and my hou. friend fromn De
Include taxes, and If we gîve worklng ex- Salaberry submnitted an amendment wbich
penditure an Inferlor position la mark of lie tb<iugbt, or appeared to, tbink, wouid
priorlty, wages, taxes and Insurance go effeet the object. 1 bave looked It over
with IL. Wltb regard to taxes, before I carefully. I expressed my doubt at the
leave it on the spur of the moment I ex- time, and amn quite convinced that my bon.
pressed, when we were In commit-e on. friend's ameadment would just leave wages

JUNE 9. 1908

1008
SENATE

1068

Pro- is to be found in the first subsection of secexactly as it stands in section 138.
bably- my bon. friend, on further reflection, tion 94, of the Raiilvay Act of 1888 :
The company may secure, such bonds, dewil not jnsist that flint amendiment would
bentures or other securities by a mortgage
fbe object lie thon clntmed it deed creating such mortgages, charges and
accomplisli
encumbrances upon the whole of such prow ou Id.
and revenues of the coinassets,
is inc]uded in the interpretation perty, present rents
Wages
or future, or both, as ore depanýy
clause of the Rlailway Acf as part of work- scribed in said deed, but such rents and reving expenditure, andl ny hon. friend's enues should be subject in the first instance to
the payrnent of any penalty imposed for nonamendînent Nvould place If on par wlfh compliance with the requirements of this Act
expenditiire, and wages respeting returns to be made to the iîiaîster,
otber workzing
adnexf to the working expenditure of the
would just stand exacfly as It stood becompafly.
f0 section
fore, and this amendineît made
And theîî the second subsection goes on
13S. would plut w-ages la a secondary posithe company mnay g-rant f0 the
There ls to sny that
flou f0 tue interest of bonds.
mortgagee ail the powers, riglifs anil so
evidence all through flue Acf. nnd there is
on, and finit is practicaily ail. exccpf that
evidence in flic practice which bas grown
lthli office
the mortgagc shall le deposifedin
up) wlth regard fo the renting of rolling
In 1903" the
of ftic Secretary of State.
stock iii place of buving if ont of the protiien Minister of lailwayvs hiai this Railway
ceeds of bondls, that tliis amnendient of 1003
The evidence
of tbe Act of 1888 reconsidereil.
wvas to mclet flie chauîgeil conditions
thou10. genfli
iî
lieji supiplied 1
whlic1ilias.1
ranilways of the country at fliaf finie. anîd
tliman froiîî De Lanifudière iq the evidence
fhiat it wvas wvell andl fully considered. andl
of the officer -who wvas eniplove1 in re1 am quite safisfied. wlîatever fbe fate of
Act, andl thbat
revising and rcarnigtlîs
mvl lion1. friend's amiendnîienf may be lucre.
no remiembrance finit it was thie
it w il] neyer. hbe mnade law, that oflicer hiathat
n change witli referintention f0mae
it wll be fourni thaf if is in conTbe lion.
policy of fic ence f0 fuis particular nuafler.
the g-encral
-,vith
flict
Act
gentlcîiian sdYs it is a very soleu
Raiiw-ay Act, anil thaf it is uîot in accordmîust liot set
'Wlat of Parliaujient, and tlîat w-e
atice wfh flhc priuucipfles of justice.
tue recoilection of any clerk in thie dewas dlonc iii 1903 -asi evidlently done care- up
lia s donc.
f0 pa rtient aga inst wbhaf parlin nient
full:% and w-cl., andl sbould be allow-ed
you canno)t set if up iîî a court
stand. aIni 1 w-il] give uny vote iii tlîat wvay. 0f course
wbven you are conisidering wî'bat
I dIo îîot îliink if is uiecessary f0 discuss of iabnt
-as, 1 thinkl wve
ani- further. As. far as I ain file intenition of parliamnt
this inalter
bere iii parliament have n perfect rigblt f0
personaily coiiîcerîied. 1 an perfectly inan officer of flmaf sort.
different as to whaf is done, but I thluk fake the evidence of
It is good so far as it goes. 'The lion. genHouse slîouid do whvlat is right, andl
tis
bias sfated that this
flînt wc siold uiof put ourselves iu fbe fîcînan froisi Mnrshfield
w-as considered mnost fuily and solposition of lîaviîi passed such au important matter
wvas made delimensure w-ithîout laving given full cou- emnîry, anil tii-af the cb.aîîige
n vcî.y important
sidera lion a nd ascerta mcd w-bat fbe piolicy berately. Now this -was
W'ould a change of that
of tue Acf of 1903 is. anu wifbout a elear cbanîge lu policy.
nîdeî-stanndhuig of w-bat %ve w-ere doing,. and kind be mnade wvithouf sonie discussion in
either bouse of parlianint or in bofb
what effect our amendmient would bave.
bouses? Hlas the bion. gentleman, or can be
Hou. MiNl. POWER-Common selise, I
or any other lion. &elltleiunl biere produce
thiink is altogether adverse f0 the view faken
a single word said whien this important
by lion, gentlemen on the oflier side
change wàs being- mnade in the Flouse of
flot have been the
of the House. It col
Commions or in this chanîber w'vitb respect
deliberare intfention of this parliameut f0 do
if the intention of
if nof impos- to this matter. ýSurely
a in*tbing to mnake it diflicuit,
parliarnent w-ns to niake s0 serious a change
sible. for comîpanies uiidertaking to conslruct
as tbe hon, gentlemanu contends, we sbiouid
railwiiys lu Canada. f0 borrow moniey
have some record of it in '.Hanisard.'
for the purpose of that construction. 1 tbitik
Now,
Hon. ',%r. FERGUSON-How did tbese
Ibat is a self-ev-ident proposition.
w-bat w-as flic law up to 1903 ? Thiif lnw changes get into different parts of the Act?
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON.

JUNE 9, 1908
Hon. Mr. POWER-If the bon. gentleman

anl opinion on the point w-hich would be

wiil allow me, I sball tell hlm what I think worth more than mine.
lias bappened. Ciearly there was no deliberate intention on the part of parliaineut to
alter this law at ail, because if there was
such an intention, it would have appenred
from the debates of both Houses, or at any
rate of ojie House. It does not appear at
ail. Consequentiy, It was not the Intention
of parliarnent to make any such important
change. Now, how did the change corne te
be made? The Impression of the cierk Is
titat in prepa ring the law for the printer
sonie errer was niade. Section 301 of the
Act of 1903 snys:
Where a company has been convicted of any
penalty under this Act, such penalty shall be
a first charge upon the railway, property, rents
and revenues of the company.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-Thie more this
matter is discussed, the more ote's adverse
opinion is cenflrmed against the utiiity of
thîs proposed ametient. If tusy lion. friend
wili take iitto ceusi(leratlon w-bat the effeet
tliis amntdaient iilibe on subsection
34 of the Inferpretation Act, the enormlity
0f

of the amendinent wiil at once preseîtt Itself to one's inid. What does it inean?
Lt means titf ail the expenses referred
te in subsectiomi 34 0f the Interpretation
Act, la clauses a, b., c, d, e, f, g. h and
so thaf ne recourse
iwili be postpne
eau be lîad for payneiit if there be net
property to cever titat particular class of
expenditure. '21'v hon. frieiîd -%vili observe
You see the working expenses are not that section 34 interprets whit wevrking. exmade a first charge. Hîs theory is that la pénditurc ieans.
conseiidatiag and carrying this provision
lion. Mr. CASGRAIN-Does the hon. geninto the miortgage sect.ion of the RailwaY
Act in ftle
tiemaît refer fo the R;iilwva
-- of 1903, w-orking expenditure has been Revised Statutes?
je
added as a prior lien.
Hon. '-\r. LOUGIHEEI.-Yes, if we îosfH1e says
polie working expenses te property and asI arn of the opinion that working expeaditure.2s c'juld only ask a prior lien in respect to sets, and if the revenue Is insufficient to
relit and revenue not of property and assets, cever tîtese varions expenlses, titet it is
as distinmui4ied from reat and revenue.
imot possible to secure the payient of titose
The draft îweparcd by titis law cierk, expenses out of any other property. That
was put, I suppose, into the hands of a is te say, if the revenue Is insufficietf te
junior clerk and typewriter, and the mis- pay wi.ges, tlte wvoriing amen will not be
take wavs miade of iiuserting these words. able to secure their ivag-es froin the proLt would be a very naturni things, wbere perty and assets. If the revenue is lnsuffithe party found in section 112, in the first dient te pay taxes, tite municipality is desubelanse, that the property, assets, rents frauded-I use thme terni advisedly-of Its
and revenues wvere to be subject to the taxes. I challetnge tîte lion, gentleman te
rnortgage, thiat hie Tvould think tiiat pro- controvert that staternent, tlîat If the reperty and assets should go ia the othier venue is insiufficient to ineet tlh'ý taxes, the
places f00. Wben the Act of 1903 carne municîpality lias lie other reseurce froin
te be deait wifh by the revisors whe pre- ýwhich It cau ebtini paymeait, and se on aIl
pared the Revised Statutes, tlîey broke Up) .aIlîg titose Hiles.
section 112 into two or three sections. My
HoifÊ '-%r. CASGlIAIN-Afld yen wouid
opinion is thaf the Bill of tîte lion. senator
froin De Lanaudière, In Its present shape, eat away ail tîte preperty.
will hardiy carry out lits intention, and perHon. Mr. LOUJGHEED-My lien. friend
haps the wiser plan ivould bie for the bon.
cannot find anythîing ln the laws of nuY
gentleman to let the Bi rernain In committee and prepare sncb an amenaiment as wll comrnunity whielî cut ont taxes. The muni-

recourse against the
I do nlot think that cipality always bas
meet the whoie case.
property for the payrnent Of Ifs taxes,
in lts present shape the Bill will meet the
whole -case. Probably the hon. senator notwitlistanding the mortgage coverig
froni De Salaberry bas iooked Into the ei-erytltiig.
matter carefuliv and will be able to give
Hon. Mr. SCO'rT-Hear, liear.

1070

1070
SENATE

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If they do not pay
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-7lNy hon. frie-d
off the prerogative of
says hear, hear: 1 challenge hlmi to con- taxes they do not eut
the province.
trovert that statement. Taxes corne under
wvorking expenditure; consequently if the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-We give a prior
revenue is Insufficient to meet the working dlaim. to the mortgagee and this excîndes
expenditure under this proposed amend- the payinent of taxes. However, iny bon.
ment, tlae taxes are cnt out and also aili friend represents the government in tîjis
those othier charges, rates, taxes, insurance, House, and if the government approve of
compensation for accidents or loss, salaries an arnendment of this kind, they can'take
aud wages of persons eniployed about the the responsibility.
If it is proper to say
railway, ai office aud mnanag-ement expenses, to the niunicipalities of Canada, w-e have
ail costs and expenses incidentai to the coin- passed legîsîntion w-hidi exclude you froin
pliance of an order of the board and othier getting your taxes from the corpus of the
such charges.
railway, the governniient can take the resHon. Mr. PERGUSON-And interest on pousihility of saying so. If my lion. friend
is prepared to sanction legislation hy %vliieh
the purchiase of lands.
the -,vages of the wvorkingmen are cut ont,
Therefore,
lion. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
I register iny protest against it. If nîiy
if 3-o1 defer the payllieut of working exonm. (fribnd, represcnting the governirnent,
penses to the iortgage on the property and will un(lerlake the responsibility of sayiug
assets of the Comnpany, thiere is no othier
that this governient is prepared to cnt ont
prope)trtv fvoîîî wlicli this class of expendi- a il tue I egi tin ate chia uns wh li hnay
be
Aire we going to deture is recoverable.
chargeahie against a railwav for leigitiimate
liberateiy pass an aniendinent to the Rtail- pnrposes and give thle inortgagee priority
c hY which, if the revenue of a rail-av
over those clainis. I cal (10 nangbt else but
way is insullicient to niieet ill these charges
legislation.
w-e protest igainst tbe
«ýblicli constitute working expeuditure,
'.%r. SCOTT-This is not a Govcrni
Hon.
give the mortgagees priority over the payBill. My attention Nvas never called
ment of municipal taxes, wages, and the ment
in this Flouse.
legitimnate dlaims of creditors who furnish to it until it wvas illtroldcd(
I arn merely expressing ny ownvi opinmion ;I
supplies f or the enhiancement of the value
have neyer talked to any of mny colleagnes
of the property, and consequently of the
about it.
ilortgage itself-are we going to cnt out
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEAD-I shonld judge
and allow the
ai] those legitimate expenses
mortgagees to swoop down on the railway flot.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Before it goos fnrther,
and cnt out taxes and other such dlaims ?
I wish to discuss it with the Minister of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Taxes and insurance
Justice.
are not on the same footing as the other
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Does the hon.
charges.
leader of the opposition mean to say that
say they are.
Hon. MNr.LOUGHEED-I
this amenduient would deprive the province
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They are a preroga- of the right of taxinig raiiways
tive of the province.
Hon. Nir. LOUGHEAD-No, but it wili
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If my hon. frlend deprive the province of the property out of
-would look at the Act, lhe would flot say whicli the taxes should be reaiized.
that.
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-The miortgage is always
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have looked at it. suhject to taxes.
I hav e hiad expedience of It for 50 years.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I feel very much like
.Nr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend bas the leader of the opposition In hiesitating to
the happy faculty of setting aside with one ag-ain address this lion. Honse on this quesf el swoop ail well recognized principles of tion. I have done so on several occasions
law. WVill iy hion. friend point out why hefore and to a great extent I w'onid have
to repeat what I have already stated. I
taxes sbould flot be paid?
nnderstand that the hon. leader of the opMr. SCOTT.
Hon.

JUNE 9, 1908
Position inay find that the Bill does nlot go
far enougli, that there are rights whicb
sbould be safeguarded. For instance if in his
opinion the claiin of the province for taxes
would be cnt off by this amendment, it is
surely bis duty to suggest an amendaient
whlh would safeguard the righbts of the
province iu that respect. It is for that
reason that the other day I suggested after
we dealt witbi this clause of the Bill an
aindment in regard to three nionths
arrears of wages. There may be also other
claims wbieh should be safeguarded, but
to rny mind the Bill, se far as tbis clause
goes, is in ftic riglit direction, and I arn
astonised that aur lawyer, and cspecially
ai lawyer of the ability of the leader of the
opposition, would stand up here and assert
that a law~ should reinain on the Statute
Boolz mn sucli a positioîi tliat if would be la
the poNver of thie dlebtor to destroy the
securitv% uler xvhichi capital bias been invested !i bis property. I know of instances
m-bjcl cau be cited to illustrate this. Take
for instance the Baie de Chaleurs flailway
wben it caie te grief ,if
that law liad
beenl ou the stafute book before 1903, the
rigbt.s of tbe bondhioldcrs would bave been
cut off alinost entirely, because there werc
claii
of ail kinds amountiug to two or
fbirec butndred thousand dollars wbieli had
accrued on that railway. It w-as lianigilug
in the. courts for ten years, and wvas the
subject of Bill affer Bill in this parliament
for the purpose of comiug f0 fthc rescue of
tbose claimants. Happily the rights of the
bondliolders rcmaîncd intact because this
miscbievious Act had flot beeu passed.
Hon. -fr. SCOTT-Parliameut actually
increasc(l the subsidy for tbe purpose of
paying the men.
Hon. 3Mr. BEIQUE-I know of another
case whi-Iere this ltnilway Act hnd not been
for a long finie iii operation..It
bad beeu
ln operafion foir 1S monthis only; nevertheless the rights of the boudhiolders, or yenidor:*s lien. were considerably affected by tbe
accumulation of traffic balances t0 an
amount of bctwecni sîxty and eigbty f lonsand dollars. Thei bon. leader of tbe opposition suggcstcd that la rnost of tue provinces there are laws wbichi profect the luiproveulents made on tbe properfy fo flie
c'xfcuf of the irnprovements-that fthc law

i~

protccts tbe creditor wliolibasiiiade advances
for sucli huproveients. I understand flie
wvisdoni of a law of that kind, and if the
Railway Act -%vere in that direction I %vould
itot suggcs t that it be amcendcd, but 1 again
caîl attention te the fact thaf sucli is not the
effect of this wvording.
If it indiscriînînately gave a preference for aIl such daims
is bave been suggcsted wîiat would lie fthe
effect?
If fies bad beenl lurchi:Ie(I niid
placed on tbe property, the dlain slîould lie
recognized because of flic incretîsed value
ivcii te fthc property; but suppose the fies
wvere resold by the coînpaiîy and nlev-r
Placed 0O1 the l)roperty at aIl, whlere is rIle
equity 0f destroying ftie bondholdcrs' lien
liv giving a preference foi' thîe purlebaýse
prie of those tics? Agalin, if coul lias beexi
l)urdliased and useti on a sfc;înier. foir iiistance. or resold or used nip, is tiiere any
iîicî'caseil value given t0 fthc property, anîd
wvould it bc Nvisze to (lestrov flie va lle of
flie lien ta fthe exfent of sueli daiim, To rny
iinid. it woull lie prcposterous.
I ;îgree
w'ltl flic -suggesfion nmade by fhe lhon. seniato* froîm Ilaýlifaix fleif flhc Bill (eserves
very serions conidei';tion. Tlue suggcsfioni
I mnade flic otiier day wiflî regard ta %vnges
is hli a good directioni.
Tlie aiînendinecîi
nay lie wordcd fliffcrenfly if fliere is ai
objecfionî f0 fic formi suggested. but qs f.1n
as thc firsf clause of flic Bill goes 1 ain1
entirelvi- l accordl %vith if.
M'lîafever we
ay decide lu the w:îy of protecimg-wages
or other dlaims flic resuif of m-bicli lias beeni
f0 incrense ftic vaine 0f tbe propety-let
thein if You wvislî stand before flic bondholders-lut f0 recognlize filiat aIl working
expenditunes for dlainms shiaîl railk befone
flie bondholdcrs and lie a first charge upoa
the pnoperty '%vould lie nîost uîiscblievous
legislation. I *would suggesf thaf this clause
be adopted aîîd fliat flic coimitfee risc in
order tliaf wc iay have finie fo cojîsîder
whaf otlier cluuinis should be profected.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGIIEED-I
thuîîk ftie
amiendniients should be ail bnougit' dowîi f0gefher.
Hon. '.%r. CLORAN-Capifal sbould lie
made fo undcrstand that it cannot float or
evemi survive ut tbe expense of of ler gooîl
nioncy. Tlie bondholders put flii înoncy
ite a seherne, and flhc labour whichî goès

1072

SENATE

3072

SENATE

to enliance fliaf capital should have equal would îlot lie welI te adopt fbis legislation.
privilege with the capital for security. No The Acf was ilut on flic stafutes by flic
bondiiolder should have a greater riglit on goveramient of fli c ounfry, and if circuinthe security of a road than flhe humble stances have arisen w-hich require fliat
labourer, xw-ho gives Iiis work, or the nman flic Acf sliould lie aniended, flic governNo ment lîad beffer coîne down with a Bill
wlio furnisiies goods and supplies.
would asic to have its value for fIe purpose aîîd take flic rcsponsibîlify.
honest capital
inember
increased by flie sacrifice of thie riglits of If sliould nef lic lef t te a privafe
that te, aînend an Acf of such Imîportance. 1
Lt is ill very fine to say
others.
capital caîmnot bc secured under these cir- have listencd earefully te flic discussionî
If it cannof, then wve eaii this cveninig, and flic facf cornes ouf fthe
cunîstances.
wvc are asked.
do wifliout it. -Wc bave been told fliaf Acf requires aindment aiîd
prcpared
since 1903 mr-e rnoiiey froîîî England, te asscîîf fo this clause. Ia nulmof
bas been te assemîf te flic Bill, lîolding flic view fIat
France, Gerrnany and Belilum
during flic
lnvested la Canada flan in th fliifteen years I have. It is îlot :îsserfcd fliat
fine flic Acf lias licou oî flie Stafute Bookc
before 1903, notwithistanding flic fact thai
If flic govcniuaieîit
irn lias aî-iseîî.
tlua law lias been 0o1 flic Statute Book for any
kniew fliaf harîn lad ariscîl, if weould have
the hast tire years. Tue ausîver is that
an anîcndfhey did net lcnow it wvas on ftic Statîîte licen flîcir duty te bring forward
responsibulity
Book. That is a challenge te the liîesty, ment, and( I place tue eîîtirc
f0 aîîy
intelligence and flic ability of flic attornecys 011 flîîin. I aîn pî-eparcd te lisfcîî
whieiî tliey
of these coînpanics. Tlîaf section is flic înost argumlent they iîtar advaxîce
prepared
essential one in flic wlîole Plailway Acf, yet hî-iîg dewiî a Bille but 1 ani nef
thaf it lias cscapcd flic te, fake flic respoîîsibility of vofîng for the
%vc arc told
observation of lawyers ýwlo 'have bee-n .adoption of the first clause iii viewv of flie
advising flic Grand Trunlk Pacifie, 'Me- circunista aces.
Keazie & Maxîn, andi othier great railHon. Mr. CASGI2AIN-If flic bon. genlIf tlernan will read flic list of wvorkiug exwnay corporations of this country.
fis law lias donc no larn f0 Canada dur- penses lhe will find fhiat cvcry ceniceivable
lng the pasf five ycars, whiy îîot leave it expense is put before fleic îîrtgagc, bond.
whîerc if is? Whlo p)ut if flcre? Thc mian Now fîlaf is nef riglîf. Lf a coînpany sliould
wlio frarned if las gene frein this earth- pîîrchasc a termnîal andi spend a miloîn
flic lafe Minister ef Railways, 'Mr. Blair. dollars upon if atter hriviîig issucd bonîds,
Bit Wve are fold fhaf flic law clerk did nef fIat new purcliase would u-aîk before flic
know anythîing of if. That law%w-as made bonîds.
te read as If is fo-day by flic Hon. 'Mr.
Hon. Mr. LOUGIHEED-Wliy do yeu
Blair, -%lio w-as responsible for introducing îlot niarrew%flic interpretation scfion. That
flic hegisiation, and this parlaîlient passed mîiglif meet flic difficulty.
Ln five years if bias
if w-itli open eycs.
Hoiu. 'Mr. CASGRALN-I have bad hils
donc îoelharnl. and if this Senafe changes
Bill pi-elarct by legal genîtleîmen, but 1 amn
fliat law la file intcrcst of capital and
nef wedded( te flic wordiîîg of flic clauses.
ag-ainst flic iîîfcresf of flic labourer if w-lji
XVleîî if is absolutcly dlean te uny nmd fliaf
lie faken as a mark of want of confidence
cxj)cnses ' were
tiiese words 'wornlg
in flic governiient aîîd flic iaiiister thiat
jîîsf as a repefihave ne syrn- addcd la tue consolidatioîn
ag.I
adoptcd it ive ycars
tien of flîrce lnes w-lirc f lîy lad Icen put
paflir wiflî capital fIat will seek te, enrich
in fthc first place. ei-ideîîtly flic work of a
Ifsclf af flic expense of ofhers. I do nef
ty-pcwr-iter wltlîouf anv coîsiderationask fhls House te, give f0, labour or f0 diose
lon. 'Mr. LOUGHEED-No.
who furnish supplies f0 conipanies prier
buf I do asIc flat fliey le given
riglifq,
lon. -Mr. CASC.IIAIN-Can1 we coîîccive
equal riglifs wifh flic bondholdcrs.
tlîat parliarncîît would niake sucbi a radical
Hon. '.%r. ELLLS-I lisfened te flic dis- change iii every bond ii flis country Nvitlîcussion on fhe last occasioni fhls Bihl was eut sqyiîîg- a word abolît if? If 15 inconceivayou caîqlîlot fijin 1t1fli ' Commrns
before us, and made up) ny mind fhat it bIc.
Ilon. hIr. CLOLtAN.

JUNE 9, 1908

1073

JUNE 9, 1908

1073

liansard ' or iii ftle Senate Delintes' one penses and iiow rnortgages should bie conword on the subject, and you are deminisli- sîdered. That heing the case, and flot
ing the security of the morfgage bonds of wishing to occupy f00 înuch of the time of
the country without discretion or even ain the House, and feling ns I feel that tilis
explanation froin file ininister as to why lie
is niaking ftic change.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Why lias the hon.
senator hiniself been mute during the past
five years?

Bill is uncailed. for and unnecessary, 1
niove, in amiendment to file motion 0f fthe
lion. genfleinmîn, that file c&înmitfce rise.

H7on. -'%r. CASGRALN'ý-I tiînk flie hon.
gentleman should. fot do thaf, especially
wien thei lion. Secretary of Stafe has asked
%r. CASORAIN-The hion. scîtator for finie f0 consuit the 'Minister of Justice.
Hon. -fromn De Salaberry brouglit iii a Bill wlien 1 asut. as a iaf fer of courtesy, that flie hon.
lie noticed it. l'le lion. Secretary of State genftlman (d0 îîof isist.
qjuoted just now tue opinion of Mr. Lashi.
lion. Mr. ,A-NDRY-Tlils motioni if carAýpparently Mr. Lasli is îîot faîniliar m-ith
ftie law. If is against tlie vcrY spirit Of lied. wn-1LI give liiîni ample finie.
the mortcgage. The legal estate is vested
iould kihI fthc
AGIANI
ITem,,'.Mr,
in ftic nortgagec. ai i'et yon m-ould have Bil,
the legal estate binrdened 1w' expenses mnade
îlo-',. Mr WILSON-If the governmient deWhieu the bonds are sire to intreduce aý
by the co1;iiIyllý.
-i Bill and assumne flic
issued. the company looseq possession of
respomisibiity, anîd desire te falze ouf of flic
the l)roperty: if Ihelong2:s te the bondhlolders. hands of the liomîest labouring muan flic
a i yet t1e coînpany lias the riglit to bor- îigif anîd privilege of obraining their wages
lilidees not belong 10
roNv on proI)Crty
that fbeY ouglit to hîave, and if they feel a1
Vlicn ftic owners of flie propcrty disposition f0 depl'ive tic îiîuaicipalifies of
theni.
kîzue bondcs. flie propertv goes 10 file bond- flie varions parts of flie country of the
liolders and fthc cinipany is only ,allo,%etl to riglît of collectimîg taxes froîin flc railroad.
worlz the property under certain condition:,. anld assume aul fint resp)oisibility, I do nof
those conditions bcing payment of coupons
teel a disposition f0 witlidr;iç my motion.
wlien they become due and of fthe principal
Hou. 'Mr. POWEll-I trust flic lion. genof the bonds wîlîcn tlîey mature. But, as
in is motion. If
the lion. senator froin De Salaberry thinks fleinan ivilliifot persist
ovould be one of thc îniosf îarked dcparttiiere xnay be soîne arnendmlents made, and
flic courtesy w-hichisl supposed fo
ats fie lion. senator f romn Halifax lias sug- ures froîn
fliaf I hatve eveprevai! iii fli; Lie.
ges;ted other amiendînents, and as fthe lion.
>,ecretary of State says lie will get flic seen. The hon. genîtlemuan wvho la in charge
good reasons whiciî
opinion of tlic MNinister of Justice, 1 move of flic Bill, for~ varions
hie sliouid bave
fliaqt ftie committee risc and report progress lie gaive, tlîinks if desirable
al further chance toecolisider the Bll wifli a
andu ask lcave to sit again.
view ef amendiiient or mnodification, and
Hon. Mý\r. WILSON--Before tliat motion *sureiy flic lion, gentleman would flot Interiiz put. m-e should consider whefhier this pose and fry te str.ing-Ie the Bill in flis
important Bill sliould pass. I amn lnformied Way in a fhim House.
in ail directions finit tis Acf lias been in
Hou. Mr. WILSON-I erertninly do flot
existence for several years. Under it bondQ
feed flît I ain reùîuired f0 sulimit f0 a
have been issued and inorfgagces taken by
on. gentleman
curfain lecture tloi felic
fIle cleverest lawyers in thle country ani
*from Halifax. I fliouglt I was 21 ycars of
1
no inconvenience or cvii has resulted.
for thaf whicb 1 do,
etinnot understnnd. tiierefore, wliy this Bul iage and responsibie
make, and if,
hias been introduced, and especially by . and tor flic reiiîark- which 1
in the future, I wish f0 obtain Information
private member. The leader of the HousE
te decornîn from fliclion. gendisclaîns any responsibility on the part oi Ein regard
ai 1 flemnn froni Halifax, I shall nsk hlm for
the goverumnent for this mensure. We
know *what the Jaw lias ibeen. Thirti ,adrice.
years ago, in the local legislature, we ha( 1 Hon. Mr. CLORAN-He nlhf cali in flie
a protractedl figlît as f0 the -working ex - Sergeant-at-Arnis.
BIEVISEIV EDITION

lOî4

SENATE

1074

SENATE

ister of Justice sliouhd corne througli flic
mion. mr. V.OWI±ll-if tue lion, gentleleader of tlie House, and not bie coinman f rom St. Thomas declines to, take les- lion,
mnunicated te us without our liaving very
sons from me, perhapS lie will take lessons
L-nowledge as f0 whetlier If is autlicnf rom the lion, gentleman from Victoria Di- exact
tic or not-drbled flirougli tlie House as
vision?
I know thing-s have done on previous occaHlon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I Must appenl to sions.
I submit tIat the view of ýtbe Minister
the hion. gentleman-I liave asked binm le- of Justice or the Minister of Railwuvys
fore-I think it is liardly fair wliea the should bie commuaicated f0 tIe Hou se
hon. Secretary of State simply asks tiine to through fthe lion, leader of the Huse.
consuit the Minister of Justice, that the
Hon. M-ir. McKIeAY (Truro), from the coincommittee should bie asked to rise. I plead
with him not to take advartage and not to mittee, reported that they had made some
lnsist upon bis motion. it is not long to priogress with fthe Bill and nsked leave te
le
wnit. If h wiIl wvait tili to-morrow, there sit agaii on 'Juesday next.
wvill bie ample time.
QUEBEC BRIDGE COM-'MISSIONElZS'
REPORT.
Hou. '-Ir. WILSON-1 certainly do liot
-isb to Place inYseif iu an awliw:îrd posi1Lion. Mr. LANDRY-Could %ve bic hation. I desire tliut there should bie no iii
forrned by tie lion, leader of fIs Hlouse if
feelinig iii refcrence to this inatter. I1il
lu ftic printing
to gIve the lion. gentleman a fair chance, aiîy- progreqs bas licou mnade
bas beeni before Par- of flie report of the cornînissioflers on the
and altlîougb the Bill
liuient for a nuinlier of days and -weeks, Quebee b)ridge disaster ?
I ivill wîtlmdraw iny motion, with tlîe coujr.SCOTT-ie report is being
lion.
c
sent of the buse, provided we shahl have a
îriiited( ut flic Bure'au now.
fair opportuliity for a free discussion of Ibis 1
lon. \Ir. LANDIIY-IIus flie translationi
question whcen the Bill is brouglit upl again.
thiat if beenl coînfleted?
Hon. Mr. FEIIGUSON-I suggest
it; is intended to brinig in consequential
bion. '.Ir. SCOTT-l could not tell the
ameudmnents, whicli I certainly think will lion. genîtlemanii.
have to bc donc, that the notice of tiiese
Hion. '%Ir. LANDRY-If flic hon. geuitieametîdments should ho put uponl the order
muan lias timie to inquir-paper. so fInît the bouse would have ample
Honl. 'Mr. SCOT'f-I will inquire.
tiniie to consid'er thein. We have been in
a long
colmiittee Ilirce titues. 'fhee wvus
The Senafe udjournied until 3 &'clock
discussion ou each occasion, and wlhen ve to-morr0w.
go into comnîittee againi, I think we sliould
have every opportuîîity to consider the
wliole mnatter.
THE SENATE.
Hlon. Sir 31ACKE-NZIE BOWELL-WNýe
OTTAWA, Wedflesday, June 10, 1908.
may take it for graxîted fIat if Élis matter
toor, fIe -Chair at Thre
is to be refcrred te tue Secretary of State,
The SPAE
and lie is to take charge of it aud consult o'clock.
flic M-\inister of Justice, we shahl have fIE
Prayers and routine proceediligs.
opiniion 0f the Mî%lnister of Justice whien w(
RIVER
are asked to adopt any amendaients. Ther SHIUSWAP
TH-O.PSON
A-ND
we shahl have tIc goverument taking the re
RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
sponsibility for whatever is necessary ii
REPORtTED ]?IOM COMMITTEE.
3
order te amend fIe Act to meet tIc wishe!
Hon. 31r. CASGRAIN, from thc 'Commitof the lion, gentlemen, and at tIe saine tiu'ii
protect those whom the present amendmen Stee on Railways, Tehegrapîs and -Harbours,
to the Bill would deprive of their security .reporfed Bill (49) An Act to incorporate the
Shuswap and Thompson River Boom ComHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I would just adq1
with arnendinents.
-pany,
fhe suggestion, that any opinion of the Min
Hlon. Mr. CLORAN.

JUNE 10, 1908

1075

JUgE 10, 1908

1075

Hon. Mm. LANDRY--Can I defer making
certain objections whidb I wlsh to make to
this report?~ I want to raise a question of
order, and If it is convenient to the House
I whll postpolie It.

Hon. '.\r. CASGRAIN-I wlh dehay the
motion for adoption till to-morrow.
Hon. Mm. LANDRY-I do not want to be
ruled out to-mormow. It may be said. that
w-e have received the report and accepted
it.

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-TIle hion. gentlemnan can give bis notice.

Hon. Mr. L

I)

-Ihave no notice to

give.
The SPEAKER-I -ould say thnt if the
objection is on the report itself, it can onhy
be taicen wvleî] tbe report is considered,
becanse the Sonate wvill not be seized with
the mnatter of the report tili that trne.
Hon. 'Mr. LANDPY-Wýithout asking, a
decision. aumi without discussing the point
of order, I -,vill just point out to the lion.
Spaker the kiiad of objection I wishi to
This Bi w-as first reportedl to the
m-ise.
Honse soine timie ago. and the report that
brouglit It berore the flouse stated that
thc preanible of the P.i1 had not been pmovThe comnittce had prononced themncdl.
selves on the in-camble, and bad refused to
pass the Bill on the groulid tlîat the preA vote o! this
amble hacd uot heen proven.
Hou'se on, the 21st o! Muy, referred the Bill
back to the c-onmittee for reconsideration.

Hon. MNr.CASGRAIN-Fnrther consider-

ously decided that the preamble had nlot
The committee could nlot go
been proved.
back on Its decision unless tbey lad received a special Instruction from this
Ilouse, or the Bill had been re-cornmitted
wlLh instruc tion from tbe House to do such
a thing. The comrnittee has no right to go
againat the rules of debate whlch prevail
in this House, and. the coxnmittee had no
right to go back on its decision and render
a decision contrary to the fi rst one, except,
as 1 say, special instructions had been
In that case the
given to tile committee.
committee, lîaving recelved a special Instruction, was entltled to corne to another
decision according to the Instruction given.
The report is nlot yet received, but If the
report is presented stating that the Bill bas
been passcd witli soîne amendments, 1 must
concide that the preamble bas been proven.
Consequentir. the cornrnittee lias given a
decision eontrart- to the first one arrived at
and that is tlie point 1 wisli to bhave settled.
I wili give the autbnrity in support of my
Vîews.
The SPEAKý-ER-BUt the bon, gentleman
does flot want to go into details now" ?

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I -,vaut to know ïf
this is the proper time to discuss the point

of order.

If I cunl bring it up to-rnorrow 1

arn willing to wait until then; but I do
nlot w-sut to lose flvy of my riglits to maise
the point of order ami have a decision.

The SPEAKER-lt

will be considered

to-morrow, subject to the point of order
ralsed by the bon. gentleman.

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN moved that the rdport be tuken into consideration to-morHon. '-\r. LAýNDRY-W7ell, Say further row.
It munst be fardier conconsideration.
The motion iwas ugreed to.
sideration. because it lias been consldered
The interruption of my lion. firend
once.
CONation.

does not enfligflten us ut ail.

The SPEIKEr.-lt is the sarne thing.

Hou. Mr. LANDRY-If It is reconsideraI
tien it mnst bie further consideration.
cluini thut the corninittee, being guided by
the mules which prevail lu this House, could
not give a decision contmamy to tlue one it
hud first given. and, consequeuthy, that the
Bihl couhd not corne back here with the
staternent that the preamble lad been
proved. beciause the commîttee bad previ-

AN INSTITUTION FOR JUVENILE

VICTS.
MOTION.
The notice of motion being called:
That in the opinion of this House stops
should b. taken -to provTide an ins>titution for
-the kceeping of juvenile convicts separate frôzu
older criminals.
Hon. Mr. CONIEAU said : I desime to
address to this honoumabIe Chamber a few
womds -with regard to the stibjet of -Deminiou *penitentiaries; or more especieily, I

107
SIENATE

1076

mlght say, wlth regard to the systeln pirevalling, under which the inmates thereof
are committed to one common institution,
w'hlch provides no0 real distinction between
the young and the ohd ; the tempted, or naturally bad ; thec redeemable or the incorrigible.
I tbink that it is the peculiar province
which is flot
of this honourable House,
calhcd upon session after session to initiate
a great deal of legislation of a general nature, to devote some time to the bettemmeut
of existing conditions, wherc tlic welfare
of any class of people is concerncd, and f0
provolze public discussions of thoseý questions wbicb are worthy of receiviag the
cousideration of ail wbo chcrish high aspirations for the future of our counitry ;its
institutions aud its laws.
A study of the conditions under whicb
the pen iteutia ries wcre creatcd, %vill go far
toward convincing the iuquiriug mind that
thei- Nvcre callcd into existence Nvith one
object la view~, iiamuely-: the puaishmneut
Pcrhaps I should add to ibis,
of crime.
and say N--ilb tue vTew also of providing
a place of deteution for those persons ivbo
bad prov'ed to be dangerous memibers of
sodiety, and bad by soutie act brought thenselves wlthin thie reacb of the oýrimiinal law.
Punislimeat of crime. and the eliniinatiofl
of the daugerous elemneat was, thien, the
prime object lu viewv, lu the establishmnent
of timese territorial bouses of detention.
To be sure, the ternu of iprisoniexît
usually carried Nwith it an obligation on
the part of thiose capable thereof, of being
taugbt some trade, or of applying tbeniselves to some labour of one class or another. Thuis furulisbed a means of kceping
their miads occupied, and thereby tendcd
to reduce thc danger froni too mnauy idie
bauds. It also lu certain cases, furnisbedl
thc unfortunate lumate wbo did not prevlously possess a trade, with tic opportunty
to acquire one, at whicli be migbt work
and labour truly to0 get his own living.
whea the time came that Lie once more entered the world a free man.
Did I say a f ree man ? -Weil bardly
perhaps that, for unbappily the person wbo
bas been s0 unfortunate, under existiug
conditions, as to 'do time,' no0 matter how
sincercly repentant hie may be; no matter
Hon. Mr. COMEAU.

bow dilîgeutly lie may iii future aîpplv j1lmself to some hionest calling, is never iu the
eyes of the seif-rigliteous altogether free
front that taint which a terni lu our penlI
institutions, as at l)reseut couducted, svems
to carry with it.
Now~, lion. gentlemen wvill bear me out,
that since our penitentiaries were first esZablislbed a great change bas coîne to pass lu
sound public opinion regarding their pur*poses and possîhilities. and to-day they are
uot regarded as a mens of punishnueiît
and deteution alone, but also as a menus
of reform for those woiuay front, oue cause
Or aDotiier be brou1glit 11ud(er Sentence W-itblu their portais .llîcreb ' as it is hoped,
wianing for the couutry good citizenus aud
uiseful nieniers of society.
But, liou, gentlemien. iliere is as 1 regard it, yct a dilliculty lu the wýay of reclaiiîiig lu the fullest exteut as useful
ieibers of society tiiosi wlio have unhippily served a terni. and tlîat is the ' ta luit'
For does it iiot
to wbiclî I have alluded.
very frcquently prove a bar to tlîeir obis the unlîappy
taiuing eînployient '!It
lot of sucbi a one. after is. liberty lias beemi
restored to liii, to be l)uiiisbed in a social
wvay, and lits record as a formner inîniate of
the peniteiutiary pros-es Iife's chiof hiandicap to himi-sincerely and tru1ly repentant
tliough lie inay be.
In the case of a peison ln advaniced y cars,
wltb lits lite laiugely behiiid Iilmi. tlis couBut it is stili liarder
dition is bard iudceel.
lut the case of the young muan. mlîose lite is.
or shoubil bc yct before lmi, but w-lose usefulness i dcstroyed by he corrodiiig influence oif thîls pr*isoni taint. N-hidi, it seeins,
maust follow hlmi ail lits (Ias. depriv-ing liiiii
of thc best whlich ife bas to give aad robh)iag the comiuiiîiity lun whîiclî lic lives of
the best work 0f NNliicli lie is capable.
It is this latter class-tliat of the 3-ouuger
men, to w-hiei 1 desire l)articularly to direct
attention, aud lu wvlosc beliaif I believe
that somethiîîg cati and sbould be doue.
On tbe lst of March hast there werc lu
the D)ominion peniteiitiaries .1,827 luimates
of 20 years of age aud uipwards, 718 beiîîg
the saine date there
of foreigu birth .At
were 206 ilumates uiîder the age 0f twenty,
of whiicb about 75 per cent were natives of
*Canada.

JUNE 10, 1908

1077

1077
JUNE 10, 1908
it is Impossible to touch piteh and flot be
It wlll thus be seen, that while a very
They
large percentage of flic inmates o! t.he deflled, even so la It with them.
penal institutions of the country above the carry into the world an added store of evil
age of twenty years, and upwards, are of knowledge,. and a beart more hardened than
forelgn birth. xnost of those under that age that out of the fuliness of which tbey previare Canadian born, and 1 wisli to devote a ousIy transgressed.
In my humble opinion there should be
few moments to the consideration o! this
some niethod of selection, so that the Infeature.
It unfortunately appears that there are stinctive eriminals, and the circumstantial
Thiat
people wvho are born wlth criminal instincts, transgressor, slîould be kept apart.
tendencles and desires, and who from chlld- those for wbom there is an honest hope, and
hood prefer to do that. w.hiclî is wrong. probabIlity of reform, should flot 'beedlessly
Such poirsons are undoubtedly dangerous be bronght into constant contact 'with those
members of society, aîîd It would seei of whom reason teaches us to believe the
ln other words, that the probfrom tlue dicta of enîinent sociologists that contrary.
littie hope of trustworthy reform exista in able 'refoirmi ' and the true 'jail bird~'
should not, as at preseîît. be placed in one
the case of such.
And furtherîîîorc, tlîat to aiThere is nagainî another class, composed catagory.
of those who -ire flot so baid o! heart, nor leviate this damnaging and lasting influence
imbued witlî the crinîinal Instincts and of this convict*s taint, in the case of thie
tendencies which tincture tiiose previously young and tenipted, tlîey should flot even
mentioned: for whose lîonest reform there be subjected to (letelition in the sanie inis hiole. qind for wlîorn there îa a place and stitution with the inen of naturally criminal
Tlîat our penal institutions
.a usefill career ii tlie future of this coun- instincts.
And. hon, gentlemen. to my mind the should. lu fact. be neither a training school
try.
System whicb hbrings these two classes to- in villainy for tlic young. not yet a mint,
getber-especially those of them wbo are tbrough whicli aIl wlîo niay pass-w%-letlier
youiig-recognizes thein as of one stamp, the naturally (lepraved aîid perverted îman,
and causes theni to iningle iii one common or the one of better instincts wlîo is an
bouse of detention, is unwise and defective. accidentaI transgressor-are of nccessity
Lt fi flot iii keeping with the spirit of the discharged witlî the starnp of 'convict' inage o! enlightenînent and sociological ad- delibly iînpressed npon tbemi.
It has a deBut cbiefly do I fiavour iii our houses of
vancement in which we live.
generating tendency and it Is antagonistic detention, the separation of the youîîg *from
thec old, and tlic youth of crîmi'îal instincts,
to reform.
tItis phase of the deten- from the young man of better tendencies
I have discussed
tion and reforin of that class nowv india- but, perhaps, weakness in the face of tempCharles Dickens; reconîîîîended
criminatelS, stigniatized as 'crimuinals,' with tation.
the chaplains of penitentiaries; men wlio that prison doors be fastened no less sehave the well-being o! sucb unfortunate curely from wirtbin than froin without, aiîd
ones sincereîy at heart, and wbo have great whule many inîprovenieuts in our systemn of
opportunities of studying flhe characters of punishment by detention bave been put Into
those unto whoni they are called upon to practice since that gifted ian pernned those
Their views upon thue subject words, it is well that we lu our age should
uninister.
-ire uîîiformly advanced, and to me their flot rest satisfled with wlîat our predecessors have done. but endeavour. to aid, s0
reasons seemed most cogent.
Briefly, the concensus of opinion among *far as If lies witlîin our power, those whose
theim uas. that if kept separate from the unhappy lot it is to fl'al by tlue wayslde. I
old and more Iiardened offenders, thE would like to suggc-st tlhat If the governyounger Inniates. except ivhere they pos- *ment is not prepared to deal with this quessess the criminal Instinct hitherto mention- *tion nt the present time, they should comed. are capable of reform, and o! being dis- *municate with the wardeîîs of the different
missed good and useful members o! society. *penitentiaries, or posslbly the wardens and
But that where they are allowed to mingl( the chaplaIns. and 1 amn satisfled tliat they
indiscriminately, then. mast as we are toîd I would receive a lot of vaînaible Information

1078

1078

.SENATE

SENATE

subject would be brought up. I secondèLd
whicb wouid enable tbemn to deai with this
tbe resolutien wltb a great 'Jeal ef pleaimportant subjeet.
sure, because 1 think it is a useful and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thie subject tbat the pbilanthropie measure-one w-orthy of the
hon. gentleman bas brought to the notice consideration of the Senate. It is partiof this House is a really Important one. cularly apt at this time, because of the
I regret that I wvas quite unable to, bear very mucb needed Bill vbicb is now before
the greater portion of bis observations. the Senate, wltb regard to juvenile off enWith bis voice directed to bis desk it was ders. This, according to my idea, takes ln
quite Impossible to bear tbe expressions ba an intermediate stage between the juveT
gave utterance to. Ail 1 cau say is tbat nule and bardened or regular criminai.
1 sbail be glad to caîl the attention of the agree w'ithi the bon. Secretary of State.
Minister of Justice to, tbe report publlshed that tbere la a criminal class, but I think
lni the 'Debates,' and I bave no doubt bie tbere 18 also, to a certain extent, bieredity
wil be giad to, take from It any bints or la crime, the samne beredity as, te use -a
The
A
suggestions tbat can be avalled of.
parallel, in1 the case of tuberculosis.
that ls engressing the atten- mnan bas a certain ferm of constitution and
subject is one
tion of pbiiantbropists ia ail parts of the physical build which rerider hlm particucivillzed world. I do net quite agree wçith larly hiable on slight occasion to contract
tbe remark that fell from the bon. gen- that disease, and the saine way witb tbls
tleman, that cbildren inherited crime and criminal class ; tbey do not laberit exactly
became criininiais because the father or sucb a tendency te crime, but their resistmother hiad criminai tendeucies. A very ance to temptation is very slight Indeed.
lnteresting work on that subject was re- Tbey are very apt to fail into it mucb more
cently issued f rom a distinguished scbolar, readily than otbers. Tberefore It is wehl
wbo gave very many expressions that the to try and combat tbe tendency to crime at
assumed rule is not justîfied by facts. as early a period as possible. Thiere Is
Now that is a v-ery broad subject, and 1 ne doubt tbat it ls unwise to place first
do not propose to enter upon It. The bon. offenders wltb tbose who bave been guhlty
gentleman's observations are quite in Un1e of crime, more than once, and wlho are bewitb the Bill nowv before the House fav- tween twenty-five and thirty years of age.
ouring wbat are calied children's aid se- This whiohe question requires deep consicieties, which are springing up ail over deration. I do not think we bave arrived
Canada. Tbey already exist in France, yet at a satisfactory way of dealing with
Germany, Belgîum, Great Britaia and other crime and the best means of prevention.
countries, and we are endeavouring' te There can be ne doubt that a crime once
keep pace with tbe progress thiat bas bMen commltted tbere is a great Inducement te
made by tbose countries. I tbink there tbe criminal te repeat It, ln tis way, that
are up-wards of fifty la tbe province of be la removed fromi ail society. He ls
Ontario aloue. Recently tbe-citizens of Mon- feiiooved iaevltably witb sleutib hound detreal and Quebec and seme of tbe otber termination by tbese eagaged in the supcities ln Quebec province bave organized a pression of crime, nnd often by those wbo
Tbe larg-est petitien
similar association.
are not. If bie makes an effort to lead a
ever presented to, parliament bas been pre- good life, bie Is followed up and discbarged
sented by those wbo are supporting tbe for- and b'juaded on se that be caninot get a
mation of societies tbat will aid the young chance for a fair start ln an bonest occuand prevent them from becomlng crimi- pation ; aad ln despair bie commits anotber
nais. It la found tbat cbildren are under crime. He becomes bardened against sethe best influences particularly wben tliey
clety. Anotber matter te wblch I wlsb te
are exercised sympathetically, and I cau
cahl attention la the extraordinary sentences
assure tbe bon, gentleman that bis remarks
are sometinies pronounced. I do not
wll be brougbt to tbe notice of tbe Minis- that
know whetber It la the case now-I hope
ter of Justice.
tbere is an improvemeat ini that respectHon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I had no idea
tbat tbis but the judges of tbe province of Quebec
when 1 came la this afternooa
Hon. Mr. COMEÂU.

-ua3iE3 lieu ju si iap.io je 4ujod aq;
pluomi 1 caq1,-U3IV5dS oaqjl

:smioj

su 3 9s1 nuiia luisloid jo uoI4-pp
*SaL-IJIODS 'N 'UOH -SrmnC aq; zapun amoa 4uq; siaarqns aqe ;no
slas tîaitm 'Z6 uoil;as jo 9 qldux2umud 4nq
&aâ1u JO S.ujL naaixis untp .xapîO saapna«UO
soain;a4inad huiMw sluap luemuîmud '4py
ualiatuy ifliON tI5lllE[ aix JO U014ae5 4Sj6
arg~ .apui_ -4uauîraiud jO not;Dipsiint atxp
-flUSUIe elu.ii'ds jo 2unî,tuads mu I
uitpiM atuoa ;ou saop Lîluai snosid Lmo;urn
-ue4lued uoiuinxoa aqI el lues ssupa la hlm -JojaJi puit aliqnd jo noilsanb slmi. aauu4s
mou Zn;Iuop mu I-i-aiuoo *.l'Nu0H -ut siql ul op I .;nq 'mapxo' jo Suoi4sanb
I *ssud plnoiqs
& s.iapnajjO eiIUaÂnt~ JO asiux ualjo LiaA ;on op
al5uiS axp zr;IîTii ulnîosa.iu si s~ iq4 mal.;
.xaîpouu el .xjal numallnaZ *Uotq aq;
ssupa
-a;uuaS ar4 aiojaq ;nasaad lu ilil -aqm 4qnop 1 Inq 'asnoH erg jO sq~uîp arjI.
pij
etl gmiM srip saop 41 juiq; 3[uffl ptnoAm s»Amasap uofllosai atil jO iaAOmX aixp jurT
aril 2UI3[uitfl UT U«SosU3j~ moij JI;UuaS *notq
ui a.ojaq si luqi nolinîosai
1 ',&ineo
Siq moiiOJ jon pinoa 1 eef riliM aa.iMii I-unEmod *JIN 110H
*I.sU
'UI]1uLj
luq miol os z-ods (nuamoCo u1q *u0) ulum
.pmlumoJ 41 2ni2slaq .oiO
-at;n2 *uoq exil asnu3aq '.apio jo Iulod siq4
înuuo;)a je JO B pus ;ut aqI. jO s-uuq4
uo 4uam2pnC ssud el paiuda.xdun Zuq&auios
aqp saà;lasap aq PUB ';)aJJa P002 amos
Suu slioja siq adoq I pus 'uoj;
aAnq
0;
*uollnal4u P~'Eoz>ap siq ail rplitM&
i;u amn
etil:.aoj iUoiloiI ulnj 2ulpm jo ;4>u -sanb 4nu4modrnt slru o; asnoH slql
sasuca
ýidoail4uliqd
amojaq aes I ;uxpý uatualna
aqq nt si .10 'ýpux .Spuaiu suiq -apuuuQ> luti
aas Isnm uwaî;ua *Uoq atil 4uq; os 's.1ap Luutnjo rxoi;uel4u aq;. 2ul4amp si numaj;ueâ
*SaDaao marpo ;iixmOD o;, namo.i
-Ua»O .1apjO q4imi wnool ;xnoa aql ni UaAa -noq aqj,
jo asua oexp ni pu Troais o; a-msap? Oanallua8Âf
'pa;ulaossu aq jou iluqs iepuajjo
erfl wu4 &lînjaa Isom sapiAo.id jjjg luq4 amila 41mrnoi o4 ajsap axp ;sise.x ;ou pinoa
uoissajoid Smu JO
psu 'pin03 eiIuaAfl aril Lq rplm Ilap aq LaqI. ;uxp 'aDaaîadxa
uamom PUB
JO a2i3 aqI. îapun s.xapua»o rIu asinoa atil UT amn p1o; aàuxt
ih3us UaelXis
napi *slIusuiua panapmu.q PUB mopro q4t.x
IlI sapiàoîid iq3arj sluanbtuliap alluaàf o4
4Dadsax q4tm il -a asfloH arT4 aîojaq SaZuss uoipuliossua Sq maxpa2o;ru palsamo ais ULIOJ
-ai o; L.)napua; mo sasindmlst noti4i.i liu
1aquî SI! j JnO eu UTou a.iut am 'nuty
alq;looqas PUu Ipanapîirq 2suxoaaq sers la2utloi atil
*a.îa' piq3 Mil; spuas a4;uiI;S!2nu
jO *I;iauj
iuli4snpui u si aaaqi ajarm laui jo -lai o;. sptal ssosîad ur as.inoDae;n
aq;l Ilui4 Iqnop oui eq uuz amaiqj, -sa4uDosu
I: îîqS, JO SLum, si il iaqIailm
-l;ulu 1uSu
pauapiti alexp IRUOjJ5I5uila;> JtIflOS a4vu
jollum Ioa saop 4l-UsU'iOdI -ilJ 5H
-dos, o; asii& £[2ulpaaaxo aq plfloA il i;urp

~j1MçI

L1J

* Lur, Lus It saoa[-flvajzoo

«.x;z *uon

-loi

q2noïll

4ntod

ano ;;q; S

si

ti

a ;q, :uaru

-xxmaAo2 aq; jo ;mud ail; uo nortasu Suu aAloAt
-ut oeu saop uoi4nosai sixfl jo 2ul4dopu pus

LauUiPîO aq;l o; JO iluf 0; lues 2ulaq JO 2ulpuoDas expl 4ut4 PUs nolssfl3slp moj Ia
pua;sui sîooqDs licîî;snpui asaq4 o; lues eq -qns v uusxp ejm 2ul1on aq o; asnoH expl
Iirqst '5ae4xls jO a2iu aq4 zapun sli sasua amojaq mou uot;oui aq; mapisuoa i
;aqi
amos ni 'PUB IsLoqi 'atin us su '4urfl sapiÂ sut; qiu uoipaeuuoa ut dnunajul aq ;q2xu
pu» lstooqDs îutî;isnpui eau qapjqm squiod Luum eau amait; ;uq4 mo0ri
-.o.d miul eaî
aar l sa;rniAojd aqI. jo auo &ja,&a ni ;uq4 st o;
Aliaas aiaxp o; pms,2e.x
Siti; uoi;nam i
quo *noî;rhîosai sihu ssud ;ou pinoqs am
xpîm lqs",iumai magip LaqiL *pasi.iei aq
'uunallua2 nuoq aq; Lq passaxdxa s4uaîuî; pîxiots suuirJ
JO soDuelnas 0111 JO amlos
-nos aq4 ni aa.x2u li am aIlIIm '&qm SUOS -aji aroq.i suum axp 2nilom;asap si »'Uixro;p
-uai .xaij;o om; axe a.xarl, *uclisanb îuinat; jO paau nt sum aq sduxlied uaxrm. saipora
-mud sîq; TfliA luap o4 4uuiii.ud nolituiofi xuitsals moj sisaS U8.1as .1oj Lms;ulluE>lu o;
oril jO ssoulýsiuq aq4 ;ou si Sîluai il oq,
nutu 2rsnoL u puas o, Ijatrl Slo;d su qDns
*Gon?Âo.xd 0î{q mo; puis .sa;)aa4 Itb'ms laAl4ic.idmo;) moj samala
ni snosiid Lmuijipuc
-usBUI pu1@ eaunuuvm

olqnd, jo I>emftSI
-sas Lsar
ueiïxtsllqelse. eq

806t 'OL 3INfIi~
6LOt
6LOI

8061 loi axiir

2uisoluil jo ;iqusq art; ut aaam~

1080

SENLATE

1080

SEINATE

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I understood tbe lion.
gentleman referred to offenders under 20
years of age. The Bill before the Senate
only refers to those of 16 or under. 0f
course it is part of the administration of
the criminal iaw.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Like the
bon. tbe Speaker, I did not beau exnctly
wliat the lion. gentleman wlho introduced
this subject sai, and it would bie mach
safer to let biis ueniauks be printed s0 tbat
we might all rend and understand them"
before coming to a decision. 1 thereor
move tbe adjournuient of the debate.
lion. -Mu. CLORAN-I bardly agree witb
the suggestion of the -lon. gentleman froin
The proposition does not
Nova Seotia.
corne under the jurisdictiou of this -House
It is, simiply a question
or the other Ilouse.
that in the opiion of tbis House steps
should bc taken to provide ain institution
for the keepig oif jîivenîile convicts separate
H1e does not say by
fromn older criniilts.
wh'oni sueli steps shiah bie takeni-simpiy an
expression of opinion froin tbis boniourabie
bouse, so as to excite the interest of the
provinces or municipahities tbat wouid bie
interested in separating the young culminais
fromi the old; but there is .a way of getting
There is no
aI bis oliject and securing it.
there arc large numiibers of cridoulit tit
minals-over six or seven huîîdred 1 think
lie said-ietween lu and 20 years of age. I
am quite ini accord -with the bou. senator
wben lhe says tbiat *condition of tliings
We
sbould not be rnaintained any longer.
hnow tliat under the cuiminal code, youths
over sixteen cannot be senteniced 0 the inTbey mnust be sent to the
dusîrial school.
A
comnon jail or to the penitentiary.
youlli is sentenceil for tbree or four or five
years. just ah Ilie pcriod of life whben lie
Bill with regard to
can bie refoumed .A
juvenhle offendeus is also iii hue with the
marcli of civilization and lie reform of
youtli; but a very important age. from 16
to 20 is nol covered by that Bill, and ail
offendeus lietween 16) and 20 and 21 are
liable 10 be berded w-ith tlie worst ciass of
I see a
criminals in our penitenliaries.
way out of lis difficuly, and il would lie
10 suggest-and tbis Ilouse lias a right 10
make sugg-estions and express opinions-to
thie Minister of Justice that sleps should be
The SPEAKEIL

talien-l (Io not say riglit off, but the question can be studied-to separate the young-,
er criminals i penitentiaries, bave a section set apart for bieni and puovide Iliat
they sbhil liot speîîd ail thil lune withlite
I tbiîîk the
older and iardened criinials.
Our petîlsuggestion is easy to carry out.
tenliaries are very large, and a section of
tie penitenliary slîon]d lie set aside for Iliat
Lt would lie a proper
class of criniials.
and bumane tbing 10 do. Il mniglit take a
little organization, and it inigbt require a
Even tlint departîuîent
few- more ofliciais.
of the service wvbiclî wouid lie given over
10 the young couid lie vested in the pîrobalion oflicers, and couid becoine more or iess
under the control of tie bodies that you
are going to establisli undîýr tue Juven.ile
Ail luis N-ouid %vori haîol
Delinqueîît Act.
Tiiere Nvouid he
in liand andî iii hîarxinouy.
The Domnion
no clash of jurisdiction.
goveunluexînt lias the, soie riglit t0 estalîlisir
penlitentiaries and to send culiaiixls tiare,
nnd 10 keep lixei tlucre uxîder the laws. The
otlier courts wvIii are estalisied liv the
provinîces ani liv munxiciixniities. sucx as
the police nuagistrate courts antI so on, deai
n-lUi offelîces ag-aiîst the provincial anîd
municipal iaws, and go on; but tiiere wouid
lie no iiîfringing on lie rig-its of tie pri>vînces if Ibis suxggestic)r w-eue cauried ont,
liat lu ecdi of Our large i>eiiteiihiaries
whlere culminais are sent niffder tie crimijiai
code. tue yoinig lie separateil froin the oHd
and lie given a chiance 10 refornu. I tliuîi
the sug-gestion is one weu wortiîy of consideritiou. anîd tint il shouid lie ironglit
o the attention of the 'Mînister of Justice
and of the governiment.
Tue mnotioni was agree.d 10.
QUEBEC BRIDGE AND RAIILW'AY CO-I
PANY.
INQUIRY.
Hon. 'Mu. LANDRY inquired:
That hie will cail the attention of thjs Iou~e
to the fart that Mýr.-Hoare, the chief engineer
of the Quebec Bridge and Raiway Company,
of which MIr. Parenit is president, has reeeived fromn the Transcontinental Raiiway
Commission, of whiclu the samne Mr. Parent is
aliso president, certain amoun-ts during the
yeaus 1904-5, 1905-6, 1906-7 and 1907-8, aad thal
hie wili inquire-For what services have such a.mounts been
paid by the Transocontinental Railway Comnnmis.sionrs

J1
UNE 10, 1908
What position did then Mr. Hoare occmmpy

ini or fer the said commission?

Hon. M.LANDRY-A
question?

vo
preambie to a

Was hie paid as engineer of Queber- Bridge
Hon. _%r. FERGUSON-Tiî2re is nothingCompany or as a tomporary emj#1oyee of the
Transcontinental Railway Commission?
wrong in tbat.
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-I have no answvers toHon. Mr. LANDRY-I will flot be put
day.
off any longer. 1 have a righit 10 ask that
Hon. Mr. 1,AýNDItY-There is an iiiquii'y question, and 1 will have an auswer. If
of the 2lst Maiy, April SIli, and April 1.3th. the bon, gentleman does not wvatit to give
C.ould mve expect nnswers 10 tiiese inquiries nie an answer, let hlm say so.
during the session?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have flot the ans-wer
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-1 amn unable to saJ7 and cannot get IL I cannot take the offiany more thail that the answers have not ciais by thie tliroat and procure an answe;'
I applied for them and In that wny.
beeii sent to lue.
I could do no more.
Hon. '.%r. LANDItY-TlIe lion. g-entleman
Hon. 'Mmr. LANDRY-I would asi the lion. shotnld flot say: II canniot gel an aiiswer.' If
gentleman 10 give us an amiisver lu a few lie says : I wiIl not give it,' I %vill take it
days.
as an annswer ;but ývhen ho s'n-s :Il canhou. gentleinau flot obtain an ausýver.' hie does not perfori
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thîe
I haive the duties of his office.
knows it does miot rest witlîIlle.
statemi that over and over :îgaiii.
Hoii. MmNl.FERGUSON-Surcly the Cointhe nmoney mission is liot superior 10 the government
Hon. Mr. LANIIIiY-Ilere
?
bas heeil received by the Transcontinental and parliament
tihe control of
Commission wliicli is under
Hon. Mr. LA-NDltY-Wliy should we imot
Public nomey lias beeui get ain answer ? We are asking for wvhat
thte gover'inient.
Tlîey are ail booked la the Audi- services tiiose mnoeys have been speat ?
givemi.
tom Geiîcrai's account.
Whly sliouid Nve Dot have aun aiîswer ? Il
lion. 'Mr, SCOTT-Thie goveri'nent have Is the Trainscontinuental Railway Commission that pays the money. I wisb to know
not assumed the Quebec bridge.
if the lion, gentleman tried to gel an aniHou. MNr. LANDRY-l an flot speakimg
sw'er ?
The hon. genof thie Quebec bridge at ail.
Honi. Mr. SCOTT-I did.
ticinan bats the Quebec bridge on the braiîî,
but we are not speaiag. of that.
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-Froiii tLe Bridge
mnust have got il Company?
Hou. '-%r. 14COTT-I
from the hion. gentleiman from Stadacona.
lion. -Mr, SCOTT-I had no direct coinnunication witli the Commission. Any conHon. Mr. LANDRY-I ýwill read the nois, is exercised by the Railway
tice, because I arn sure t11e lion, gentle- tm'ol thcre
commtuuicated witli
Departliient. and I
man lias not rend it.
thein repeatedly, asking for answers to
Hou. '-\r. SCOTT- Wel I liave.
those questions. The last I hieard was
is the Transcon- that it wmis contrai'! 10 the rules of parliaHon. 'Mr. LANDRY-lt
time ment as there wias a preamble 10 the quesCommissio'm-not
Raîlway
tinental
bridge. and luis inan Is an employee of the tion.
Bridge Comnpany
Hon. MNr. LANDRY-We wvill try to get
and see le
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-All 1 cau, Say is that to tihe Railwav Department
that depai'tment is above parliament or
1 could not gel an amîswer to it. One answer I received was that the questions-wero uider pariiameiit.
argumentative and contrary ho the ruies
The SPEAKER-It xvill stand f111 wlîat
of parliainent. There was a preambie tc
day ?
Howev.er, I iam tiot golnV
the question.
Hon. Mr. LANDItY-To-morrow.
to discuss il.

1082

1082

SENATE

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It makes no difference
what day. I cannot get lt.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Say a week.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbe hon. gentleman
bas decided not to give the unswer.
The SPEAKER-Lt mny stand tili Tuesday next
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Drop IL.

Hou. '-\r. LANDRY-I will look up the
files and see if it bas been answered. My
contention is that It bas flot been answered.
Lion. .'\r. SCOTT-I read a certificate
froin an officialinl the Departnient of Finance, who had charge of lt, certify"b'nunder seni tbat titis $200,000 hiad been subscribed and paid and was entered ln the
books as paid.

lIon. '.%r. LANDLIY-And the hou. gentieHon. Mr. LANDRY-L will not trop it. I -man wvas content withi that certificate.
days of thc
will keep It Up tilI the lat
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
seslsion, and yoii will see at tbat time
wbether I shall get an answer.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But my question
goes further and asks : 'Did tlhe company
The motion was nhlowed f0 stand.
afterwards devote the ainount wbjch it so
QUEBEC BRLDGE COMPANY.
obtaîned to pny for works chargeable to
capital, or bas it flot rather employed alINQULRY.
mnost the mwhole of that sum lu payment of
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbe next iaquiry la
tlic discount &c.'
However, let it stand
dated 'the 8tlh April, and rends as follows:
fi Tuesday.
Wlhen the goverament, in 1903, ooncluded a
The motion wns allow-ed to stand.
financial arrangement *with the Quebec Bridge
and Ilails-ay Company, d.id if then require
iiid has it made it one of the obligations of
EXPENSES 0F ',%R. ALElx*ANDER
the contract that the com.pany should forthTASCHEREAU.
with 6ubscribe additional shares to the
'amount of $200,O00?
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
Has the tcompa.ny cansed this additional
csum to be subscribed?
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-My13
last iuquirv
By whom, giving the namnes?
Did the company afters-ards devote the reads as follows:
amount s-hich if so obytained to pay for s-orks
Have the commissioners of -the Transcontinchargeable, to capital, or has rit nof rather ont- entai Railway ever paid a sai of $29.20 for
ployed ai.-most the whéle of that sum, to wit: judicial expenses, to Mr. Alexandre Tasche$188,721, àa payment of the discount at s-hich reau, of Quebec, -advocate, an ex-alderman of
securities of the com.pany had been issued, the city of Quebec?
thle builder of the piers of the bridge having
What is the nature of those expenses?
consented f0 extinguish a dlaim of $283,279
Were they flot incurred. to aid the swearing
s-hich lie had againsf the company by faking iii of a certain number of conetab1es?
debentures of the said conipany f0 the ainount
For what object and for whjat purpose were
of $472,000, that is to say, at a discount of 40 these constables sworn?
per cent.
Where did they ferve?
What s-as their number?
That la one of the obligations imposed
uniform
paid
the ferWVas Mr. Taschereaueach of athem, and price
on
by the goverament themselves
what
the swearing in of
I is that price?
Quebec Bridge and Railway Company.
Multiplying that individual price by the
am asking If that bas been complied wlth.
nuimber of constables sworn in -and deducting
Is there an answer f0 that question ? The f rom the sum total paid the produot thus
goverumeut is bouud to see thaf the con- obtained, for s-bat s-ara the difference which
tract whlch wns made between tbem and reîained utilized?
It is
That la lu the Public Accounts.
the Quebec Bridge Company is fuIflled,
thaf ail the conditions that hwte been sub» one of the ministers of Quebec who got
mouey from the federal governmeat, a very
scribed to are carried out.
prominent lawyer of Quebec wbo received
that quesHon. Mr. SCOTT-I answered
that money, and 1 want to know if it was
tion and tbe $200,000 bad been 'subscribed
Could we be iiifor sweariag constables?
and pnid. I answered that a month ago.
Could we get the nature
formied of that?
DERBYSHIRE-The hon. gen- of the services for wbich that gentleman
Hou. MiNr.
tleman wnnts to bave the anwer repent. was pald, and if a riot took place, in somne
ed.
Iocality, could we know where, because the
HIon.

Mr. LANDRY.

JUNE 10, 1908
goverament paid that amjount to swear lu stand, has been finislhec yet. 1 inquired
coastables? There must have been a dis- to-day.
turbance or something of the kzind. I 3-ant
Hon. Mir. LANDRY-TIIere was a misto know where It took place, and if that under.stiidiing.
I thoughit the hion. gentleswearlng in of the constables was calculated man said it was printed.
Because there
per capita or otherwise?
%r. SCOTT-No, It is an elaborate
Hon. -.
must have been a certain amount expended
document, with a nuniber of elaborate plans.
W'e cannot divide that
for something else.
sum sufficiently well to explain the object
COMMI'%ISSION REPORT.
of the expenditure. I want to bie enliglit- CIVIL SERVICE
not the hon, gentleWhy should
ened.
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY-Has the civil serWe take vice report been translated into French?
man throw a little Iight on 1V?
an interest la those expeaditures of public 1-ave we no rights fiere?
moaey; It Is paid by us-by the people of
The lion. genHon. 'Mr. SCOTTr-Yes.
It is recorded ln the kudithe Dominion.
I wiIl make inquirles
tleman lias rights.
tor General's account, but there are some
as to the report, and wvill let tlue hon. g-endetails we want to get. 1 suppose every
tleman know.
item that appears in the Auditor General's
account may bie the subject of a question
GEORGIAN BAY CANAL REPORT.
put ln this House or in the other House
Hon. MIr. DeBOUCHIERVILLE-WhCfl
as to the nature aad as to the circumstances
when shial we have the report on the Georgian
which surround the expenditure.
will the hon. gentleman bie ready to give me Bay canal?
an answer?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I could not answer
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I answered the -bon. that question, because the engineers are stili
gentleman, in the tirst instance, that I was at work on it, and It is a very slow process
quite unable to give any more answers I presumne.
It is one of the works you
than 1 had given.
caunot liasten.
Hlon. Mr. LANDRY-But shaîl we get
BILL INTRODUCED.
any answer?
Bill (20) An Act respecting the Belleville,
1SCOTT-I cannot answer it; il
Hon. M-Nr.
I will make no ar- l 'rince Edward Bridge Compaiiy.-(Mr.
Is flot in my power.
rangements or promise wbatevèr to the hon. *Ross, Middlesex.)
1 arn not going to do any morE
gentleman.
MANITOBA. GRAIN ACT AMENDMENT
than I bave done.
BILL.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But the hon. gentle
FROM COMMITTEE.
bREPORTED
man will see, when hie thinks it over, thai
hie is able to give an answer and hie will d(
The House rcsolved itself into a Commitit. I arn quite sure lie will have an answei tee of the Whole ou Bill (Z) An Act to
on Tuesday next.
ainend the 'Manitoba Grain Act.
The question was allowed to stand.
(In the Cominittee.>
BRIDGE COMMISSION REI'C ItT.
Hon. Mr. LANIYRY-H-as the report of
the Bridge Commiss ,Ion been distributed?
ot
Hon Mr SCT*I-Itis rined et.
Hon.Mr.
COTl'-It i notprited et.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I was of the opinion
yesterday from what the bon. gentleman
sald that It: was printed.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, it îs lu course of
being printed, but no part of it, 1 underQUEBEC

Hon. Sir RtIOH1ARD CARTWRIGHITI understand that my bon. f riend from
Prince Albert does flot lntend to press bis
amendment as It would be a very contentlous one, and very much oppo2ed by a
certain Interest.
HIon. Mr. DAVIS-I certainly propose to
press itHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIn that case I would have to oppose it.

SENATE

1084

DAVIS-Then, 1 move flic folHon. M-Nr.
lowing am{Žndmnent:
23d. The following subsection is added to,
section 60:
4. No persan, firm or corporation, operating a public country elacvator or warehouse
shial sell, assign, mortgage, pledge, itypothecate or charge in any mialner Ivhatsoever any
grain stored in such ele-vator either in genei-ai storage or special biii, which grain is ilot
the sole and absolute propeity of suchi operator. In the event of -any operator sa belliiig,
assigning, n;.ortgaging, hypotflecatiiig, pledging or charging as afor-3s'id aiiy sucli grain.
then, upon conviction, the license for sucli
elevator or warelîause sh-il i mînediatelv becone forfeited and void, and suchi orerator
ýshaIl on conv-iction be liable ta a penalty of
îiot less thtan five hundrel dollars aîid not
more thani ane tihousaiid dollars for each
oflence, in addition ta thte forfeiture of said
license; «nd lia sale, assigniment, pledge, mortgage, hypothecation or charge ini aiiy inanner
whatsoever shall ha valid as again-t third
parties lawfull 'y claiiniiîg surai grain; and
further- et t1nà niakilig of aiîy kisaîgnment,
pledge, mor-tga ge, iy pothecationi or charge,
the aperatoi, sliail inake affidavit declarîng
that tie grain >o pledged is the aLsolute property of the '-aid opai ator, aiîd showing the
amiount of gralît ini said elevator, the aitiount
in ýstore for otier parties, aiîd tie ainoutt belongiuig absolutely to sucl operatar.
I
This amendrnent speaks for itself.
do not thinl: tlîat aniy persan daing a grain
business, ruinng ail clevator or interested
in tîjis Act shotild be opposed ta this arndment, for the simplle reasoni tliat if aniy man
waits ta do an boiîest business I do ualt
see why hie sbould ho opposed ta bavîng a
clause of Lhat kind iîîserted lu the Act. Wce
bave had iii the w-est on, I tliuk, several
occasions, cases in point wbere faruiers
and otiiers hagve stored their grain in the
elevators, and the parties operating- the eievator lid hypotbecated. this grain ta the
Wlheîî tho owners w-ent ta get their
bai.
grain fi-rn the clevator tlîey faund thiat
the bank lîad îioved it ail out, aîîd, as a
caiîsequencc. it 'vas hast ta the owners. I
understan1 that lu saune cases the buyer
or w-hoevcr is running tlic elevatar gives a
If the bond is sufficient, and tii"
riond.
farmer does nealohse it, the guariathe
if
and
w-H11I hse.
COMPalv
tee
continues
of nffairs
present condition
parties handling grain in the chevators
will not be able ta get any grain at al. because they have ta furnish soute security.
I da nat doubt that a persan operatiflg an
elevator, if ie ýwerc ta make away 'with
or hypothecate grain In tic elevatar, would
came under the Crimînal Code. It would
Pon.

Sir- PlC'1-TARD <'APýTWT?TC.TTT

be just as w-cil ta have it placed :) tlic Bill
arvia placing it
itself, and if it does no
tiiere I do not sec lîow it in-ifld itîterfere
with the w-orking of the Bill. Tfle priîîciple shauld be adopted, an t R would give
a warniug ta thase w-ha rui elevators tliat
thcy imust nat dispose of wr bypothiec:itc
sornetliing tlîat dace not belonig ta themn.
There ni-e rnany people operitingia l thc
grain trade iii the w-est on vcî-v liiiiitedt
capital. I saw an illustration inii counitry
ncwspapcr in the w-est, wvlere a fariner
w-ns soxving grain and the blackbirds were
Nvaiting arouud singing ' I the SetBye
and Bye '-ooking, forward ta eatiîig flic
Nowv, tiiere are
grain wlicn it ripened.
many grain buyeîs iii tic west who are
doing business on limitcd capital, aîîd ai-e
tenpted ta iike stateinents to the baiik
flc
teletliat they have s0 îîîudh graini
v-atoi- w-lien, as a malter of faet, tliey do4
not awNv the grain ai- the gi-enter part oif
aniendiiient wiili
lcre i-t aîiotlîe
It
ILon. Seniator Talbot proposes ta inove that
Lt provides for tii,
fits iii wqhî tliis.
inakiug of a ictuiru by the elevato- itiami
Tint rcturmi
ta the grain coînnissioier.
cotild be kept on file. so that aîy one advancing mniie3- w-auld kiiaw how~ îinuc-,
grain w-as in the clevatar aiff could t:,ke
oiîisiie
the relurn fuî-iished ta thce
and campai-e it witb the stateineut finnished wbeu lie w-ailtcd ta get the moîîey.
I cannot sec any possible objection ta tho
amendment.
GIBSON-I r-egret -,ei- niuchi
Hon. M-Nr.
thiat mv hon. frieud lias clianged lis iiid,
because there bas beeil a îgrent dleal of
apposition ta tlîis pi-oposed auiieuîiiîieiit of
bis, anîd wlîen hie tol iysai ; ind ailier
ol'wtmeinhers of tlie Senate that lie
draw~ tlîat clause, those wha Nv-c-e opposiîîg
f
it witlidrcw-, and are uiot hiere to-dayinay say fî-ankly fiat tîjis is ene of tbi"
rnost dangerous clauses tint (eoild bo plut
lu any Bill. The hon. genthîîînaî spealz,
about persans operating in tlic Noi-tlwest
w-ith very limitcd capital. We know vcry
w-cil thînt tic banks do nat lend nîoiey
like a boan company on fifty et- sixty per
cent of the miaterial value, bilt that a
great deal of mouey Ie loaned on flic
I ani
moral character of the. borrower.
afraid mny ban. friend bas miot made ont

JUNE 10, 1908S
It is becanse these men
a good case.
have liînited capital that the banks have
If the
to corne iii and belp them ont.
banks give themi the mioney to buy their
grain from the farmer, I do flot think a
clause of thîls kind should be iinserted hi
the Bill to destroy the security wvbich the
baak lias of the grain whica the baniz
bas practically paid for. I have here a
sure this
number of letters ilîich i I -n
House -ivill consider carefully, because, after
ichie affects others,
ail, this is a question
It is
besides those who ou-n elevators.
a question of the integrity of iliose who arc
la the w-leat business and are gelting supA clause of this
port fromn the banks.
kiad, 1 arnu bound to say, wouid destrov
the confidlence that exists betweeil the
ivheat 1)nyer or the grain elevator niaîî
and the balîk. Now this is a veî-v serions
niatter andi one that lias been considereîl
Tlîc secreby the Bankers' Association.
tnry froin 'Montreal got a letter printed
for circulation ainong the baîîks of Canadai
that are eniraged !l loaning ioney !in the
grain business. The circular letter is as
follows
Canadiani Banklers'
,ated 1900.

Association.

Jaicorpox.-

Montreal, '.Nay 28, 1908.
Dear Sir,-M\Lanitoba Grain Act.
Please peruse the inclosed correspondence
and, if you are interested iii the grain business ia the west, favour nie proiînptly w-db
your opinion.
Yours faithfully,
JOHN KNIGHT,
Secrietary.
In addition to this warnilug sent out by
the secretary 0f the Bankers' _Associationi,
tliere is a letter from the geiîcral manager
of the Bank of Ottawa, 'Mr. *Geo. Buru.
Nvhose finger is on the business pulse of
Canada at ail tunes, and who exercises il
watchiful care of the bankinig legislation in
parlinnient. I amn sure ail will admit that
no more experienced banîcer is to be found
in Canada than Mr. Burn with respect to
the hnndling. of grain accouats. 11e deemied
it bis duty.l to notlfy ail the bank-ers ia Canada of this proposed clause, in a letter
dated 27th of 'May, and addressed to th-i
secretary-treasurer of the Bankers' Asso.
ciation of %Montreal. The circular of
Burn is as follo-ws

1085

Bank of Ottawa, Ceneral Maniager's
Ofc, Ottawa, Ontario, May 27, 1908.
John Knighit, Esq.,
Sec retary-Trea surer, Canadian Bankers'
Association, Moatreal.
re MN.anitoba Grain Act.
Deir Sir,-I inclose draft copy of a proposed clause which lias been put forward recentlv and which may ha introduced iii the
Bill to amnend the Manitoba Grain Act wheni
it renches the House of Commons. It is not
included la the Bill alreadv introduoed in the
';en.ate. The clause which I have ir.ar*ked' iii
the niargin. it seenis to me, would be in contraventioni of a dlaini of any bank (hein ail
innocent party) as againist unpaid vendors,
and serious difficulties would undonbtedly
arise with regard to the affidavit whichi it it
proposed to insist uponi.
I also inclose two copie-. of letteirs, oae addressed to myself and one to the Minister of
Tide ani Commerce. frorn the genieral amanager of the Bank, of Toronto, -nd shall be
glad if you w~ill takze up the mitter withl the
of
Monitreal bankers, more particnlarlY,
cours.e, u-ithi tho-e doing grain businiess iii the

The

Yours trul y,
GEO. B3U1lN-,
General. Manager.
ieon he cite., thie proposed aniendîniient
of Holn. Mr. Davis f0 cîapter 82. section P)0.
Mr. Couîson, l respon-.e te '.\r. Burn's
letter, w-vrites froin Toronto he follvving
letter addressed te '.\r. Georgo. Burna
Toronto, May 26, 1908.
George Bux-m, E-q.,
the Banlk of Ottawa, OtGeileral Manager
tawa.
Dear Sir,-We are obliged to you for the
letter froi the Acting Depuitv Minister of
Tl'ade and Commerce, wîhich von fo-w-arded Io
mie, also for the preposed section 60 of thMe\aitoba Grain Act.
1 have had copies ma~de of both of theze
and s-ent themn to the general iianiagers, ini
Toronto who have office., in Winnipeg, anld
liave reqiîested theni to enimunicate their
It
view-s te ron as pmomptly as possible.
seeied difficuit ta arrange for a meeting.
makze
'My ouýmî impression is that; it u-ould
it practicalîr imlpos;sible foi- banks to continue
to advance upon the secnritr of interior elevator grain receipts. The necessitv of getting
anl affidavit under oath witli the statemnent of
the grain wonld make sucli conr.plicated miachiaery as te muake it uîîworkable, and the
fact that any person claiming the a-rain would
have a valid titie as against us wonld make it
impossible for uis to deal with such receipts.
We have telezraphed Winnipeg asking theni
to jget the Grain Exchange there to take action, and we trust the representations made
through yourself and by the grain men interested may prevemît the enactinent of this
We assume that you
proposed legisîction.
)lave comrnunicated with the Montreal e;embers nlso, and that they will 1,6 ready to take
action.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.> D. COULSON,
General Manager.

SEINA

1086

TE

!tors of the bank for their opinion, and the
P.S.-We inclose a letter which we have c
and Comn- s olicitors addressed the following letter, on
written to the Minister of Trade
merce that I willi be glad if you wiil have
Lie 29th of May, to the general manager et
presented to hi m. More might be said, but t~ B3ank of Hamilton:
lie
this, at ail events, indicates one of our ob- t
.Hamilton, Caad~a, May 29, 1908.
jections.
The following letter '«as sent te theT 'he Generai 'Manager, Bank of Hamilton, city.
Dear Sir,-We have read over the letter of
hon. the Minister of Trade and Commerce.
of the Bank of Toronto
t lie general managerand of the Acting Deputy
under date of May 2G:
f the 26th instant
tinister of Trade and Commerce of the 22nd
Toronto, May 26, 1908.
listant, as well as the proposed new subsecThe Honourable,
the Manitoba Grain
The Minister of Trade and Commerce, Ot- t ion 4, to section 60, of
tawa.
Section 60 of the Manitoba Grain Act proManitoba Grain Act.
fornialities with
Dear Sir,-We desire to call your attention , -ide-s by ýsubsection 1 certaia
receipts for
to wbat will bie the effect if clause No. 4, sec- r 'egard to the issue of warehouse
'rali received. and by subsection 2 further
tion 60, of 'this Aot is made an enactruent.
shall be ism
We confidentlY behieve that thie effect would )rovisionis rade that no receipt been actube to make it impossible for the owiîers of sued except for grain which has shall be isinterior elevators to obtain advances from the ally doiivered, and that no rcceipt
grain than iras
banks upon any grain stored in these eleva-s ~ued for a greater quaîitity ofsubsection 3 no
tors, and that, ini coilsequence, the business actuallv receeî'ed, and by permit3ted except
of moviiug the krraiiî in the western provinces moiidfic ation of liabiiity is colicerneod consent
iii '&o fari. a il parties
wonld ho greatly ham'pered. Transactions in
Thle propo-ed amiendainit is the
whiclî banks are asied to make advances uponl tiheretto.'
' occurrence in the quIiiîig of the fourth ,ubsection.
these receipts are of dail
Wet thiink the propo-.ed -aiiieîîdiiient is very
case of encb elevator, and if it is te be necesfroni the Estanidpoiiit of the
sary tlîat the owvier of thîs public warehouse )bjectionabie
secshahl niake an affidavit anid subruit a state- baliks. Lt lias alreadv been provided byagree
mient of ail the grain that is contained in bis hioi Gl that a person storing graini ua3'
warehouse, we thiuk tlîat the operation of %vith the operator of a country elevator for
that would he se cuîiublersome as to be prac- the storage of bis grain in a sI)ecil biin or
ticalîr uîîworkzable, alid the banks wonld bilis and for a guarâlitee of the weighîts, inuîever feel theîiiselves safe iii înaking advances 5 iiraiice anid preserve.tieii of the identity of
if tlier were te be coiîtiîiually cailed uapon te the grail. Lxcept iii the case of large quanlook up these affidavits and to compare the tities, tis provisioni îîiay be of littie use and
quanitities specified under the different bead- it ks a.ppar-eiitly iiitended by the propo'.ed
inigs.
amîendineîît te give the personi storing grain
Se far as this baiik is concerned, ie prefer priority over ail other clijîants.
altogetlier to decline business of this nîature,
The proposed subsection, you wiii noticeý
if thin proposed legislatioii is made an enact- applies only te pblic country elevators, the
ment.
saille being deýfinepd bv sec'tioiî 45, to include
I have the hionotir to be, sir,
ail elev«tors aîîd warehouses in which grain
Your obedieîît servant,
is received, stored, 6hipped or lîandled en(L
any
(Sgd.) D. COULSON,
whiclî are situated on the right of -Way Of conGeneral Manager.
raîlroad or of aily sîdiîîg or spur track lauîdor any
-Nowv, I may say witb respect to this mat- xîected tlserewith, depot erounds
raiiway company
to acquîred or reserved by any
ter, that '%r. Coulsen m-as'good enoughl
to ho used in coniîectioii with its line of rail'«rite te the genieral manager of the Bank
wav at any station or siding other than at
are eleThe manager of the Balc termninal points.' Terminal eJ.evators by the
of Hamiltonu.
vators 'ilocated at anyv point deciared
this letter te the soli- Minister of Trade nnd Commerce to be a
of Hamiltoni referrcd
The letter frou 31,% terminai and doing businiess for compensation
citors of the bankl.
grain is stored in bulk, or the grain
Couison te the getueral manager of the Bankz iii wliich
of different owners is inixed together, or in
of Hiniiltoi is ais follows:
ivhicli grain is stored in such a inanner that
the *identity of tlîe different lots or parceis
The Bank of Toronto, Head Office,
caniiot be aecurately preserved.'
Toronto, Canada, May 26, .1908.
The most objectionable feature of the proGeneral Manager,
posed amendmleiit is ini its latter part, which
Hamilton, Hamilton.
Bank of
sale, assigoment, pledge,
Dear Sir,-The inclosed letter bas been re- provides that ' no
or charge in any
ceived froru the general maîiagerof the Bank niortgage, livpothecation be valid as against
of Ottawa. Will yen be good enoughi to con-- inianner whatsoever shall grain.' Cases fremunlicate your views to hjir as early as pos- third parties claiminit snch aware, where a
quently arise, as you aie
sible'
nuinher of prisowni grain which ie interYours truly,
of law frequently arise
mîxed, and qetos
D. COULSON,
with regard thereto. In muvst cases the seveGenerai Manager.
ral owners are held to be tenants in common
Iieosure.
and if any shortage is found when
of the Bankz of the mass
Actinig on this, the manager
division comes to, be muade, the ioss is borne
The principles applicable to sncb
of Hamilton referred the letter te the soli- equally.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON.

JUNE 10, 1908
cases are discussed in Lawrie v. Rathbun, 30,
U. C. Q. B., page 255. Under the proposed
subsection if the operator gave security at a
time when hie had say, 10,000 bushels of hie
own in the warehouse end afterwards taok in
50,000 bushels, intermixing the saine with the
original 10,000, and then again wrongfully
disposed of the 10,000 bushels the security
would bie valueless and the claimants for the
subsequent 50,000 would, provided they came
wî.thin the new subseotion 4, bie entitled ta
priority and therefore the halder of the original security would get nothing. It is just such
a case as this which it seems to us the proposed emendment is intended te caver. We
think it should be submitted to the department that euch a provision is flot a fair one
and not calculated to serve the interests of
the farmers for whose benefit the measure has
apparently been introduced. The elevators
are of grea-t benefit to the farmers, but without banlcing facilities the saine cannot 'be
opera.ted. and if bank securities are to be impaired in this way there will be fewer elevators. These are, however, of course, business
reasons.
The clause as a whole is objectionable as an
attemipt to change riglits whiclî have been gaverned for ceuturies by principles which have
beein considered satisfactory.
We returit the above pipers ta you here'with.
Yours truly,
LEES, HOBSON & STEPHENS.
Tlhez,: objections, c-oining as tbe(-y do froxu
reoffle %vhlo are more ilntereste&l, perips, iii
the finaucial aspect of the question than
the grain elevator mien tlxerselves, shoulû
decide the coinmnittee te pause before accepting an aiendinent se drastic iu its
nature and wbieb, in aniy event, if it biecame part of this Bill, w-ould practicaliy
destroy the good feeling that exists betwveen the menî who liandie the grain and
the banks.
My boa. friend -lias not been
fair, because lie promised. distinctly not to
press tbîs amendiiient.
Hon. 'Mr. DAVIS-That is the second
tuiie My bion. friend lias miade the'statenment that I promised ta witbdraw thuî-x
amndment.
1 said 1 did not care whietber

1 goet this or the other amnident; but I
never promised ta witbdraw It.
Hon. M'Nr.
GIBSON-I accel)t tbe hou. gentlenîs
explanatian; but it w-as not my

understauding alone. because the hion. Minister of Trade and Commierce is under the
saine misconception, and thouglit that the
lion. gentleman liad'promised ta witbdraw

1087

are Vbree members of the House -wbo take
some interest la the Bill who w-ere led at
ail events ta believe that My hion. friend
intended ta witbdraw bis prapased subsection, and I asIc the cammittee, ln view
of wvbat bas been done and lu view of the

fact that the bankers understaod. tbat tbe
amendment w-auid bie witlidrawn, ta refuse

ta give their assent ta the proposed eubsection. Had it net been for that understanding, we wauld hav-e mare objections
frani the banîîers.
lu a matter of tbis
kiîid, w-here an bon, gentleman proposes onie
tbing to-day and finaliy inisleads--I do nat
say intcntiaîially-tîase interested In the
inatter, to the extent that we -have nîo ane
bore representing the bankers, I tbîak the

lion. gentleman s]îould flot ress bis motion.
I hope lie wlT sec tbe wisdoin of complying
witlî tbe bankils' contention and mare particularly as lie ]xad led me ta believe-to
sucbi an exteîit at aIl eveats that I assured
'-%r. Burii anid mir own generail manager,
tbat lie did net iîîteiîd te press bis arnendment, and coinseqtuentl- w-e bave bad no

rin-tie

comimunication

froim

axîy of the

batiks.
I tecl satisfieil tbat had it not
been for tlîiq miisundferstandiag, thbe .Bank
of M,%ontreai., tlîe Bank of Toronto, and other
banks doing- a large business iii Winnipeg
would aIl1 olîject ta tliis clause.
I cannot

sî)eak for tbe lion. gentiemaî in charge of
the Bill, but I assured aur people in the
w-est and Mr. Bural bore in Ottawa tbat

our good friend did not intend ta press the
.mationî, and I tberefore ask, tbe committee
ixat ta accept the amenaient.
Hou. -Mr. BEIQUE-I dislike takiug part
ini tbe discussion on this Bill, because I arn
nlot faînilir ivitii the provisions or object
of the ineasure: but as far as tbis aînendment is cancerned, I desire ta caîl the
attention of tleclion. mnenîber w-lia bas
moved it ta tbe fact that it is already provided for iii tlîe criminal law.
Hon. Mfr. DAVIS-If
w-biat niy bion;
friend says is true, and tbe crimuîîai lnw
eavers the w-bale questioni, w-by should the
banks spend thieir tume la w-riting unnecessary letters?

the amenduient.
-Now w-e iearu that lie
Han. Mr. BEIQUE-The
does not intend ta withdraw It. , Then amendment w-ould lie this :
the bon, gentleman from Toronto (Hlon. Mr. substituting for punlshment
Campbell) aise understood it as I did. Here ment, a punishment by a

effect of the
It wauld be
by Imprisonmere fine *of

SENATE
1088
mny liasture, only two bundred of them bete
longing to inyself, and 1 w'ere to go
a bauk and raise inoney on the representatient that 1 Lad four lîundred head wlieîî
myI had only two lîundred belonging to
a criminal offence. Why
self, it would be
?
sbould the bauks object to, thîs iftidavit
argument is that it
''ihe Loni. gentlemnan's
migbt produce -complications, that grain
gets mnixed, &c. ; but I want to drawÇ attentien to this fact :you mighit put so many
an
tlîousands of bushiels of w heat into
out ant individuals
elevator and liot draw
quantity
etin
u fyuptl
gri
of a certain grade of -%vlleat, yen are going
If
te driaw that annuit of that grade out.
ltîud.
banit andi hyis-the elevater man goes te the
Hoii Mr DAIS-Tereiiiit b a mSpothecates a certain amiount of grain.ý stahou Mi. DVISIlireius be.î
h Las
~ ~ a Lewoi se niuch of No. 1 North_~
SU.ho.gte-* ~
~
undeustanding ~
clauszes that crii. s0 mueli of No. 1I lard, aidii so muciili
menOlt anîd iiysel[ about tiiese
lie gives a stateiieit
1 prol)o.ý to add to the Bill. My under- of No. '2 Nortîjeru,
cefl us fliat a certain ainouflt of tliat Nvlie:tt lie
stanidiiig of wlhat: teoit plaee betw
ctiinieltt
olincfan
er
is fuis: we discîtsst:4 the iiiattcr. an
i
Ir
e
leti
Ifl-nî
f cery great otes
o
1
s'aid 1I11111 lot cennsider ti
wn-Nit is No Nertied lie
tI
hif
n th
my
that
sNo2Nrheile
implortaince, just on the grolitit
ht;ii
bliat 1 thouglit
te tell
lion. fricd bas mentionied,
lno-wýs that, and lb is easy for lijîn
y te
it %as oveed Crmilal ode; bt
sliouît tîicy oîîject te Ilus
Wliy
thl.
i 1cvce
w ~~~i
~
leCrmnl ~ ~ oebu
It~ ~ y ~
tencion:ldat
'2liea
tliat 1 dlid attacli a great deaI of impor- tnkn the bsaien
onent liit
I iutend te piukîii
at
tance te thc otiier amiendinctit
n Ittra iule
aebau
the first pmand ioc trise
ineve..and I did net care about
alen gan tiiavi
ris hsa
l bis lvto
far as sarprovidel 1 got the secondf. So
lion aifienit
owsalb. Myk
nd is hoathlie
did net inteu(1 to press lb ai
ing Iluat I
11klg
tttebtisbec10h
bave it ou the records of tîte House, tue a
I dIoîîot set'
iinlerstoodl ne. Wlth iffidav it Ihînt ho owas it.
lion. reeiiian
lol
lcl)ns
tliat C.nafc
itiS.raS, e
refereiiee te bhe argument of the banks, îîom
it woul
cta
n le
lion. senator froiu taff
pîut forward by the
woada untues
i i
bcoaue
ecite
they were then.o
Beainvil. eue woul tbiiuk that
aOIl ioldr
thîey,
ouiu afii
tscrty
elevator t
il
hyeii
tbe oiîly people interestcd; the M-Ny
tiai
lion. saeeto
te
h
men dliiiîîot put lu au appearauce.
si
swl
ejr
o
Iii
Iliat the batik1 fail
frienîl started eut by saving
y
Nv.v under tlic law. For my part.
te cunty .(10notgo o ilu
et- ai ovr
resosec wlîy tlîe batiks object 1(e tItis
apial s
on iizii*s n Ls mralchaactr.te
1 ain
Howcver, as 1 said. before.
cliarac- lutioti.
If a tuait w ee te peddle bis moral
by th1e Culminai
a bank, lie pretty certaini it is covcrcd
Lad
ber areund te get a loan front
:thbb only difference is, if yen
Nvould get Code
Nwotld hive a long tinie before lie
it iilit bave the.
iii the Grabit Act
Hc N-oiil want somnethilur it
the niotey.
of deterîing eperators frein liypochractr.cffcct
morethanhismora
property bliat is net tlîeir owu.
tliu lu
moi' morl claraCer.tlieeatiug
is thc argumenit 1Iuat under
GIBSON-Is tîtere any tliere ? Tlicu, tliere
Hou. M-%I.
get off witli a
much as tlîis clause a man wonld
Hon. Mr. DAVlS-Yes, just as
If thiere
of iînprisonnicuit.
Wliat is thie obijection te fille instead
anywliere' cisc.
strong objection te lb, I have noe
a
Doe bue banks want people is such
this Clause?
bhc parties -%ho bave raîsed the
as security soînething that doubt
te hypothiecate
laid tlieir
1 Lad objection te this section have
dees net belong te thein ? Suppose
before the nîltuister lu charge of the
lit' views
three or four hundred head of cattie
Mr. BEIQUE.
Hon.

1,000. The owner of an elevtitor could
re*ery well afford to issue a warellouse
4:
,eipt to the value of ten or twenty thouand dollars aud expose blînseif to a fine
atf $1.000. I call the lion. gentleman's
4:
of the ameudmelit,
ention to that feature
iblîwould be very misebieývous. As 1
sav. it is already covered by the Criminiti
seCode, and the penalty is luch more
vere than it would be under tlîe clause.
by
For the other reasons also --neniloned
tHe lion. senator front Beainsvilie (Hiou.
Mr. Gilisofli the parties sliotild be left to
tepeation of the continon law and the
Criminial Act relating te niatters of tUs

JUNE 10, 1908

1089

JUNE 10, 1908

1089

Bill. At the beginning of the discussion
on this Bill I suggested tliat we sbould
subînit the w'liole thing to a comrnittee,
so that those people who are lnterested
could be heard on the amendulnts.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-WIll the bon. gentleman explala how lie could work the proposed arnendinent la connectioil Nlth clause
22 of the Bill before us ?
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Wliere does rny lion.
friend find tbat?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I would explain wliat
1 mna, and it wlll lielp the lion, gentleman.
In section 22, it 12 provided that
a fariner, or any person an excliange a
cash purelhase grain ticket for a storage
ticket, and flierefore you change a contract
tliat lias beenl eutèed into, and an agent
miglit iii good faifl i ake a statement of
purcliase of grain, and find out tliat the
faîrner liad variccl if by iaking it stored
grafin, and the agent would net know wbere
lie was at.
Heu. MuNl.
DAVIS-lt cornes back to tbis:
the buyer is tinanciung on wiad, and if lic
12 no0 good, flic seller of the grain bas tlic
riglit to go back and*taile bis proiîcrty under this proposcd aiendinent. The party
buying tue grain could have tli
ionier iii the
towli mlicre the seller could get if l a
few bours and under. such circuistances
lie xvould net go back for a storagetieket.
He lias twenty-four hours to do if under
the Act.
Hon. 31r. PELILEY-I own an ce vator
and I amn dceply intcrcstcd la this .mendient. I have read if over carefully again
and again. f0 sec liow It would affect me.
or if under it 1 iniglit be Ilable f0 be put
into tlic peinitentiary or to pay a beavy
finle. and I bave concluded fliat if I arn
an bonest man I w-ould lie ail riglif.
1
will renad the first elause of the aniendnient
proposed by the lion, gentleman.
It is as
follows
23d. The following subsection is added to
section 60:
4. No persoli, firin or corporation, operating
a public countfry elevator or warehouse shall
seli, assiga, mortgage, pledge, hypothecate or
charge in any manner whatsoever any gr .ain
stored in such elevafor ei.ther in general storage or special bia, which grain is not the sole
and absolute propertv of such operator.

Surcly aobody could flnd an objection te
thàt clause. The next part of the arnendnient proposcd iy fhli on. gentleman reads:
fia the event of auîy eperafor s0 selliag, assigniag, mnortgaging, hypothecatiag, pledgiag
or charging as aforesaid any sucli grain, then,
upon conviction, the license for sucb elevator
or w.arehouse shahl îmmediately become forfeited and void, and such operator shahl on
conviction be hiable to a penalty of not Iess
than five hundred dollars and net more than
ene thousand dollars for each offeace, in addition te the forfeiture of said licease.
If 1, ns an olierator, seil rny neiglibours
grain, and get înoncy on if, Nvliy shiah I
not lie flned or put iii jail ? That is perfectly riglît.
This is a pirotection to tlie
ow'ncr of thec grain in rny clevator. If I
bave taken graini into rny elevator, I have
ne riglit te liypotliecate or seli that grain.
I tbink. if is a meost outrageons tliing for
tlic bankers to talk as fbey bave donc.
Tbe last'portion of tlie ainendmeat rends as
follows
And ne sale, azzigninent, plcdge, mort gage,
hypothecation or charge ia any inaniier wlîatsoever shahl be valid as against third parties
lawfully clain;iîîg sucli gr-ain; and further at
the niaking of anY assignarnent, pledge, m6rtgage, hypothecation or ocharge, the operator
shall make affidavit declaring thaf the grain
se ple(lged is the a1'-olute property of thie saîd
operator, and shi' iig the ainount of grain iii
said elevator, tue amnount iii store for other
parties, and the ainount belonging absolutcly
te such operator.
We arc going w. say tfint aî mniî having
tput bis grain inii ny elevator, I shahl net
bave flic power te seli or pledge if. Surely
that is riglif. I canuoôt sec allythiag wroag
The
la the paragraplis that I bave rend.
lianks need net advaaicc money to any
eperater ualess iliey know m-bat tliey are~
doing. I do net sec any objection te fhls
aindilnent. I ý.arefully rend it over te
sec liow if affccted nie as an elevator man
and I cannet undersfand bow~ it will l
amîy way interfere wii hei man wbio wants
te act bioncstly. It will pretect flic man
wbo puts is grain iii ry elevator, n-ith«Lit
bis baving te go.te the courts.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTNo doulit vcry oftcn cross-equifics arise
ia tbcse matters. and you bave te regard thie
general system of the trade and the conditions uÙder whicb if is carrled on. Ail
these matters wcre discussed for four wblole
days by the representatives of ail flic var-

1000

1090
SENATE

man, mnay lead te considerable litigation
and xvill, I think in aIl cases, result la
preventing mnauy of them deing business
Hon. Mr. PEItLEY-I was liot.
lu the Nerthwest. I do flot want te pronounce an authoritative opinion on tuis
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTquestion, because I eau. see f Iat there may
But mny colleagues and myseif who considered this matter lad before us the bank- lie gross frauds in the matter, but I think
ers, the grain grewers, the representatives on1 the wluole we weuld best consult the laof the grain buyers and the representatives terests of tue grain grower cf tIle North-_
They did -west, wbo is the partr we chiefly desire
of ail the interests concerned.
for this clause at ail. After the te l)roteet, hy allowiug this Act as it was
îlot as
Bill had been ngreed to substantially by al originalîr proposed te go, .after, as I have
these parties, tCils amendmnent is tbrown saîd, ail the parties coîucerîîed have beeni
There may be ground for fully lîeard for many days in the preat our lîeads.
It, or there inay neot ;'but I must decline sence of a unînliier of gentlemen like my
I lionî. friend. frem K.illarney and the lion.
To accept it uimier the circumnstances.
and lion.
will îlot lie responsible for introducing or gentlemuan ou tbe other sie of himi
memibers of the lower Heuse. This disof tbli8
coilsentjng to the introduction
;when this aieaclause, and I mury add this :Hoi,. gentle- cussion will do fuis good
sure, Nyhich I desire te, send forward sulimenî are very apt, manyii3 of tlîem, iu thîeir
stantialir as it is agreed f0 by ail the parzeal to prevent aur possible 4ujury te one
if will lie
or tNvo meni, to interfere witli the condi- ties, goes to tlîe lower Heuse,
fîlen pos~sile for ail plarties coneerned te
tions of the vlîole trade, and, in nly
upi
i do not want te aecept this
ilion, the grain growers of the Northmwest be beard.
friend aîîiendinent. more liarticularly because tbere
Nvould have nio protection, if iny lion.
,ot his clause througlh, and if it resulted is ne doulit tlîat it bas been sprung on the
ns it ver likeir would result iii a grave Flouse anîd lias licou sprung on the banks
interference w'lth, or at least a refusai on wlio are eue parfr concerned In this matthat a sulithec part of a great manr bauks which are ter, after they bad supposed
business there, te enter into stantial agreement bad been arrived at
niow doiîîg
if air
conîpetition for the purchase of thec grain. witlî ail tlîe otlher parties. Therefore,
lion. friend dees not wltlidruw bis amendI tîink lion, gentlemen of the legal perask the coimittee te divide:
sualsion iu the Ilouse will igree with me aient, I must
on thc question whetbcr it siiah be nefliat this clause, inniocent ns it appears te
soine of myv lion. frîends, mirlit lead te a cepted or net.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Se far as I amn congreat deal of litigution, and a refusai on
cerned, 1 mwas neot consulted. and knew
of the banks te
the part of a great ua
(Io business, as they are now doing it, îîotlîing about ItL
xvbich w-ould lie entirely to the lnjury of
It is perfectîr open to every 1 may say liait tue danîger tlîat is iîppretlîe farmer.
farier in the Nortbwest to hold bis grain lieîîdedJi fullY mlet both by tic coînînlon
and1 keep) it. 1 w'eon't say to aIl eternity, lIîw wjij(iî woiild piunnislu aîîy buyer %viiodisbut certainly until the next senson, un- îîosed of grainl tlî:t lie did liot owîî, and
Ir lie chooses iliso by tile provisioni 0f sectioni 23 Nwic
less lie is paid lus meney.
to place lt in the bauds of an elevator man, declares tluat it is ail effence agatinSt tlîiS
lie dees SO of luis own free wilI. Re trusts Act were ail elevaior mîari te seil or disliiii. and mlust take the consequences, lu pose of a till ef ladiuig withlit tue censent
certain cases. of trusting bim. Thuis aînend- of tue ownier of tue grain, and that flicbli
mient wbich imposes on 'the bnulk the neces- of ladiL slall lie ma~de out lu ail cases l11
sity of tracing aIl these things, and of tue naine of tbe owiler of the grain shipped.
takiîîg affidaqvits and înaking provision that I (Ie uot tliîk tuiere is aur real danger tîlat
a. certain portion of flue grain wbicli is tIxe mliseblief fhIat is flueuglît possible inigluit
pledged to them and paid for with tîmeir bie. iuicted ou seule of fie parties, wvilI
mloney is the property of the elevator arise. At aur rate, if auy elevater nian
joous initerests concerned ;wbether mny hou.
f riend was present or flot, I do flot know.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

JUNE 10, 1908

did part ivith grain lie did lot properly
own lie is liable to crimnia action anid
more sei'ere pufiinieînet tlînn iîy lion.
friend proposes to inflhct.
Hon. 'Mr. PEflLEY-I was siot consulted.
in nny respect wlîatever.
Thse first I sawi
of this resolution wvas when1I observed it
on thse order paper, wliea tIe bion. gentlemanî gave notice of it, and at thse earliest
opportîinity I read ht! and wbien I rend it
1 could niot see that it was against thse
intereats of any lîonc.st operator.
If I dîd
my business tlîrouglî iny elevator honestly
I was beyond the meach of aîîiy hnw and not
guihty of anny offemîce.
Timat is ail I have
ta say about It.1
Ido iiot care a snap
about it as far fis 1 ain comicerned, nnd I
presuine tlîat no otiier hsaîîest mîan operating
an elevator ahuotlil care.
1I(do liot sce any~
baril) hn it.
Hou. N.im. ItAVIS-I do îlot Nvait to iunove
any .11melidniueîst or îsre'~s îutiig
lic
wvill iii.jume the tm;îde iii the -%est.
If the
bankers caine oit iat-foot anid say 1You
1mn1st da;nc(e to (011riiiI:
or voil wvll îlot
danue at :111: yoii iiiiud dIo youîr businiess iii
a certain %va or von caiiiiot get ansl sisaiiey'
y
I wilI certain].% have to witlidma
tereo
Intiaui.
Theme %vas a case la Brandon.
wlîere the l)aiks camne dowîî andi carted off
tue grain anid maie away withi if. but it
did îîot hîelong ta the mian w-liad ypoah
thecated it. llowever. 1 will iitbdraw amy
motion if the banica chioose ta uise a club
ia tue way of refuimsg loans unhesa business
is doue their way.
Tue amndiiient ivas ivitlidrawii.
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-I gave notice of an
amendneiut ta tlls~Biii.
I have been talking witb a tnuimber of grain nmen and ot-bers
nnd wouhd hIke ta suggest saine furtber
amendiîîents imî comîîectioîî iitu tbis. I propose tluat iny amendint shahl rend as follows:
Section 70 is lieî-eby repeaied and the foilowing substituted therefor:
70. When ordered by tise warehouse commissioner every person operating n publiec ouatry elevator or warehouse under this Act
shahl iimnmediatelv after tIse end of eadh month
in e-hici tihe elevator or warehouse shall hâve
beeîs operated, furniss in writing to the dommisajoîser, a retura or statement showing(a) The ainount of grain on haad la the ele-îator at tIse commencement of such month,
and the total amount of warehouse receipts at

1091

that tirne outstanding in respect of the said
grain.
(b) The total amount of warehouse receipts
issued during such month, the total amount
of warehouse receipts surreudered by the
holders thereof during such month, and the
total amount of warahouse receipts outstanding at the close of such month.
(c) The amiount of grain received and stored in the elevaer or warehouse during sucli
month.
(d) The amount of grain delivered or shipped f romn the elevator or warehouse during
sudh month.
(e) The amount of grain on hnnd in thse
elevator or warehouse at the expiration of
such month.
2. The foregoing particulars shall, in ench
case, specify thse kind of grain and grade, and
thse amounts of each such kind and grade.
3. Sudh statemient shahl be accompanied by
a deciaration of thse persou operatiîsg such
country elevator or warehouse, verifying the
correctniess of thse statenients according to the
best of lus judgiiieîît aud belief aîsd allegsing
that the statemeuit is correct according to tiie
books kept by him and that sucli books have
been correctly kept to the best of bis judgnient and belief and what books have beeni
kept by hins- duriîîg suc. înonth.
4. Sucb statemeîît and decla ration shall be
open for inspection ini the office of the comnini1ssioner during business isours, by an3y person upon paynient of a fee of fifty cents.
5. Anv person without reasonable justification înaking a fise statenient or declaration
as aforesaid, shaîl, on conviction uponi indictment, bc hiable to n penialty of not less than
fifty dollars, nor more than one thousnnd dollars, and, in default of pa7ment, to imprisonment for not less than one mnoath, nor more
than o11e year. In every case, the onus of
establishing reasonable justification, shial be
upon the person mnking- snch false statement
or decia ration.
6. In the case of a firrn or corporation opeiating n country elevator or warehlouse the
statement and deciaration may bie mnade bY
iny person purporting to hav~e knowledze of
the facts and the declaration shail include an
allegation that hie has knowledge of the facts
and shall state the source of bis knowiedge.
7. Any person required bv this section to
furnish sudh statement or declaration and
faiiing to do so urithin three days after receipt
of written notice to him floin tihe commissioner, shaîl be liable to forfeiture of license.
And tlien after paragrapli 7 1 propose
to add:
Upon written request of any farmer to thse
warehouse commissioner n copy of this statemient shaîl be îu.-aihed to hMi fromn any of tIse
elevators to which hae lias delivered grain.
I thlîik
objections
dôlng tils
well as of
companies.

probably that uvolld niieet any
I arn
which bhave been mnade.
in tbe iuterest of tlue fariniera asý
the bankera and the ginarantee

HIon. 31r. YOUNG-This amendînent ia
la substitution of clause 70 of the oid Bill.

1092

SENATE

1092

SENATE

Hou. Mr. DAVIS-Clause 70 reads:
Any person operating a country elevator or
warehouse under this Act shall at ail times,
Hon. '34. .CAM.\PBELIni reference te when requested by the commissioner, furnish
this amendmient, I tlîink it Is goiug te en- in writing to the commissioner a statement,
upon . thse bianks and formns prescribed and
tail an enormous amouat of work, and 1 furnished by the commissioner, showing as
ýcannot uaderstand. wby it is proposed te f ully as possible all grain reoeived and stored
froim,
What is the object? in or delivered or shipped period thse elevator
Insert it lu the Bill.
required by
or warehouse, during any
The way it is proposed te be amended now, the commissioner, and specifying -the kind,
' when the grain commissioner admits,' grade and amount of ail grain received or
stored, -and of ail grain delivered or *shi.pped
modifies it te a great extent, because 1 do during such period.
neot suppose iu elle case in a lbundred the
Iiu this case
That covers the wholc tbing.
grain commissioner wll admît it; but I arn
they compel the elevator mina te niakie the
at a loss te know wby they want it, as it
returni; but if he is going to be allo-wed
wlll entail a large amaornt ef unnecessary
to traffie ou othier men's grain as hie bas
Unlcss tberc
work on the warehîousemiau.
doue l the past, I do neot sec that there is
is some good reason for adopting the anmendany necessity for it.
meut, I do net sec why we should accept
len. Mr. TALBOT-It is oiily onl the reit.
(ltest of anyv fariner w-ho lias delivered
lion. Mr. TAIASOT-If tiiere arc ne cointe the elev ator.
plaints there wvill lie nie extra %vork for the grainî
ion jîrmides for
li. Mi.I);I-el
bumsiuir tiiere le coinmt if
grain
is saiîiethiiin that.
plinit or suspicion iliat tiiere
goini- wrong. thcîî lie ,vill have a good deal
The coai i t tee iv itle(l on h le aniend1<ef ivorlk enta ile(l upon h Iiii.
mient. 'whli Mwa carrieil on thle following
and it provides fer more thiugs and more
in detail.

connauîis'E IEYlosthe
Iloîi. Mýr.
sionier iot liave to inale ai rctiiril cveer
niontli?

I-Ilook on tlii., as part
lion. 'Mr. I
and parcel of the saine ainîineit tliat I
l)iolose(l, liecailse ir uîîv amenainit welit
have provided tue
tbroiivlî. tIii. w coli
malis tiy w hici thie bankers anîd tliose
wbo 9(lvaiiîeed the îîîoîey. N-oil get a truc
mîai lad ini tue
lathte
statenilnt of
elevater; blut if niy amnendaiient is dropped,
1 do net se thîe selse lu having tbe ce"'nilttce accept tlîls elle.

division:
Yes13: Nays. S.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I
a îneiidilielt.:

beg te

meive

ani

Thit the follow'iîig subscectioit he affied te
section GS, as subsection <e):
<e) Upon receipt of cadic coir.plainit the coiniissionier shall iiotif v thse owner of the counitrv eleNvaitor or i-arehiouse aiid furnisis huan
wîth a copY of the coinplaint, and the date
anîd p)lace of holding the investigation.

This ainendinenit is siînfly te give the
elevator owlicr niotice wviieil aul ilive'stigiltion le atbout te take plave iii aîny building.
Lt le only riglît that the l)irty owNviiig the
CARTWRIGIITHon. Sir RI('II)
ified anid have ai' opsay te iny lien. friend, tlîat there is a buildinig slial be net
I uîîay
portiiîiity te be preseuît 'at the iîîvestigalathte bon. gcîîtlegood deal ef for-ce iii
man frein Yorkhclas sai(]. that this wvill la- tioli.
are yon
volve a considerable ainouiît of work, and I
DAI-h.tJause
Hon. '.\I.
would bave beeîî dispesed te refuse, uîîless arniend iig?
it was donc at thle express inîstanîce of tbe
Hon. 'Mr. YOUNG--3S.
Thc commissioller, under
commissioner.
Hon. Sir RICHARDn CARTWRIGHTthe exlstiuîg iaw, could, I tlîiak, admit almost anytlîing tlîat is set forth here. What There is ne objection to tlîat, as far as I
is donc is siîîîply te expand and put in de- amn coacerued.
tail wbat is placed hli a few lunes in clause
The amenaient was adopted.
Lt is for the lieouse te say whetbcr
70.
Hou. Mr. DAVIS-I would licze to draw
I have ne obthey will acccpt it or net.
but I do net think It is of attention te thc clause providing for the
jections te 1h,
I amn tbrowviag this
stencilling of cars.
any particular value.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG.

JUNE 10, 1908

1093

JUNE 10, 1908

1093

.ortbern and the inspector is afraid ta put
i t int that grade aîthougli it is so close to
;rade that hie miglil very well do it, miat bie
loes flot do il, it is lbrow-n iiit the next
grade, andf by that the farmers -%vill lose
f !roui 4 ta 5 cents a bushel.
Flou. '-%r. YOUNG-Tlîat ks between No.
1anîd No. 2 Norlberii.

When we hiave a
out as a suggestion.
grain biockade in the west w-e bave ai lot
of foreiga cars up in the country, and tbey
Can we force the
are sent down loaded.
railway compaiiies 10 stencil tbose cars, or
provision exeunpting
be a
should there
themn?
Hlou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT'MY
I w'îli malze a note of that malter.
lion. friend wili undersband that in somne
of these cases, w-e require lime 10 coinmunicate and investigate t11e malter, but 'i
suggestioni sucli as lie 'bas now made mai'
bie considered in the allier Hanuse w-len the
Bihl Is being considered lucre.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I beg to move tbat
section 93 ho anîended- by adiing the follow-ing clause:
Any persan shipping one or maore carioads
of grain froin any point west of Winnipeg ta
anv paint east af tlhat cit.v may natifY in writiuîg the railiway company undert-akiag 10
le
transport suri grain, that h wishes themr 10
detain such car or cars for twenty-four hoýurs
at Winnipeg. If oie or inore carloads of such
grain are sold at Winnipeg. by sncb persoa. the
railway companv at lte request of such shipper or his agent. shahl deliver the saine at any
point in the Winnipeg yards of the company
within the said periad of twenty-four hours,
without any additional expense to said shipper, upon his paying at the regular rate for
transportation ta Winnipeg.
2. If iat the request of lhe shipper the car
or cars conlaining sncb grain are detained aI
W.innipeg longer than twveaty-four hours, hie
shall pay ordinary deinurrage, but hîs rights
under lte precediug suibseotion shahl not be
otherwise affected.
3. Il the shipper does flot dispose of the
grain in Winaipeg the company shall transport il 10 the teriLinal point bo which il was
originally sbipped without any charge for
transportation additianal to that originally
agreed upon.
witbi tluk
1 uniglit say lu connectiait
amenuent thal titis is wltat is called esThal is oîîe 0f
tnblîshiing an 01<1er point.
tbe tbings %-hieli the fariers wvould hIle
very mucli la have establislie(l, 911td I ivill
give in short bthe reasois îvby thiey ivant
1 iitiglît explain. iu
o htave il estabhishiet.
the first place. taI ail the grain is sold lu
We hiave No. 1 liard.
the west on g-rades.
and No. 1 'Norîhiern. aIl lte way aioiîg the
Provided a fariner bas raised a
line.
grade of w-leal w-hidi would lie above No.
l bard. lie gels na extra vaine for il liecause il ha ail thrown in as No. È. Il la
If tbe farmer hias grain
graded that way.
that grades wibiuin a bali's brealli of Na. 1

Hloi. 'Mr. DAVIS-Yes. it is between the
Tlîeu again, a farinotber grades as w-cIl.
er inîy have one lbousaind acres of wheat.
Oiîe-lîalf of that lie iniglit get ia just before
at raulu. and the w-lent i- tlîraslied and il
niglit grade No. 1 bard. if there happened 10 lbe a sbaover of rain just before lie
t'liraslied the otîtor hlait h utiglit bo a litIle
bit bleacbied, anti il Noiilql drap dlo-%n to
grade No. 2 Nairîherui. ;illtlîugii the grain
is just as gaod in every w .offiy the bran
ou the oulside tif the hefol is a littho bit
colored w-hiei %vould caîîzt it te bc put
lu M-Niitoapoh)is, ilht differonce hoikown.
tween grain of titis kîud that is sold onr
sold on1
sample and w-bat a mian wldget
grade w-ould bo 10 çcour. perlîaps. l11i lle
United States they have order points eslabTue farier
lished at every diiinlpoint.
siîouid bie allowed to soul bis *whciat
Al
on1 samlple if lie lias au opporluniîr.
the millers of Cainada oulai establisli ag-encies iip there for the purcliase of g-rin.
and tbey COUIl puirbaso ir for- w-laI it is
If we luad an order point, the
Wvorthu.
Minneapolis unillers wvotnl< have agencies
'there 10 bny up ther grain. If a qbipiment
of w-beat is throwvn dow-n 1w-o grades, the
fariner would lose the dlifferenc-o 1îelteen
the price of the tw-o grades., w-berens tb,,
nîller. w-ho knoN-s Iluat w-leat alîhough
sliglitly discolored is just as good as No. 1
would probalîly buy ib at a cent less than
No. 1 wonld soul for. sa thaI tue farmer
wouid niaitze twvo or hrco oIr four Cents a
bushel as the case mav ho. I (Io ual s-e wiy
tiiere should lie an objection to it. Ti.e faimers are in favour of it. 1 have biere the
evidence taken before the Couniîiiitee oui
Trade and Conmmerce. -w-leu ail the interesîs
were represented there. and lion, gentlemen
will find thal Mr. Fow-ior. w-ho waq anc of
the nmen representig te g~rain interests,
was in favour of il.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Did thè farmierq urgu
lt tiiere ?

1094

SENATE

J 094

SENATE

lion. Mr. DAVIS-Yes. if my hon. frienci
wvill rend the staternt made at the tlxne,
lie will flnd that they did. Mr. Greeniy,
wlîo is one of the oldest farmers in Maniitoba, is very strougly iu favour of th is
proposition, and I have yet to fiîîd any
farmer of any standing who is flot in favIt
our of It. It menuis money to thenu.
So
c ertainly caunot hur-t the grain man.
far as mixing is coneerned, there is no
objectin to îubxing grain iu Winnipeg heIf one fariner lias a
fore it is gradcd.
car of w-heat nearly No. 1 Nortberul, but
which tlic inspector wvould grade to No. 9,
atugipracticalir -No. 1, and anlother
farier has a carlead of wheat that goes
above Ne. 1 liard, flie mn
operatiîig
the elevator, by înixiîîg the two, eau niake
it No. 1 Northerîï, and the fariner ilh
get more tMail if lie liad sold if before it
'was mixed.
If it is uiixed before it i,
WVlît we waîît ks
shippeci it is ail riglht.
.tlîat it shall net lie initerferoci with after
It is graded, because we have established
gradies, and ve dIo flot w-tnt to initerfere
with tiien.
I kzno-tw that the railroads will
p)ut np tlie good eld argument that in th(,
fali of year w'e are going te have a shortage of cars, and if we put tbls proposition
through it will diînlnisb our chances of
gctting eut tue grain if tiiere is a goed
crop.
I want te draw attention te this
peint ; if yen bring down a thousand cars
of grain and seli flic wheat at Wl1nnipeg
It is unloaded thiere tind those cars will
be returned for more grain in niuch, less
tîme than if the cars weat tlîrough te th(?
head of Lakze Superior.
Hon. MNr. YOIJNG-Will the wheat stay
lu Winnipeg ?
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-No, I do net suppose
it wll.
'Hon. M-Nr.
YOUNGý-Iw
ried out of Winnipeg ?

w-ould it becar-

Hlon.f 31r. DAVIS-If seld te Unitedi
States millers it would go eut on the Ujnited
states railr-oads, andc that is w-here our railroacis will kzick: but is: the w'hole country te
be bled to assist the Canadian ralroads? If
It is to the interest of the farmers, why
should we look after the iaterests of the
rallronds enly as a.gaiast the iaterests of
the farmers. if we look after tlie farmers,
Hon. Mr. YOUING.

tue railreads wvill look after tlîeinselves.
If the grainî gees out by tic Unitedi States
railr-oads, the farmers w-il] gainî semnetling
by it. Nowv tliat tlie millers it Minneapolis eau griad grain lu bond, tiiere is nothin- te preveut theni coining te M'iinnipeg,
anid purchasing Candian wlîeft. The lion.
g.entlemnan fi-onu Xillarney ls an elevator
mil; I amn a farmer andc raise wlieat.
Hon. 'Mr. YOUNG-Does ii lien. friend.
suggest that 1 (lo not deal honestly wlth
the fariner ?
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I diMI net suggest
tlîat, but I do suggest tilat the lien. geilticînan is leeking at tlîis question frolin
the stindpoiîît of au elevator ilian..and if
lie ceuld get tell carloads of lî:tthiat w-as
Ne. 1 Iaýrd but w-sgiadec Ne. 2 it w-eildt
be iii lis iuiteet te (Ie it.
lion. Mr. YOUNG-TJîîfer-tuiiîîtely',
nuly
lion. frieuci des uet kznow~ %vhxat hoe is talking about.
Hon .Mr. DAVIS M,-.Ny
hion. frieuci frein
Kila.rucy imagines tliat lie is the pessessor
of ail tbe wisdom- w
vest of the great lakes;
but the î>eople living iii tliat part of the
cenntry dicl net tliink se.
Whletbor I an
w-ise or net. tue peopile of iiiy part of tlie
country think, I arn.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I ain qîiestioning theý
lion. geîîtleinailfs 1kneiwledge of the subjeet.
Hoii. M-N. DAVIS-My lion. frienci thinks
lie linow%%s moere about it tbai flie farmers.
As I have saici before, the fariner bas been
som-iag flic grain and the blackbirdsb-ave
been sittiug on the fetuce waiting for the
w-heat to ripen lu erder tlîat tlîey miglît
fatten on it. The grain dealer-s huive made
tue meney.
They ai-e building a $6,000
graini exchlange lu NViîniiipeg anid a lot of
genîtlemnen coniiected, %vitlit hiave made big
profits. If yoîî leok at the position they occupy to-day. you Nvill sec at onîce that protection sheoulci le tbrown areund the fariner. Ail w-e ask is finit the farmer shahl
get an oppertunity to secure tlie highest
price be eau for bis grain.
The freiglit
to Winnipeg is nearly ns mucb as it Is te
the lakes, and if the farmer is willîng te
unloaci bis grain at Winnipeg aed seli it
thcue, wlîy shoulci lie net bie allowed te do
se ? 'If be wvants te send It through to the

JUNE 10, 190S

lakes w'hy not let hlm have bis chice. Butj
I amn told tbat It detaîns grain 24 bours
nt Wianipeg. I sbouid ilke to know If it
does nlot take more tban 24 hours to get
over tie Inspection at Wlniuîpcg ? Tbis
amendment lu ln the Intercat of the farmers, and I know tbcy are anxions to
have it passed. I sbould like to have the
opinion of the minister on thls question.

1095

îîointed to investigate the grievances of the
farmers ia the grain trade of the îvest. 1
nmust say tliat the minister lias shown si
great deal of patience in deffliîîg witli this
question, and with the farmers w'ben tbey
were down bere, and the other interests
conceraed la tbis proposition, and lie certainly bas gone a long way la tue Interests
of the farmers of the west; but if lie lhad
gone a littie further and hbad acceptedl this
have erected a monuresolution tlicy %iýould
They
ment to hlm west of Lake Superior.
are aIl wililng to admit lie lbas done a great
deal, but tis is a matter wbich affects very
rnany people, and I arn certain that this
amendrnent, If adopted, wonld -put a lot of
moaey In tbe pockcts of the fariners.

Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThis whole business was very thoroug.hly
and cxhaustlvcly dlscnssed at the meeting
to 'which I referrcd. No doulit frein one
point of vicw tliere lo a very great 4leal to
lie sald for thie proposition of my hon.
f riend, but as I bave already explaiiied
to hlm, I desîre, la bringlng ibis Bill forHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT,ward, to Introduce at tic present those
points on whilb aIl parties coaccrnied were We are now la tiic seventli nont> of the
agrced, anid I wouid mast cail bis attention session, and it is very desirabie, if we are
to this; on the wbole I tbink 'lic will find to get this Bill t.brougb nt Il, thiat it sbould
that this Bill as I have lntroduced It, go down promptly to the H1ouse o! 4JomIt wouid lie
thongli It does nlot go thc wbolc icngtli the mons and be discussed there.
farmers wouid desire, and aithougli there very easy, If the bon. gentleman's friends
there..
are points that later on rnay be taken desired It, to propose tiîis amendaient
lnup and very posslbly presscd at a There the representatives of the varions
wc have had a littie tereats could be beard again and more fully
later perlod after
experience, this Bill at any rate la a prctty than they could be weli beard by us now.
nlot lie
large step ln thc direction they desire. If If we delay tic Bll too long- it rnay
iltb contentionsa pasacd at aIl.
load the mensure
you
clauses-and this undoubtedly would be a
Hon. Mr. POWER-The minister lias not
contentions clause and would lie opposcd dealt wlth the merits 0f the anîendmcnt,
here and elsewbere-you Imperl nt this and I understand tlînt this aniendaient
stage of the session thc passage of tie would cause considerabie Inconvenieice.
Bill. My hon. friend lias donc good service
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-To the railroads.
by caihing attention to the -points he bas
Hon. Mr. POWER-To soie parties. 1
brouglit up, and by bringing thern to the
Indlrectly to the understood the boa. senator froin Killarney
notice of thia House and
notice of the other Obamber. What I wouid (Hon. Mr. Young) to latimate that the-bon.
say la nmot to press thîs to a division on mover of the resointion shIiowed au jitter
the present occasion, but to let tlie BiIi-pasa waat of knowiedge of the subjeet wlien lie
On its face,
andi if any of the parties wbo are conccrnced Introduced thc amenaient.
introduce thc amendaient elseý the amendaient seenîs to be rensonable, and
cboose to
where tliey can bave it tbreslcd. out and I sbould Ilke to bear the bon. gentleman
to
f uliy discusscd there. I could nlot take oi froin Kiliarney point out the objections
to
myscîf the responsibuhity of accepting thi! thia amendmentla so that I shahl be able
votiiig against it.
aîthougli I do no t justify nîyself
amcndmciit at preseat,
desire to lie undcrstood as expressing an3
Hou. Mr. YOIJNG-I objectcd to certain
deterrnincd opposition to It lipon a futuri extravagant staternta of nîy hon. friend
ocasiofi.
opposite, because I do flot tbilk what lie
1) expects could bie worked out la actuai pracHon. 3Lr. DAVIS-I nui quite wiihing t,
a niatter of fact. If there was
L'
admit thiat the Bill la a long step in thi tice. bigAs
profit that lias been suggested by
ec, this
W
Intereat of the farmers of the wcst.

1096

SENATE

SENATE
1096
my bon. friend through handling grain on from ail over f0 buy grain from sample in
sample, do you suppose the enterprising Minneapolis.
There are large milis in
business men of the West would not before Minneapolis, but we have not those connow have established a place where tbey ditions ln Winnipeg at present, and if the
could have bandled samples.
It is a mat- grain is shipped there and does flot proter that goes wlthout saying. 1 do flot wisli duce any better results-and It wlll flot lu
to take any second place f0 my hbon. frlend ail cases-the advanfage to the farmer will
ln trylng to protect the interests of the be bard to discover.
The grain dealer
farmers, because I fancy I amn as big a will buy It, and If lie mixes It there, It
farmer as blmself and perhaps a littfe must have an effect on the quality If ùe is
larger.
allowed to skim the grades, as It is called,
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-But be says lie bas Mucli as I should Ilke to see ail tbe advantages my bon. friend has thouglit of for the
n0 elevators.
farmer, 1 fear tbat the time bas flot yet
Mlon. Mr. YOUNG-It would be weIl for arrlved to make Winnipeg an order point.
hlm if lie lad. It would be a great assist- i amn afraid the advantages üe deplcts are
ance f0- bim f0 undersfand tlîls grain busi- not avallable yet. I do not ag-ree with my
ness, because there are many complications hon. friend when lie sug-gests that millers
arising, and tbere is no class of business in froin Minneapolis will corne f0 Ninnilpeg
Canada which bas been legislafed so neai' and buy grain from sample.
When tbey
the ground as the grain handling of tlie are flot buylng it to-day, 1 do flot think they
West.
1 say witbout fear of successful wlll do so under the conditions suggested.
contradiction that If the Grain Act and Its Wben my hon. frlend sugg-esfs that the cars
amendments were lmposed upon t~he w-bole be unloaded nt Winnipeg, bie forgets that
of Canada and every grain haudling farmer wbeat bas to be picked flp again and caror business man ln the whole of Canadiq rled forward to Fort William on cars whlch
had f0 conform to thec Act as we have f0 have to be supplled by the rallway com1 arn remlnded that trains comlng
do ln the Northwest, the Acf would not sfay pany.
on the statnte-books more flian one session. from the West to Winnipeg are forwarded
However, I shah flot go info that feafure stralght on to Fort William wlth comparaof if. We are slngled out for exceptional tively no delay, but If they have to pick
treatment ln ftie west, and wc have to put out a car bere and there and cut Up tboqe
Up wlth if. If fliere is one fhing w-e coin- trains and shunt tbe cars. the deliy wll he
plain of more flan another at turnes, if is increased ln getting f0 Fort William. 'My
of car shortage and certainly If this clause hon. f riend must î'emember that this
Is adopfed If will Increase that diticuity amendment would be available to the deaivery maferiahîr, beca-use if you tied up a er as well as to the fariner. and If neither
car 24 or 4S bours ln W%ýinnipe-It can be can have any advanfage by the train being
tied up according to this amendment 24 held over, if means that the train will gef
Jbours and possibly longer for nofbing-you f0 Fort William 24 hours lafer than if if
That would nof ho
.just lessen the usefulness of fIe transporta- had not been sfopped.
tion facilifies f0 w-hafever extent tue cars f0 the advantage of eifher the fariner or
are tied np. What w-ill ho tue resnlf of the dealer.
this f0 flic fariner?
le ships a car of
lion. '.%r. TALiIOT-There would be no
grain f0 Winnilpeg.
W'lio) is going f0 biuy advaintage f0 the fariner provided if
didl
bis wlieaf thîcre on saînpie?
If lus c11. go on «but if if did not go ou land the
grades asraight grade ho lias no advangrain were purcbased nf Winnipeg, if wouid
tage froîzi holding ov-er thaf car, becanse
he an advýant.age f0 the fariner and timo,
the markiet will be as good as the saînipe
and freigbit w-ould be saved by flot bavin?,
value. 1)o more ind no iess.
If lie stops
over there Nvitlî bis samipie, w-ho is there f0 f0 take the train f0 Fort William.
buy if af preseuf?
Hon. MNr. YOUNG-Supposing if w-ore f0
'My lion. friend compares Winnipeg f0 Minneapolis, but ftie go to Fort William, the ca1r M-ould ha-ve f0
conditions and developinents of tlie fw-o be deiayed 24 hous. Even tlîoughi ail
places -ire aitog-ether different.
Peopile go the advanitages picfnred by my lion. friend
Hon. Mr. YOUNG

1097

JUNE 10, 1908
JUNE 10, 1908

1097

Minister of Trade and Commerce that we
should flot do anything to delay the Bill
1
hiere at the late period of the session.
do flot waut to do anytbing wbiclx would
pretent the Bill frorn becoming law this
year. As far as this clause is concerned,
Hiou. Mr. DAVIS-Tlicre arc sonie points
It wiIl bob up serenely next year wben ive
grain iii the îvest on
Ili fhli andliig of
bave plenty of time to discuss it, and when
He
whicb niy lion. friend and I differ.
ail the elevator men lu the west caniiot
siîeaks froin the standpoinf of ftbe elevator
stop tbe farmers froni getting vhîat they
itian. and I fr0111 the stan'ipoint of tb;3
should get-ali tbcey canf secure for their
farîjer.
whea t.
Ilon. Mr. YOUNG-This docs îîot apply
Hon. '.%r. TALBOT-I believe flic pasto tlie farnier oinly ;if applies to the eleSage of tlîls ainendment would lie au advator inan as wcll.
fariner, ani it is up) to the
Meon. Mr. DAVIS-If is opposed liy the vantage to the
Senate to support it if flics can. I regret
tievator mnan.
that the lion, gentleman is wiflidrawing ItL
YOUNG-Mr. Fowler, tlic seclion. «MNr.
an.
oldbe
Hon. 'Mr. PErIILEY-It it
réfary of tue Elevator Association. urged it.
idvautage to the faineirs of Canada, I
IIîn..Mr. DAVIS-I do îlot know w-be- slioinld bc very glad to have it adopted;
tuier heo awns a -String of eountry .cleva tors but I venture to sav Ilînt vou cauinot find
or iiaf. -My lionî. fiid
says bie is a big- one clause iii the fwo Bis that wtt]l iiiget' fariner thaîti I ain. If I were in the crense tic price of~ef
to 'lie fariera
grrain businces as long as xny hon. fricnd fraction of a cent.
bas becli perhlis I ivould be as leig a farThe ainendineut wvas -witlidIrawn.
nier as iniiseit'.
On1 clause 22,
Hlou. 'Mr. YOUNG-No, flic lhou. gentieinon -iouIl be bankrup.
Hon. '.%r. BFElQUE inoved tliat the clause
should arise, ivc should remeinher that
tbe clause is one of those content ions clauses
whvicii it would be wvcll not to press af
preseîit.
There are many reasous to be
urged for and against IL.

hlon. 'Mr. DAV'I-I bave seen elevafor
mîenî -wlo vvere not long in flic business
iii expeîîsive
wearing diamionds. living
bouses andti ravýehliig about In automobiles,
and if is ail takemi ouf o! flic farinîer, ani
w e caîniot exîlect tiiose genîtlemen oiîf favour any prop)ositioni whieli '*~old have flic
Thîis 15
effect of curtailing fhîcir profits.
a good proposition. and is boinîd to coine.
Tlîe hion. genitlemanoi says we have îîof tlîe
advantage tliot tue niiills of Mulineapolis
afford. Tiiose iiills cau griîîd îlot oîilv týe
grain they pinîrliose flicre, but if tbey
could get gratin a little off colour at Wiîîiiipeg at a little less price lier busliel . fbey
witlî
ivoîild couic to Winipeg for if.
regard f0 car shiortage, If ýouicý of flie
graini wvre sentf te) 'Minnieapîolis îîîstead of
to Lakze Superior. if ivould relieve flic
grain blockade. aîîd flînis the stopi at Winîni1pOg ineteail of causing a car siiortage
Tiiere is
von]l have flic oppiosife effecf.
oiily ouie irguiiiilit that lias lîen made
yef wlîicli lias aîiy affect '%vithl nie, aIni
that is flic argumentf advaiiced by flic hon.

be axnended by adding after
holder , the fol loNilg Nvords

the

word

i'rovided sucli deinaîîd be mnade during
fwenty-four hours affea' the issue of the purchase ticket.
He said :Thiis anîcudînenit wvas suggested by thc argument on clause 23. Thet
object of the amiendaient is to prevelit
advantagc beingtr aken by nce over another. and f0 bave ail parties treafcd on et
fair basts. I hopJe tlic righf lion. Minister
fo
of Trade and Coiinrece m-ill ýýee bis w%%ay
accepting fuis amendmnit.
Ilon. Sir RICHIARD CA)RTWH-IGHTI willj Jet fbat pass if the lion. gen tleman
wishies.
The aiendinent wvas agrecd to. andi the
clause, as aicnded, -%vas atlopted.
lon. Mr. DAVIS-i should like f0 draxv
flic attention of flie lion. aniinister f0 clause
29. w-lich adds four subsectioLus f0 section
S8 0f the Acf. Thîis lias reference f0 apThere
pointiug an agent at fiag stations.
is a provision there fliat a refurui înust be

1098

SEINATE

1098

Senator Longheed argued that wages and
made te the cominissiclier, showing that
taxes should be made iaferior to bonds as a
previous year muore tian 50,000 dlaim upon railroad property. However, if
during the
busliels of grain bad beeuî sbipped from th,, the government was willing to assuiL.a respoaflag station or sidinig. While there niight sibility hie had littie more to say.
bave been 200,000 buishels of giain proAnd-on the editorial p)age mny attitude is
duced or shipped within eigbt or ten miles describcd as follows:
of that point the previous year, there miglit
The Conservative leader in the Senate is a
flot bave been a bushiel shipped fromn that true Tory. Last aight ha took the ground
particular siding or flag stat ion, because that wages 6hould be made inferior to bonds
as a dlaimi on railwav property. How cotild
there was no agent tbere and the people a Tory syxapathize with an unpaid workeri?
distant
bad to draw tixeir grain to somle
in vicîr off the streniueus efforts that were
station wbiere ttxere -as an aet
nmade by my hion. friend tixe leader of the
Honi. Sir RIICHIARD CARITWRIGHTFlouse, and bis tîvo associates, the hou.
1 do neot walnt to initroduce any change.- nenxl)ers freux i)e SalaberrN and lie Lall send nautîhêre, te give precedlence te bonds and
now, l)ut if the hon. gentlemni ii)
mie ixe particulars I w-vill cause tixe mlatter miortgages ovet- wages, I certainly foit lt
te be considered by the niniister in chiarge my duty te p)lace axlyseit la a position thalt
otixer branchi. 1 arn ver
of the Bihl ie
wonld describe the attitude whlxi I reailly
I need screyrexuxixd the lIlse
anxious to get this BUi down te the Flouse took.
of Counimons iii tinie to hiave it properly that on four different occaxsions I protestedl
in iost vigorons haxiguage against mortconsidered thore.
priority to
gag-es and bonds l)eiItZgi
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I shahl do that, but r
wages, and I regret very mudiei that the
nxlight draw attention te the fact that the
press. particulxrly a paper rit the standclause Ws it stands nlow is ef no -use to
ing off the Ottawa 'Fr-ee rress ' shoiuhd mnisthe people l the iNorthwm-e.st.
represent tixe position I liave alread.) takzen
I-0n. Sir lICHIt
on that subject.
'D
CARITWRIGHTI have takzen a note of the hon1. genthexnan.'
Hon. M\r. SCOTT-l thoiaght it was very
suggestion, and shahi eau attention to it.
stupid w-hen I saw the I)aragrh)lx. I t gave
Hon. Mr. MclSýýVEENEY, froiu the ýconi- me a good laugh. anla shxowed Ixew hittie
înittee. reported the Bill w-itlh aniendiiients value thiese reports were.
whichi were concurred ixx.
LOUGHEED-I axa bound to
Hon..
The Senate adjournied unitil to-nxeorrow, say thiat it w-as not the fanît of the reat 3 p.ln.
porter of this House, because I took occasion te look at the officiai report and I
find that it w-as net -bis .fault.

THE SENATE.
OTrTAWA,

Tlxursdayý,

June il,

1908.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree
o'clock.
Prayers and rontine ixroceùeding-s.
A1 QUE-STION

OF

PIIIVILEGE.

Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHIEED-Before the orders
of the day are proceeded with, nxay I, as
a question of privihege. direct the attention
of the House to a xisrepresentatien as to
rny p)ositioni upon the Bill to aniend the
Railivay Act. introduced by my hion. friend
The report of the
from De Lanaudiêre,
Ottaiva ' Free Press' ef Julie lOthi, makes
me spealc as folhows:
Hou. Mr. DAVIS.

SUPPLYING

INFORMATION
LIA1M\1E NT.

TO

PAR-

ilin. M_\r. FERGI'SON-Before the orders et the day are called, 1 ilitend te iake
soxuie observations on a subject wvhich t
ha.ve conminnicated te the Speaker, and 1
ilitend te conclude iny renarks by a maotion
The inatter that I desire to
te adjoura.
brinig to the attentionx of the Ilonse is the
extraerdixxary stateinent giveni te us on two
occasions recently t'y the hion. Socretary of
State w-ith regard te the attitude takien
iy tixe cei missioners for the construction
et the Transcontinental Railway regarding
the suphying of information te parliament.
'My lion. friend said:

JUTNE 11, 1908
Witlh reference to the Transcentinental Railwav Commission and other departmnents.
w-here 1 amn able to remonstrate with my colleagues in counicil, it is a different matter;
but the Board of Rtailwvay Corrmrissioners are
a perfectly independent board. and they snapt
their fingers aI mue and eay ' we have 100 mach
important business to attend to to answer
those questions. Those questions are irrelev-I
ant. If I wonld produce the answers I receive thcy would surprise the hon, gentleman,
He does not propose Ihat I shall give ail my
time to ferreting out these details in each departaient.
1 bave no reniarks or criticismn to off or
iwithi regard to îuy bon. friend's stateLIe is doing possibly all bie can
ment.
do, but I -%visli to direct the attention of
the flouse to tue extraordinary attitude
taken by tbe commiiissioners of the N\ational
Transcontinental Itnilway for ail tbe questions referred to wvere rcg-arding Ibeir
operations that thev w-ere an independent
body -and that tbey eau tell this -House:
'Your questions are irreleN-anit and w-e bave
imiid-b more important w-ork 10 do tban anI tirn to
swering irrelevant questions.
anotber observation freinî the sanie source:
Hon. 'Mr. ýSCOTT-AlI I eau say is that I
conld itot gel an answer to ItL One auswer I
received w-as thal the questions ivere argunientalive and contrary to the rules of parlia.
nient. There ivas a preanible te the question.
However, I a netîo going te discuss il.
Wbat rigbit bave tbe servants of the
country. tbe eoilnîissioners for tbe National Transcontinlental Railw-ay, to discuss ýwitbi this House wlhether our questions are relevant, irrelevant, or w4iether
if
Ibey contain an argument or not ?
House, ln ils wisdomn, admilîs tbiese
Ibis
questions nccording 10 its mIles, and ansivers are solicited 10 tbenm. it is tlue duty
of tiese servants of the country to supply
that information: and the attitude taken
by tlie commissioners ou this subject is
one as to whiclî we bave a riglit 10 demand coniplete and full explanation.
This National Transcontinental Railwvay
Board hold their appointîments under dmapter 71l of 1903. Section 9 of that Adt Is
as follows:
The construction of the ezstern division and
the operation thereof until cornpleîed and
leased tb the cornpany pursuant to the provisions of the a"reemeut shall be under the
charge nnd conîrol of three commissioners.
I an under the Impression thuat Ibey
have been made four or five sitice. Th,section continues;

1099

To be appointed byý the Governor in Counil, w.ho shall hold office during pleasure.
My
Shial hold office during pleasure.
lion. friend appeared to concede the preention of those gentlemen that tbey owed
no duty to parliamelit or tg buiiself or
bis colleagues. It continues
Whose successors in office shall be a body
corpora-te under the nanie of the Commissioners of the National Transcontinental Railway,
&c.
I then turu t0 section 2S of the saine
Act wbiclî says.
The commissioners shall furnish to the Minister of Railways and Caniais monthly or more
frequently if required bv the Governor ia
Council accounts of ail receipts, expenditures
and liabilities under tbis Act.
1 cannot conceive that iny bon. friend
bas any riglit to go to the Board of the
Iilwa%'ýy ComnNational Transconltinenltal
at ai for tlîis information wben
missioners
be couild get il frein iibe 'Minister of Railwvays, w-ho is. under the law, required to
obtaiu fromn the commission a full and coinplete retturi of ail thieir expenditures once
If that provision of the law
a înontb.
were complied witb. it woul be an easy
matter for the Minister of ltailways to
snpply the leader of the House with the information we hiave required. I have read
the law nnd the stateinent that wvas niade
to this flouse. wvbiel I subinit is an Infringemieut of the privileges of parlianient.
There arc special eireiiistaicees iii coniiection withi this National Transcontinental
Railway Board of Coiinîiissioners that make
the defiance froin themn t the parliarnent
of Canada soniething that slîould not be
endnred. The chairian of the ýBoard
bas bad a record ln Iis couty. Hie was
premier of Quebec, ant i e was t.usted by
bis owvn colleagues. 1 do îlot say wbetlber
tbey did riglit or w-rong. but it is a not0rious fnct that bie w-as ousted byv bis own
colleagnues. He %vas president of the QueWVe ail] know the
bèc Bridge Company.
bistory of that bridge and whcere it lies
to-day and know of the etlbty valuable
lives that Nvent dowvn iii that ealamity and
the great Injury doue to the good name of
Canada In connection w-ith tlic corstruction
These
and mnanagemient of tbat bridge.
matters zire uudergoing- an investigation today In another place. 0f course the bridge
bad not coll.ipsed wlbcn the cbaîrmnan was

1100

SFNATE

1100

SENATE

appointed, but lie liad been ousted fronî
the premaiershlp of Quebec. The collapse
of the bridge aud the matters uow coming
out lu conniection w-ith Its finauicial affairs,
make this"gentleman the last cf any officers under fuis governînent who couid afford te treat eithier brandi of parliarnent
Whien I heard xny hon.
with disrespect.
friend's remarks, 1 had a good deal of
zy nipathyý w-ithil ium;i. but I tliink hie is
te blanie for the trouble hie lias exl
ehtainiung inforation. Hie
îîerienced
siouild net bave gotie te tliese inferior
people. Ilis app)lic ation sliould have been
te bis ceileague m-lioni lie nieet every day
If lie lad taken that course,
iii connei].
thec Mijuister of Ratilwvs w-euh have used
lus influence anul cenfrol. ndfer tlic Act.
te get the information dlemanded by this
Ilise. The section ef tue -National Transcontinental Jailway .Acf wvîicli 1 liai-e aliake.s it alligators upeal
îuetel
reauly
this comimission te furnilsh e'eri- montli a
conmplete stafeunent of tlieir receipts. cxpeîiuiturcs andu liahilities', se fliat if theuninistet- is hioldming thllî uri to Ilîcir duty,
lie lias limiler- lis owul biand a ceulplete
incurreil by
statement of expeifditures
timat body, and it is an easy matter te
supply it. se we %vould net liav-e thîls argument adv-anced u1ay- after day in fuis
of flic
te soiue
-%vith regard
Ileuse
asked.
been
lav
h e
îvlilî
questions
Wliaf was one of tliose questions fiat w-as
asUed la fuis lIeuse soine few%days ago?
If w-as painfing eut -ivhere a discrepancy
oeccurred between fleic nswer given by îny
lion. friend the leader of the Ileuse coining professedly froni tlîe Board cf TransayCenîuaiissionerq. an(I
continental Rl
A certain
the Audifor Gencu-alFs Report.
amonti w-as alleged hy fle icaswer giveui te
liou paid. Ail
thc Ileuse. ai> net liaiii
abselute dleflal w-as mnade. anid iny lien.
a sulîsequemit
-iii
tdao
friend fi-oui
notice. stateI flue fact- amni referred te
cceunts te show that
tue Auditor GeeaV
I thlii My
flie aius-ver 'va.s iet -orrect.
lion. frieud ks reallv Ijinîself te Maie ln
observed tue discrethiat iiiatter. Ilziviiu
liaucy. it w-as lus duti- att*oice te demand
fri-ci the cfficcms responsible fer, if, an exAnd this is net altogetiier a
îllanation.
We are liecomiuîg accustomed
new natter.
te g-et informiation lu fuis Hlise tlîat we
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

find is subsequently absolutely contradicted
by fuller information froin ether departments or f rom the Auditor General's account, and, that being so, 1 think my hon.
friend should liave talzen the utmost pains
to lhave explained thls discrepancy, and the
flouse should know why it was that the
Transcontinental Ha 11w-y Commission debaving made any sud> expenditure as
ii
that. w-lien the entrairy w-as dlisclosed in
the Auditor CeiieraFls R eport. The subject
is in a îîut-shell. We have liad tlîcise .aiiswers
plainly ani empliatically given te us by rny
lion. friend. wlîom we kiiow would flot
communicate any ansver tliat lie received
froml these peopîle that lie tlîeught ivas not
correct. Tliev said: ' We hiave more irni
M'ho are i-ou. tue
portant ivork1 to do.'
Senate of Canada or tlic liuse of 'Coinnlions. tliait you1 sliould cail us. down te
ansîver irrelevant que(stitrns about tiiese
witiî
littie ilnatters of diollairs alid "lnts
They take a
regard te tlîe expenditure ?'
attituide: tlîey turîi
lîiglî ai( p<niie
aroun(1l an(] tell us 'You don not know w-bat
Youir questions are not iii
you are doiîig.
proper forîni. You put arguinentative statemelîts iii youi- questions andl fti matters
1 do not knio\v thiat there
are ir-relevaut.
is any g-eiitleiînan sitting on that board of
comimissioners, exicept îny friend. Mr. 1%cIsaac, of Aintigoinisli. wlie lias hand any experience lu parliamientary inatters, and1i
ain sure if lie were consulted lie wouild have
told bis elleag11ues that fliat w-as Dot the
o-av te answer eltiier brandi cf parliamnent
T have placed
w-len tliey made inquiries.
mv views before flue flouse li the hope that
tluey wîill reach these gentlemen. andl fot
onir these gentlemîen but otli,,r officiais of
the go)vernînienit. Tliere are emincintly uisefnl men iii the service of tlîe government 0f
I arnl Det geiiuc te say euie woî-d
('anada.
We
l dispai-agemient of civil servants.
may have soilne Whîo ai-e net dloinag theliduntv in the fll qense cf the word - but, on
the ivhole. w-c have ain excellent civil serv!ie. anii ut is our dutv te sustain thczîu
wlienl theY are doiaur xliat is righit, but
they miusf net lie allowed to believe that
thiey are superior te tlie parliarnent of
flue countr v and can dictate te ns that
we do net kznow 10w te conclu our inquiries,
or thalt thev are iru-elevant, or that they
have more important w-or te dIo.

JUNE 11, 1908

'lu'

-Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have no criticismn to great indifference both by one governmnit
offer on the main observations of the bin. nnd the other as to, furnishing information
gentleman, except to state that perbaps I to this Chamber; but I do flot hesitate to
bave been a littie too flippant ii the ans- say that fur more Information lias beeli
wers I w-as forced to give under the tauints brouglit down durlng the last 12 years titan
and Irritation w-hich I have been subJected during the tîme I was on the other side of
to by an hou. gentleman. Those observa- the House, and was made the cliannel, very
tions about snapplng their fingers were often, for asking for Information or calling
Under these circunistances, 1
I have liad no com- for paliers.
purely figurative.
munication w-itl any of tliese gentlemen. feel sorry that the flippant observation
It ls flot to lie ex- vriticb bas been made sbould go on record,
I bave not the tume.
pected that I amn to go about f0 the dif- and I hiope the lion, gentleman wlll drop
That w-as purely figuraferent offices and obtaîn Information. That that part of It.
Is done by an officiai in my own depart- tive.
ment, w-ho reports to nme sometimes tat
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It is on the ofithe answ-ers cannot lie got to-day, or lie is cial record, but I arn qulte wiUling to droit It.
I have
put off In soute w-ay or another.
-lion. Mfr. S.'COTT-It w-as said ini a teinno Idea that ny sucli flippant observation
use of as the one I expressed per I do flot 0f ten exhibit, but forced by
bas been made
to titis House, because that w-as uttered the taunts and Irritation I w-as subinitted
under painful and unpleasant irritation, to, I thouglit, very unfairly and very unI endeavour to discliarge îny duty
durlng whicb It w-as impossible to keep-I kixidly.
îvith as nîucb dignity as 1 cati, but there
w-on t ay one*s teniper. but ouie*s normal
1I have sat don-n after liaving- are conditions arising tbat one canuot be
thoughts.
answ-ered franlcly that 1 w-as unable to el.È always in a normal state w-len one ls
the information, and I havc been furtlier îîrobed too closely, as I have been; thereprobed and asked why 1 w-on't give an fore I hope the reporter wvill flot take
Under thagt irritation I bave, no 10w-n the language expresst-d by nîy hou.
answer.
doulit. allow-ed expressions to faîl froni me friend opposite, or niy ow'n expression lut
It sliould not go
that were undignifled ont tIe part of a regard te that niatter.
minister. and liad xîo basis w-hatever, lie- any further, and I sulimit that it ouglit îîot
cause my expression of sniapllg tlicir to go on record.
fingers w-as purely figurative, indicat!ing
lon. Mr. FERGUSON-I arn quite w-ljithat very little attention w-as paid t0 the ing that the expression 'sipi
their fin1 presume that gers' slîould not be used.
request for Information.
is a liberal Interpretation of w-bat occurred,
Hlon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTbut I.bave furtlier to say. tliat 1 -bave now
been 34 years ln tbis Cliamber, 18 years I w-ould lîke to say a word or two oit
of that period on the other aide of ftie titis matter, because it Is one of pretty
1 arn sure ail
House. and If the record of the past w-ere considerable importance.
looked Into, you w-ould flnd tat far more wvll agree witli nie in saying that iny lion.
information and far more insw-ers have friend beside nme bas taken a great deal
been gîIven during the last 12 years tliau of pains on ail occasions to meet the
were ever given during the 18 years dur- wislies of lion. gentlemen on both sides of
ing w-hidi I sit on the other side of the the House, and to obtain ail the inîformation lie could ; but I desire to say expressHouse.
ly and empbatlcally thiat I entlrely agrete
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The lion, gentle- Nvitli the bion. gentlemen opposIte In thinkman w-as nof active enougli.
ing that any oflicer of the goverument of
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-So tîxaf the hon. gexi- Canada who disregards a request to give
tieman must not suppose that thaf Is a information to this Cliamber or to the otlher
falling peculiar to the present officiais of Cîjaînler, etther, deserves very severe cenfie governient. I say taf ny experi- sure, and I w-hi make it my especial busience In the past leads nie to the conclu- ness, in conjunction w-lth nîy lion. friexîd,
sion tliat fliere lias, in tue past, been a very to bring the hon. gentleman's remnarks at

1102

SENATE

1102

SENATE

once to the notice of the governinent, and
to see, as far as it is possible to, do, that
Tt
no disrespect be sbown to this body.
is our perfect right, as a branch of the
legisiature, to recelve information sncb as
is asked for. That I arn perfectly clear
about, and If any officer or any commission
or anybody under the control of parliament refuses to grant sucb Information,
sncb officer sbouid, in my judgment, be
severeiy discipiined. I w-il] take care to
communicate those matters to the council
at the very earllest opportunity.
Hon. 'Mr. GIBSON-Now that my
friend froi lMars.bfield bas been
enougli to ivithdraw the remarks that
nmade in an offhand mîauner by the
Secretary of State-

bon.
kind
w-ero
lion.

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Ob,
no.
Hon. Mr. I"ERGUSON-I hope lion, gentleman will understand nme. My hon. f rieud
ased the word the other day, but only
in a fig-urative sense, and >lthough It is
now lu the 'Debates,' my consent is freeiy
given that It sbouid be revised in that
w-ay, and tbat my reference to tbis expression should not appear lu the 'Debates,'
either .but I withdraw ulothing of my observat ions.
Hon. 'Mr. GIBSON-Tbe accusation my
lion. f riend made l5 of a far more 5P'ioils
character than wlbat tbe bon. Secretary
of State said. I think, it was unfair to
drag lu the namie of the chairmaD of tbe
National Transcontinental Railway Couxmission, and fasten at bis door responsibility for the great caiamity thiat befe«i the
Quebec bridge. If my hou. friend bad
been weh up iu bridge-building he would
neyer attempt to fasten sncb a serious
accusation upon a non-professional gentleman w-ho does not kaow any more about
If
bridge-building than my bon. friend.
lie w-ould w-ait patiently for the report of
the Commission appointed to iuquire into
the inatter, bie w-ould find that Mr. Parent
or au!y othier gentleman connected with the
bridge is as innocent of that accident as
Thle
lie or I or aur other bon. gentleman.
inatter bias been fairly inquired into. Tbe
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

goverument secured, as ail goveruments
ought to, do, tbe very best possible assistancel
lu the construction o! that magnificent piece
of w-ork. Tbey were not satisfied wltb their
own engineers, but tbey went far nfieid
and they obtained an expert, n gentleman
iuaued Cooper, supposed to he the higbest
authority ln matters of superstructure on
tîjis continent, and tbey cailed hlm la as
consulting engineer, I do not know and I
cannot, as a bridg-e-builder, understand
w-by be sbouid ever biave allowved the extension of that span of 280 feet witbout taking extra precautions and enlarging and
strengtheuing tbat portion o! the bridge
lu order thiat It migbt carry the extra
w-eighit. It is known by tbose w-ho take an
interest lu bridge-building that warning
-as given for some days that tbe bridge
w-as lu a bad shape. The proper precautons o! those that w-ere building the
bridge lu the mnatter o! guying and stayiug the bridge biad not been taken. They
found evideuce every day of defect, boits
breakiug and rivets suappinar, and Inforiiiation w-ns sent to headquarters and lustructious w-ere given to stop work. Tbexran three extra cars of!vion for the exand the
tension o! the. superstructure
bridge fell down. I ask in ail fairness, is
it riglit to iay ee 51amie on my bon. friend,
Mr. Purent, ir ayiy otber gentleman tconnected w-ith the bridge for the serlous calamity and tha responsibility for the deathi
of those people ? I arn sure that every
Canadian f eels sorry that this accident did
liappen. If the bridge bad beeu constructed strong enougb to meet tbe extra length,
that Mr. Cooper gave bis --onsent to, 1
thinkl I nam safe lu saying that no sncb
calarnity would have befallen them. But
it was not tbe fauit of the chairman of
the Commission. It w-as miot the fault of'
auy one coanected witb tbe building of the
structure. Lt was not the fault of the peopie w-ho bad the contract. It w-as the
fauit of the gentleman w-bo w-as brougbit
hl as tbe cousulting engineer, and tbe gentleman w-as manly enough, andtbe company
w-as fair enoug-h to admit and assume the
I
w-hole responsibility o! bis action.
hope, therefore, that my hon. friend w-ll
withdraw that part of bis rernark w-itb
regard to the responsibiiity of Mr. Parent.

JUNE 11, 190S

1103

1103
JUNE 11, 190S
hiave been given to the varions questions
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-1
rîse for tbe purpose of taking exception to wblcb bave been put, %vould he led to tbe
the, sball I say stereotyped answer niy hou. conclusion that the conimissioners and unfrlend the Secretary of State gives to every derlings of the department were controlliug
He ai- and ruliing the ministers, and that they
charge wblch Is laid at bis door.
actions of bimself and treated tbem. wltb contempt rather than ln
ways defends tbe
bis colleagues by saying 'If we are wirong the manner ln whlcb employees of the govthe otber fellows on the opposite side of erument sbould treat the ministers.
the House were much worse la that reHon. '.%r. SCOTT-I bave no complaInt
I amn
spect when tbey were ln power.'
to malze of tbe tbree or four years the hon.
uot aware that tbat is a justification for gentleman was on thîs side of the House.
the course he bas pursued on tbe present My statement referred to a time antecedent
occasion, and on many prevlous occasions. to that.
I was 18 years over there, and
Even supposlng the statement of the lion. only one-quarter or oue-fiftbi of tbat time
Secretary of State were correct, I <1o not air bon. frlend was leading the Honse, and
know that tbat Is any justification for tbe as to lis time I have notblng to say.
course lie bas pursued ln giving the answer
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I supp,.se we must
to the questions ivhich have been .asled.
1 venture the statement-I can oiilv speakz take as an expression of bis. own feeling
for the time I had the honour of occup)ying-1 Nvbat the bon, leader of this House said
a similar position to thiat which lie occupies wl'hen lie astserted tbat ail that lie said
I
to-day, and 1 challenge contradiction that previonsly was lu a figurative sense.
cannot find any sncb answer or nii- suppose vwben lie says to-day, that lie gave
lie
refusai to give full and ample replies to ill correct answers to ail thc questions we
the questions that were ever put to myself must take It la a figurative way also?
or the gentlemen wbo sat beside mie. The When lie said tîtat an answer biad been
records of the House will show directly given, I uppose tbat Is In a figurative way?
contrary to the statement the bon, gentleHon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no, I did not give
I arn not going to explain
man bas made.
any answer tbat was not sent to me, and
the course I pursued on sîmilar occasions, I read the answers woril for word to tbe
but I do say tbis-and I say It wltbout fear House.
It Is the explanations for tbe deof any successful contradiction by a refer- lay tbat were figurative.
ence to the records-tbat lie cannot sustain
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We will take the anthe statement tîtat lie bas mnade lu reference
to the answers which were given to the swers for tbemselves andi we will show tbat
questions put to the government while I tbey are flot figurative.
liad the bonour of sitting on tbnt side of
'Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I bave nothing to dLQ
The reniarks wbicb fell front
the House.
I do not supervise
wlth that part of It.
tue hon. Ministor of Trade and Commerce the answers.
are precisely wliat 1 anticipated Nvould fîll
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I take cice instance,
From bis lonîg parliamentary
f rom bin.
experience. and the knowledge whichi lie regarding the Transconitinental Railway.
possesses of the duties of a minister of the On tbe 14tb May I asked If there bad been
state, I could expect no otber repl3', tior at any time, and particularly during the
could ny one wbo knows hlm expect any period comprised bctween tîle Ist July, 1906,
Tbere ls no sbirking or eva- *and the lst May, 1908, nt Quebec, a comother repîr.
sion of the question ln any of the remarks mlttee known under tbe name of the QueHe laid down the tiue parlia- *bec Terminal Commlttee. To tbat I was
ne made.
I nsked wbo was the prementary prîncîple, and the coastîtutional Ianswercd ' yes.'
sident, wbo acted as secretary, wbo were
principle upon whlcb the governient sboul
It is not for an employeE the members of It, how many slttiags tbey
be conducted.
0f the goverament to dIctate eliber to tblç. beld. on wbat dates, and 1 came to this
House or tbis government wlbat course the> *question: 'Has the goverument paid anyTbose wbio have paid nin3 thing wbatsoever to the president or to the
shial pursue.
attention la the past to the answers wbil L1secretary of tbat commlttee-tbnt commit-

1104

1104

SEINATE

tee called the Quebec Terminus Committee? 1 was answered ' nothisg was pald
i made another inquiry, and
ta anybody.'
I asked on another
a was given naines.
occasion:
(a) .1. Over and above t4he eums which have
been paid to -Mr. Ulric Barthe as saiary as
secretary of the Quebec Bridge and Railway
Company, or as reimbursement of lis travelthse commissioners of the
ling epnehave
Tra.noninentalI Railway paid any othker
moneys ta the saine .Mr. Ber-the?
2. WJsen, for what 6ervsoes, and what
amount?
3. Aanngst these payments are there any
whatsoever which have, relation te his presence at meetiars of a committee known under
the namne of -the Quebec Terminus Comm'ittee?
4. Under this head, how much lias been paid
ta him, and et what date wes each of such
payments made?
5. What was the amount of eoach of suoh
payments?
Whiat was the answer ? The answcr
was : -The conuissieners have uotluiug to
do w-ith the payment of the salary and
NVas that a
disbursements referred ta.'
reasonable answer ?
lion. '.%r. SCOTT-I have told my lion.
friend that any answer I gi-e here coming
fronu the source ta m-hich he refers, is
prepared by thlein and isot by nie.
Hon. Mr. LANDIIY-I take it as mv lion.
friend says. They were nsked if aiîy moneys
were paid by the National Trantscontinental llailway Commission ta Mr. Bartije,
and the answer wis :
1. The comnmissioners have nothing to do
with the paymeut of thse salary and disbursements referred to.
2. Answered by number one.
3. There are ne sucis payments, and mareover answer to this has already been iiven
under question 8, order No. 19, of May 6.
4. Answered br above.
5. Answered bY above.
Question No. 3 called for a specific anwr.It was as foliows
3. Amangst these payments are there any
whatsoever which have relation to his pres,.
ence at meetings of a committee known under
thse naine of the Quebec Terminus Company.
What was the re.ply7
There are no sucis paymeuts, and moreover
answer to this lias already been given under
question 8, order No. 12, of May 6.
WVhat do we find when 've open the
nine
Auditor General's Report for the
moaths ending 'March 1, 1907, as showa
nt page W-29S:
Hlon. Mr. LANDRY.

(a) Legal expenses, Ulric Bartbhe. attendance et Quebec Terminais Committee meetings, 6 days at $10; sundry expenses, $19.301;
L. A. Taschereau, expenses swearing in con$108.501.
stables, $299.201,
(b> At page W-303, the following entry:
Barthe, Ulric, investigation re Rlorsey and
Barie; receiving deposiins, 4 day6 at $10;
expenses, $11, $51.010.
These figures, whiclb appear iu the Auditor Generai's Report, %vere bcfore the
comnuissioners wheu tbey mnade the reply
Thieu
that there wvere no sucli paymients.
when I pointed out to the hon. ujinister the
flagrant contradiction between the nswer
given by tlue secretary of the National
Transcontinental Itailway Commission and
the report of the Auditor Geucerai for 1907,
this samne' mani, P. E. Ryan, %vritesas follows:
Ottawa, May 23, 1908.
Dear Sir,-Referring te, notice of motionon page
Hon. Senator Landry-appearing
806, Minutes of Proceedings of the Senate, I
have the honour to advise:
The answer of the leader of the Senate was
correct :The commissianeris have nothing to
do with tihe salary snd disbursemeîîts of Mr.
Bartise as secretary of the Quebec Bridge
Company. The goverament, it is understood
froin the answer nmade, had paid nothing te
Mr. Barthe for services as secretary of the
Qèuebec Terminais Committee,' but the coininissioners have paid Mr. Bartise for such services for six days at $10 per day, and suildry
expenses amountinL, to $19,30, ; also the suin of
$51 ou account of the investigation re Horsey
and Earie.
1 have the honour to be,
Your obedient servant,
(Sgd.> P. E. RYAN,
Secrctary.
L. K. Jones, Esq.,
Secretary, Departmnent of Railways ansd
Canais, Ottawa.
Ottawa, June 2. 1908.
He has the boueur to advise that the
answ-er of the leader of the Sonate w-as
correct. That is Lucifer giviîîg testimnuiy
iii faveur of Satan. It wass Ilî- owu anI thiùîk il is
swer -%vbich he coufirmed.
It
tinue to put a stop to this nonsense.
is time the lieuse siiould have correct auswers, and that the governmeat should
flot be put in the position -)f liaviag the
replies which they furnish to parliameut
contradicted fronu day to dlay by what
1 think
appears lu the public accounits.
lie is
Mr. Ryan shouid be called dowu.
paid $2,5W0 perannum for what ? To liv.
to the country and to Insult the Senateis it for that ? 1 hope the hiou. Minister
of Trade aud Commerce wiil, as hie said

JUTNE 11, 1908

1105

JIYKE 11, 1908

1105

THE CIVIL SERVICE CO-MMISSION.
he would-and I am glad lie said se-wvill lîupress ou that gentleman w-bat are
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-Tbere isa.1,inqulry
If lie by the lion. senator from Staclacona witli
tlie dufies devolving upoln hlmi.
does flot perfora' those dufies, tbe Senate reference. to, the Frenchi edition of the
wlll have somnething more to say on the Civil Service Report. I find tliat oinly one
matter. 1 hope w-len I again ask ques- c0opy of the report in Frenchi bas been reThe translation
tions relating to the public expenditure on celved at the Bureau.
the National Transcontinental Itaillay, w-e Is belng doue by tbe transiators iu the
shahl bc favoured w-itb correct answ-ers, fluse of Cominions, so nîy lion. f rlend.
and flot bave this officiai as tlie minister knows whbere the delay arises. It is not
sald ln bis figurative w-ay, snapping bis nt the Bureau.
fingers, and, I niay add, telling deliberate
THIRD - READING.
lies.
I uuderstoo d
(ZZ) An Act t0 ainentd hIeMaBill
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If
my lion. frlend froni St. Catharines ariglit, toba Grain Aet.-(IIon. Sir Richard Cartbe asked nie to w-ltbdraw 'ine of flie wVright.)
statements I have made w-itl reference to
CANADA TEMIPERANCE ACT AMENDthe cliairman of tixe National TranscontiMENT BILL.
Did I undernental Railwny Commission.
IN COMMITTEE.
stand 1dmi to siy that: ?
The bouse resolved itself jutA a CoinHon. Mr. QrIBSON-No. I saîd I bioped
mittee of the WVhole ou Bill (WVW) Au Act
mny hiou. friend would withdrzt% ftie blame
f0 the chairmanl of the cointo aniend the Canada Teniperaince Act.
be attacbied
ission for the falling of flie Quebec
(In the Conmittee.)
bridge.
Canada
MC\IGREGOR-'Ube
Hion. Mr.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSO.N-Wliat I said %vith Temperance Act is a permissive law. AnY
regard to that w-as that the bridge liad county, by a uiajorîty of one, niaY Put It
fallen, and a greaf maay valuable lives and lu force. It bas been in operation ln
valuable property bad been lost. fliat Mr. Nova Scotia for many years, wbere it bal;
Parent wvas cliairman of the Commission been found very effective in IllauY w'aYs.
durlng thitt period. I1 coupicd that witli StIli there are some defeets lu the Acf,
the fact tbnt Mr. Parent had beer. oustaid and this Bill Is f0 remedy soine of them'.
froni the premiersbîp of Qxxebec by bis Twelve out of the eighteen count les la
coileagues, and gave it as n reason wliy lie Nova Scof la adopted the Canada Tempeshould not take a very higli attitude ou rance Acf, but ln the ]asf year fwo counthis question. I just w-aut f0 point out, as ties rescinded It. I do flot w-anf the House
my last word w-itb regard f0 if, tliat, my to understafld that because tiwo« counties
bon. f rîend w-eut even furthier flan anything repealed the Act that the teîuperance senI quoted lu sioîving tlie refusais lie liadt timuent ln fthe province lias becoule 1ess
been receiving froin the commissioners or marked. The repeal bas been due to fthe
their officiais. We must liold the commisdifficulty of euforcing tlie Act. Tbe fenisioners responsible. and especialiy tbe chairperance sentiment ln -Nova Seotia is as
mnan of fthe Board, because lie niusf fend
stroag to-day as It ever w-as lu the pasf;
ail under liai to do their duty, sud nof treat
stronger. Tbe people art, ia favparliameut wifl contenipt. My bon. frieud, perliaps
but provincial prohibiw-ould pro- our of prohibition,
ln one of lis replies. saîd If he
tion ls a misnomer. because tinder provilidace fIe auswers lie received, tliey w-ouid.
cial prohibition we could. not pr*event the
surprise flie lion, gentleman. Tf reuiads
importation or manufacture of Intoxlcatiiig
mie of Burn's description of w-bat Tain
liquor. The principal amendiuent souglit
O'Slanter saw on the Hoiy Table:
by this Bill is to probibît the sending of
With mair o' horrible and awful
liquor from a county w-liere licinse prevails
That e'en f0 naine would be anlawful.
into, a couuty which.is under the Canada
I beg leave f0 witlidraw my motion.
Temperance Act. Last year the followiag
adjouru was withdrawn.
The motion to

1106

SENATE

1106

SENATE

resolution was passed unanimous]y by the
legisînture of Nova Scotia:
That whereas in twelve countiee of the province of Nova Scotia the elecetors have by
popular vote brought the Canada Temperance
Act into force;
And whereas in the remaining six counties
of the province the Nova Scotia Liquor License Act is in force;
.And whereas under this legislaition evils
have arisen from the fact that liqour is being
im.ported from other counties and provinces
into coanities in which the Canada Temperance Act is in force and into coiraties in
whîch no licenses are issued;
Therefore resolved, thiat this House in so
f ar as it is within its powrers. should enact
such legisiation as will prohibit the sending
of liquor into counties in which the Canada
Temperance Art is in force and into counties
in which no licenses are issued;
And further resolved, that this House do
place on record its desire that the parliament
of Canada should enact sueh 'ameiidments to
the Canada Temperance Act as will prohibit
the inrportatioa «of liquor iuto counties in
which the Canada Temperance Act is in force;
And also further resolved, that this House
declare its adherence to, the principle of the
enforcement of such legisiation by the town
and municipal authorities.

~Hon. Mr. McSWEE;NEY-Wbat difference does Rt make where It Is paid for?
Hon. Mr. COMEAU-In the casa of liquor
being sent C.O.D.. the sale is consummated
lu the county ln wblch the Canada TemIn the other
perance Act is in force.
case, if you go to a county where license is
lu force and buy your liquor there, the sale
What
ls consummatod. in that county.
happens, practically, is this: la the country
districts a rnumber or young nmen in a temperance county wfll send to an adjoining
counitv for liquor witlîout, perbaps, baving
a cent In their possession to pay for it, but
cxpecting to be able to pay for it when it
is delivered C.O.D.
Hlon. Mr. McýlSWEENEY-They can send
the cashi for lt, and have it delivered by the
express company. I was rnt a place a short
timie ugo lu Florida where prohibition is
enforced, and that is what they are doing.
They send tlie cash and the liquor is f orNwarded.

Hon. Mr. M-\cSWEENEY-H-ow will this
Bill affect Importations from Great Britain?
Can they be sent into any county where
the Canadian Temperance Act is lu force?

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-This legisiation is
are
W%ýe trying
flot based on fair grounds.
to cure a speclfic evil by general legisiation. The reason given for paragrapb (c)
is tat you wish to prevent certain parties
thiuk so.
Hon. 'Mr. McGREGOR-I
We
from having liqubr shîpped to them.
Hon. Mr. M,%cSWVEENEY-Thien ýwhat good are told that these same parties would have
ls the Act?
n Tight to go Into n adjoining county
wîliere liquor Is sold anti purchase the goods
aîiid have the liquor shipped to their home,
but it is made a 'crime to have It shipped
uuless it Is paid for at the shipping point.
We want to try and cure that evil by this
What is going to 'happ-en?
leýgisiation.
I)ruggists, medical men and ministers of
religilon wbo use wliie in their services will
be debarred f rom procuriag- their supplies,
'-%r. CLORAN-Will the Lon. gen- because none of them would want to pay
point out the difference between before they received what they purchased.
for the liquubr before it is sent, or
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The lion, gentleman is
for it xvhen it is received?
discuissiing whiat is the law now.

Hon. ',%r. MeOIcREGOR-Thie p)rincipal
difficulty experienced ia enforcing the Act
bas been the sending of liquor fromi a
county under license into a county that
One clause of this
has ndopted the Act.
Bill is to prevent liquor beiag sent C.O.D.
It controls the express comnln that way.
panies sending- liquor out that way.
Hou.
tleman
payiug
paying

Hon. Mr. MceGREGOr-The liquor mnust
be paid for before it is sent to the couuity
whiere it is to be used.

Hon. 'Mr. CLORA,%N--As

I

uuderstaiid.

C.O.D. is just as good 'as pavilient at the
The liquor, remains iii
shipping point.
the bands of the express icompanyv unitil it
1 thiuk this will iuterfere
Is Paid for.
with trade.
Holi. Mr. M.\cGREGOII.

Hou. Mr. CLOLIAN-The hion. gentleman
who introduced this Bill lias told us plainly
that its object is to prevent certain parties
wvho, uot having the moncy ready to purchase at the shippiag point, send their order
on and two or three days afterwards pay
Now that is of
cashi for it on delivery.
general application. aud while, under the
law, mînisters can get sacramiental wiue,

JUNE 11, 1908

1107

1107
JITNE 11, 1908
in this Bi1l1 you of weakness he went back on them, but
and druggists their liquors,
tbey knew 1 would not go back on them.
make no exception.
I voted for them ln the other House.
1
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It does not interfere
Wben
neyer give*up my old frlends.
with section 118.
they came down my way I always gave
Hon. Mr. CLOIAN-The lion. gentleman them a littIe ýwhisky. Tbey took It, flot
as a beverage, but because tbey needed It.
who lntrôduced the Bill said it did.
The Scripture *says that we sbalh take It
is en-Hon. Mr. SCOTT-My lion. friend.
wlien wve need ItL We, ln the Senate, are
tirely under misapprehiension.
gettlng old ; we are going down the bll,
Hou. Mr. DOMVILLE-I arn entirely op- and wby should we go against Seripture ?
1 sbiould be sorry WVe sbould not consider that we know more
posed to subclanse (c).
to see It enacted, because there is n criminni than Holy Wrlt. Perhaps It wonhd simplfy
W~ben we passed an Act matters If Borne one brougbt in a Bil11
clause to follow.
here a year or two ago, inakiug the punish- to repealI the Canada Temperance Act.
ment for a first offense lmiprisonmient, I That would be a manir, straigbitforward
pointed out that tlîat miglit be used in a way. If we are golng to be here any
vindictive manner, and I opposed It as a length of time, 1 do not see wby some hou.
Wbat was the resuit of member should not give notice and brlng
British subject.
A1 few ionths ago a up a discussion on that question.
This
such le.gislatlon?
man was persecnted aud driven out of the Act bas flot been a success la tbe country.
He wound up bis business and The stopping of the drink habit lias neyer
country.
At Christmnas been nccompllsbed, and neyer will be as
went to the United States.
he came back to see bis family and the long as people have mouths and stoauthorities caugbht hlm and put hlm 700 machs. I wonld rathier see a man drink
days in jail as a punishment for bis of- openly and above board, even If he dil
Tbink of sucb an arbitrary Act! take a littie too mnch, than drink behlnd.
fense.
Because some cranks say what you shalI barn doors. Down our way we bave proor Erball nlot drink. we are to render people hibition ; but we bave a lot of bad staff
hiable to sncb a severe penalty for a first there sold ln places where it sbionhd not
It is easy to show that the gov- be sold lnstead of belng sold above board,
offense,
erriment is maklng- roney ont of the liquor ln whlcb case we wouhd receive a revenue
Ask them wby tbey do not stop frein IL. We have not sald that It ls
traffic.
the distillation of liquor or the use of barley wrong to drink liquor or make it. .We
or other grain for the purpose of manufac- encourage Its manufacture and why shouhd
But they do nlot take any we allow a faction-lt Is only a factionturing liquor.
such step. Tbey pass the Canada Tem- to worry others who believe tbey sbould
perance Act, ande baving provtded penalties have a rigbt to eat and drink what tbey
for violations of it, we have now a Bill tbink fit. We find people anxious to rer
before us to prevent liquor being brought dlaim everybody else. The world is full of
Into a county where this Act Is ln force, thein. How many of tbem are Christians?
notwithstanding the fact that the govern- The mîssionaries went over to Cbirlstanlze
ment permits liqnor to be manufactured South Africa. Preachers and missIonarles
a nd sold and derive a revenue from It, out went over there, and tbey bad looklng
of whlch ministers get their salaries and glasses and muekets and there was aise
Snpposing I whisky there.
members theh, lndemnity.
T.here was some sense ln
wanted to brlng- liquor ite a county for that. The rnnsket kept tbe people la line,
manufacturing purposes, I canaot do so If and the looking glass enabled thein to look
I live ln a county where this Act Is ln force. at tbemselves and the liquor was good te
What Is the sense of keeplng this tbing up;
I know my hon. friend means well by theso take. Tbey said te tbese people .We are
I hooking after your good. We would be
people. I myseif mean well by themn.
hiad the hononr of belng tbelr lea'der In mncb better off in Canada, If people would
the other House for six rnonths. Tbey reforin themselves ratber than endeavour
bad a leader la tbe Hlouse, and in an bour to referai everybody else. I tbink It Is

1108

SENATE

1108

SEKATE

15 it riglit that the
encouraging crime.
taking of liquor into a connty wbiere the
Act is in force shial be mnade a eriminal net?
I do not believe it. If the hon. gentleman
would withdraw Us Bili, and inove to
repent the Canada Tempernce Act, 1 will
vote for the motion ; but 1 say the priaciple of thiis Bill Is wrong.
Hon. Mr. CLOUAN-I wish te direct the
attention of the comrnlttee to the open
door whichi is belng created by this Bill,
to a feature whlcb will strike lion. genitlemen, and It Is this :that you render
Innocent l)ersons, by this Bill, subject to
prosecution and Inlprisonient.
The Bill
says

w-bole of that business, and endeavoured
te Clhristianize the natives by sending- eut
spirits and Jamaica rum.
Hoii. Mr. PERLEY-I tbink the statement is entirely wrong-sending eut liquor
te Cbrlstiaiîize tbe beathen.
HI-on. Mr. DOMVILLE-I was ratiier caliiug- attention te tbe tact thiat the cbiurch
Nvinked at It.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I may say that
subsections (a) and (b) are lin tue law now,
anI biave been lu the Act ever since tbe
Scott Act Uccaîne law; tiierefeore we are
net prepesing te change the la%- lu tbat
respect.
When w-e corne te where n ebange
is made, then wve have a riglit te Iznow
No person shall, except as in this part especially provided, by himself, bis clerk. ser- waat it is and see whether it is in Uine with
the Act; but the l)rope mode ef legisiatien
vant or agent(c) send, ship, briag or carry or cause fo be is te repeal the wlîole Act and pass n new
sent, shipped, brought, or cnrried to or ino
any sucb county or city, any iatoxicating eie. Tbcrefore we do net readU aîy fpoint
hiquor; or
that could be regarded'as contreversial until
we corne te subclause (c) and (d), wbich
Do Lon. gentleman know wbat that
a re uew.
ineans ', No seller of liquers, -etber
lie
Subelause (b) wns adepted.
be a brewer or a distillerHon. 'Mr. MITCHELL-Is tbat inside or
outside the county ?
Hon. NIr. CLORAX-That is a point I
bave nict exalinied. Here is a clause put
into the Bill uuder which innocent parties
are liable to presecutîeîî, conviction and
imprisenmeunt.

On subclause (c).
No person shall, except as in this part specially provided, by himself, 'his clerk, servant
or agent(c) send, ship, bring or carry or cause te be
sent, ahipped, brouglit, or carrýied te or into
any euoh county or city any intoxioating
liquor; or

Hon. Mr. WILSON-Tlie lien. gentleman
says that (a) nnd (b) are in tlie preseuit
lnw and tberefere there is noe reasen wVby
1 understood hlmii
Hon. Mr. PEIILEY-I understood the bion. we should discuss them.
aise te say tbat we were repealing tliem. If
gentleman from Rethesay te say that the
cburches sent eut missionaries te encou- w~e are repealing tliem we should uuderstand.
tûe reason for it, and niy lion. friend frein
rage tbe sale of liquor in Africa.
Victoria division wvas geing te refer te these.
Hon. %Ir. DOMVlýILLT-I never menîtion- nmatters wbien lie '%as sliut off.
I amn l
ed the bon. geiitlemaiis chiurcli.
I am faveur of temperance.
I de neot thiuk
speakiug of îny own.
liquer is necessary te Clhristinize varions
Hon. '-%r. PERLEY-Does the bon, gen- communities, as mv ben. friend opposite
It is a question lu my mind
tleman pretend to say that bis cliurcb is sug-gests.
not n Chiristian churelb ? He said that wliether spirits lu anîy shape or ferm are
I believe
the public welfare.
the missienary secieties sent out liquer to essential te
tniey are injurions and tlîat «the human sysChristianize people.
I arn strengly iii
tem dees net require it.
Hon. '.%r. DOMVILLE-I did net saY faveur of Uaving an oppertuaity te discuss
the missionaries. I de net kneow wbnat lu- the Bill as the varlous clauses coîne before
terest tbey bad directly, but I say tbey us. and, if my lion. friend Uias any cernwere out there. and they were a l)arty te ments te make I think be bas a l)erfect
the selieme. Thev wvere lu the înidst of the right te mlake tli.
Hon. MIr. SCOTT-Let us get rld of (1)
first. It bas net been declared carried.

Hlon. Mfr. DOMVILLE.

JUNE 11, 1908

1109

JUNE 11, 1908
Hon. '.%r. FERGUSO-If we were to
throw out the wliole of this clause, (a) anid
(b> still remain lin the Act and would flot lie
AIl we are proposixig to do la
affected.
to amend some three or four sections of the
Act. The suliclause (b) does net mnake any
change, and Ir w-e would confine ourselves
to the changes w-e wotuld get at the pîtI of
the matter and fixid out w-hat the promloters
desire to do.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-The -bon. gentlemani
sald we w-ere repealing the Act.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-No, w-e aire repeallng a clause and inserting this clause.
necesaary to
Hon. 'Mr. WIIN-tl
consider the clauses so as to ascertain w-lether wve are justlfied in anlendiug the Bill
I think my hon.
li the mlaxîner stuggested.
friend w-as out of order la trying to prevent discussion.
Hon. 'fr. FEIIGUSON-lVe must find out
wliat chanCes are to lie made.
Hon. .%fr. CLORANm--To returu to the discussion. !i regard to the facility w-hiclî wll
lie afforded certain parties to prosecute and
probe ou grounds w-ute.. w-ould not lie Justifiable before the courts, but w-hidi. if this
law la passed. wlll compel a judge to condeniii an inniocent maxi, low w-ill the maxi
wlho carts the goods, w-ho starts out froin
Bate & Co. anid goes iiîto the counlty of
Carleton w-itli 40 or 50 parcels, kiow w-hat
la ini those barrels? AIl lie la supposed to
know la that certain parcels are addressed
to 'Mr. Brow-n lu the counity of Carleton
anid lie delivers thein to Iilm. He delivers
theni C.O.D. because they have not been aIready pald for. Tliere may lie two or tliree
bottles of higliwxines lIn a parcel and( lie
kxiows nothixig ef it, but the law says lie la
mast as guilty as tîxe principal wlio sexida it
out. The merchiaut may lie sending out a
keg of maple ayrup ostensibly, but there
may lie whiskey in It. It is flot the business of the carter to Investigate.
Hon. !Mr. PEItLEY-It la bis business fl
tliat case.
Hon. 'Mr. CLORAN-The gooda are sealed
up anid lie delivers a package w-hich may
Under this
coxitain ixitoxlcating liquors.
law lie may lie prosecuted because lie 'lias
carried liquor into .a temperance couxity.

1109
Take the clcrk lu the store; lie is a party
to delivering those goods to the driver, but
lie may be exitirely Innocent of the contents
One clerk does flot know
of the package.
what anotiier clerk puts in a parcel *and
lianda over to another employee, but hie la
This la opening the
liable to be fined.
door to prosecution without justification,
and so ail along the Une. The principal la
the résponslble party, 1 will admit, but we
liave no riglit to place criminal responslblllty on tixe shoulders of the young mani
In my experience,
employed ln the store.
administerlng the provincial revenue law of
Quebec, no Inter tban two weeks ago a
Lu that
similar case arose In Chambly.
district there is a village called St. Lambert,
whicx lias a local option law. What
liappexied?9 The neiglibouring muaiclpallty,
Longueuil. haqd a prosperous merchant dolng
business there.- He used to go luto St.
Lambert anid solicit orders for liquors. The
result was his business grew. Customers
would send also for their grocerles, sugar,
tes and coffee, and ail tlîey waxited, to
Longueuil. The reanît was that, two
months ago. the bustnessiien of St. Lambert sald 'this la not fair. Here is a merchant who la paying no taxes to our corporation. doixig business lui our district.'
They had hlm arrested. I tried the maxi.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-In w'hat capacity
dld the hon. gentleman try hlm ?
Hou. 3fr. CLORAN-As prosecuting attorney for the Revenue Departinent. It
was before Judge Choquette. The offence
wvas thant the man who sold the liquor hiad
flot been lin the county; but that bis driver
lîid been there and solicited orders. Thec
judge held that that youxig man wvas not a1
commercial traveller anid lad no riglit to
solîcit orders, and on that groiund the principal w-as set free. It w-as proved that the
young man delivered the goods. He did
flot deny It. It was an openi business,
but the judge would not condemul hlm, liecause lie w-as flot responsîble. He was
gîven a cartload of goods, anid he w-as to
delîver tliem lIn dîfferexit places. Some eustomera paid hlm and some had runnlng
Then agalu another question
accounta.
will come up under paragrapli 2. Supposlng- a mani bas a running account in a
grocery store ini a place outside the prohi-

1110

SENATE

1110

SENATE

bition county, wliat are you going to do
witb hlm ? Wliy nlot punish equaily the
party receiving it ? In that way yen
1 thiuk subwould attaîn tbe object.
section C sliould lie eitber withdrawn or
amended, and I would suggest, frorn a
practical point of view, that l;ie clerk who
la flot responsible for the business of the
concern, whetlier it be a man or a woman, shall be lield responsible, unlesa ho
knowingiy and deliberately earrles goods
into a temperance county, because it 'would
be most unfalr, and the judges would nlot
maintain the prosecution In the province
We sliould make our law
of Quebec.
clear and plain so that wlien It cornes liebore the judges there 'wil lie no difficulty
In Interpreting It. I bave advocated that
idea for several years ln this 1-otise. SomeUrnes legislators do nlot lcnow how te draft
the, law, and w-lien the matter is tested
In the courts, one law-yer présents one lnThe
terpretation and hnother anlother.
iaws are flot made clear anti plain. The
other day, la the State of Indiana, the legislature passed a Inost usef nI law lu regard to thie selliag of clean and pure milk,
and the law rend:

lators of Canada do flot kaow what they
are doing, and do flot understand how to
trame laws. I arn ln favour of provIing
al) means of protecting the w-ili of the
people, once the will of the people la expressed ln any county, that licenses should
not be granted. 1 hold that parliament
should enforce that law as far as possible
to enforce it, on fair and equltable grounds.
in favour of allowiflg men to
I ar n ft
go into one county and selI liquor where
the citizens of that county have no opportunity to compete with thema in business.
I arn ln favour of the principIe of the
Bill, but let us maire it as clear and fair
as possible.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I would Inter
that rny hon. friend is, as lie lias now
remarked, ln faveur of the princîple of
the Bill; therefore I do flot see that lie
need bave takea so long in forrnulatlng
bis

objections

to

its detai!s.

Tliis

Act

does not interfere w'itli Montreni. It does
nlot deai w-itb my province. W7e bave a
preliibitery law'. It deals w-itli parts of
the country where people, on their own
vote, put tlie Act Into operation, aad my
lion. friend says that wheve the people
do t1ls, lie thinks tliey bave a riglit to
bave tlieir w-lu. That Is juat w-bat w-e are
dolag here, and I thiak these two changes
are made for tlue purpose of carrying out
thie w111 of the people in the parts of thue
country where thie Scott Act is la operatien. There were weaknesses iii that Act
by *wbich it could flot be carried out.
There w-as a loophole wliicli permitted peoin from other
pie te bring the liquor
counties. The object of tliis legislation la
to remedy tliat. My boa. frîead will notice that tliere Is a fair provision made
for any person wlio does flot olitain liquor
la the w-ay of trade. I refer to paragraphs
(c) and (d) and subsection 2. So tliere is
to lie exception made in that respect, but
(c) and (d) are la order to make it possible
to enforce the Act la constituencies where
the people w'aat It and wliere they wili put
It Into force by their owa votes.

No person shall through lus agent, througli
his represeatative, or through bis servant,
oeil unclean or impure rniik.
Wliat w-as thie resuit ? Loolcing at that
clear,
%vvas
you w-ould imagine the law
but it w-as so far from being- clear that the
judge gave judgrnent agaist the State,
and liow w-ns the law overcone ? The
law said that ne person tlirougli bis representatives or servants should seli impure
or unclean miik. The dealers did away
with their representatives or servants, nnd
delivered their own muilk, and sorne of
tbem w-ere arested and tried, and the court
decîded tbat tliey could nlot seli it through
thelr ag-eDts or servants, but as long as a
man sold it bimnself, it w-as all right. That
decision was given the ether day, and 1
handed it to the lion, gentleman from Middlesex. Let us, w-lien w-e are dealiag with
crirninal matters, see that the liberty
Wlien
of the subject is not trampled on.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Wliat about clerks
you corne te deal wltli tlie liberty of tlie and others
subject se as to put him in jill, the la .w
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They arc not liable.
should be se clear and précise tliat ne
Judge w-Il] be able te say that tlie legîs- If I do a thiag liy my clerk, I arn responHon. Mr. CLORAN.

JUNE 11, 1908

1111

1111
JUNE 11, 1908
sible. Under this Bill It is the person who as against thse servant or carnie". lie would
lie qulte riglit to defend lm ou sucli a
sends the liquor ln who la made liable.
ground as thiat lie badl acted o~n behaîf o!
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I think the
It thse principal and was not lia±hle, but the
rneanlng of the law Is quite obvious.
principal was hiable. I think tbat is as
le; lntended to proteet any Scott Act county
With re- plain as anything can be on thse face of
fromn Invasion fromn witbout.
cergard to the operation of the Scott Act, thse statute. I did under Instructions
tain things for which I arn not responthere 15 nlo great difficulty ln enforclng
Mr.
sible. Who gave the instructions ?
the Act, so far as within the boundarles of
So-and-So, and thse court wouldI decide
the county is concerned. The trouble in
that Mr. So-and-So is responsible. If 1
Ontario bas been, as far as I understand
court for an offeace I
It, that those concerned la the sale of am brought up ln
plead that I acted under Instructions,
liquor fromn witbout send directly into that
on mientloning the name of thse
county, for the purpose of flooding the coun- and
one who Instructed me, I render blmn
ty with liquor, and to that extent, or as hiable.
Then as to the other point
f ar as they an, discredIting the Scott Act. brought
member
hon.
up
by the
I understand the object of this clause is fromn Marskffield, If in case of prîvate
to prevent that practice. It is a protect- necesslty lîquor Is waated it eau be got
We admit wlthout incurring any lîability. As the hon.
Ive clause pure and simple.
the Temperance Act of 1S7.9 bas a fair Secretary of State says with ref.erence to
field for legisiation, and 1 think it Is our wine for sacrernental purposes, that is produty to see that its enforcernent is made vlded for. What we want is to inake thc
practicable, and that people, iii another scope of the Act more effective thani it is
county cannot defeat the will of a county at present. If w-e wish to -see the w-i of
whcre the Act is ln forc~e. Assume that the people carried out, it is our duty to
in county (a) the Scott Act is applied, and make it effective against those wvho seek
it 18 the wish of the people t1lat liquor to break down the Influence of the Temshall fot lie sold by any person ln that perance Act and bning it Into dîseredit.
county. Under the Act as It is now, that
Hon. Mr. POWER-I thiak the hon. senis capable of enforcement ; but these peoThey ator frons Middlesex (Flon. Mr. Ross) Is la
pie Nvant to protect themselves.
are protected f rom within, but tbey desire error ia stating thiat the bion, gentleman
protection from without. Is *that flot rea- fromn Victoria division (Hon. Mr. Cloran)
sonable ? Shiould tliey be ov,?rwhelmed by was mîstaken in saYing- tliat a carter or a
If the hon.
those who are flot Interested !n their wel- elerk might lie held hiable.
fare ? If they say by their votes: ' We gentleman wlilloo0k nt suliclause 2. o! the
want to protect our sons anid daughters new clause 127agalast the evil effects of the liquor trafHon. Mr. ROSS-Wle have flot got to that
fie. in this county,' should they flot have yet.
the sanie riglit to protect themnselves frôm
Honi. Mr. POWEI-Wg bave isot corne to
traders froîn without ? I think thiere 18
somnethin.g lu the local option law ln On- it, but we waat to know where w-e -ire at.
tario whichi serves the saine purpose. That Suliclause 2 of that clause says:
is, people cannot purchiase liquor ia local
2. E very one who, ia violation of part II.
option counties. Wltb due dlefereuce to of this Act, in the employment or on the promises of anothermy lion. friend from Montreal, 1 do no
(a) so exposes or keeps for sale any intoxithink there is anytbing in bis argument cating liquor; or
<-h) cois,
s0
that the carrier of liquôr wolild be hiable. ing liquor; or barters or gives any intoxicatIt says that no person shall 'by himself.
(c) so sends, ships, brings or carrnes or
his agent or servant.' It is the principal causes to be sent, shipped brought or carried
or
that is hiable. The servant or clerk ùs any intoxicatiag liquor; warehouses, or keeps
(d) so delivers, stores,
merely a commion carrier for the purpose aîiy iatoxicating liquor;
of carrying out the wvill of the principal. is equâlly guiltY with thse principal and shall
on su.mIary conviction be liable ta the ame
and I say that if lie had a case la court penalty or puni-shment as thse principal.

1112

SENATE

I quite admit that that does not seem to
be a justifiable line to take on the part of
the promoters of the Bill; but that is what
they propose to do, and that I think is the
provision !l the Canadat Temperance Act.
Thiat Is the ditffculty about this temperance
legislation, that la order to prevent humal
nature frorn assertlng ltself, the people who
enact these laws are given to aIl sorts of
unreasonable and tyrannical expedients ln
I luorder to carry ont their own views.
tend proposing an ainendment to this paragrapx (c). but perhaps the 1-buse will pardon me if I say a few words on the general
I hope that I'arn a temperate
question.
man at any rate, If I an miot a9teniperance
I fully recognize ill the mnisehief
man.
arising from the excessive use of intoxicatIng beverag-es, but I do not think that this
klnd of legislation Is the proper remiedy for
snob evils. Appeals to the good feeling or
the common sense of p~eople are more effectuai, and bring about more satisfactory
results than w~hat you iligbt caîl iron clnd
legisiation, and I arn sorry to notice-aud 1
have noticed it for a great many yearsthat the people wbio caîl themselves teniperance men aire appareiitly, as a rule,
much more anxious to succeed. ia having
stringent legislation adopted than they are
I am satisfied
to prevent Intemperance.
that if the energy and the time whicb have
been gîven to trying to secure the kind of
legisiation whichl w-e fiud before us now
had been devoted to the use of moral
suasion the resuit would have been much
better. One would imag-.ine that intemperance was the great vice of Canada-that it
As n inatter of
was our national crime.
fact Canada Is one of the most teniperate
countries in the world: and if gentlemen
really wislb to do *valuable service to the
country it would be a great deal better
that tbey should initiate crusades a9gainst
greed. ngninst fraud and other forms of
These are inuchi more the sins
falsehood.
of Canada at the present day than is iaIt is perfectly truc that fifty
temperance.
or sixty years ago there was a g-reat deal
of drunkenness in Canada; but the coxumon
sense of the people and the advance of
civilization bas muade drunkenness unfashiionable aud degrading. and no respectable
inan w-ould like to have it known that he
The thing bas
was seen publicîr druuk.
Hou. Mr. POWER.

gone out of fashion, and even amougst the
huxnblest classes it is looked upon as a discreditable thing to be markedly under the
influence of liquor. Total abstinence is a
good thing, no doubt; but it does hot make
A man may be dishoaest
a inan perfect.
and false and generally a bad man ln several other ways; and the mere fact tlmat
lie is a total abstainer does flot free hin
from ail blame. I do not undertake to go
into the question that the hou, gentleman
f romn Rothesay deait with, as to wxhether
liquor is a good l3hlng or n bad thing. Iutoxicating liquors may be abused. If you
suppose them to be good they may be
abused; but there Is no gift of 'Providence
whicli may flot be abused llkewise. If you
carry anything to, excess you are abusing
the gifts of Providence, and the peop)le who
-ire drinking too ranch are certainly abusHowever, 1 do not
!i g thieir privilege.
think, it is our duty when dealing- w-ith this
Bill, which is only Intended to make soine
amendrnents to the Scott Aet. to (liscuss the
general question of the policy of these mensures: but I take the paragraph just now
before the conimittee, and if I miake any
mistake la denlingl with It I hope tbe hon.
gentleman from New Glasgow w-i correct
As I understand It, thîs paragrapb
Ile.
proposes to make the Canada Temperance
Act which is a sumptuary law. apply to
couinties where the voters have niot broughit
it into operatlon.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-How do you inean ?
-Hon. Mr. POWER-I take my own province as an illustration; but the saine sort
of argument would apply aIl over the couinThere are ln -Nova Scotia ten counltry.
ties whicbi bave adopted the Scott Act.
The people of those counties bave deliberately chosen to put the Act into operationi.
I may think tbey are mistaken. but still
they blave chosen to do it, aud it is only
righit and proper that the Act sbould be
made rcasonably effective iii those counties.
But tliis provision we are dealing- with now,
It practically undergoes beyond that.
takes to bring this Act lnto operation lu
counties where the Canada Temupérance
Act bas not been adopted. 1 think
that is unfair, In this way. that the
distiller, the brewer or the w-holesale dealer
in Eh-land, or the United States. can send

JUNE 11, 1908
goods Into titis Scott Act COUntY wlthout Incurring a penalty under titis ProPosed
amendaient w'hile our own people do lucur
In Nova Scotia ten counties
the penalty.
There are a
have adopted the Scott Act.
couple of breweries In the city of Halifax;
There are, biethere is no distillery there.
sides, a certain number of wholesale dealers 'who selI liquor in sanie cases along with
groceries. The effect of thls paragrapit before us would bie to niake It a penal offence on the part of thte brewer or the
wholesale dealer to sbip uny intoxicating
beverage Into any one of those ten counties wbere the Scott Act Is iu operation.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Titat is tlie law nowv.
is just thte
Hon. '.%r. POWER-Tbat
Tho.
change that Is made by this Bill.
hon. Secretury of State probabiy bias not
examined the. wording of titis Bill1 carefully. The words 1 object to are these.
(c) Send, ship, bring or carry or cause to
be sent, shipped. brouglit or carried to or into
any esuch county or city, any intoxicating
liquor.
Now the words 'sent and shipped' are
new words. They are Dot ia the Act ut
preseat. Under the law as It stands a
brewer iu Halifax cuit send a cask of ale
Into a Scott Act counnî without iacurring
a penalty, and a wliolesale denler can send
lquor ivithout lncurring a penalty. I do
not see why lie ehould lueur a penalty.
The Scott -let la not in force lu lthe connty
of Halifax. The government require the
brewers of Halifax to pay lieavy license
fees, and tbey also pay license fees to tle
city of Hlalifax. The wholesule deaiers pay
large license fees to the clty also. Titis Bill
proposes to say thnt a brewer or a wholesale denier wlio lias paîd a licetise whidh
should entitie him to do business ail over
the province, is subject to a severe penalty
if lie sends any of the product of bis
prewery int any one of ten couies. He
la slhut out. of ten of thte elgghteen counties
of the province and bis license la good oniy
as to eigitt. Now tînt la an exceedingly
unfair provision.
Hou. Mfr. McGREGOR-He Is shut out
froni sending liquor where people will vlolate thte law.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tite bon. gentleman
canuot contrudict my stalement.

Hon. Mfr. LOUGH-EED-Would it niot bc
ait oat manifest evasion of thte law if
sucit person were pernîitted to slip liquor
unto a couuty wbere the Act wvus iu force?

Hon. 3fIr. POWER-l do not titink 80.
Hon. Mfr. CLORAN-It is belter to let
a Halifax aterchant slip the liquor, than
to have it sent lu by an Englisii or United.
States merdhant.
Hon. 3fr. POWER-Thie brewer or distiller lu England can sbip liquor Int a
Scott Act connty, and 1 do flot see why
our -iountrymien, wito puy large license fees,
shiouid be shut ont.
Hon. '-fr. LOUGHEED-I understaud
that there is a provision preveatiug liquor
goiag froin a forelgu country luto a Scott
-lct county. 0f course we canuot pass
extra territorial legfisîntion tInt will rendb
foreiguers outbside our own boundaries.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-We ouly undertake
to pass legialation wliicî wli put Our own.
brewers and w-holesale deaIers lu a worse
condition titan foreigners.
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-Is it not very luconsîstent If a brewer or distiller in a Scott
Act county is not permitted to selI that a
rival la an outside county could go titeýe
and selI ? No merdhant huving liquor to
seli can seil It lu a county where the Act
Is iu force. Section 123 of the Act Is perfectly plain on that point.
Hon. 3fr. POWER-I just -wisli to caîl
attention to another fact; worse things,
titan Ilquor go into Pîctou and otber countles.

Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Witat are thèy?
Hon. '.%r. POWER-I xvill mention one
-varions patent medicines are infinitely
worse titan liquor.
Hon. ',%r. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-I need mention only
one, Perunu.
Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-Thte objection is to thte
liquor ln ItL
Hou. 3fr. POWER-Yes. Alleged patent
medicines go Iu which contain more alcobiol than ordinnry aie. You alloi deleterlons patent medicines, opium, and other

1114

SENATE

1114

SENATE

mischievons things to go into the Scott
1
Act counties, but you stop liquor.
meve that this paragraph (c) be amended
by striklng out ln the first lune the words
' send and ship ' at the beginnlng of the
liue and the words 'sent and shipped' nt
the end of the lune. The clause wlill then
read :
Brin gor carry or cause to be brought or
carriedto or into any such country or city,
any such intoxicating liquor.
It exempts the man from the outslde and
puis our own dealers in the same position
as foreign dealers.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Âre
they flot exempt from the penalties If they
purchase tbe liquor out of the county and
pay for it before it is sent ln ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-For bis own famlly
use.

()so delivers, stores, warehouses, or keeps
aay intoxioating liquor;
is equally guilty .with the principal and shall
on summary conviction be liable to the satie
penalty or .panishment èis the principal
It applies net enly to clerks and servants
but to every person on the premises.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He knows what lie la
doing.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Wýho knows?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The person who cemmits the. effence.
Rlon. Mr. CLORAN-I have proved up to
the bilt that lt is Impossible for a clerk in
a large store to know ail that Is going on.
It Is impossible for a driver to know what
is la every package that be bas to deliver.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is better te deal
w-ith that w'heu w-e corne te the second
clause.

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWVELL-That
i{on. '-%r. CLOIIAN-One of tbe reasons I
Is the way 1 understand it ; 't exempts
frorn tbe penalties ý%vhichi are irnposed, any want te vote against subclause (c) of tbe
person w-be goes into in adjoiuing county first clause is tbat I do net want that prinand purchases and pays for liquor and ciple intreduced in any part of tbe Bill.
takes it horne; but if bie goes into the 1-lere is an extraerdiuary clause wvbich
ceunty and purcbases it on credit or to be nialzes people responsible net rnerely for
paid for on delivery lie is under the peu- the offence, wbether cornrntted personaily
or by persons lu their employ, but even for
alty.
being on the prernises.

Tbat is a rnost

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think tliat is cor- outrageons clause te put lu a Bill. Tbere
rect.
is ne limitation of the responsîbility; as
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Why soon as tbey are found on tbe prernises, or
aqnywnhere where liquer is sold, tbey are
is tbat distinction drawn ?
Hon. MNr. POWER-Tbat does not af liable te the penalties of tbis law.
fect MnY
constitutional ground.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I subrnit tbe lion. genWe bave
Hon. 'Mr. CLORAN-L wisb to poirnt out tlemanl is entinely ont of erder.
W'hy not
to tbe bon. senator froni Midldlesex that flot corne te thagt clause yet.
my interpretation is f nlly borne ont by discuss the clause w-e are at?
the reading of tbe Act. It says : That îio
Hon. Sir. OLORAN-I uni discussiug subperson shall seli, by bis clerk, servant or clause (c) and rnaking comparison.
Ir
agent'1 in the beginning of the clause. So the bon, gentleman is goiag te lumit me te
far as that goes the agent anid the servant subclause (c) I cannet discuss tbe Bill.
are not guiity, but read the second part of
lion. Mr. SCOTT-We are dealing with
tbe clause:
îiaragraph (c) now.
2. Ev-ery one whlo, in violation of part Il.
of this Act, in the employmnent or on the preHon. 'Mr. CLORAN-Wbat about an
mises of another(a) se exposes or keeps for sale any intoxi- agent in a wbolesale store w-ho wonld send,
cating liquor; or
witbout .know-iag lt, a case of w-me or of
-(b)
s0 seils, barters or gives any intoxioat. liquor into a texuperance connty?
ing liquor; or
.(c) se sends, .ships. brings or carrnes or
lion. Mn. CAMI,%PBELL,-Do yen
think
causes te be sent, shipp8d, ýbrought or carried
any intoxicating liquor; or
that is like]y te bappea ?
Hon. Mr. POWER.

JUNE 11, 1908
JUNE
Supposlng
,Hou. Mfr. CLORAN-It is.
the county of Carleton were a temperance
county, and I went ta a grocer ln Ottawa
and ordereci lîquor to be sent ta me ln the
caunty.
Suppose I dld flot know that It
was a temperance county, being a stranger
ln tihe place, or the clerk fram whom I
bouglit it dld flot know Carleton was a
temperance county, even thougli the employer had given Instructions flot ta send
lquar Into a temperance county lie would
be liable.
Han. Mr. CAM'PBELL-Tben lie should
flot sell liquor ta be sent ln that way.
Han. Mr. CLORAN-The very fact of a
cierk sending liquor lnto a teniperance
caunty, whether knowingly or not, makes
the principal responsible under the Bill.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middiesex)-He would
flot keep that clerk very long.
Hon.
kuows
for the
Hon.
sense.

'-nI.
that
acts
Mr.

BAIRD-The b~on. gentleman
every employer is respoasible
of bis clerks.
CLORAN-Not ln a criminal'

Hon. Mr. BAIRD-Ali the license laws
of the country make the employer responsible for the acts of bis emiployees if tbey
violate tbe law.

1115

1115
11, 1908
clause whereby Innocent parties may be
That la the pnincipie I
made ta suifer.
amn laying before the Hause and notbing
more.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I do flot
think the suggested arndment wauld serve
the purpase my bon. fniend bas ln view;
but apart trom that, tbe arndment Is bad.
The clause la mucli better ln its present
fonm.
We are bound ta pnotect thase counties which adopt the Act.
If It Is thein
wiil that na ilquor shauld be sohd ta the
peaple wltbln the county, they sbould be
pratected tram those outside wbo would
help ta vlolate the Act.
It bas been sald
tbat because yon cannat prevent people ln
Great Bnitaln or the United States sending
lîquar ta sucb counties, therefore we sbouid
give the saine permission ta manufacturers
and deaiers lu aur own country.
If we
cannot da aIl we would like. we sbould do
ail we can.
Let us exent aur power as far
as the arm of Canadian laiv will reacb. If
we do that, we do aur wbole duty. If we
cannot do more it la not aur fault; it is the
My bon.
condition of aur constitution.
friend says that the employer sbould not
be hiable. The employer is liable lu a
thousand ways under othier laws.
if I
ami driven ln my carniage by the agent of a
livery, the employer is responsible wbiife
bis driver Is on the box.

Hon. Mn. CLORAN-I aiu putting the
case of a respectable deaier.
He is made
lion. -Mr. CLORAN-That is a civil liaresponsible for the aets of bis clerks. Tbis
billty; ha would n ot be crhirnally liable.
clause sbould be s0 drafted tiiet there
would be fia doubt, wben It is lnterpreted.
Hon. '.%r. ROSS (M-\iddlesex)-He would
Hon. Mn. BAIRD-Your license law lu be hiable ta a penalty for any infraction af
If a person is iujured on a train
the' province of Quebec makes the employer the law.
throughi the act of an official of a railway
responsible for blis clerks.
If tha
company the campany 15 hiabla.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-I admit thiat for the principle Is adopted tbat an employer la
retail license men; but hiere Is a distiller or respansibla for an ernployee wbo vialatas
brewer or ivbolesale man wbo, witbaut any the iaw, be will gat a servant who will obey
concurrence ln the nct tbrough bis clerk, tha law.
sends liquor Into a temperance caunty. It
Han. Mr. 'McISWEENEY-We bave had
would be unfair ta render that man liable
to prasecution and Imprisoument. I would the Tampanance Act on the statut-bol< lu
The sanie the county of Wastmnoreland for 30 yeans.
say use the word 'knowingly.'
thing applies ta the second clause wbich w'e aud we bave had more drunkanness and
wili discuss later an. 1 arn merely dnaw- crime lu that 30 yaars than lu 50 yaars unWe liad hast year ln a
lng attention ta the tact that rail are open- der a licanse law.
lng tbe door ta prosecutions whilb shoulci place of 12,000 inhiabitants 300 arrests aud
Tbe yaar banat take place.
1 am not argulhg against convictions for drunkenness.
the principie of the Bill; I arn asking the fore we bad one for every forty inhabitants.
House not ta put on the statute-baok a Wa bave had a axurdar and a suicide and

1116

SENATE

SENATE
1116
two deaths fromn wood alcohol purchased these people who have brouglit la fliese Bis
from a druggist.
-1 few days ago an nnd voteti for themn.
Wheil they are conIndian andi a squaw weut to a druggist troffing the niembers of this House, why
andi bought 50 cents wortb of bay rum, do tbey not set them an exaxnple? Let the
drank it andi dieti froni the effects of It. I charcli educate the people.
Let there be
arn satisfieti that prohîibition is the very example and precept.
Thiat is the -way to
worst thing- we ever bati.
Take the coun- bring about the necessary reform-not by
ties that have the Scott Act in force In Nova a law sending a poor man to prison. Thiat
Scotia. They have' one arrest and convic- is a wrong principle.
llypocricy is the
tion for every 169 inhabitants.
In New word for that, anti aothing else.
The next
Brunswick we bave oxie ont of every 228 In clause says that you ýmay take it into your
ten ont of fourteen of our counties where own private house, anti yet you are laying
we have the Scott Act.
Ia Ontario where clown the cardinal prînciple here, thiat it is
tbey bave no Scott Act tbey have one for wrong to drink nny iatoxicating liquor; it
every 475.
Is wvrong to have it.
The resuIt is thxey
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They have local option. go to the drug store, anti Iuy Peruna anti
Hon. 'Mr. MeSWEENEY-In Quebec tbey other stuif w-lien they siionît eîther get
have one ont of every 575, whlch proves liquor legitimately or it sîjoulti be wiped
conclnsively that the places under a license out altogether. 1 do flot care about supporting legisiatioxi whieh the publie wvill
law are nauch more teniperate andi sober
ixot carry ont; but %ve wvreelz the homes, of
than places under the Canada Temperance
Act. La Ontario sorne years ago there were people by penitîgthimn to drink hay
runm anti that kimd of thing.
Lot Nova
30 counities under the Temperance Act, but
after a trial of three yenrs it was repealed, Scotia malze lier owvn laws anti miot force
anti aox there Is not one of them iiuder this them on another province timat is not askScott Act. In Inverness anti Cape Breton, lng for themn. Let themn get some chips
where they tried the Scott Act, they repeal- anti make a fire for themnselves ia Nova
Scotia, and place a littie sulphur on the
ed It because It was a perfect nuisance.
toi) of it If they want to. I think the Bill
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tlie hon, gentleman is vicions andti Int w-e simoulti bring in a
bas furnisheti the best possible argument Bill to repeal the Canada Teniperiuce Act.
that coulti be useti in support of the Bill
The amendient w-as lost on a division.
itself.
The Temperance Act was carrieti
Yens, 9; Nays, 25.
in a large number of counties la Ontario,
but there were so many ways of evnding lt
The subclause was adopted.
tbat it was a failure.
That has been the
On subcIause (di>,
fauît wlierever It 'bas been trieti.
Tbey
trieti it la Prince Edward Island and it
(d) deliver to any consignee or other persohl,
falct.
They repealeti It completely, and or store, warehouse, or keep for' delivery, aîî'y
ilitoxicating liquor so sent, shipped, bioughit
put la force an Act which they coulti carry or carried.
lnto operation.
This Bill lias been approv2. Paragraphs <c) anti (di) of thi.s section
ed by the legîsîniture of Nova Scotia un- shahl îot apply to aity initoxicating hiquor
sent, shipped, brought or
to ainy
animously.
0f course if this Bill cannot sQni or persons for his orcarried personal pertheir
or
be carried, they will probably adopt a law family use, exceDt it ho so sent, shippe<l,
brought or carrieti to hoý paici for iii tm~ch
just as tbey did ia Prince Edward Islandi county or city
to the personl delivering the
-an absolute lnw.
samne, his clerk, servant, or agent, or his mnasHon. Mr. POWER-That is right.
Hou. 'Mr. SCOTT-My hon. frienti says
that is right.
Under it liberty for private
individuals to receive or purchase liquor
would be completely takenl away.
Hon. Mr. DOINVILLE-I cannot agree
with what my hon. friend has saiti.
I
ivoulti lik-e to see an exaniple set to ail
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY.

ter or principal, if the person dehiv-ering it is
h:irnself a servant or agent.
Hon.

Mfr.

MclSWEENEY-L

shoulti

like

to asic the hon. minister tue meaning of
the words ' family use.'
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Lt is for the court
say.
Lt is for the use of the family.
Hon. Mr. POWER-That is
ordinary doctrine t0 lay down.

f0

an extraThe hion-

JUNE 11, 1908

1117

1117
JUNE 11, 1908
gentleumau is asked whiat a paragrapli 1 amrn ft against the Biil, but I svant a
mens, uud hie answvers that is for the reasouable measure, and 1 sliould like to
see It put lu such a shape thant it would
court to say.
command the respect of the courts.
Hou. M~r. SCOTT-He asks lui regard to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
family use.
question asked by the lion. gentleman from
Hou. Mr. POWER-I should like the lhon.
Halifax Is one that lias been puzzllng: a
gentleman from New Glasgow to tell us number of us for sonie tinie, ns to the real
wbat subelause 2 menus?
I interpret It to
iueaning of the clause.
Hon. Mr. McGI(EGOI-Tlie exception is men smply this: that the penalties luithat a man eau hiave it ia Lis owni bouse. posed by subelauses (c) and (d) sball net
The klnd and the use of it depend upon apply to persons wlîo bring liquors Into
what lie wants it for, but lie eau have It their county for their owu use, provided it
lu bis own family.
Lie pali for at the tiine of Its being. purIf. bowever. you go into an adhat
Hou. Mr. POWER---- is ail very well, chased.
joiniug eouuty and order liquor to lie sent
The
if these words stood by theuiselves.
clause says 1Except It bie so sent, shlpped, into a couuty wberc thie Scott Act is lui
brouglit or carried to be paid for lu sucli force, to lie pld for ou dclivery, tiien It
county or city to thie person deliveriug the becomes an offence. It is a capital clause.
I I must admit, for the seller. the distiller, or
saine.'
What is thec îueaning of tliat?
wholesale inrcliant xvho desîreq to carry
canot Juake it out.
on a cash business, because lie then eauHon. Mr. CLOItAN-ihe mneauiug is that not sell the liquor to lie sent to the parties
you canuot pay at tue receiving point, but to be pald for whien delivered.
I think it
you eau puy at the slîipping point, whieli mlght have a good effeet lu that respect.
Is au absurdity ln trade; and you are golng There are people who w-il! buy If they eau
You should iîot force be trusted for lt; tlhey Lave flot the money,
to block business.
aay set of men to pay for gonds before tliey and If they Lad the money they would flot
are dellvered, and that is w-bat you are buy It.
In that respect it w-ould Lie a
You are capital thlng to prevent people purcliasing
actualir doing under the clause.
forcing people to pay for goods before they liquor ou credit.
are delivered.
o.gn
h
o.M.YUGIthn
Hon. Mn. PER.IEY-That is a common
Is alisolutely rlght.
tblng.tleman
Hon. Mr. CLOItÂN-There la no use ln
putting ou tlie statute-bool, a p)rovision of
that klnd.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-You need not sel!
tlie goods.
'Hon. Mr. OIORAN-Tliat Is trivial. Here
Is a elass of men w-ho eau seli things ontside the eounty, mnedical men, druggists,
Here yon are going to change their
&e.
Whant are you
systém of doing business.
Here Is a muan 'who lias a
going to do?
quantlty of alcohol brouglit into a eounty
for manufacturlng purposes'Hon. Mr. SCOTT-You are entlrely
Tliat is provided for lu a subsewrong.
quent clause.

Hou. Mr. M.%cSM'EENEY-H-e eau stili buy
the liquor on credit, but it cannot be eeat
The reai reason is to preveut
iu C.O.D.
young men sending- for a case of liquor.
The subelause w-as adopted.
On suliclauise 3, paarpi(ci.
3. No act doue ini violation of the
of this section shall le rendered
reasoa of(c> any liceuse foir -etailing on
steamnboat or other v-esse1, wiue,

provisions

l'awful by
boar-d any
ale, beer,

forter, cider or other vinons or spirituous

Hon. Mr. WILSOX-Might I ask the piromnoter of the Bill If this clatuse prohibits
eider?
Hou. Sir NIACKENZIE BOWELL-Dou't
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I do not see wby you think you are going too far when you
yen sliould eoîupel any ordinary iindividual put ln cider, because there is eider that
to pay for goods before tbey are delivered. does net contain four per cent of alcohiol.

1118

SENATE

They have to put alcohol tt
hardship.
it to prevent fermentation, and la that case
it would be hetd to contain a certain amouat
of alcohol, and It does appear to me this
clause "wili work harshly on the manufacturer of cider.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (.Niddtesex)-I do flot
quite understaad what the promoter of the
Subclause
Bilt means by subsection (c).
3 says:
No aot doue in violation of the provisions of
this section shall be rendered lawful by reason of- license for retailing on board any
(c) any
wiae, spirituous liodfsiedsteamship oror other vinons or ale, beer, porold-ashinedter, cider, other vessel,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-ln the
way of maktng- eider, there was fermenta- quors.
The most serions drinks, brandy, rum and
tion, and Up to a few years ago it had a
0ffermntaionanduowwhiskey are compreheuided under (b), and
certin moun
appie juice just as they Put lie goes ou to aiueid (c) by saying 'Any
tbey put Up
Up grape juice. It is more properly caiied ticense for retaiiing on board any steamAnd
boat or other vessel, wine, aie, &c.'
appie juice and not eider.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It is then he exempts brandy, wbiskey and rum.
In clause (b) lt ls proibtted, and lu clause
called ta the market nou-alcoboic eider.
How does be expiaixi
t not be (c) itl s attowed.
Ul
Hon. Mr. M IL NOr is it prohibited altogether?
'fer- that?
well to amend tbis clause and say
Honl. '.%r. SCOTT-It is covered by the
mented eider'?
case of preceding, section.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-In the
Hon. Mr. ROSS (M-Niddlesex)-Wby Is it
the Scott Act the name of a drink is not
It is the aicohiol it con- omitted la this section?
the crucial test.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I think it is a mistake
There could be no prosecution for
talas.
It is the prop~ortion lu th revising.
setling sweet cider.
of alcohol contained wtiich setties the matHon. '.%r. ROSS-Subclalse (c) 'withdraws
ter.
I think (c) and
enacted by (b).
Hon. ',%r. WILSON-I think, the hou. powers
emd ohroie
saying ()sol
leader of the House is mistakeu lu
Lt being- six o'clock the Chairman left the
I
there is no cider made in the country.
know for a certainty that lu sections of Chair.
After Recess.
western -Canada very large amounts of
eider are made. Suppose, for instance,
The House resuiled ln Comimittee of the
there should be a Scott Act couuty, and
a very large ainount of~ Wtiole cousideration of Bilt (WW) An Act
people are making
Act.
eider, and some of that eider is kept for a to anend the Canada Temperafice
(lu the Comm!ttee.)
few days and they send it ont froin the
factory to sonie Scott Act county, and lieagree wîth the hon.
fore lt arrives there it becoines more or -Hon. ',\r. BEIQUE-I
'Middlesex, thýat the words
I want to know w-ho is to say senator froi
less acîd.
hc
n
zhciaeakdt leadd
whether it is alcoholic or w-hether it is pure
old Act. would Imply that there
Tlie Nvere in tbe
M'ho ls to lie the judge?
eider?
'lie sale of
min shipping it may bli aule(l ni for sell- finay b lticense isperinitting ael wtthin the
not at
brandy whichi
a
Hemyhvet
igSour eider.
paragrapli (C)
beavy fine when tiiere is no intention of pnrview of the Act. aud as
We have auv apart froin the w-ords suggested to bie addbis part at al].
fraud on
(d), I suquantity of cider manufactured ia Ontario. ed. is a repetition of subsection
is going to work a gest that paragrapli (C) lie struck out.
and I thtnk this clause
Hon. Sir MACHEN7T1P. BOW1LL.

There are factories lu Ontario where eider
Is manufactured whieb is flot aicoboiic,
maatfactured speciaily, aad ttiere are some,
1 have eider ln my
1 think, la Quebec.
bouse that I purchased iast fait, and it ls
just as pure to-day as it was when 1 got it.
It Is Dot alcobotic, and it is sold as non-l
Under tiais clause you prevent
aicohotic.
If it bas not a certhe use of that eider.
tain perceatage of aicohol, it witt flot be
considered ulcohiotte.
Hon. Mr. licIILLAN-You cannot have
fermentation wtthout aicohol.

JUNE 11, 1908

1119

JUNE i:i~, 1908

1119

Hon. Mr. POWER-Âpparentiy there are
Hon. Mn. ROSS (Middlesex)-Tbat would
two classes of lîcenses granted for selling
make tbat A-ct consistent.
on steamers. If there Is any doubt about
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I menu the para- It, the clause liad better stand.
graph (CI of subsaction 3 of clause 1 bc
struck out.
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-Then I withdraw my
th#, amendment.
Hon. '.nI. CLORAN-That allows
tamperance people to drink eider
Paragraph (C) was adopted.
Hon. '.\r. BEIQUE-N1%o.
On paragraph (B),
Hou. '-\r. CLORA-N-If it doés not, I
Hon. Mr. CLORýAN-If this paragraph
shiail move otherwlse. If we are going
carnies, I arn In faveur of It. We have
to pusb temperance to the extrema, pre-worst vendons of aiv-anting tbe use of cider, I want to know It. in our druggists the
cobolic liquors. There is to-day on the
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-It lias been lu the market a large assortment of wvlnes 'and
statutes for 30 years and the boa. gentle- liquors not known under tbeir real names.
man is the first man I bave bieard object Wberever there is a temperance comto It. It is quite undarstood that unless munity ail these wines whIch are supit is intoxicating eider, the A4ct does not posed to be banlshed, are sold openly
apply. -Nowadays there is w-bat Is called in' violation of the law. Ten or twelve
apple itice whichi sometimes goas under years ago, wben the Liberal governthe name of cider, wbicb is nîot termiented. ment -was ln power, they tried to stop
This prov ision al)plles to intoxicating eider. that sale and succeeded to a large extent.
A large proportion of tbe icider in past We stopped the sale of a great many of
years was intoxlcating.
these so-called wines. The hoeu senator
'-\r. CLORA-N-Tou would have fromi Halifax mentioned Peruna. 1 tinHon.
to drink a bushel of It to get under the derstand Peruna contains over 40 per cent
of alcohol, whlle ln temperance counties
Influence.
they are nlot allowed teoesal aven lager beer
Hon. '.\r. SCOTI-Not at aIl.
unless it contains under two par cent of
n),ar It.
alcohol. Now here are wines &old lu ail
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Pretty
oun drug stores, and drug stores to-day
Hon. Mîr. CLORA-N-I hiope the hon.
are almost as numerous as saloons, and I
gentleman will not consent to the change. know people who are ashamed to go into
Hon. Mn. MeGREGOR-It is better to a saloon or retal groeery and buy a bottle
leave the clause as it stands, and It cau of wine, who go to the druggist and buy
these wines. Now If thîs clause 'any license
be takan up at the next meeting.
of auy other description whatsoaver'1 means
Hon. -Mn. YOUNG-It looks lik.- a rapethat thase druggists shaîl nlot have the privitition.
lege of selling these wines, I amn ln faveur
Hon. Mr. POWEll-No, it la niot a repe- of the clause.
Hou. Mn. LOUGHEED-Tbere may be
a class of license den]ing witb such liquors
as are specifiee in paragrapb (C) as distinct
frein those xnentioned lu paragraph (D).
Tbat Is to say, tbe license iay lie sufficiently coniprebensive to cover ail in paragraph (Bý. wbile it niay be limited -in panagrapb (CI. I tbink tbat is the objeet of the
clause.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbie bion. g-entlemain
is quite riglit about that.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It Is alre.ady the
law.
Hon. Mr. CLORA-N-But they overcome
tbe law so easily. It should lie stated lu
the law so clearly, tbat no mattar what
naine may ha given to the liquld if it contains over two per cent of alcolhol it should
only be sold under licansa.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There is a Bil
wbhicb deals with drugs now before the
House of Commons wbicbi will cover that.

1120

SENATE

1120

SENATE

lion. Mr. BELQUE-Thrle Hlonse of Comn- tlis Is nîerely a sufficlent element of alcobol to l)iesetve tliem. If you bave xîot a
mons is dealing with that question now.
certaini quantity of alcoliol lu these heverHon. '.%r. CLOIIAN-M'e are not supposed ages they wvlll destroy tbeiselves ln a very
tii wvat for the Ilouse of Cominons. God short time. If you accustomi our people 10
knows w-heu they wilit deal w-ith that Bill. drink liglht aies, suchi as they have iii 'GerIf tbis clause makes it cleat and precise that mny, «a lutle heavier la Eagl.and, and if
Do druggist shaln have a right to seil with- you accustoîu ont people to drink light
out license, drugs containing more than two w-ies sncb as tbey have lu France, ltaly
and a hiaîf or three pet cent of alcohol, then and Germauly, you wIll prevent tbeim froin
1 amn in favour of IL As il IS 110w, the acquiring a baste for strong alcobollc beverdruggist selis ns miuchl iquor wltbout ai eam-es; but under this Bill yon do not evenl
license as bis neiglibour whio keeps a Saloon. give theni a chance bo have a glss of cool
That is an omnibus clause whichi takes in lager 0o1 ««iiot stimuler day. Lt wvould take
lcenses of any description whatsoever, and almost balf a barrei of it to lutoxicate a
1 amn talkiug on beialf of temperance, be- mnan. This is an exbraordinary step on because 1 kuow f rom actual experience in the liaif of ont friends w-ho wish 10 taise the
courts that our druggists are doing as inuch level of Society. I amn with theml lu that
barmn as the saloon keepers. As I stated ohjeet but extremlists nieyer carry any
before. the governument tricd to de-il w'ith w-eight iii bUe long rin, iu the long rua virtue
the evil. but the drug-gists chang-ed the stands Ilu the middle and you wanit common
namnes of the articles legislated against and S'cis@ lu your laws.
Because whisky and
are selling liquor ns before. So that the rum brandy and aicohol commit ravages
law should be made to rend that no liquid Ili Society, which we ail admit, that does
contaiuling more thani 2j or , per cent of îlot prove that a little aie or lager will do
alcohiot hould bc sotd wilhout license fromn it, and %Ylyinclude ail these lighb beverages
the goverumeut, and if there is no license iu your prohibitory laws ? There is a point
to be obtained ln the county or lu the dis- for legisiators to considet . but they do ïîot
trict w-here they do business, they sbonld coasider lb. Tbey thilnk that because thcy
flot selI il at ail, and if the promnoters of plut a iaw on the statube book they are goiii.
the Bill waut to be fair, they sliould sec to lessen the ei.
But the people wIli not
that this difficully iu the sale, and lu the stand for extreme legisiatioti.
Take 100
protection of the sale of liquor should be p)eople: 51 of thiem vote for tee-totaiism, and
met by parliament. I am in favour of a and 49 vote againsl it. Ont of the 49, 40
Bill the object of wvhich is to protect one0 observe tUe iaw,' and ont of the 50 w-ho v-ote
class of society against the other who are for tee-totalism there are twenty-4Ive who
Infringers of their riglits; but I ask them, are, I w-on't say alw-ays dtunk, but nearlY
after admitting the principle. that proper always drnk.
and fait menuls should be taken to attain
Hon. Mr. WATSON. That 15 too higli an
thiat end. That is miy position, whicb Is
plain and clear. If il is necessnry, I1shahl average.
move au amendaient 10 this clause and
lion. '.\r. CILORAN-Btiiug it dowil lu 10
mnake it ldeat that no person with or witb- per- cent, and the lion, gentleman ouglht 10
ont a license shahl bave the righit to selI ýno'v f rom Uis experience in the ivest. w-be-e
liquids of any kind with ovex- tu-o or three people do not gel driunk on alcohiol, but ou
pet cent of alcohiot lu it. Then we will patent inedlicines, whicU are ruination 10
unlerstand one aflotier. unr teml)eranlce body and sont. The hou. gentlemani bas
frhends onglit to know thiat lu excluding seen il, hie must know it and hoe cannot
fromi the beverages of the people sucli lighit deny il. If ont temperance men w-ouid only
aies as lager. whieh are, supposed to con- be moderate in their views-hoy thinik they
tain at most fromn twvo to three and a bal£ axe-if they wonld permit this country the
per cent of alcohol is not couducive 10 teim- enjoymient of some of God's gif Is, but no,
perauce. The strongest and best lagers there is 20 pet cent wvbo use spirits 011 tbe
*coming from the United States contaîn tbiree quiet. they w-nl 10 bar out cider. Wlîv iiot
and a baîf to four per (eut of alcohol. and prohibil ginger aie? Theme is nottîing more
rotten thani creani soda and ginge- aIe for
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

1121

JUNE 11, 1908
JUNE 11, 1908
the huinan systern. tIt is a detrirnent to
the health of the people.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-What about Adarn's
wine ?
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN. He did flot have
any. I amn not going to base my argument
on the experience of the anclents. I amn
baslug It on the experience of this country
and of Europe and of ail warm clirnates.
Warm climates cannot entertain the principle
of prohibition. Their rivera and lakes wll
flot aiiow the people to live on cold water.
Their wnter la too warrn and too putrid.
They must have wine to live on In Spain,
Itaiy, France, Gerrnany, Corsica and Bel;gluin. In England do you tbiuk the people
could live on the water that runa through
the littie canais and rîvers ? they mnust
bave their beer. Prohibition la not based
-on Christian needs or a Christian desire to
reforin the human race. It la flot a priaeiple a mann could ndhere to ou account of
any argument that should make Christianity triumph lu regard to our morals.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The bon. gentleman la
wrong in bis illustration in regard to
The rnortality la France from
France.
drinking ls greater than ln any country la
the world. The drinking of light wines bas
led to stronger drinks, and it has gone further. to absinthe.
Hon. _Mr. CLORÂN. Not to light wines,
but to the absinthe habit which ls a mnlady,
and which the present republican goverument la trying to weed out.
Tion. Mr. DAVID-The grape juice.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-That ls oniy. a misnomer for wine which wvill intoxicate the
saine as any other wîne. It is sicoholle
just as mnuch as nnythiug else. If you
take two or three glasses of it, it wili have
the same effect as good strong brandy, and
1 would rather drink-well. I won't say
whiat my preferences are, but to corne down
to the present turne, the most civilized couDtries are obliged to drink wine owiug to
their Insufficient supply of dlean aud pure
wnter. Take ltaly for instance. Who has
ever visited Rorne, Veuice, 'Milan, or nny
of these places, la the niontha 0f June,
July. August and September. and drink the
ýwiter ?
71

1121

Sir MACKENZIE
been ln those places.
Hon.
water?.

Mr.

BOWELL-I

have

you

drink

CLORÂN-Did

Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-No.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-There la haif the
human race obliged, under Divine Providence for the sake of their health, for their
protection, to live on wine, and we ln
Canada are golng to teach the rest of the
worid how we are to become moral by act
of parliarnent.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We are legisiating for ourselves.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-We are legislating
for n arnali portioii of the people ln Nova
bcotia, of whorn I wish to take good care.
You have sait fish down thiere, and you
should drink water, but you do flot. I
was told there was a littie town in New
Brunswick where there were only six
or seven bouses-and where the Importation of liquor amounted to three thousand
dollars-a temperance town in the backwoods, which shows that the people wiiI
have liquor. Now, if you would allow them
to indulge ln light drinks such as ciderthat la not such a very strong drink, especially ln Nova Scotia where they have appies by the million going to rot on the
ground. Why not turn them into good
apple cider-not apple juice. Apple juice
is good as long as 'it ls well preserved.
What we want la champagne eider. That
invigorates and gives courage to, a mn to
go on with his work-not apple juice and
grape juice, which are simply misnomers
for alcoholie beverages. If 1 could find
a seconder, I would push my amendinent,
which would be as follows:
Âny license of any other description whatsoever, or any persona aelling liquor containing more than 2j to 3 per cent of alcohol,
shal orne under the provisions of tis Act.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I will second the
nedment.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I do not wish to
take much turne of the House; after the
horrible example just set us, we have had
enough. Referexice was made to the west.
Iu Manitoba we have probably the most
stringent license law la Canada on our

1122

SENATE

1122

SENATE

statnte-book to-day. We provide for local
option on a majority vote, and they provide
tbat no liquor should lie taken in where it
is ln force, even by a person for his own
private use. We have local Option ont
there, and flot the Scott Act. The Local
Option Law Is carried here by a majority,
and we go further than this Bill, because
we do not allow a man to take liquor Into
a local option district for his 0w-n use, and
for the last two or three rnonths people
have been hield up on higbw-ays goinig into
local option districts, and constables appointed hy the provincial goveranent have
searched themn to see if thiey had any liquor
on their persons, and two men recently
w-ere put ln jail for having liquor in their
possession.

Hon. Mr. POWER-Does the bon, gentleman aI)prove of that?
Hlon. Mr. WATSON-I amn not saying
w-bether I approve of it or niot, but I do0
say where you have local option you want
to carry ont the conditions of the Act. This
Bihl is asked for by an unanimous resolution
of the Nova Scotia House, and 1 understand that ia Prince Edward Island they

have the Scott Act ail over.
Hou. Mr. POWER-.No.
Hon. '-%r. WATSON-WeIl. they liave
p)rohibition, and I understand that lu Nova
Scotia teii ont of the eig-hteen counties la

that province are under the Scott Act, and
if you are going to have the Scott Act la

a position to lie enforced, it seerns to me
the provisions in this Bill, whicb provide
.against aur persons selling liquor in a local
option district, are lu the riglit direction
to stop the sale of liquor because you are
bound to have blind pigs where people caîî
obtain liquor ln the county. This Bill lias
been asked for ; it lias been carefully drawn
to meet the requirements of the people of
Nova Scotia, 1 thiuk it is a good provision.
I may say that a Bill bas now been introduced lu the House of Commous which wll
corne before us, lirniting the amount of alcobol to be allowed lu patent mnedicines.

Hon. Mr. ROBERTSON.-We have had

years, and w'e found that it did a great
deal of good. It lessened the sale of liquor
ln the province very much, but we founid
it difficuit to enforce the Act in Charlottetown and that xnunicipality abolishied the
Scott Act and went in for prohibition. The
reason why they went in for prohibition
w-as in order that we might bave the one
law ail over the Island. The Scott Act was
repealed in the outlying couaties, and -we
adopted prohibition ail over the Island and
we found it more easy to enforce, but I
want to say thiat whie w-e had the Scott
Act in force it did a great deal of good and
stopped to a large extent the sale of liquor
and stopped drunkenness ia Prinice Edw-ard
Island. I desire to give tlis testirnony ln
favour of the Scott Act. 1 caunot see w-bell
the legisiature of Nova Scotia lias asked
tbis l)arliarnent to arnend the Scott Act,
in order that they shall be iii a position to
enforce it, %vhy w-e sliould refuse to do
so. A few of the couaties in Nova Scotia
ask for this ;I do not see w-hy they shonld
îlot get it. 1 do flot see w'hy outside colinties, whiere they are perînitted to seli
liquor. should impose their traffic ou couintics that do flot want It.
Hou Mr. FERGUSON-I confirm the
observations made by my hon. friend w-ith
regard to our experieuce in Prince EdNvard
Islanîd. Trhe change froin the Scott Act t o
prohibition w-as inalinly because siieli Ilvisions as tlîis w-ere nlot to be fouri hl the
Scott Act. and another reason w-as that the
Scott Act did not provide machinery for its
enforcement, but when tbe province got its
own provincial law it established machiinery for the enforcemneat of the laNv, and
w-e got an Act that applied to the wliole
province which w'e could. enforce. I think
the cause of temperance bas been advaniced
very considerab]y since the Scott Act w-as
exchaaged for prohibition. 1 thiak I arn
safe in sayiug that the province of Prince
Edw-ard Island occupies a position to-day
wiltl regard to the liquor trattic equal to
any part of the North Amierican continent,
and I thinik 1 înight go beyond that. I do
niot say that ail drlnking is stamped out. 1
arn sorry to say that it is not. but the difference betw-een the state of the coniunity
to day and wbat it was in the old days un-

the Scott Act lu Prince Edward Island for ,der license or free liquor is most pronouncea great many years, I thiak probably 20 ed. Ail that we are doing now-and I direct

Hon. Mr. WATSON.

J UNE 11, 1908

1123

JUNE 11, 1908

1123

my hou. friend's attention to it-is %ve are
passing legisintion for sucb counties as
choose to adopt the Act. In one word. this
law is flot applied to Prince Edward Island,
because that 'Island bas put ltself under Its
own prohibition law. It Is flot app]ylng
to Montreal, because It bas flot that Act
and Is flot Iikely to adopt It. It only nppiles to those places that choose to adopt
IL Is It rigbit to leave people who want
prohibition »no matter how strong the sentiment may be and how willing they may be
to carry It out, to the mercy of outaide
places wbo have iess ndvnnced texnperance
Sentiment, who can send In the liquor and
can make ev-ery express agent la the country an agent to sel] liquor ? This wlll prevent that practice and it will give the people la those coastituencies that want the
Scott Act a chance to adopt it. Wby should
we Ilot give thein a chance ? 'Leuve the
communities who do flot want the Scott
Act to worl, out their own problem ia the
inatter of the liquor traffic, but give the
p)eop)le wbo want the Scott Act a fuir chance
lu their own constituuncy and do not have
their operations swanmped by outsidu Influences.
Hou. Mr. CLORAN-This la the amundment I propose to paragrapli (d):
-No person selling drugs or liquors of any
kind shail do so with more thaz three per
cent of aicohol iu thoir composition.
Now, if that is not la fuvour of the Scott
Act I shouid like to know what la.
Hon. MIr. LOUGHEED-Do es my hou.
friend men wben be says nicobol la their
composition, nîcohol ln the seller or in the
lîquid?
Hlou. Mr. CLOIAN-If my hon. frieud
uuderstood the Euglisli Iangii.e, be would
understnnd thnt it is the composition of the
liqnid that Is meant.
1 defy the hou, gentleman to find ny defect lu the clause.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The bon. member
shonld not bring up the question on this
Bill.
It is the subject of another Bil]
which wlll come to us lu n few days, and
It requires an expert knowledge of drug8.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I am preparud to
meet the legisintion from the House of Commous whun it comes, but we are deahing
here with an Important Bill, nand I want It
to bu as effective as possible.
I toid the

b'on. gentleman from New Glasgow thut I
was wlth hlm ln the carryiug out of this
Bill, and we should make our clauses se
clear as to the responsibility of those wbu
violate the Act that the courts will fInd nu
difficulty ln interpreting them. Paragraph
(d) Is very Indistinct.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It bas been on the
statute-book for 30 years.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The legisiation of
30 years ugo Is bebind the age and we want
to Improve IL. I do flot want the judgus
to say that our laws are no good.
My
ameadment Is as clear as A B C.
Hon. Mr. ]ScM.NULLEN-I should like to
know If the bon. gentleman's wife were
taken III and ber physician prescribed medicine contaning 10 per cent of brandy or
some other alcohoic liquor, what would he
tbiuk if the dru'-'lst who filled that prescription should be fined for doing s0? Yet
under bis ameudmeut lie wouId reuder the
druggist lu that case lia hie to a fine.
Hou. Mr. SU LLIVAN-A doctor can prescribe liquor.
lIon. Mr.
cILA-nwhat
principie doua the hou. gentleman base that 3
per cent as the maximum quantity of alcobol that ought to bu lu the prescription?
Hou. Mr. CLORAN-In many countries,
especially ln the province of Quebec, lager
beer, eider and other beverages whiclb do
not contain more than 2 per cent of alcobol
are snpposed to be temperance drinks. It
is a very narrow margin, because lu nearly
ail those bev'erages there must be alcobol
to keup them pure and fresb, but If tbey
contaîn mor&than 2 per cent they caunot
be sold except nder license.
I propose
to go one step) further, lu the interest of our
friund, and say 3 per cent.
If I sald 1
per cent It would be out of order, and I
wouid give tbem the privilege of selling
Ilqnids with at least 3 per cent of alcohol.
Sncb beverages would flot bu intoxLcating,
atnd our temperance friends ougbt to admit
that people who want a glass of nie should
bu permltted to have it .wltbout being considured enemies of aoclety. Lut ur friends
put forth their efforts to diminisbing the
number of liceuses, and they wlll accompliali more good.
Lut ur pastors preacbi
the benefits of temperance more than they

1124
1124

SENATE

SENATE

do, and they wll accomplish mare than we
This Bill le calcucan by enacting laws.
lated ta do Injustice ln making emplayere
responsîble crlminaiiy for the actions of
That le nat a fair printheir emplayees.
I
ciple ta Intraduce lu aur legisiatian.
'want ta go further than the hon. senatar
fram New Glaegow, and pravide that druggists shall not have the right ta seil liquida
of any klnd, for beverages, If they cantain
mare than 3 per cent of alcohol. We bave
Institutions ta-day such as Sohmer Park
under the contrai of aur provincial law,
that are aiiawed ta, seil even an Sundaye
lager beer, subject ta the condition that It
must nat contain aver 2 per cent af alcahal.
BOUCHERVILLE-I have
the amendment, If the hon.
add tlie words 'unlese on
of a physician.'
Hon. '.%r. ELLIS--I raise a point of order:
the amendment proposed by the bon. member is nat nt ail pertinent ta subsection 3.
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-My bon. frîend
tramn Victoria division will see that hie
amendaient lias no reievancy whatever ta
the paragrapli.
The CHAIRM1AN-The point of order le
Wel taken.
Hon. '-\r. CLORAN-I appeal tram the
I should like ta
decicion of the chiair.
know on wliat principie the h on. gentleman
rules my amendment ont of order.
Hon. Mr. De
na abjection ta
gentleman will
the prescription

Hon. Mr. TALBOT, tramn the committee,
reported that an appeai had been made
tram his decielan.
The Speaker havhlg put the question to
the Bouse, the decision of the Chairman
was sustained.
The commlttee resumed.
Paragraph (d) was adopted.
On clause 2, paragrapli (a),
-Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I call attention to
the tact that section 127 Is a re-production,
ln a great measure, of the old Act and
takes no account et ail of the exception
which has been Introduced by subclause 2
of clause 1 of this Bill.
2. Paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section
shail not apply ta any intoxicating liquor sent,
shipped, brought or carried ta any persan or
persans for hie or their personal or family
use, except it be s0 sent, shii>ped, brought or
carried ta be paid for in such county or city
ta the persan delivering the same, his cleik,
servant, or agen, or his master or principal,
if the persan delivering it ie himseif a servant or agent.
This exception le made ta the operation
of the Act, and the new section 127 would
taire no accaunt af the exception and it unnecessarily repeate the same warding as la
section 117. 1 therefare suggest that It be
well ta etrîke out paragraphe (a), (b). (c) and
(d). It wauld have the same effect as was
Intended by section 127 as printed, and respect the ameadment embodied ln section

I117.

The CHAIRMAN-Because it does not
pertain ta the paragrnph at ail. -1some

Han. Mr. CLORAN-It is about timue for
one ta say co.

Han. Mr. BEIQUE-If the han. member
for Victoria rends the first i»rtion of tlie
clause, lie wl cee that the amendaient is
not germane ta that subclause.
bion. gentleman
IR A-fthe
The C
will makze hic motion ta appeal fram tlie
chair I will have it put ta the Bouse.
Hon. '-\r. CLORA N-I nppenl on the
graund that paragraph (d) saye any licence
of any description, wliatsaever, and I go
on the ground that there le no druggict'
doing business ln any community that le
not required ta have a licence.
Bon. Mr. W9ýILSON-I rise ta a point of
Tliere lins been a ruhing whîcli lias
order.
been appealed againet. Tlie Speaker cliauld
lie callec inl ta decide tlie point of order.
lIon. Mr. CLORAN.

Boa. Mr. POWEll-If the -lion. senator
tram De Salaberry will cansider a moment.
he wIil cee tliat thie clause le not open ta
the objection lie takes. The w'ords 'ln vialation of part 2 of this Act,' ehut out the
exception, because thie exception is flot in
vioation of part 2, whicli permits tlie purchase of liquar for famuly use. As a matter of clearnees, it le better ta preserve the
forai we have berc and not oblige a persan
rending section 127 of the Act ta go back
ta 117 ta cee what it meant. 1 think the
balance of convenience is leavlng the clause
as it le.
H
-on. Mr. BEIQUE-My point does nat refer ta the conveaience of it. Section 117 is
the first section of the second part of the

JUNE 11, 1908

1195

JUNE 11, 1908
1125
in the daytime such dwelling
search
Act, and you bave juat amended section 117 rant tostore, shop, waréhouee, outhouse, garbouse,
te excopt frein the operation e! paragrapb den, yard. croit, vessel, building, or other
c and d, the paragrapb meatloned In place or places, for suoh intoxiostîng liquor,
saine or any part thereof is there
subsection 2 e! section 117, and now If the and if thebsing the saine before in.
fouiid, te
now section 127 were adopted, it would
2. Âny information under this section may
warrant unany
wipe eut altegether the exception contalned b. in form 'Q and b. in search 'R.'
form,
section may
2 of section 117. If the bon. der th.is
la subsoction
gentleman will take the trouble of cemparHou. Mr. POWER-This clause la one
Ing subsectiens a, tb, c and dl, la sectien which deserves the consideratien cf the
117. with paragrapha a, b, c and il, la the committee. Section 136 of the Temperance
new section 127, ho wlll find that ene la a Âct as It stands now aliows a search warreproduction of the other, and tbat te the rant te be laaued on a deciaration under
paragrRphs c and dl, la section 117 tbere eath that there la reasonable cause to susla an exception moatloned la subsection pect that intoxicatlng lquor ls kept for sale
2, wbereas thore la ne exception ln the. In violation o! part 2 of the Temperance
otber.
Act. This amendment proposes to go furHon. Mr. POWER-The Act must be tbere than that and add, 'Or ls stored,
done la violation ef part 2 e! the section. warehoused or kept for delivery.' There
In erder te se. wbnt that la. 1 turn back te was a tradition-lt ls only a tradition now
section 117 and subclause 2 o! that new -that an Englishman's home was bis castie.
section says*that paragraphs c and d of tbe Under this Act, on a mere affidavit from
section shall net appîy te any iat6xlcatlng any one to the affect that ho suspects that
liquor sent breught or 'carriod te any par- some one bas liquer stored on his promises,
son fer bis family use. Consequontiy, the a search warrant may bo Issuod to search
persen who shipa or brings the liquer thot the bouse of the supposed offender. If tbe
way for bis famlly use la net acting la vio- person wbo lives Ia the bouse bas, say, a
lation of part 2 o! the Act, and section 127 case cf Ilquor lnteaded for borne consumption, that liquor Is lhable te be seized under
will net. apply to hlm.
a search warrant. I really tblnk that the
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex). I thlnk tbe
temperance people mlght have been satishon. senator f rom Halifax la rlgbt la bis
fied witb the law as It ls. Issuing a searcb
luterpretatien of the law. My first Impreswarrant to examine the bouse o! possibly
sion was that the bon. member !romn De
a very respectable porson on the chance
Saiabarry bad ralsed a very important point. that they might find a case cf liquor thero,
The punlshment la for a violation e! the
la something that la quite indofonsibie, and
iaw, Ibut It la ne violation of the law te
to wbich I tbink this House sbould net be
Intreduce liquer fer famlly use under cera party.
tain conditions. Therefere, lt dees net apply. I tbiak the bon. sanater from De SalaHlon. Mr. CLORAN-- quite agree witb
berry will see that it la right, on further the hon. senator frein- Halifax on that point.
censideration.
If our temperasuce people were more med,
Paragraph (a) w-as adepted.
erate In their demanda, tbey would have
One clause permits a
more sympatby.
On clause 3
hereby re- bousebolder to take Inte bis bouge ail the
3. Section 136 of the said Act is
pealed and the following aubetituted therefor: lquer ho wisbes, and another clause per136. If it is provod upon oath before any mita an officer te go and searcb tbe bouse
judge of the sessions cf the peace, recorder,
police magistrats, stipendiary magistrats, two for it, and, if be fanda It, te pualsh the
He Iras a rlgbt tn stock bis
justices of the peace, or any magistrats hiav- householder.
ing the power or authority of two or more cellar the same as our atatesmen do wben
Justices of the peaoe, thest there is reasonable
cause to suspect that aay int4)xicêting liquer they get la pewer-tbey stock their cellara
is kept for sale in violation ai part IL. cf this fer the benelit o! comlng generatiena. This
Act. or of the Tom perance Âct of 1864, or is law gays te tbe people in counties wbere
6tored, warehoused, or kept for delivery, i
violation of part IL. of tb±is Act, in any dwel- the Temporance Act la la force, yen may
ling bouse, store, shop, werohouse, outhouse, bring la ail the liquer yen like, but in angardon, yard, crcft, voseel, building, or other *other clause it gays 'We wlll aend a policeplace or places. snch officer may grant a war-

1126

SENATE

SENATE
1126
Hon. '-%r. POWER-I protest against the
man to take It from you.' They have the
right to search flot only warehouses but aiso leader of the House saying that time 15
being wasted. This Is au important meadwelling houses.
sure. atnd it bas been discussed la a fairly
Hon. Mr. SOO>TT-Tbey have ail that reasonable way, and I do flot think
it is
110w.
rlgbt for the leader of the House to fiake
Hon. Mr. GLORAN-The bon. senator such reflections on the coLaittee.
f rom Halifax says they have not.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-There la very lîttie difHon. Mr. SGOTT-Tbe section of the Act ference really between the proposed amendprovides for ail that la contained in this ment and the old Act. I tbought I underclause, and the only new words that are stood the Secretary of State to read the old
clause, which says that even if there is a
added are ' warehouse and store.'
Hon. Mr. POWER-I regret that 1 do not suspicion that liquor le kept for sale in vioappear to bave the facuity of inaklng muy lation of part 2, there miglit be a searcli
meaning clear. 1 pointed out that In ad- warrant issued. The words are 'kept for
dition to the provision of the Canada Teni- dellvery.' In the new Act we bave made
perance Act which is, where there la rea- delivery a violation. Delivery or sale would
sonable cause to suspect that intoxicating iakes it clearer, perlbaps, but delivery under
liquor is kept for sale, a search warrant this Bill would be a violation of the law,
may be issued, this Bill proposes to extend It does flot matter whether it is sold or not.
the power of senrch to, the case -wbere liquor If it is kept or stored or warehoused in vioIs stored. wvareboused or kept for delivery, lation of the Act, it is an offence. It mnay.
and I said that under the word ' stored' be kept stored for private use for aniy lengtbi
you migbt include the case of a stock of of time, but if it is flot so kept in violation
liquor whlch a man had put ln for bis own of the Act there is no harai coming to the
person on wliose premises the liquor may
private use.
be found. We are givlng full liberty to the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. ýIt says for sale. rigbt of private use or storage elther in the
Hon. Mr. POWER. No It does not say bouse, garden or anywhere else, aud we are
only proposing to punishi when that storage
thiat.
isa in violation of the Act.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mr. McNiSWEENEY-Would a bonded
s lutheold
-Hou Mr POWR-Tat
Hon.Mr.
OWERTba is n th o1 warehouse come under thuat ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes and in the new.
Hon. Mr. POWER. It does uot say 'kept
for sale.'
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It Is In violation
of part 2 of the Act.

Hon. Mr. DONMILLE-I sbould like to
ask mv bion. friend what a croft is ?
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Mlddlesex)-It is a shed.
A crofter is a man who lives In a shack.
Hon. Mr. CLORAJ-What Is a sback ?
Hon. Mr. ROSS-A shack Is a croft.
Hon. Mr. DOM
%VILLE-iSupposing we
strike out the word 'crof t' and insert something else.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I think w-e are wasting
trne.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

Hon. Mr. ROSS-I think tbat is under
government control in sucb a w9y thaqt it
could not come in.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-The goverument
could bave no control under this Act.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-It would be la the custody of the goverament, and it could flot be
a violation of the Act. The word 'croft ' is
a Scottish. term, and I may not be able to
deflne it properly, but in .Scotlaud a croft
is a sback by the wayside, sometirnes muade
of sods. Lt is a practice rendered necessary by the ing-eauity of Iawyers to evade
the law. They bave imaglned every conceivable place in whlcb liquor eau be kept,
and in Prince Edwa,,rd Island or New- Brunswvick, perbaps, a lawyer has tbougbt tbiat
some insidious fellow migbt put bis goods
in a croft and uses this terni. L.t muigbt not
be necessiry anîd rniglt flot rejuire iii'. eqti-

JUNE il, 1908
gation lu the court, but it would flot do any
harm on a statute book. The change tgs
trlfling and belps to render efficient the
clauses agreed to, and I thlnk it should
stand as It ls.

1127

sions mur arise when there is tyranny or
revenge to be perpetrated, and these officers are not above that.
Hou. '-Nr. ROSS-The law now will permit the arrest of a suspected person.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-But this law should
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Another principle of
British common law which ls violated. It fot gîve the right to disturb the whole
ls said under the criminl law given to us5 bousehold and bring to court goods w-ortli
by England that it ls better to let 99 gflhlty tliree or four thousaud dollars and p)ut
people escape than punish oae Innocent tbtem into a shack or croft at the -police
party. That ls admitted ou ail bauds, ex court. That is flot fair.
A
cept by the parliamfent of Canada.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-That Is the law and
polnted out by the hon, gentleman from
for years.
Halifax. there is a change in this law from bas been the law
CLORAN-Thefi for heaven's
Hon. MIr.
the old law, and as properly pointed out, it
says alcoholic goods stored lu a dwellinê- sake change the law. It is 'time for the
hanse are liable to seizure, to be brouglbt young generation to become alive and meet
at once luto court. A muan la perfectly lu- a progressive situation. The past has doue
nocent. He bas acquired a stock wbich its duty. To-day we live up-to-date, and
lie bas stored in bis cellar or ia an out- wve do not -%aut to be disturbed as we wvere
bouse, and he bas a rigbt to store it w'here years uýgo. The lnw was passed 40 years
onea
lie will. Every man is a king lu bis ownugentapalometthat doesntapa
agaud
ail. My duty la not bound up with the
castie.
past, but with the present and ivwl the
Hon. '-%r. FERGUSON-IXI violation of. future. I do flot want to hear tbut arguto the
Hon. Mr. CLORA-N-Ail the officer bas ment any more. It does flot appeal
is to swear tbat to tbe best of bis present generation wvho look upon this
to do
Impression it ls kept tbere for dellvery. House as a House 0f dry boues. We are
The innocent man ls subject to a tyranni- here, young men, tryîng to put life luto
1 do it, and it is about time to drop thiese old
cal prosacution under this clause.
of the law are practices. I have no sympatlîy with the
not say that ail the officers
goiug to do It ; but we know that iu times argument. If there w-as uny wisdam lu it
of stress wbere there are certain objects it would be ail right. If the wisdorn 0f the
to be gained, wvhether municipal or fed- past Neere to guide us, forever, lu the
eral, officers eau be more extreme lu the march of civilization, it would be ail riglit;
performance of their duty thun on other but it seerna to me, that ia many ýf our
occasions, and tbey may come to rny bouse iaws there are clauses which should be
and make oath that to the best of their changed. Not later than five years ugo
Impression I bave a stock of goods stored we passed a law lu the interests of Canthere lu violation of the A-ct and I cannot ada, and we have been told that the govget ut hlm afterw-ards for doing that. He ernment ltself did not know wlîat was lu
niakes it lu contravention of my rights the law.
and liberties and of my comfort. The law
Tbe CHIAIRMNAN-I hope the hon. gengives hini the right to take every case out tlemnan wili confine bimself to the clause.
of that cellar and haul It lie court bafore
Hou. Mr. CLORAN-These thiugs w-are
1 arn found gullty. Ha disturbs a whole
of goods, and I arn brougbit lu existence for 30 years, aud 1 think such
wiue-cellar
before the magistrate bafare there Is uny illustrations are necessary.
chance of proving that it is nat kept lii
The CHIAIRMAN-I think the bon. gaiiviolation of the law. How waîîld that work tienan is out of order now.
la regard to people who w'ish to have
Hou. 'Mr. CLORAN-I suy that undar
wine-cellars ? I do not say the ordinary
given hlm ln this Bill a constable couid corne iuta my
officer wiil abuse the powers
seize goods that beloug to me.
a tyrannical way, but we know that occa- bouse and

1128

SENATE

1128

SENATE

Hon. Mr. COMEÂU-I should lke to eall
attention to the tact that wlien liquor Is
seized and brought before the magistrate,
the action Is flot final. The Iaw provides
for the destruction of the liquor, but before that la done, It must be proved It
was stored In violation of the Act.
Hou. Mr. CLORÂN-But you put an Innocent party to great inconvenieuce. Under the law, an officer can come Into my
bouse and disturb an amount of goode
wortb froni tbree to flve thousaud dollars,
brlng them into the police court and subject tbem to destruction whether tbrougb
heat or want of proper care. I hold that
this law can be made effective wlthout lntroducing extreme mensures, and 1 arn
willing to bave It made effective. but 1
do not wish to be told in discussing these
matters froni a public point of view, that
I cannot allude to past or future events.
Hon. Mr. ROBERTSON. Lt la refreshing
to see the young and rising generations of
Canada such temperance advocat'es and living examples ot temperance. This Bill Is
absolutely necessary. In Prince Edward Island we have bad as mucb experience of
the administration of the Scott Act as auy
part of the Dominion, and we found thiat
under the law as it was passed you couid
enter bouses and examine theni, and wbat
w'as tbe resuit? Tbey took the liquor to
the barns, sbeds and sbacks and sold it
tbere. Wben lt was kept ln tbe sbed, yo 'u
could see the men stealing their way lu
tbere, and you would bave a suspicion that
liquor was stored there, and of course
you could go in and find it. I do not
tbink you wiil fiud a cage wbere tbe liquor
kept for a man's private use was ever disturbed. Lt Is tbe saine in Nova Scotia and
I tbiuk this talk of the abuse under tbe law
ls ail wind.
Tbe subciauÉe was adopted.
On clause 5,
5. This Act shall have and take efleot froru
the passing thereof ln eveiy county and City
in wh'ich part II. of the Canada Temperance
Act is then in force, ln the saine manner and
to the saie extent as if it had formed a part
of the said Act when part II. of the said
AoDt was broughf iu force in sucli county or
City.

Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbis clause 'svould
make tbe Act retroactive and I do not tbink
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

that 'was the Intention. That would make
parties wbo are not liable to-day liable
lu tbe future. An hon. gentleman says it
ougbt to. but you bave no right to go back
and say tbat sometblng whicb was not an
offeuce wben It was doue becomes an
offence now. The tact that you did sometbing whicb was not IhIegal wheu you did
It sbould not now be made an offeuce. 1
do not know wbetber tbat was Iutended I do not suppose It was. I do not tblnk tbe
lat words sbould bie there.
You could
strIke out ail the words atter tbe Word&
'in torce'; so that this Bill would not be
retroactive.
Hon. Mr. ROSS--I think the bion, gentleman would flnd the case hie ref era to is covered by the Interpretation Act. Tbe A&ct
Ouly speaks as againat the offence froin
the turne the offence was committed. Any
offence committed prior to tbe passing of
the Act la not affected. Tbe Interpretation
Act la clear on tbat.

Hon. Mr. POWER-But we find a provision that the Act saa libe in force lu
tbe saine manner and to tbe saine extent
and so on. Tbat means that, take tbe case
of the town of Plctou, where the Act bas
been ln force thlrty years, under this Bill
you could go back months and bold people
responsible for tblugs tbat were done
montha ago just as tbougb tbis amendmient
bad been in force. That is clearly unfair.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The bon. senator
froin Halifax Is perfectly right lu bis Interpretation.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I move tbat ail tbe
-words after 'force' in the tbird hune of this
clause be struck out.
Hon. Mr. COMEAU-Tbis Is not au ordinary Act passed by tbe legisiature. It is
brouglit into force by a referendum-a vote
of thé people. Lt might be argued tbat this
Act had not been voted Upon.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I ask the bon 'senator froin Halifax if bie would accept a suggestion aud have this Act apply merely to
the province of Nova Scotia, -wbhch is asking -for it, aud flot t0 any other province?
I think be is ln a position týo state what the
wfshes of tbe province are.
Tbe ameudment was declared lost.

JUNE 12, 1908

1129

1129
passing of this Act, shali not be considered
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-The hon. gentleviolations of part 2 of the Canada Temperance
man who introduced the Bill said It would Act.
apply te Nova Scetia.
only
That will cover the point and leave the
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-Yes.
Bil as It la8. 1 believe rny bon. frlend Is
willing te accept that
The clause was adopted.
JUNE 12, 1908

Hon. Mr. POWER-I rnay say that whle
I think that lit a very lnartIstlc way of
reachlng the end, substantialiy it does atSECOND READING.
tain the object which rny arnendrnent was
Bill (Ne. 71) An Act respectlng the Stand- intended to attairi, and, therefere, wlth the
ard Mutual Fire Insurance Company, and consent of the House, I shall wlthdraw rny
te change its narne te 'The Standard Fire arnendment and allow this to be carried.
Insurance Company.'-(Mr. Kerr).
The amendrnent was withdrawn, and the
The Senate adjourned tili three o'cleck amendrnent to tbe amendrnent was substituted and carrled.
to-rnerrow.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbere wqs ant amendment rneved ln regard to the licensing on
THE SENATE.
steamboats, and at one stage the clause
OTTAWA, Friday, June 12, 1908.
,was mnade to read as it read ln the Act of
The SPEAKER teok the Chair at Three 1878. It then seemed te be the opinion of
soute senators that the second subsectlon
o'clock.
The
was a mere repetition ef the first.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
first referred te wines, beer, &c., and the
CANADA TEMPERANCE ACT AMEND- other ef rum, brandy and stronger liquors. I
thlnk the cause of Its Introduction la the Act
MENT BILL.
0f 1878 was that ln steamboats at that time
THIRD READING.
certain lcenses were issued for what are
Hlon. Mr. McGREGOR rnoved the third knowD as lighter drinks, wine, beer and s0
reading of BillWW An Act te amend the on, and the other related to brandy, rum,
Canada Temperance Act.
gin, &c. 1 arn not quite sure what the final
Hon. Mr. POWE R-Pursuant to notice, I decision ef the House was ; the Ilne was
move that the said Bill be net now read repiaced, and I think w'as struek (lut again.
the third tixue, but tbat ail the words after
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex-lt stands
the word 'force' In the third lune of the as prlnted.
fifth clause be strlcken eut. These *words
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--That
are te the eff ect that this Bill, when it becornes law, shahl have force ln the sarne was the decîslon.
manner and te the saute extent as If It had
Hlon. Mr. McGREGOR-Thoîe wbho drew,
forrned a -part of the original Act. 1 toek up the Bill wished to have the clause resthe greund that this was givlng the Bill a tored as It was origlnaiiy. A Uine was
retroactive effect; that acta which had net ornltted ln prlnting the Bill, and I want
been offenses wlien cemrnitted, would be te have that lncluded ln the clause.
made offenses under titis clause, whereas
Hon. Mr. POWER moved that the clause
the principle which is always adopted ln
'ýe arnended by inserting the line whlcb
our legisintion la that an Act shahl have
had been omltted by accident.
effect enly front the tirne of Itasslg
The amendment was adoptad, and the
de net think It necessary te elaborateta
Bill was tben read the third time and
at ail.
passed.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I move ln amendment
A SUPPLY BILL.
te the amnaient that the foîlowing provise be added te section 5:
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hon. gentlemen are
Provided always that offences agaiast the
foregoing provisions, if cornmitted before the quite aware that there is a shiortage et
Hon. Mr. TALBOT, for the conimittee,
reported the Bill wlthout arnendment.

1130

SENATE

SENATE
1130
treasury money.
1 arn informed thiat ta
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELIL-'Hope
arrangement bas been mnade 1wv the two told a flattering tale.'
parties in the other House to pass a supply
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He asked mie if 1
Bill for onie-eighthi of the ord1inary supply
would -make arrangements for its passage
lu the general estimates, and, i presume,
on Mondai'.
I move that when the Hfouse
addinýg the votes thiat have been alreads
adjourns to-day It stand adjourned thi Monpassed.
M-%onda.v at four o'clock bas been
day at three o'clock.
fixed as the time for giving assent to ai
The SPEAKER-Is that the pleasure of
Supply Bill.
It is quite important that
the Bill should go through at the earliest the House?
possible time, and -I therefor,ý give notice
Hon. 'Mr. Du'BOUCIERVILLE-I do flot
that I shall move that wlîon the House see that tlue matter is so very pressing.
edjouns to-day it stands adjonrnied until There wiIl bie plenty of time for It.
Monday at three o'clock.
Hou. '-%r. POWER-The bon. Socretary
Hon. M.Nr.
KERR-Several members have of State bas inforrned the flouse that lie
Ieft under the idea that the flousè w-ould wvill cause notice to ho sont to the senators
not sit on M-\ond.ty. and I n-ould suggest m-lio are now absent, to the efi et that the
tlîat it would be better to let the flouse House will meet on M-Nonday.
standl adjourned until Tuesday.
The SPEAKER-Does the hon. gentleHon. 31r. FERGUSON-Whvy keep these man object?
poor people out of their mlouey ?
Hon. 'Mr. DeBOUCHERVI LLE-Yes.
Hon. Mr. PELILEY-I
arn quite surThe SPEAKER-Thoni the motion cannot
prised to find a supporter of the goveriibe put.
mient opposing a supply bill. after the cry
throughout the country that the opposition
Hou. Mr. WVATSON-It seemns to nie that
tire holding up) the supplies. We are ready the hon. gentleman does uîot umderstand
to pass n sulpply bill
The ou- business tliat can
hnee
it cornes the position.
-we are prepared to vote for It now.
coule before the Senate on Mondav is the
Supply Bill.
No other business can ho
Hon. Mr. PERGUSON-I
object very
brought up.
The flouse is unanimious la
strongîr to this obstruction.
its desire to have that Bill passed. Suroly
Houi .Mr. XRLI-I thought il was a tiiere can ho no objection to a quorum meetmlatter of keeping faiti wvitlh those %vho ing on M.Noad.a to p9ss the Supply Bill?
iad gone a-way without ainy notice of thlis
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVIL LE-I thank
change. Thmere is nothiug more
imiportant1 the -lion, gentleman for giv-ing mle a lecture
thaln that mve slîould keep faith %vith ai, about my understanding.
ouri emibers,. I-owcv or, after heariiug the
Hon. Mr. WATSON Ohi, no. 1 did niot
plainitive tppeal of the lion. sentor fromn
1 said I did not think the
Wolseley. I do0 not caî'e te interpose any menul that.
objection. since it causes hlmi so much lion. geutlemian understood the situation exqctly.
.inxiety and nlarm,
Hlon. Mr. IDeBOUICHDRV-ILLE-I thank
the lion, gentleman for giving mie a lesson
for not understanding
matters wliicli I
uniidorstood ais i-ell as lie does.
The hion.
gentleman from Toronto bas giron the saine
reason that 1 have giron to the H-ouse--that
lion. 'Mr. LOUGIIEEIî-What assurance these lion. irinbers who are absent %villmiot
bas my lion. friend that the Supply Bill know of this proposed change.
Lt is sala
,will reaeh the 'Sonate on Mondav?
they can ho notiflod. but N-e do0 îot know
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-i have ouly the state- w-lbore thoy are.
mient of the Premnier.
The motion was iiot put to the flouse.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWýEL--Thie
lion. gentleman is hl error.
-No advantage
,could bo takenl by ans- senator objecting
to it.
I take it for granted îîo one will
object to this motion.

JUNE 12, 1908
GRAIN INSPECTION AND SALE ACT
AMENDMENT BILL.

1131

the wliole Canadian Northwest to-day, and
they are not a represeutative body as regards our w-lent. Mr-. Goldie la a mîller,
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
The Flouse resolved Itself into Commit- and he would like to bave this because lie
tee of the Whole on Bill (CCC) An Act to would get our No. 1 Hard for a No. l'
ameud the Inspection and Sale Act as re- variety.
gards grain.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe bon. gentleman shouid put bis amend(In the Commlttee.)
ment ou record, and I wiill bave It consiOn clause 3,
dered and we can discuss lt furtiier whien
3. The following is added to, section 48 as ,we corne to the thîrd reading. 1 arn flot
paragraph (1) thereof:
(i The expression 'hard red Fife Wheat' prepnred to accept offhand an arnendrnent
shall mean wheat that is red in colour and of of tbe kind. I do flot preteud to say that
the Red Fife veariety.
I understand the subject.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Mr. PERLEY-I accept the sugThis variation iu the phrase lias been recommended by the severai boards who Bat gestion. My point ls slmpiy tbls, that red
on these niatters for the purpose of explain- Fife Wbeat is sufficientir well rnarked
ing more exactlyý wbant Red Fife wheat la. now and bas been for the last 25 ye.irs.
They recommend tbiat the words 'Hard and If you intend to require tiîat It shahl
Red Fife Wbeat shall le understood to lie red in colour, there la 25 per cent wvhichi,
mean wheat that is red lu colour of the according to the Grain Act, la flot red
iu colour, and the inspectors wili lie jusRed Fif e varlety.
tified ln saying it la not red Fife Wheat.
Hon. '.%r. PERLEY-We have been raisIu fact that red colour cauî easily be
ing this Red Pife wheat ln the Northwest
changed la wheat aud it la dificult to say
for 25 years, and neyer had any trouble
what la red.
with regard to the grade.
The wbeat wll
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Has rny hou.
grade No. 1 liard or i Northern, accordlng
to the law bere. Here Is the clause goveru- friend any Information liefore him to show
that If Red Fife w-heat were bleaclied in the
Ing it:
No. 1 Manitoba bard wheat shall be sound sliglitest degree that if baces its quality
and well cleaned, weighing not less than as No. 1 Hard Red Fife ? Tbat should
sixty-five pounds to the bushel, and shall be really be the test lecause wb'a;t rnay be
composed of not leas th-an sixty-five per cent
of red Fife wheat.
bleaclhed by rain or otbier causes and lose
If you adopt this motion you cannot have its colour ;but it nieed not tberefore Io"
any of our wheat graded No. 1 bard, or Its quality.
-No. 1, 2 or 3, for this reason: There Is 25
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWTRIGHTper cent of different coloured wheat In the We bad a good deal of discussion on the
first grade.
Thiat wiil be nu excuse to put subject. If my bon. friend wll look at
bard whent down to No. 4.
I move an the report of the proceedînga held before
ameadment that the clause be -made to myseif and Mr. Oliver he will see
thiat
read: 'th e expression bard red Pife wheat
the matter was more or less fully discussed
shaIl menu wheat of tbe Red Pife variety.'
there. It la a question for experts, and I
If you leave the clause as It ls here, the
biesitate to express any positive opinion of
result wiill lie a tremendous lnJury to the
my own ; but I should like lo bave such
farmers of the Nortbwest, because their
an uînendrnt as the hon. senator fromn
wiheat will lie subject to be graded lower
Wolseley offered printed and lu tbe day
than it shoul"d be.
or two that will elapse before the Bill
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- passes Its final stage, I caa conimualcate
This w-as specialir recommeuded by tic w'ith the parties and luquire if they sée
Royal Grain Commission.
furtlier objection to lt or not.
Hon. '%r. PERLEY-Tbe Royal Grain 1Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wiîat iny riglit
Commission la the rnost unpopulnr body lIn bon. frîend bas to lie careful about la, that

1132
1132

SENATE
SENATE

the Interests of the rniller and the grain
buyer would be antagonistie to thiat of the
farmer. If tbey, by reducing tbe grade
simply througb thc colour, can buy an
equally good wbeat at a iower price, it is
qulte manlfest that tbey are -,oing to urge
this point as strongly as possible, to the
detriment of the farmer.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIt was for that express purpose that I
spent about eight hours a day for four
days ln endeavourIng to arrive at a conclusion witb the representatives of thc varJous Interests. I amn very sorry that my
hou. frleud. was nlot present to gîve me the
benefit of his legal and practkeal knowledge; but several other gentlemen aiseo0f
consideribIe experience were th&ýrt' and tbey
seemed to have agreed on this conclusion.
these
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Would
words 'of the red Fife variety' admit of a
certain proportion of white Fife?
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-No.

on scrubby land Is soft. I do not know
that you could make the clause better than
it la. The white kernel ls not as good as
the red kernel.
Hon. «Mr. PERLEY-I arn Ciad thc hon.
gentleman has made this explanation, because it là; quite truc that even If you s0w
pure r.ed Fife wheat a portion of the
product will be of thc description Uic bon.
gentleman bas mentioned; but according to
Uic staternent made by Dr. Saunders, of
the Experimental Farm, It makts just as
good foeur and just as rnuch of it as the
bard red Fife wbeat does, and thc iaw
now provIdes that ln grading this wheat,
If seventy-five per cent o! it Is red Fife
wbeat It shaîl be graded as bard red
Fife. Now If you pass this Bill, one bundred per cent would bave to hco0f red
colour or that wbeat would go down to No.
4 grade. It does flot require any explanatien to sec that. I renew mny objection,
and I think when Uic rlgbt hon. minister
cornes to read my amefidment, he will sec
that It Is ln Uic rIght direction.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I understood my
bon. friend to say that white wbeat, tiough
Hon. Sir RICHARD CAR'TWRIGHTIt mlght be equally good, mlgbt lower the The sole object we have ln vlew Is to get
grade te thîrd place.
thîs clause as nearly correct iis It may be,
and I should. be pleased to consider any
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Yes.
suggestions Uiat Uic bon. gentleman or any
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-White Fife Is hon. member may have to make; but I want
regarded as almost as .good as red Fif e.
them to be put on our journals in order
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-It cornes in an- that 1 may be able to send thcm to Uic
varlous parties concerned and get some
other grade.
about ticm.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-There Is a grading further Information
Mr. DOUGLAS-I have a very
Hon.
for red Fife wheat The expression used
bere Is 1Hard red Fife wheat shall mean strong feeling that this Is askiug too mucb.
wbeat that Is red ln colour and of the This phrase that It Is red in colour ougbt
red Pif e variety.' The hon, gentleman not to be retained in the definition. It
from Wolseley knows very well that red will be very much against the Interest of
Fife wheat grown on scrubby land, very Uic producer, and It is made a great deai
of ten produces a large proportion o! white of ln order to support Uic millers' contenwheat which is nlot as good for mifling tions. 0f late years, very littIe bard red
purposes as the red varlety of bard wbeat Fife bas been produced or bas leen bought
It would nlot be fair to say M at because and recorded, for the simple reason that
pure seed was sown, thc white grown on the bard red Fife wheat bas gone down
scrubby land must therefore be as good ln grade and we bave nlot that varlety
as the seed that was sowvn.
It seems to now ; but we have No. 1 and No. 2 bard
iiie that the expression used ière is fair, and this Is due very iargely to inspectors
because you could possibly get a white Pife lnslsting on this red Pife wheat. I underwheat that would be as good for milling stand the contention of the hon. senator
purposes If part of it was Red Fife. It is from Portage La Prairie that whcat wIfl
well known that part of the wheat growni change ln colour according to the character
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

JUNE 12, 1908

1133

1133
phrase, the cioslng af the transaction, a
cannectian between tat and the definition
we are now discussing.
That is the point
I wisb ta look into.
It la quite true that
n great deal was sald on thiIs question at
the convention.
I was nt thase meetings,
and they were largely financial Interesta
tbat were represented, and this wauld give
thein a decided advnntage over the producer. .I
want a definition tbat would
carry the grain through every dlais of dealer and every lndlvldual wha migbt buy or
seil or farward the grain-that there shauld
be but one definition for the whoie. But
It Is a point that will caine up agnin at the
third reading, and perbaps the rigbt han.
inexber who ls lu charge af the BihI wauld
loak into that matter.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTCertainly.

JUNE 12, 1908
of the sal ln which it Is produced, especiaily lu new land that bas produced trees.
Sncb sal seems ta havea' certain Influence
upan the grain, detractlng tram lis red appearance ; but we bave yet ta learn that
the quality af tbe wheat la damaged because of the change lu caloar. In taC,
the word 'red' la flot the word that ought
ta be used. If you wlsb ta be tecbnlcally
correct, yau would say amber colour. Under the present law we are aiiowed 25 per
cent af lighter caiaured wheat ta be present under thîs definitian. Then It daes
degrade the hard red Fife as far as the
Indivîdual fariner la concerned. The purchaser canteuds immediately that It 18 nat
hard red Fife, ls nat red lu calaur, and
will aniy off er the prîce af a lower grade,
sa that the fariner may lose an grain
eqnally valuable witb the grain cavered by
the definitian. In thîs definîtion lhe whale
case Is qulte well met when we retain wbnt
bas already been suggested, that the expression bar red Fife shall mean wbeat
of the red Fife varlety. This sbauid be
read ln connectian wlth anothaer clause,
wbich la as foliows :
123. Âll grain praduced in the provinces ai
Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta and in
the Northwest Territories, passing through
the Winnipeg district en route ta points ta
the east thereaf. shall b. inspected at Winnipeg or a point within the district, and, an
ail grain so inspected, the inspection shall be
final as between the western fariner ar dealer
and the Winnipeg dealer.
It daes not say that this definition shall be
final for ail inen who are bandling the saine
grade or quality of grain; but once the business la transacted and the grain la bought
and the money pnld, the transaction is
closed, and the definition closes witb it.
That Is the point I wish specially ta emphasize before the cainmittee. Wby should
this clause be put la bere ta be final as
between the western fariner nnd the Wlnnipeg dealer? . Is the Winnipeg denier ta be
baund by the defliitioa that we are naw discussing? That ls the point 1 wish ta maise.
If so, I have not so much objection ta the
clause; but If it la simply ta be confined to
the transaction between th. producer nnd
the Winilpeg deaier, tben I have serious
obJection ta the defiaitian. and It would
seexu froin the closiug words, of section 123.
thiat there is solnethiag underaeath this

Han. '.%r. CAMPBELL-I inndle n grent
deal af grain train the Northwest, and I
do nat think this is very nxuch lu favour af
the iniliers.
I thiuk it is a fai clause aIl
round. The wbeat shail be i-ed Ia colaur,
of the Fife vnriety. It distinctly says whnt
red Fife wbeat shahl be. It Islaminaterlal
wbat you call It, because you cannot inake
the value uniesa the value is thiere.
You
may eall No. 4 Narthern, No. 1 Lard, but it
wan't give It the value.
Wbeat will coinmand the prîce nccording ta Its merits. I
tblnk- It lsan fair clause and deflues mast
what bard red Fife wheat shnhl be. Sainetimes we have wbite wheat.
Thiat is, as
a mile, proably as strong for flour as the
red Fife, but it caines under anather classification, and it la, lu in- opinion, a wlse
tbing ta keep aur red Fife wheat cieariy
and distinctly that it shial be red lu caiour
and of the Fife vnriety.
I thliik it wouid
be well ta adhere ta the section ns it is
naw.
It will nat do any Injustice ta the
fariner lu the Nortbwest, and canfers no
favour oa the rallier lu the enst.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-If It la no gaad ta
anybody, why do you want it?
Hon. '.\I. ýCAMPBELL-It does nat hurt
the fariner.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTWe saal pass it, but nxy haon. friead wihl
give notice af an ainendinent whichi shahl
be fully discussed on the third reading.

1134

SENATE

1134

SENATE

The clause was adopted.
On clause 5,
5. Section 79 is amended by adding at the
end thereof the words 'which fees shal lie
paid by the person et whose instance the survey is demanded, or by the owaer or possessor
of the grain.'
Hou. Mr. CAMPBELL-This is ln referI find. that very often
ence to the survey.
objection la taken to the grade and the
survey board la cnlled, and if the survey
board overrules the lnspector's decision, the
Inspecter lias to pny the cost, and -if thiey
corroborate the inspector's decision then the
party who causes the survey bias to pay the
1 hardly thlnk that is fair to the
coat.
Inspectors. The.-, are dolng the very best
1 belleve they are coascieutions
they can.
and falthful ia the discharge of their duty.
Hou. Mn. PERLEY-A good
them do not need any eulogy.

miany

of

Hoft. '-%r. CAMPBELL-It is hardly riglit
that tliey should be fined if they should
perchiauce make a mistake, aud I thinlz the
costs of that snrvey board, la the first iii-'
stance, should be borne by the government.
I mnake that suggestion.
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIf the goveriinleut pay, it mnust takze a little
more off for the work it does; se that it
wouid corne out of the farmer la the long
Section 5 mere]y provides that the
rua.
fees be paid by the party who deinands the
survey.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Wilo is to pay?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTW-hoeven demiands the survey or the owner
Lt relieves the
or possessor of the grain.
inspecting officer of the necessity of paying
fees.
Hon. '-\r. CAM.\PBELL-But the party
who makes the application Uns to pay the
fees in any case?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTOr the owner or possessor of the grain.
The clause was ndopted.
On clause -4,
7. Section 119 is amended by striking out the
words 'other than oats' in the second and
third liues thereof.
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe objeet of this clause is to enable commercial standard boards to form comnmer1 presunie there wîll
ci grades for oats.
At present tbey
bie no-objection to that.
cannot do it, but this clause will enable
thein te do It.
The clause was agreed to.
On clause 8,
8. Section 123 is hereby repealed and the
following substituted therefor123. AU.1grain produced in the provinces of
Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta and in
the Northwest Territories, passing through
the Winnipeg district en route to points to
the east thereof. shall be inspected et Winnipeg or at a point within the district; and,
on ail grain so inspected, the inspection shall
be final as between fariner or dealer and the
Winnipeg deaier.
Hon. '-%r.
clause iean?

PERLEY-What

does

this

I-on. Sir RICHARD CARTW'RIGHTThis is sirnpiy re-enactlug clause 1231 of the
If rny bon. friend will look
existing Act.
at it, lie wiil find tlhat this part of it merely
goes ov~er the existiug Act ns it stands. 1
anm goiugý to propose an amendment to this,
to re-insert a clause which is in the existing
l:sw, as follows:
Provided that w'nen, owiag to extreme pressure of business, a railway company or other
transportation cornpany finds that cars containing grain are being unduiy delaved for
inspection purposes et Winnipeg, the company
on notification to and with the consent of the
chief inspector, or in bis absence the assistant inspector rnay rèrnove a number of cars
to Fort William without inspection et Winnipeg.
That w'ns ornîtted, and it seems to mue it
should be re-iinserted.
Hou. 'Mr. PERLEY-The inspection shahl
be as between the western farmier and the
Winnipeg dealer.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThiat is the existing law.
Hou. Mr. PERLEY-Tlien it is wrouig.
because the fariner msust bave redress after
If the
it passes the Winnipeg inspection.
grain is inspected at Winnipeg and the
fanmer is not satisfied, lie an asl, for a
survey; but this aineadment provides that
the inspection at Winnipeg shaîl lie final
as betweea the western fariner and the
Tlîat confiiets with other
Winnipeg denier.

JUNE 12, 190S

1136

sections in the Biii.
W%ýe
wouid not want nlipeg and is arrivai in Toronto, and it
any survey board at ail If that were correct. 1 mighit bc justifiable to hioid a survey there.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTNot nny more than the existing lawv does,
because those provisions are In the iaw as
It stands.
Hon. Mr. PERL]vY-lt is a curiousiy
worded section, when it says the thing shahl
be final between the western farmer and
the Winnipeg dealer.

Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I would think the
reverse 0f that.

Supposing there is sortie

collusion by which rny car is ulot graded up
to standard: then after that it could be
graded hiighier. That is possible.
Hou. Sir RICHIARD) CARTWRIGHTIt is liardly iikely to occur.
W'e have flot
received complaints 0f thuat kind.

lion. '.%r. CAM-NPBELL--If, for Instance,
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-It is one continuai
I la the eastera district, whichi Is *East of biowl ont there.
Port Arthur, buy a car of grain from the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTwest, and It is shipped froui Winnipeg to
me in the east, thien it must be inspected Not against tbe Inspcction Mnade by Horne
ini Winnipeg.
somewhere, and if is iuspected ln Winnipeg
en route, and tliat Is final.
Hon. M-%r.
PERLEY-Yes, every day of
the week, and evcry bour of the day.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Where does your
survey board conie ln?
Hlon. Sir RICHIARDI CARTWVIITHon. Mr. CAM-ýPBEýL-It cornes in at Tlicv coniplin~i about flue way they were
tmeated at the country elevators and at Fort
Port Arthur or Dulintu.
%Villiamn. They have not coniaîned inucb
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTabout the inspection under MNr.Horne.
It wouid not be final, if a survey were deunanded by rny hion. friend behind nie.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Mr. Horne does not
Withi the wheat going inito bis Miii, lie survey one car la five tluousand.
He lias
conld deuiand a survey.
a lot of unen cnlled graders.
I bave not
slhipped mucbi; rny sons mnagae the farmi
and. do the shipping.
Somie three or four
years ago I shipped a carioad of wheat f0
Winnipeg.
I sent a sample down a day
or twvo before I shipped the car. andi my
Hon. Sir RICHARD CA RTWRIGHT- nieigl)or sent sonie samnples at flue saine
Thiat is the iaw as it stands, and as it bas time.
We hiad got into a conversationi one
stood for somne considerable tiime.
day in bis store and we conciuded to send
Hou. 'Mr. PERLEY-I understand tbat, the samipies down, wvhicli we diti. and the
inspector graded one liard and otie northbut I say it is wrong.
Mine was g-raded No. 1 liard. and
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- era.
My lion. f rien(l wili see this, as anybody when I sent the car down I iost the g-rade
I wrote downi f0
wluo bad aur tlîiag to do with such mnatters on it, and so did bie.
the inispector that lie hiat uîot gmaded the
wili see, that Lt is important there should
be as f ew appeals as possible, and sorne- cars of grain accordIng f0 sample. which
body or othier shouid have the opportunlty was a fair, honest saiuple 0f the car, and
of deciding.
Up to Winnipeg nnd up to hie wrote bnck that if it was flot foo bute hie
the coasf as betwveen tbe farmiers andi deni- would write to Fort William and have it
ers lin WIinipeg,' this inspection is satîsfac- graded up one grade, and hie did so. and
tory.
Wlien if goes .beyond -that, and I galiied $30 by it.

Hon. Mr'. PERLE£-If 1 send a carioad
Wýiiunipeg- and Lt is inspected.
and 1 arni dissatisfied with the inspection,
that Is final.
of wlieat f0

passes ont of the bands of the farmer, he
probably would bave been paid before that
time, and goes into eastern Ontario and elsewbere, then the survey rnight be dernanded.
There miglit be considerabie deterioration
in the g-rain between the time if lef t «%Vin-

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTW'RIGHTI do not pretend to say that. with the very
large number of millions of bushels of
grain handied, no mistake could occur.
But I thilik I
That would be impossible.
arn justified lu saying that as a mule the

SEINATE
1136

1136

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I know wbot bas been
bas given satisfaction to OUT
and I know
farming friends. Tbey are not aiways easy going on ln the Northwest,
tbat It ls possible for a car to be plugged.
to satisfy as to tbe treatmeflt tbey receive;
but it was not of the Winnipeg Inspection
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I bave too mucb
inspection

tbat bitberto we bave bad many complaints.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-If tbe bou. gentleman were living lu tbe western country
be would find out.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI tbink more complaint would be made before tbey got to Winnipeg than afterwards.
Wben be says tbere is a contradiction, I
The Inspection is to
think be is lu error.
be made final betweeu tbe parties named,
but the survey may be made ln case of
Tbere bas been
subsequent deterioration.
an omission in tbls clause, and 1 beg to
move tbe ameadment wbicb. I read a few
minutes ago.
Tbe amendmflent w-as agreed to. and subclause one was adopted as am-2uded.
On subclause 3, of clause S.
3. If any car on its arrivai at a terminal eievator is found by the inspector to be plugged
or wrongfuly loaded, the grain in such car
shall be re-iaspected, and if the first inspection is altered the original certificate shall be
recalled and a new one shail be issued in accordance with the re-inspection and shall be
final.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I bave only, tbis to

say of paragrapbi 3, that lt is the greatest
reflection ou ',%r. Horne and bis inspectors
there could be, to tbinl, tbat hae wouid
If Mr.
grade a car tbat w-as plugged.
Horne examiued tbat car propprly be would
find it was plugged and would condemu it
tbere and tbeu. It la only because be or
bis officiais do flot attend to tbeir duty
tbat sucb a state of tbings could exlst.
The idea of a car being fo'iind plug-geil
after ieaving the inspector's bands is monstrous.
*Hon. '-%r. DAVIS-The insîjector w-ould
have a good deal to do if be biad to go
tbrouglh every car to find if it was plugged.
Iu the early days, tbey used to plug a car
of %Yheatby menus of a steve pipe, filling
the inside with bad grain and foui seeds
and leaviug good grain on toi) aud on thé
sides.
Hon. '.%r. PERLEY-Tlhe bon. gentleman"
seemns to know a good deai abouit it.
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

respect for the growers and inspectors to
tblnk tbat it Is possible. If slich a practice exists, the Inspector sbould find lt out.
I doubt If you would find any one lu the
Northwest, wbo would be gulity of plug
ging a car. It may bappen up at Prince
Arthur, whiere my hou. friend lives, but It
is flot general In the Northwest.
The subclause was adopted.
On subclause 4, of clause 9~,
4. No grain shahl be specially binned for any
person, firm or corporation in any terminal
elevator except ia cases where it is found
to ho out of condition on arrivai ît such ternminai elevator, aud in cases where it has gone
out of condition while in store as provided in
sections 34 to 38 of The Manitoba Grain Act.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Tbe gentlemen who
waited on the goverument witb respect
to this Bill, strongly urged tbat tbiey should
bave the rigbt to bin their grain at the terminal elevator. This clause prevents that.
I suggest that the clause be amended by
adding the follo'%%ing:
Grain may be specially binned for any
person. firm or corporation in any terminal
elevator by special agreement.
If tbey can make an agreement wlth tbe
elevator owner, they sbould bave tbe prîvilege of doiag so, but flot otherwise. That
is fair to aI parties. In the west, we ralse
considerable quantities of wheat and sdil
If
it in carload lots or larger qu.i'tities.
a man bas a good sample of whieat. an eastern miller may buy it f rom hflu. and the
vendor ougbht to be permitted to maIre an
arrangement w-it> the. elevator company,
if bcecan, to biu tbat wheat for hlmi ut the
terminal elevator. There is nothing unfair
about it. In tact it is tlie reverse-lt
would be unfair not to allowv it.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe bon. gentleman ivili pleease do as lie
did la the othier case--give noticýe that lie
will move his ameadmneut on the Ihird reading. Would flot some restriction bave to
be put on the quantities that couid be speciaiiy binned at a terminal elevator ?
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Not less thanl n carioad.

JUNE 12, 1908

1137

JUNE 12, 1908
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Tbey couId flot
keep a bin for a tbousand busbels.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Tbe deputation tbat
wns down bere asked for carload lots.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-How innny busbels will a bin at one of tbese elevators boId?
Thousands and tbousands of busbels.
Tbe subclanse was adopted.
On subclause 6, o! clause S,
6. Where grain rojected for dirt is ordered
ta b. cleaned by the owner the cleaning shal
be subject ta the supervision of the inspecting
officer.
bave anotber
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I
clause to be added. I own an elevator at
Wolseley. I bave no cleaning device, but
I amn golng to put one Ia. I bave shipped
grain by the carload witb different farmers, and It bas been badly mlxed wltb laferlor grain. The man wbe pnrcbased my
grain wants te bave It shlpped icean, but
It bas to be graded at WinaIpeg, and after
It la cleaned It cannot be graded except
at lower grades. I bave bere an ameadment whlcb 1 propose to offer :
Ail grain marked by the Inspection deartment for cleaaing, shahl be cleaned as ordered
and then inspected b y the. inspecter at such
point and graded under the rules of the Inspection Act and then binned according to
the grade.
Thnt Is to say, If 1 send an Inferior
article down and it only grades. No. 3 at
Winnipeg and goes to Port Arthur and Is
cleaned and grades bigber, let me bave tbe
advantage of ItL I give notice o! this
amendment.

1137
imd makes another mens of getting at
:be farmer and Iowerlng bis grade No. 3.
By tbat clause, tbey provide that tbe wbeat
must be of good illing quality, and It
ias to be very eligbtly bleacbed by weather
~onditions, tougb and sligbtiy damp, but
It goes out of the grade, andI wbere It
otberwise would bave graded No. 1 Northern It cannot be graded at ail. It bas to
go Into No. 2 or No. 3.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGIETDoes It flot become No. 1 Manitoba bleached wbeat ?
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-It bas to go Into a
iower grade. Tbat 21ause sbeidi be struck
out. I arn quite willing to let my objection stand as n notice.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELIf i.he wheat Is
bleacbed and sllgbtly tough and dnmp, the
grade sbould be reduced.
Hon. Mr. PERLBY-It makes sucb wheat
You would
lower than No. 2 Northern.
flot bave ten bushels of red Fife wheat in
tbe wbole ef tbe Nortbwest Territeries this
year if tbat clause were allewed to pass.
It would take over $2,000,000 out of the
farmers of the Nortbwest this year.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbis would establisb the most Inferior grade 0f wbeat
If xny right bon. friend
known In tbe Act.
wll turu to section 137, be will -find that
No. 3 Northern wbeat shail be wbite wlnter
wbeat not dlean enougb nor sound enougb
to be graded ns No. 2. At the present time
Yeu
tbat is tbe lewest grade of wheat.
propose to amend that section by adding
another grade No. 1 Manitoba bleacbed.
On clause 16,
Tbe logical sequence of that would be that
16. Section 187 is arnended by inserting unwould be Inferler to the
der the heading 'Spriag Wheat' and aftem the this new grade
definition of 'No. 2 Manitoba Nortbern Wheat' present lowest grade ef wheat.
the following pars graphsHon. Mr. WATSON-Comllint bas been
No. 1 Manitoba bleached wbeat shahl contain wheat slightly bleached by weather con- made by tbe farmers that wbeat of first
ditions. and tough and elightly darnp wheat
a shower
that has been properly treated and fit for ster- class variety mnight be bleacbed by
ing ail of which. in the. direction of the inspec- of main, and it is to meet that difficulty that
ter has not been injured for milling purposes. this clause bas been frarned.
It was put
and that otherwise would have graded No. 1
h.amd or No. 1 northern. and weighing net In by tbe representative of the Grain GrowTests
less than sixty pounds te the bushel.
ers' Association of tbe Nortbwest.
Red varieties of spring wheat other than
northemn or bave been made, and It bas been found that
red fife may be graded No. 1
Iewer in the diseretien cf the inspecter.
sncb wbeat preduces as mucii and as good
This clause Is enexception te flour as No. 1 bard.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I take
the farinera of tbe
tbls clause altogether. It establishes an- tirely la the Interest of
west, and is deslgned to prevent No. 1
other grade of irbeat tbat Is not requlred

1138

SENATE

SENATE
There Is a good
'wheat that bas been bleacbed by a sbower making the new grade.
of 'rai from being tbrown Into a lower deat in wbat the boa. senator from WolseUnder tbls clause, It will be known ley says, that if we go on iacreasiag the
grade.
by a special grade and will sell wlthln a grades the farmers will have only low
Wlieat toucbed witb rata
cent per bushel of tbe price of No. 1 bard. grade wheat.
may be just as good as No. 1 bard, but beHon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Can the hon.
cause It la a little bleacbed tbey throw It
gentleman show that thîs establishes a
The more grades
lato the lower grade.
grade equal to No. 2 Nortbern?
there are, the more the elevator man and
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-If a .grade la estab- the miller make out of ItL
llsbed for It, the wbeat will seli on its
Hon. Mfr. PERLEY-Dr. Saunders of the
merits.
Experimental Farm bas a milI for the purHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It sbould be pose of testlng the value of the different
graded above No. 1 Nortbern.
varleties of wbeat for flour. I wlll read
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-It may, atter being wbeat he says. It Is a made up job to
treated and dried, grade up aext to No. 1 undertake to put -such great stress on the
colour of our wheat la the *west. My coat
bard.
may be a littIe solled, but it Is none tbe less
Hon. Mfr. PERLEY-You do not provide
warm. Dr. Saunders sars:
for any wbeat belng graded after it Is
Natural paleness in the brand is no indicatreated?
tion at ail of weakaess la the foeur. It is
buyers
Hon. Mr. WATSON-This does; It says strange tbat wheatvaluation and others wbo are
of wheat seern so
interested ia the
s0 rlgbt ln the clause, aad the clause was oftea been unable to perceive the difference betweea paleness due to a pale askin and paleness
put there at the Instigation of' the grain
due to a pale interior of the kernel.
growers of the west.
Hon. 3fr. WATSON-I do not tbink that
Hou. Mfr. LOUGHEED-It cornes after menus bleached wheat.
the definition of No. 2 Nortbern.
Hon. Mfr. PERLEY-Yes, tbat is bleachHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- ed wbeat. He says la ail 3uchý cases It
That would flot make the wheat any the does not Include the skin of the wheat.
less valuable for mercantile purposes.
He goes a good deal furtber than I do,
Hon. Mfr. WAV-%TSOIN-lt Is proposed to and says that tbere is very little difference
give wbeat which has been bleached by a because of tbe colour. The great advansbower of rain Its proper place after it has tage in our wheat is the hardness of ItL
1 hold It is Important nlot to bave that
been treated.
clause la the Bill, because it makes another
Hon. Mfr. PERLE.Y-Tbere is no pro- grade, and, as I understand it, is putting
vision ln the Act that wheat shall be judged that wheat dowa to a lower grade than
It shall be judged by the
by the colour.
No. 1 or No. 2
The introduction
bardness of the grain.
of colour is the sting of the wbole thing.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWVRIGHTThe moment you mention the colour you I have taken a note of my honu. friend's
lower the grade.
remarks, and will bave thern considered.
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-Tbe hou. gentleman These clauses were aIl gone 'wcr carefully
knows that bleached wheat wîhl neyer wltb the men who specially claim to be
grade No. 1 bard under the present Inspec- represeatatîves o! the farming; interest. As
I understood, they aIl acquiesced in the
tion.
clause.
Hon. 3fr. DAVIS-From ail the evidence
Hon. Mr. PER.LEY-Nine out of ten of
I -have been able to get, this bleached wheat
we are speaking of now is as good as No. 1 those fellows were not frmers, but deaiNorthern for milling purposes and better ers. The farmer ln the Nortbwest bas little
than No. 2 Northern.
It is just possible to say about it. He is busy tilling the sol]
that we should change the grade No. 2 and gatbering the barvest anul t is a lot
Nortbern and put this Into it instead of of dealers la wheat at W'inuioeg wbo are
Hlon. Mfr. WATSON
1138

JUNE 12, 1908

1139

JtTNE 12, 1908
1139
graph still remains and would follow the
mnen who
makzing these representations,
have not nioney enough to buy the wheat paragrapli we now propose Inserting ln the
Act.
and have to go to the banks.
Hon. Mr, CAMPBEL-If we do flot put
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThis clause w-as flot suggested by the grain lu this clause, bleached wheat wIll go ln as
bleached wbeat and, of course, wlll sel] at
gro'wers.
a Iower price ; but If the conditions are
Hon. Mr. PERLBY-Half the members such as are descrlbed ln this paragraph, It
of the Grain Growers' Association, are spe- would grade No. 1 Northern, and when It
culators.
is treated and put ln proper condition, I
Hon. '-%r. CAMPBEL-It seexns to me take it the intent of this clause is to allow
that the object of the clause Is to benelit the Inspector to make that No. 2 Manitoba,
and I think it lu rlgbt.
the fariner.
THon. Mr. PERLEY-This clause says it
PERLEY-I bave yet in see
Hon. M-Nr.
millers anxious for the interasts of the shall be good milling wheat, equal to No. 1
or No. 1 Nortbern.
fanmer.
'Hon. Mr. CAMNPBELL-If it bad flot
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Take wheat that
been bieached and had not been treated
has been slightly bleached and tough, and
slightly darnp and has been properly treat- then it wouid go as No. 1 Hard or No. 1
ed w-bat is that graded now? It goes In Nortbern but on account of these condias bleacbed w-heat, but under this elause It tions affecting the wheat, and ît bas been
is raised froni b]eached wheat to what !t drled and put lu proper condition, it ls
made No. 2 Northern.
ls w-orth.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-It gays slightly
Hon. '-\r. DAVIS-If you raise lt to
bleachied snd sllghtly damp. Da you mean
No. 2 N-,orthern, I sha]I be sat-Isfied.
to say that that Interferes witb the quaHon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Tbut ig what lt lity o! the flour ?
does. As I take It, It is made No. 2 ManHon. Mr. DAVIS-I should like to asIc
Itoba 'Northern wbeat.
my bon. frlend, who) is a practical1 mihler,
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Then inzake it plain if lie lu of the opinion that wheat described
that it is -No. 2 -Nortbern and T shahi be la tbat clause Is just as gond as No. 2
satisfied.
Nontheru wbeat for mllling pumpose ? Does
he tblnk It could be brought ;n witb No. 2
Hon. 'Mr. DOUGLAS-Strike ont the last
Northern ?
two lines of the clause and niake it plain.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-No. 2 Northera
Hon. '-%r. CAMPBELL-It takes wheat
must weigh 58 pounds to the bushel. This
graded bleached
that otberw-ise w-ould be
is 60, but it bas been sligbtly bleached and
wheat, and puts it lni as No. 2 Manitoba.
it bas been treated therefor. You cannot
Hou. M-\I. DAVIS-lt does îîot say so. dampen or bleach it in any way at al
Why not put lu a hune or two saying It without detracting fron lis value.
sbail be graded as No. 2 Northemn.
Hon. Mn. PERLE.Y-Inspector King sayu
Hon. '.%r. LOUGHEED-If uy bon. friend differently.
will look at the neit paragrapb. he will
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-And on account
see that it w-ould be graded No. 3 Mani- of this wheat welghlng 60 pounds to the
toba Northern.
bushel, wheneas wheat that was not tough
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- would only weigh 58 pounds to the bushel,
I thlnk it is proper it should go in at that
This Bill introduces a new clause.
weight.
the clause
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-You say that as this
you no,% propose to lnsert w-il! precede the
clause giving- the inspector discretion to w-heat before it was bleached would have
c]assify it as No. 3 Northern. Tbat para- graded No. 1 bard or No. 1 Nontheru, that

1140

1140

SENATE
SEXATE

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-You miglit take ànIt would grade more than No. 2 'Northern.
Does he, as a practical man, say that this other year with very little ran eand there
would have as mucli value as No. 2 North- wouid flot be very much of It. If we are
satlsfied that that class of wheat is as good
ern?
If not better than No. 2 Nortbern, I do flot
Hon. Mr. CA.%PBELL-Yes, I think 80. see any objection to put It into the grade
of No. 2 Northern.
Hon. -Mr. DAVIS--Supposing you make
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTit read ln tbis way:
But No. 2 Northern lias a distinct.definiNo. 1 Manitoba bleached wheat shail contain wheat slightly bleached by weather con- tion at present whicli this particular ciass
ditions, and tougli and slightly damp wheat; wouid flot meet.
that has been properly treated and fit for
Hou. Mr. PERLEY-Tlie wheat sbould be
storing, ai of which in the discretion of the
inspector has flot been injured for rniiling grnded wlth a great deal of respect for the
Purposes, and that otherwise woulct have
Ordinary wlieat will welgh
graded No. 1 biard or No 1 northern, aad welg-ht of it
weighing not less than sixty pounds to the. (e and 64 pounds to the bushel, and there is
bushel shall be considered No . 2 northern.
no wlieat you ean find s0 ready a market
If you add those words to It, we would for as No. 2 Northern, because it Is two
know where we are at, but you are -making or three cents lower than No. 1, and it
another grade.
makes just as rnuch flour because it bas
to have the same weight, 63 pounds to the
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I do flot think there bushel.
There Is bardly any wbeat wortli
le any question about it, that the miller wil taling about which weighs 58 pounds..
buy this new grade for a blgher price than
Take our wheat graded No. 2 f eed, and it
That new grade will soon weighs 58 pounds.
No. 2 Nortliern.
The men buying
be known to the buyers, and I arn satisfied wlieat la Ontario will buy No. 2 grade
that the farmer wIll get more for bis wheat quleker than any other, because there is
as described in this clause than lie would xnost money ln IL.
on No. 2 Nortbern, because it does not
If it Is
welgli 58 pounds to the bushel.
Hon. ýSir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTput ln proper condition for storage it may Does the lion, gentleman propose to strike
brlng a higlier prIce than No. 2 Northern. the clause ont?
'You could flot very well mix rup bleached
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Yes.
wheat wbere bleached wheat la flot classed.
Bleached wlieat lias been thrown into the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTrejected grade, and the farmers are corn- 1 will cali attention to it.
plaining, and they have been suggesting
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-lt seerns to nie
that a grade be made for that wheat. The
there Is a rinisunderstanding as to whether
Tests were
matter bas been discussed.
made, and It wns found that wheat slightly this new grade shall be classed under No.
If the two last liues frorn 5
bleached was not destroyed for milling pur- 2 Manitoba.
onwnrd were dropped, I think it would
poses.
clear away a good deal of the difficulty,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- and would leave It wlthout a doubt that
If you struck. this clause out, aIl the wheat this new grade would corne under No. 2
which cornes under it wouid go luto an in- Manitoba Nortliern wheat.
It la flot necesferior grade, and It was to give it a chance sary to the principle of this legisiation, beto pass for the higlier grade.
After the
cause it is only explnnatory.
purposes,' ail the words that
depend on words ' milllng
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-That would
'And that otherwise would have
If you lad a good follow,
the clirnatie condition.
graded No. 1 -bard or No. 1 Northern and
deal of rain, two-thirds of the crop of Sasweighed not less than 60 pounds to the
katchiewan and Alberta iniglit corne under
bushel,' are quite unnecessary as to the
that headlng.
rankiag or grade of that bleached wheat,
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Three-quarters of it and lts connection with No. 2 Northern,
and I would sec no difliculty at ail in adoptjust now.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

1141
JUNE 12,1908
JUNE 12, 1908
1141
Now you are going to maIre this grade
iug that clause, if those words were struck
northern, altbough it does flot contain shxty
out.
per centum of bard red Fife wheat. 1
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTbtter than
aubmit t should fot be graded
We can consider that.
No. 2 Notbern.
Hon. 'Mr. CAM-NPBELL,-At present, wheat
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHETthat is slightly bleacbed by weather con- The hou. gentleman eau. move an amendditions, tough and slightly damp, le classed ment, and we shalI consîder it.
as rejected wbeat. This clause taises the
The clause was adopted.
grade and maIres it better for the fariner.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Mr. DOUGLAS-I have beard mliw111 remember that ln the
contend that one year Hon. gentlemen
ers in the west
passage of 'the Manitoba Grain Aict, *we
when we hadl a fail of snow ln October
clause repeaiing certain other
that covered up tbe wheat and detracted inserted a
sections, and iu subsection one of section
from its vaiue, bleached wvheat was sold
were omitted, wvhich I now
very much lower, and tbey made a very 99 these words
propose to insert:
large amount of nioney from that very fact,
If the car is leaky or in badl order the
and lu the conference beld nt Regina, whicb
fact.
I attended, flot simply one milier, but al record shall state the
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I should like to go
the millers present, contended that the
wheat, after it w-as dried and bail becomne back to clause 7, wblch bas been passed
bard again, was just as good for milling by the committee. The section %vasamended by taklng out the word 'oats,' and I
purposes as No. 1 bard.
desire to draw attention to the fact that
Hon. '-%r. PERLEY-I beard Mr. King
tiiere was quite a controversy lu the House
maIre that statemeut to-day.
of Commons over this same question. That
DOUGLAS-And they had no yeftr tbey raised a magnificent sample of
Hon. M-Nr.
They said tbey badl oats in Saskatchewan, and the
Grain
objection to it at ail.
made a good deal of mnoney by receilng Board at Winnipeg graded it away down
such wbeat at a lower price, and that It until the people could scarcely get anyluçalue to No. 1 bard, thing at ail for it, aithough it bail a good
was quite equain
upon tbeir owu confession.
commercial value, and this clauise was lnRICHARD. CARTWRIGHT- serted, taking out the word. Tis amendHon. Sir
I recommend to my bon. friend tbat lie ment proposes to restore it.
should give notice of motion to amend on
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI cannot accept sncb No, this gives the Westeru Board the riglit
the third reading-.
ameadments offhand.
to create a commercial gradle for oats.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-This la the greatest
piece of hnmbu.- I ever saw. It shows how
hIttie value you put on the red varieties,
and red Fife wlit:

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I understaud that the
people of Alberta object to this clause ?
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-I was going to
move at the third reading, that clause 7
Red varieties of spring wheat other than be struck ont.
No. 1 Northern or

red Fife may be graded
lower. in the discretion of the inspectr-

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI understood this was strongly desired by
the Alberta farmers In order to enable the
commercial grades of onts to be inserted.
If they do flot desire lt I bave no concern
in ItL We can ccWsider it, and the hou.
gentleman can move an amendment.
The amendmcnt was adopted.
No. 1 Northera Manitoba wheat; ehall be
souad and well cleaned and weighing not less
be
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Did the bon. minister
thau sixty ponnds ta the bushel and shall
composedl of at le.ast sixty per centumn of Hard taIre into consideration the matter I menHon. Mr. CAMPBELL,-I wvas going to
calI attention to tliat. I do not thiuk that
other varieties of red wheat should be
graded as No. 1 Nortbern. No. 1 Northern
red Fife wbeat bas a distinct characteristic. The description 15:

Red Fife wheat.

:1,142

SENATE

1142

SENATE

tioned the other evening with reference to
I t le an
the loading cf foreign cars?
Important matter. It le provided that no
cars shall be loaded witb grain unless tliey
are stencllled. That clause, is taken f rom

the Minnesota Act; but they do not use
Cars corne Into the
forelga cars there.
Northwest wlth settiers, and they Ioad
those cars with wheat going back. They
cannot do that under this law.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThat ls with reference to the Act whicb
we recently passed. I will caîl attention
to that.

Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-I

thluk tbere

PAYMENTS TO MR. HOARE.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY rose to:
CaIU the attenition of the H3ouse to the fact
that 'Ma. Hoare, the chdef engineer of the
Quebec Bridge and Railway Company, of
which Mr. -Parent is president. has received
frora the Transcontinental Rajlway Commission, of which the same (Mr. P>arent is alsc
president, certain amounts during the yeare
1904-5, 1005-6, 1906-7 and 1007-6, and that he will
inquireFor wha.t services have snob amounts been
paid by the. Transcontinental Railway Commission P
What position did then Mr. Hoare occlipy
ia or for the said. commission?
Was h. paid es engineer of 4Quebec Bridge
Company or es a temporarv eniployee of the
Transcontinental Railway Commission?

provision for welghing grain at
terminal elevators. I think we sbould repeal that section.
was

n

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tdie answers to the
hon. gentleman's questions are as follows:
1. For salary and expenses for Mr. E. A.
Hoare, for the years 1904-5, 1905-6, 1906-7,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT1907-8.
1 will look Into that I propose to move
2. Mr. E. A. Hoare has been ia the exnthe following addition to section 138 :
ploymeat of the commissioners, and bas
The provision made in the following clauses been pald by the commissioners since Octofor the establishment of standard samples of
grain of United States production shaîl not ber 6th, 1904, first as au engineer in charge
apply to corn, but corn of United States pro- of location fromn the Quebec bridge, -westerduction shall be inspected according to the ly to west of Cap Rouge Viaduct. and froin
definitions provided in clause 136 of this Act.
the Quebec Bridge Company's railway eastThe Board of Trade cf Moatreal say that erly to near St. Jean Chrysostome.
HIe rethere is very great difficulty Indeed la fix- rnained la this position until October, 1906,
lng grades for American grain ID view cf sInce whieh time he has had charge of the
the varions qualities of the 'lîfferent sec- erection of the Cap Rouge Viaduct.
tions. and that great delays take place la
3. He lias been paid for bis services lu
obtaining samples ; and with respect to conneotion with the Transcontinental Railcorn of United States production, they pro- way In the same manner as other engipose that It be inspected accordlng to the neers ln the employ of -the Transcontinental
definition laid down ln clause 138.
Rallway Commissioners.
The amendment was adopted.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN, from the committee,
reported that they had made some progresa
with the Bill, and asked leave to sit again
on Tuesday next.
The Senate adjourned tili 3 o'cleck,
Tuesday next.

on

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA, Tuesday, June 16, 1908.

'

The !SPEAIER tool, the Chair at Three
cloclc.
Prayes and routine proceedin.-s.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

QUEBEC BRIDGE AND RAILWAY
COM-%PANY.
INQUIRY.
H&n. '-\r. LANDRY inquired. of the government:
When the governmen.t. in 1903, coacluded a
financial arrangeent wi'th the Quebec Bridge
and Railway 0m paay, did it then require
and has it made it one of the obligations of
the contract that the com*pany should forthwith subscriýbe additional shares -to the emount
of $200,000 ?
Ras the oompaay caused this additional 6uin
to be subscribed?
By wh&m, gving the Dames?
Did the company afterwards devote the
amount which it eo obtained to pay for works
chargeaýble to capital, or has it Dlot rather

JUNE 16, 1908

1143

the two hundred thousand dollars, aud the
omployed almost the whole of that sum, to
It wouid be
of
wit: $188,721, in payment of the discount is- amount of each subscriptiofl.
whidi securities of the. company ba.d been
an easy matter to get the names of those
sued, 'the 'builder ut the. piena of,.the bridge shareholders.
having consented 'te extinguish a claim of
$283,279 which h. had against 'tie company
Hon. Mri. SCOTT-I saw the Minister if
by taking debientures of tihe said company ta
the. amount of $4,72,000, that is to say, et a Finance bimself, and he said Éfit ail the
discount of 40 per cent?
correspondence is la the possession of the
may say that 1 ans- officiai who had the making t'p of that
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I
saw
wered tlîat question la the torm la which report, sud 1 could get It there. I
first Instance, that this Mr. Ross, who Is the gentleman lu charge
It was put la the
$200,000 was subscribed in compiiance wlth of this matter lu the Finance Department.
clause 4 of the agreement botween the gov- and he assured me that- ail the ,eorresponernment and the Quebec Bridge and Rail- deuce was In the papers 1 Iild on the
So t ar as the correspoul- table. It Is quite Impossible that I could
way Company.
was concerned, 1 laid copies ou the personaliy look after the corregpondence.
dence
table some woeks ago la connection wlth
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I would ask the
Ail corresponthat and other subjects.
hon, gentleman to let the matter stand;
douce lu regard to that matter Is la the ail1 I want Is the names of those -wbo subpossession of the Sonate.
scribed and the amounts of their subscripHou. 'Mr. LANDRY-I caîl attenti-)n to tiens. What the Finance Minister said to
the tact thnt the documents which the hon. the hon, gentleman may be ail verv true,
minister laid on the table the other day but we have not received t'he Information.
do not contalu a single word ln answer to
The SPEAKER. Perhaps the hou, genthis question. It migbt have been a change tleman bad better trame a new inquiry for
The paper on the top ot that part of bis question which is not anof documents.
liMAicates that the file contalus au swered.
the file
answer to these questions, but as a matter
SUPPLY BILL NO. 3.
of tact the documents filed hero are lu no
at aill FiRST, MEOND AND THIRD REÂDINGS.
'way an auswer to my questions
What I am asking, I asked la regard te thbe
A message was received troin the Hlouse
:$'0«,000; but wbat 1 did not get are the of Ct(ommons wlth Bill (186) An Act for
names of those -who subscribed. That ies the granting to HIs Majesty certain suins of
third question of .my inquiry-by whom mony for the public service of the finangivi g the nines. 1 have not tube namei
t clal year ending Marei 31, 1.909.
-and I cannot find them in tbe report thea
The Bill was read the first timue.
the -bon. ministor laid on the table. I thin
-Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the suspension
this is because of some niisconceptiodi a
the question, or perbaps some of thos e0f thbe mies lu so far as they relate to this
papers have been put la another file 'w1tl 'Bill.
t
other documients, but cortaiuly tuey are no Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-lIt might neot be
the return laid on the table. The docu
In
e inappropriate to point ont the very undesiments laid on the table comiprise ail thi rable way la which -the Supply Bis of the
ordors passed betweon «the goverament re g, vernmeflt are being railroaded through
latin- to the affairs of the bridge compan3 e thus Ohainher without opportunity for conbut there is notlilng- at ail concerning th sideration or discussion. It is almost un$200,000. 1 caîl tube attention of the tior Snecessary to s-ay t¶iat discussion ou this
gentleman to this fact. The paper Bill is not expe<Žted, and -would be entirely
asked for must -have been sent elsewher Sout of place luasmuch as His Honour the
they are cortainiy not la our possession. Lt Deputy Governor is practicaliy -waiting at
-wiil hand the minister -the documents tha
ir the doors of the Chamber to assent to the
were laid on theo table, and be can see fo Bill. Now, It may be very well said la
-o
blmself that they do nlot contain a replyt
cnitlcism wiich I bave made,
I want -the names of t e aiis-wer to the
this question.
,d that the Sonate would not have authority
isoven or eligbt sharehoiders w-ho subscribe

1144

SENATE

SENATE
1144
to in any way amend the Bill. Tiat does prove of it, but It is very biard ta get over
nlot, however, lessent the argument that thase old customs. However, 1 fancy tijat
the Senate would -have the rigbt te rejeet thîs Chamber keeps Itself weil In touchi
the Bill and to criticize any Item or ail Mhe wlth tbe debates In tbe other Huse, and
Items of expenditure It contains. Tibe Bill we are pretty familiar wlth the Items ln
is printed, it is true; but It bas oeily been the Supply Bill, and L-now If any of them
piaced on our desks to-day. Consequently, are open to objection. They have ail beenr
no Information bas been obtalned by thie tborougbly discussed la the other CbamSenate wltb reference to the contents of ber. They came here tboroughlv threshed
the Bill. My bon. friend may eay It repre- out, and, therefore, no serlous burmn la done
sents oae-eigbt of the total supplies re- by tbe suspension of tbe rules. The Bill
quired, and that a similar Bill passed before us la composed of two sehiedules, a
througb before, but that is the greater ob- and b. A con sIsts of ail Items reported te
jection te the transaction of business in the House aince the passing of -the other
or
this way. We have been doing thîs busi- Blill. Tbey amount to $23,.'S9,981.
ness by simply putting tbrough a fraction that M2,669,981 are la the main estîmatea
of the supplies wlthout any consideration for tbe fiscal year 1908-9 and iigeable to
or discussion, and witbout any thought as tbe consolidated fund. There is chiargeable
One ta capital la this $700,000, making $23,329,to what the public expenditure la.
need nlot point out tbat the public expen- 000. Scheduie B represeats 'iae-eighth of
diture involved in this Bill far exceeds that tbe identical itemns in the main estimates
of any preceding year, and Is far Ia ad- for the current year and niot yet reported
vance of wbat la 'warranted by our rev- by the House. Tbey amouat altog-ether te
enue. This, of course. will not preclude $7,919,3M4, of wbicb $2,9633,901 are chargeour discussIng the Supply -Bill Jn Us en- able to consolidated fund and the balance
tirety when brought dowa at the end of to capital account. The total amount of the
the session ;but 1 cannot impress on my two la $31,309,335.
bon. friend too strongly the tiadesirabhhity
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tliat is. the two
of aslng this Chamber, withoiit baving schedules that we are v-oting to-dfay ?
had any notice whatever on Pn Important
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. tbe total amount.
subject of this kind, to put a Bill tbrough
ail its stages without any opportunity for
my bona.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-C4ii
gîving it proper consideration.
friend say how much we have aiready voted
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-What the hou. gentle- la former Suppiy Buis during the present
man says may be ail very true, but bis session ?
experience la this Clhamber will lead hlma
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, I thiinlz I an.
to the conclusion thiat the practIce in the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARtTWRIGHTpast bas been that the Supply Bill bas
We bave voted an eighith, and certiu things
neyer received. very mnucli consideration ia
the Senate. Ia my experience I do not tbink wbicb have been voted ia bulk.
1 can recali three occasions when any atSCOTT-We had the suppleHon. 1%L-.
tempt was made to discuss It. Wben 1 mented estimate of last year-1 ineed not
was on the other side of the table, the include that-thait was five million odibon. gentleman Ia charge of tiiese Bis
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Ho\w%mniucb, was
entirely disclaimed any responsibility for the supplemental last year Nvliieh we voted
maklng any explanation -whatever. I do this session?7
nlot approve of that. I would very mucb
Tbat w. s
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-$5,319,633.
rather a different policy were observed.
My bon. friend's crîticism is well founded, the suppiementai estimate for tiý past year.
but our experience bas been that they ai- In addition to Uiat, we voted -about the
ways want Supply Bills in a great hurry, beginaiag of April-certain iteins that bad
and when the main Supply Bill bas been been passed through the Hotise of Coinbrougbt down in the past It has always been mens, and tbey were includied, $4,585,415,
on the day of prorogation. 1 do flot ap- and then one-eightb added to (bat anounted
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

JUNE 16, 1908

JUNE 16, 1908
to $11,246,403, the two maklag together
$15,831,818. Tbat Is what we voted ln
March or the beginning of April and that
le apart from the five million. To-day we
are called upon to vote $31,309,335, those
two Items belng the vote of the present
year, 1908-9, would amount to $47,141,153.
Then there le stili to be voted six-elghthig
more.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The hon, gentleman omitted the five millions wbichi was
voted, wflich would bring the -vnte of the
present year ln excess of $52,000,000.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
lion. Mr. MILLER-I do flot thlak it
would be out of place to empliasize here
the littie time given to the Senate to conaider flot ofly this Bill, but other Bis of
the first Importance that are sometîmes
brouglit' before us. There are, no doubt.
special reasons ln connection wvith the Supply Bill now before the 'House w-hidi render it a matter 0f urgency to pass It at
once ; but that le not the case, and cannot
be truly said ln reference to other important -Bis whichi will be brouglit before
ühis Flouse before the session closes.
We are now la the seventh monfli of the
session, ard I tbink the House wiil agree
wifh me wvhen I say that nearly ail the
Important legislation wbilh was promised
by the governaient at the opeang of parliament and througb the session is not yet
through the Flouse of Commons-in faet the
serions legfisiation of the session. sueli as
tihe Insurance Bill, the Civil Service Bill,
the Election Bill 'and several other Bills
I could mention have not evena dvanced
to the second reading. 1 do not thlnk I
exaggerafe wben 1 say that if fliese Important Bis get the consideration .fhey are entitled to from ftie Heuse of Commons, they
cannot, taken altogether, be put through the
Flouse of Comnious, before, perhaps. the first
of September. C-ertainly it would take two
or three monthes to get that legîsiation
through unless if le f0 be rushied, flrougli
parliament with Indecent haste.
Trhere le
the Insurance Bill for Instance. I suppose
If would not be saylng too muc-h f0 state
tbat that Bill ought f0 fake ti-o or three
months golng through the House of Comnmons, If it is not f0 be rushed. If le n

1145

114S
Important measure, fuil of important detale, wvuîch muet create long discussions ln
the popular branch before the Bill leaves
that House. There Is also the Civil Service Bill, one of the most important Bills
that lias been before parliameut since confederation. it is a suhject of the firet Importance. It le a subject that tns engaged
the legislafures of the two !eadlng countries o! thie world wlthln ftie hast century
-that le Great Britaîn and thle United
Sfatee-and if le only .thirty years ego
tihat reelly the Civil Service law was mafured to the condition in which if stands
now ln England, and affer a greaf deal of
bard lighting in fthe neighbouring republic,
Congress lias not got haîf way tbrough wlth
the work, before II ln connection. wifh the
Civil Service reform. It *wottl be monstrous to suppose that either of the Bille
I refer to can be put thi-ougli the Flouse of
Commons ln less than two or three months.
I mention. those two Bille because of their
special Importance. Then there Is tibe Elecfion BIII, whicb lias been before Ibis country
for some time, ln regard f0 certain featuresof if, requlring amendments whîcbi are very
controversial aîid would also take a very
great length o! tIme.
If the House of
commons cannot possibly bav-e sufficient
tinie f0 discuss these Important measures
withini the next two monthes, as I say they
will nof, wliat le fa becomne of theni w-hen
fhey are broughlt before fthc Seîmate for consideraflon?
Are we then f o -0fhrough
the farce o! passing theai bere lu a pertuncfory manner withouf any discussion or
examInation? If so w-bat position wlll we
occupy ln the eyes o! thec countr-y? If we
are to give them flic careful considerafion
thant their importance demands, it would
bring us into November or December before
ive could close the session. There are precedents for this Flouse asserfing lfself on
sncli occasione-some o! whicbh my bon.
friend the leader of the Flouse will well
remnber.
I)urlng the very- tiret session
nfter confederation, lu which a greaft deal
o! leg-islation was neceseary ln order f0 reorganize the deparfaiental systeai of fthe
goveramnent, towards fthc conclusion of-le
session the government broughit down a lut
of Important Bille relating- f0 the crimînal
laws o! fthe countr.v, and thls Flouse then

1146

1146

SENATE

took the stand that it was too late la the
session, that the flouse would not bave-Urne
to give proper consideration to those Important measures, and that therefore they
wouid lot. entertain themn at ail, and tbrew
them ont on the second reading. That ls a
precedent establlshed by this flouse ln the
Then I revery first year of its existence.
cali the attention of iny hon. f rlend the
leader of the goverument to another Important occasion, lu 1892 or 1893, 1 thlnk it
was, when the subject of codify.ing the
It
crimînai laws was before parliament.
was flrst discussed before the Commons
and then referred to a Joint Commlttee of
both H-ouses, consisting of -the ieading
members of both flouses, of whlch committee I had the honour of being chairman.
After two or three months, spent la the
heat of the sunimer by that comnnittee in
perfecting the measure as far as they were
able, two or thiree sittings a wveek of the
committee for two or tbree months, it went
to the flouse of Commons, underwent a
great deni of labour la that flouse, and il
came up here to us, and my bou. friend,
the present leader of the flouse, got up ln
bis place as leader of the opposition and
asked the flouse to reWet the Bill and to
nullfy ail the work tiat had been done by
the House of Couinions and the Joint Commlttee on that occasion and put -the Bis
over for another session, as there w-as not
sufficlent Urne in which to consider thern
It is true lie did not succeed
properly.
In bis motion, but that was the opinioni
,which lie had at the tinie, that it w-as derogatory to the flouse. that Lt wvas bringing
tie flouse into a false position to ask it to
pass in a perfnctory nianner Bis of such
an important character, -without suchi time
for consideration as would be necessary if
an ordiniary turuipilce road Bill bad beeni before the ýSenate. I bave no hesitation in
Saying that this Ilouse mnust be in session
here for another three or four mouthis at
least if aniythiing lilze decent attention is to
be given to the hiffll important and farrenching leglisiation wbichi is now before the
flouse of Commons; that is, unless we arc
expected to igniore our functions altogether,
and talce the Bis as they corne froin the
I hiope the Senate is
flouse of Couinions.
flot prepared to allow thit imputation to be
placed on it by its enieii s or by the couniflou. 'Mr. 'MILLETR.

try. My remarks may flot be relevant on
the present Bill, but 1 thought 1 would throw
onut tihe hint for the cousideration of the goverument la order that they mnight give us
somne idea, if not ln this flouse, then la the
other flouse, of the legisiation that is reaily
intended to be pressed on parliament tbis
I cannot believe lt possible that
session.
If
they intend to press the Insurance Bill.
I cannot
not, why flot drop It at once?
belleve It possible they lntend to take up
and deal wlth the great question of clvil
service reform and rush it through either
the flouse of Gommons or the Senate, nor
can 1 belleve that other Important legisiatdon I could refer to Is to be rushed ln a
perfunctory manner through tliîs flouse,
whlch lt must be, unless we are prepared
to sit liere tbrough the dog-days.«
flon. Mr. SCOTT-The hion. genitleman's
remarks f urisbed food for thouglit, and
ought to be faily well considered. 1 may
say that this Chamber bas been pretty busy
itself durlng the present session. We had
gone through the alphabet twice witb our
Blls, and are on the third round, which is
the ~first time lu my experience that the
Senate bas introduced and pas'sed -tliro>ugh

so many Bis la one session. Then we thave
passed t'hrough a great many Bis f-rom the.
flouse of Counions. In regard to the Insurance Bill, it bas flot been before the
flouse of Commons for the past .three
months, aud It is not lîkely Lt -vill
be tAiere again unless to postpone it for
another year. I do not think Lt is seriously
Lt throughi this
to put
contemplated
session. It is a very important Bili, but
it is not a Bill that there is urgency for
It was lntroduced rather
la aiay sense.
lut obedience to n very sensitive feeling
that seemed to prevail anmong those who
hold policies, and I think tlvut feeling is
now pretty well removed. I liluk the peopie of the country are w-cIl satisfied that
our Insurance companies are la fairly good
stanîding and that tliere is no necessity for
such a erusade against them as thiere was
lu regard to the Election
lu New York.

Biii, my hion. friend knows thiat the govcramient can scarcely be beld

rûsponsible

for its position in the flouse of Comimons.
would like to have Lt put througb

IThey

JUNE 16, loo8

1147

JUNE 16, 1u08

1147

some Urne ago, but there was opposition
there whicbl prevented it from psoceediug.
Hon. Bir. MILLER-My object was flot
to throwv blame on the goveranment, but to
cail attention to the facts.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I know'that. My lion.
friend's remarks were quite pertinent.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-Before the motion
is put, I bave to reeali to the attention of
the Senate the declaration made by thse
hon. Secretary of State ln regard to thse
Insurauce companies. It was our duty
smre three or four months ago tu prosecute
certain companies In thse United StatesThe SPEAKER-I beg thse hou. gentleman's pardon. Thse question has uow been
put froni thse chair. He can take another
occasion to make hus remarks.

An Act to inrorporate the. Norths Empire
Fire Insurance Company.
An Act to incorporate the, Travellers' Life
Assurance Company of Canada.
An Act to incorporate the Bank of Hamilton Pension Fund.
An Adt respecting the. Subsidiary Hligii
Court of the Ancienit Order of Forestere in
the Dominion of Canada.
An Art to incorporate the. Canada Weather
Insurance Company.
An Act resýpecting the Canadian Nortiiera
Ontario Raiiway Company.
An Art to incorporate the. Vancouver Island
and Eastern Railway Company.
An Art respecting the. Western Alberta
Railway Company.
An Art to incorporate thse Standard Accident and Guarantee Company of Canada.
An Art resperting the Eastern Trust Company.
An Act respecting the. Queber and New
Brunswick RailwayCompany.
An Act resperting thse Board of the Presbyterien College, Halifax.
An Art for the. relief of Andrew Walker.

An Art for the relief of Editis Maud Rosario

Gammeil.
An Art to inrorporate Tiie Anglo-Canadian
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I was waitlng fur
and Continental Bank.
Hlm Honour thse Speaker to put thse quesAn Art te amnd the Windiug-up Art.
An Art respecting the Anglo-Canadian Intion. I simply wlsh to say that J arn glad
suranre Company
to hiear thse Secretary of State admit that the National. Unionand to change its naine to
Insuranre Company.
tise crusade against thse insurauce compaAn Act resý,cting the. merger of thse Northnies ln New York State was necessary, ern Bank and tiie Crown Bank of Canada unof the Nortiiern Crown Bank.
aitisougis lie would not admit thse saine der thse namne incorporate the. Standard Plate
An Art to
tising three years ago.
Glass Insurance Company of Canada.
An Act respecting thse Queber Railway,
Tise motion was agreed to. and tise BihI Ligiit and Power Company.
Ail Art to inoorporate thse Nortiiera Empire
was passed tisrougis its final stages under
Railway Company.
:suspension of the ruies..
An Art resperting the. New Brunswick
Soutiiern Railway Company.
ASSENTED TO.
BILLS
An Art respecting the Fort William Terminai Railway and Bridge Company.
An Art resperting the Pacifie Coast Fire lnThse Senate was adjourlned during pleassuranre Company.
uire.
An Art t'o irepeal the. Canned Goods Art.
An Art to amend the Meat and Canned
Thse Honourabie Sir Charles Fitzpatrick,
Foods Art.
K.C.M.G., Chief Justice of Canada, acting
Anl Art resperting thse Ottawa, Brorille
Deputy of His Excellency thse Governor and St. Lawrence Railway Company.
An
General, being scated at thse foot of thse Shore Art resperting the M.Nanitoulin and 'Norths
Railway Company.
Tisrone.
An Art resperting the Pontiac Central RailCompany.
Tise Honourable thse Speaker commaflded way
Aiu Art resperting- the Occidental Fine Inthse Gentleman Usher of tise *Back lRod te suraure Company.
Ail Art te incorponate thse Architectural
proceed to thse House of Ccen nons and acquaint that House: 'It is His Honour's the Institut, of Canada. the Land Titles Art.
An Art te amend
Deputy of His Excelleucy thse Govenuor
An Art nespecting Signal Dues at Halifax.
An Art resperting Meaford Harbour.
Geueral's desire that tbey attend hi luiAn Art resperting thse Grank Tnunk Parifir
la this House.'
mediately
Braurh Lines Company.
An Art te inrorponate Thse Ruthenian
Who beli- corne with their Speaker,
Catholir Mission of Saint Basil thse Great in
thse Crown in .0hancery read Canada.
Thse Clerk of
An Art te amend the, Exrhequer Court Art.
tise Titles of the Bis to lie passed, as
An Art te incorporate thse Saskatchewan
follows:
Power Company.
Ail Act nesperting
Ail Act respecting thse Hamilton Radial Ilailway Company. the Pacifie and Atlantic
Electrir Railway Company.

,SENATE
.SEINATE

1148
1148

An Act te authorize the exehange of certain
school lands for other Domninion lands.
An Act respecting the Nipissing Central
Railway Company.
An Act respecting The Crown Life Insurance Company.
An Act respectiag the Edmonton, Yukon
and Pacifie Railway Company.
An Act respecting The PhSonix Assurance
Company, Limited.
An Act for granting te His Majesty certain
sums of money for the public service of the
financial year ending the 31st Mardi, 1909.
To these Bis the Royal Assent was prono'unce.1 by the Clerk of the Senate ln the
following words:
'In His Majesty's name the Deputy of
His Exeellency dotb assent te these Bills.'
The Senate resumed.
PAY'MENTS TO MR. EDMOND TASCHEREAU.
INQUIRY.

the sum of $2,500.03 dut-s flot concern C. E.
Taschiereau, but L. .4. Taschiereau, K.C.
4. The information for the answers given
was furnished by the Transcontinental
Tbey say lt was
Rallway Commission.
the error of the Auditor General marklng
the two sums to the one man, wbereas It
,was paid to the two ln the amounts I have
already named.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-I am n ot quite atisI acicept lt as
fied wlth the explanation.
given by the lion. leader of the Huse, but
in the Auditoy General's Report the item
1To C. E. TasclieIs marked this way:
Then below that Uine Is
reau, $3,177.84.'
given the details of eacb payment, and ill
those payments are credlted to Mr. C. E.
In the face of the reply reTaschereau.
celved to-day, I wouid Inquire for w-bat
purpose the payments were made?

Hon. Mr. LANDRY rose te draw the atHon. -%r. SCOTT-I have given the extention of the House to the answer given
I have received.
OtU of June instant, te a question planation
on the
put on the subject of M. Edmond Tasche- THE SECRETAIZY 0F THE NATIONAL
reau, and inquire of the government:
TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILWAY
1. Does the government know that accordCOM-MISSION.
ing to the Report of the Auditor General for
Mr. LANDRY rose to draw the atmnonths ending on March 31, 1907, nt
Ilon.
the fine
page 307 o! Part W, Mr. Edmond Taschereau tention o! this House to the nnswer given,
appears te have received from the Transcontinental Railway Commission a sum o! $3,- on the l4th May Iast. to a question put on
177.84?
the subject ef Mr. Ulric Barthe, which an2. In face of these figures, how can the swer affirnîed that the governiiient hadi not
wss made to
assertion be explained, which
to Mr. IJlric
this House by the Honourable the Secretary paid anytlsiing whatsoever
of State, fixing at $677.21 only, the amount Barthe, and aiso te tise subsequent answer
paid te Mr. Edmond Taschereau by the said given to this House..on the 9th ef tUe precommission np to March 31, 1907?
3. Who is responsible for the variance ot sent menth. afflrrning. under the signiature
$2,500.63 between the figures given to this9 of Mr. P. E. Ryan. the exactniess and the
Bouse by the Hlonourable the Secretary of truth of the flrst aniswer, anid inquire ef the
State and those brought hefore the public by
gevernment:
the Report of the Auditor General?
4. Who gave the honourable minister the
1. When the government affirmed that the
answers which hie communicated te this
Transcontinental Iùsilway Commission had
bouse?
neyer paid anything whatsoever to Mr. Ulrio
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-TUat lsan question that Bai-the and, more especially, had never paid
Tbey still anything for bis presence at certain meeting.la being debated very inuch.
Cominittee, o-as it
maintain that the errer resta wvith the Audi- of the Quebec Terminus it not give an annot led into error, and did
There w-as a paysnent ef swer which contradicts the Report of the Auter General.
$2,500.63 te L. A. Taschereau, and te Ed- ditor General for the fine moaths ending on
31, 1907, page 298 o! Part W?
mond Taschereau there w-as paid $677.21; Merch
2. When Mr. P. E. Ryan affirma under bis
!rom the observations whicli signature that the fir-t answE5r of the Secretary
but I tlsink.
contradiction
f eh frein my lion. friend, it ail appears un- of State is exact, how can the Report of the
his declaration and the
which they say between General be explained, and how con
der tise name o! Edmond,
Auditor
I wili rend' the answers as the goverament content itself with informais incorrect.
officiai documents?
given te me: The aunswer te qpiestiens 1, tion which contradicts
3. Does the goverament intend te intimate
2, 3 la. yes; but this amount of $3,177-84 to the secretary of the Transcontinental Railapplied to C. E. Taschereasu, by the report Nway Commission that bis duty is to answer
o! the Auditor Gencral la not correct, ns categorically questions as put?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

JUNE 16, 1908
JUNE
Hion. Mr. SOOTT-When the hon. gentle.
man repeated the question, they stili persevered ln the answers they had given
The answers they furnish now are as foiiows:
1. Yes, but the question was understood
te appiy to the saiary and disbursements
of Mr. Barthe as secretary of the Quebec
Bridge Company.
2. The answer of the hion. Secretary of
State, readlng as follows: 'The commisfioners have uiotbing to do with the pay.
ment of the saiary and disbursenients referred to -was understood. ta refer to the
faiary and disbursements of Mr. Barthe as
secretary of the Quebec Bridge Company.
The Information lu Mr. Ryan's letter with
respect ta paynlents made ta Mr. Barthe for
services as secretary of the *Quebec Terminais Cý,omm1ttee, and on account of the Investigation re Horsey and Enarle, la the
same as that contained ln the Auditor General's report.'
Hion. Mr. LANDRY-Is there no mens
of removing a man who understands s0
badly as that.
I find the answer-I do
nlot Impute It to the bon. ministel-a piece
of Impudence.
If that man cannot answer
better than thnt he shouid. be removed from
office. 1 ask hini one thing and he anewers
another, and lie says bie is riglit wlien bie la
cieariy wrong.
If lie persists In sucb
conduet, hie shouid be repiaced by somebody
else.
BILLS INTRODUCUD.
Bill (168) An Act to author-ize the pay.
ment to the provinces of Saskatchewan
and Alberta of part of the Assurance Fund
under the Land Tîties Act.--(Hon. Mr.
Scott.)
Bill (169) An Act ta amend the Yukon
Âct.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
A QUESTION 0F PRIVILEGE.

1149

1149
16, 1908
holders were only caUled upon ta "pyfour per
cent of their aubscribed etock. cMr. Barthe
said that when the new company ws securing
legialation at Ottawa in 1897 Senator Lsudry,
unknowa tu the company, secured the insertion of a, clause in the Bill providing that the
sharehoiders of the old company should, b.
reimbursed for cash advanoes -made en stock.
Senator Landry, the wxtness snid, had noyer
been Iriendly to lthe new company.
Mr. A. K. MacLean, the chairman of tihe
committee, asked if it was true that Senator
Landry had on one occasion séarted a rumor
tu the eflect that; the. piers of the bridge rested
on an insecure foundation. Mr. Barthe said
a newspaper in which the senator was interested had madle some mucl statement.
I want ta deny tils empliaticaiiy. Tisere
never was such a statement made on my
part. Wbat took place was Vils: The
pier on Vie south eide of Vie river rested
on a foundation wbich was not very sure.
The goverument sent down their geologiet,
ir. Ami, ta make a report. The report
was made, and thie consequence aOf Viat
report was tint Vie bridge company was
obliged to sink their pier about 20 or 80
f eet deeper. The paper, -'L'Evenement,' of
whicb I arn one of the proprietors-not the
editor--stated the saine faiets. The paper
was sued by the company for having stated
those facts; but Vie prasecution stands
there yet. We neyer Iieard of It furt1ier.
Atter five or six years we do nlot know
whether they Intend ta proceed fnrtlher. I
think it was dropped lu Vie courts. Thbet la
the whole hlstory of thîs question. 'As to my
belng frIendly ta the new campany, well,
I mlght nlot have been very frieudiy ta the
new company; 1 wss one of thie dLrectors
of the aid company. I was tnrned out of
Vie old company. I do flot thInc thiere was
anything lu Vint ta quake me very frelndiy
ta the new company, but I bave aiways
avoided doiug anything againet Vihe Bridge
Company, because I cansidered It was -a
national project, and I think I have enongh
patriotism In my composition te put my
persanal feelings below the Interast of my
province and of my city. If I were not
able to do that I wonld flot be worthy of
occupylng a place lu this Hanse.

Hion. Mr. LANDRY-Before the orders
of the day are caiied, I shouid like to direct the attention of the Hanse ta a statement wbich appeared lu the 'Evening Journal'1 whlch rends as foliows :
JUVENILE DELINQUENTS BILL.
Before the spe-cial committee of inquiry into
TRIRD READING.
the financial aflairs of the Quebec Bridge Coinpauy yesterday afternoon, Mr. Uirie Barthe,
lion. Mr. BEIQUE moved the third rendsecretary of -the compauy, explaine-d that when ing of Bill (QQ) An Act respetlng Juvethe company was formed it had a capitalization of one million dollars, but that the share- nule Delinqueuts.

1150

SENATE

He said :I desire to cail attention to by a few Iawyers in Paris who were grieved
f rom tweive to tfifteen
an article pubiished In a Frenchi periodical at 6eeing chidren
years old tried as aduits and sent to ordincailed 'La Revue des Deux Mondes' uipon
from bad associations,
the question deait with by this Bill. The ary prisons where
they became real criminals. The inembers
article Geais with the moral and legal promeet every fortnlght under
tection of children, and GeaIs, as is doue ln of the society
the presldency of the batonnier of the bar,
ail articles publsbed In that review, imost
for among other objecta,
er.baustlvely 'wlth the question, comparing and the society bas
the la'ws and pro-cedure
the legisîstion and the institutions of dif- that o! improving
o! sixteen years of age,
ferent kinds whlch have been adopted- In applicable to minora
o! the bar and
countries in Europe, aud aiso ln of organlzing with the help
many
Cther public bodies, the defense of arrested
America for the protection o! chidren. I
questions of preserdesire to give to sncb o! the hon. members chuldren, of studylng ail
vation and rehablîtatiori of children and
of this House as are not familiar wlth the
o! similar
Frenchi language a very short summary 0f of promotlng tbe organîzation
societiee.
the gronnd covered by this article, especliIn 1893, l'Asile temporaire d'observation'
ly as regards France, and with regard to
or under -was
some of the United States, but eblefly to for delinquents of 16 years
establislied. Sucb delinquents are kept at
the Netherlands and Sceandinavian coixnwork for two or thbree weeks, their charactries, where the law Is very far advanced.
are
Institutions for the purpose of reforming ter being carefully studled, If tbey
or badly Incllned ehlldren were found radlcaliy vicions, tbey are given up
delinquent
establlshed lu France, as early as 1840 and to the tribunal; If on the* contrary lmprov1844. at the Instigation of two 'French phi- mng, they are dellvered to their parents or
lanthropists. Mr. de Gasparin, then MinIster intrusted to l'Assistance publique.'
There exlst In France over one bundred
of Agriculture and '.%r. Demetz, a judge ln
of sucli private socleties for the preservaParis.
and reformaTheir method cousisted in using children tion, patronage, Improvement
to prublic Instithe land and vice versa. An tion of chIldren as auxiliary
to improve
supplementing tbelr insuffiagrIcultural school estabiished for the pur- tutions and
by what was called ciency.
pose, was soon followed
The flrst Chldren*s Aid Society in the
a paternal bouse 'Maison paternelle,' at
chîldren of ail United States was founded by '.%r. Ch.
firat for undlsciplined ricli
1852.
classes, In this sehool, chidren are tbauglit Loring L. Brace, about
By opening an asylum where neglected,
prea tirade o! some kind-agricultural by
instincts, chuîdren were off ered supper and a night's
their religions
ference,-and
honour -and live for their country -are de- lodglng for five cents, lie managed to attract
tîime,
veloped. A!ter remaining at the school for a large number of them. At supper
lie had familiar and fatherly conversations
a term not exceedlng three years, the Instito attution belps to find them employment and with tbem and soon persnaded tbem
school whicb he also opened
extends lts benovelent patronage as long as tend a niglit
first twenty
it may be requlred. If they tare sick or in for them. In the course of the
less than
absolute poverty, they are allowed to go years, lie sncceeded In rescuing no
32,400 of these neglected cblîdren and sent
back to the school for relief.
States where they reInstitutions of the same hind 'with refuge them to the Western
ceived the benefit of family life and apworkshops lu which gardening and agriculln agriculture.
tpre are taught -were ail created for girls. prentlceshlp
The agitation against commltting cblldren
A f ew yenrs afterwards, a nuniber o!
was comother societies were established for tie pro- to ordlnary bouses o! conflument
aud negiected chudren,- menced ln the United States about 1891
tection of orphans
in
for the protection of cbildren found begg- and as we ail kno-w, It finally resulted
the passing of laws for the establishment
lng;-for the protection and defence o!
cidren brought before the courts, &C., &c. of Juvenile Courts in the State o! Illinois,
This last mentioned society -was established in 1899, and iu a large number o! other
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

1151
JUNE 16,1908
1151
JUNE 16, 1908
states since, and for the appointment of Tutorship. Tbe means of action are wiseiy
probation officere and juvenhle committees. employed a*nd graduated. The parent tutor
Laws practicaliy to -the sanie effeet are or child ls at the outset uotified by the
now lu force and operation in the Nether- president *0f the Council of Tutorship and
lands and Scandinavian countries.
If auy grave offence bas -already beeu coniThe object of these iaws is first to pre- mitted the fact la noted ou a register. If
vent, as mucb as possible, children being required. a speclal tutor may be appoiuted
perverted; and second, to redeem. those who to the cbild-for a child. under 7 years,
have gone astray. The preveuting process such speclal tutor is always a 'womau who
is mainly applied to the parents, -who, ln voluntarily undertakes to supervise -how
most cases, are the real guilty parties. tbe child is treated by his parents and
Their eildren may be removed froni their educated at school. If It is found. that
authority, piafed with respectable familles througb poverty, the chlld suffers froni
under the protection and control of Child- want of education, the -Board o! Help le
ren's Aid qociettes or of probation officers.
Iuvited. to come to the rescue. If on the
In Denrnarl, the law provides for the ep- coutrary, the parents are responsibie for
pointment of councils of tutorships and di- the trouble, a more severe admonishment
vides childreu falling nuder the control of is served. by the Councl o! Tutorship, and,
sucu councils into four categories: lat, if uecessary, the ehild. *may be sent to a
children of 18 years or under, who bave prof essional or ludustrial sebool. If the
commItted. offeuces iudicating depravation, chiid is so vicious that Ls contact may
but wlio by reason of their age «14 or under) spoil bis associates, he is sent to a reare exempt from puu'ishment; 2nd, hblidren formatory sthool aud afterwards eutrusted
Ôf froni 1. to 18 years wbo. by reason of a to a respectable famliy. The choice of Place
defective education, are -wantiug materially o! abode for tbe chuld removed froni the
of normal reasoning; 3rd, children of 15 care of bis parents bas always to be ratified
years oid or under, nioraliy corrupt or by the iSuperlor Council o! Tutorship.
wbose morals are eudaugered by their surIu thls law, tbree characteristics are
rouudiugs; 4tb, ebldren of the sanie age worthy of notice: First the muuicipality of
being ii1 treated or -who suifer in their, authorized. bodies entrusted with protectiug
physical or moral development.
the child and whose respective powers aud
.1 councl of tutorship is estabiished. lu duties ure carefully set out aud apportioued
every municipaiity ooutaiuiug less t.hau 10,- under the supreme arbltration. of the arbi000 souls. Sucb council la composèd of -fixe tration. of the Miuister o! Justice; Secoad,
members. three of whom are elected by the the promineut part giveu to -women and
municipal councl aud two of whom iuay clergymen lu the ÀCouncil of Tutorghip, and
be femaies, the parish priest or .psrson aud third, the variety o! institutions helping lu
the school master or school mistress. Iu the preservation and reformation o! the
cities or towns of more than 10,000 souis, chld. 0f these, there are many: the uurthere may be as m-auy sucli councils as the sery, thie 'workshop asyluni, tbe cbildreu's
Minister of Justice decides and they are asyluni, tbe schooi bouse, the iudustrial
composed o! seven members Including a schooi, tbe re!ormatory school, the garden
physiciau and a woman eiected by the mnl.- school where the child la occupied at the
cipal council. There is besides a superior cultivation of vegetables Laud at acquiring
council of tutorship sitting lu Copeuhagen useful notions ou plants aud iusects-tbe
eutrusted with the supervision o! the ottier special asyluni for the purpose o! studyiug
conucils. the co-ordination o! their action the 'character of the child aud ascertaiuing
aud the decision o! important question. The what regime should be applied, &c., &.
Board of Public Help ou the other baud
Iu Norway and lu Swedeu, the la'ws lu
coutrols the education whicb bas to be given regard to chldren are practicaily to the
to indigent ebldren. In fact. three different sanie effeet as those of Deumarkz.
bodies -are entrusted with the duty of pro1 bave gîven these details for the purtectiug chilciren; the Board of Public Heip, pose of sbowing what amount of Interest
the Municipal Courcil, and the Council of la taken lu cbiidreu lu some cou utries by

SENATE

1152

SENATE
1Th2
the State and by institutions of ai kinds, to see la any part of it, anythiug of that
public and private. Here a g-ood deal ls nature; It merely makes regulations for thie
As
belng done by Individuals and private In- management of those reformatories.
1 have already sald, w-e have ln the prostitutions-especlally religions lDstltutlons
reformatories, one
-but the State whether represented. by the vince of Quebec several
We
federal or provincial governments and pub- of very high standing ia Montreal.
have reformatory schools, more .particularly
lic bodies of ail kinds should do a great
for young girls, ln Quebec and other parts
deal more.
What I object to is that
of the province.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-The hon. this flouse should Interfere wlth reformasenator from De Salaberry bas been glvlng tory sehools established by the provinces.
us from the ' Revue de Deux Mondes' a I have followed the Bill and fail to see
historical sketch I mlght say of' the estab- anythlng In It whlch amends the crixninal
lishiments la different countries for the re- law.
One clause provides for the estabIf I dld flot lishment of a new court-a juvenhle court.
lief of young dellnquents.
tnlsunderstand what the hon. gentleman That is against the constitution, as will be
sald, the first Institutions were establlshed seen by reference to clause 91 of the British
Ia France ln 1844 and al] the other Insti- North America Act, whlch provIdes, amongst
tutions were formed after 1880?
other tbings, that 'the criminal law, exHon. Mr. BEIQUE-They commenced la cept the constitution of courts of criminal
jurisdiction. but lncluding the procedure in
1852 -in the Unlted States.
criminal matters,' shall be witbin the exHon. Mr. DeBOUOHERVILJJE-That
clusive jurisdlctlon of the Dominion parliawas a case of a private gentleman ta-king
ment; but under subsection 6) of section 92
under his care a sort of charitable Instithe provinces have exclusively the right to,
1 arn spenkîng of Institutions
tution.
'The establishment, maintenance, and manby goveraments, and I may say
formed
agement of public and reformatory prisons,
that 1 think lu Canada, at least la the proIt Is true, we
la and for the province.'
vince of Quebec, we have been ahead of
call them reformatory schools, but, as a
almost ail the governments spoken of by
matter of fact, they are prisons if the
the hon. member from De -Salaberry. In
For
young people are detined there.
1870. 1 thInk at the instance of the Rev.
these reasons, 1 tblnk the Bill encroaches
Mr. Ramsey, a brother ot Judge Ramsey
on the rlgbts of the provinces and sbould
who bad been living la Engiand for some
I theref ore move that
not pass this Flouse.
time, there was an article publised on
the Bill be not now rend the third time,
the subject and the resuit was a law was
but that It be rend the third time thls day
passed ln Quebec for establishing reformasix montbs.
Since that time they have
tory schools.
been improved,. and we have la the province
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I wonld draw the atof Quebec a statute relating to reformatory tention of the bon. gentleman f rom Montarschools which 1 think is almost perfect, If ville to the fact, first that the nets whicb
Now, 1 are enumerated ln clause 2 of the Bill are,
anythlng ixuman can be perfect.
amrn ot agalnst the principle of the hon. hy the third clause, made offences, -and
Clause 2 contains a de- therefore tbey faîl wnithin the jurlsdiction
gentleman's Bill.
scription of a juvenile offender:
of the parliament of Canada. The second
(c) -'juvenile delinquent ' means any child point made by the hon. member is that the
who violates any provision of the Criminal
is flot amended. I would
Code, chapter 146 of the Revised Statutes, 1906, Criminal Code
or of any Dominion or provincial statute, or draw bis attention to clause 33 of the Bill
of any by-law or ordinance of any municipal- whlch provîdes:
îty for wbich punishment by fine or impriselnment may ba awarded; or, who. is hiable, by
33. Whenever and so soon as this Act goes
reason of any other act to be committed to into force in any province, city, towni, or
reformatory other portion of a province, every provision
un industrial school or juveaile
under the provisions cf any Dominion or of the Criminal Code or of any other Act of
the parliament of Canada inconsistent with
provincial statute.
the provisions of this Act shall stand repealed
This -wouid Indicate that thîs Bill is an
other
as regards snch province, city, town, or
ainendnient to the Criminal Code. but I feul portion of a province.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

1153
JUNE 16,1908
JUNE 16, 1908
1153
the Bill is In thc riglit direcflon. I may
Then the hon. member Is afraid that thia
Bill may lut nage upon provincial rlghts. add, that. te my knowledge, uco measure
I draw his attention to clause 32, whicb bas received more general approbationspeaking from my own province at aIl
gays:
32. Nothing -in this Act contained shall be events--than tus Bill. I have presented
construed as having the. affect of repealing or te this Houge a large numnber ef petitiens
over-riding any provision of any provincial sIgned, malnly lu dIfferent parts efthUi
statute.
province et Quebec, by tens nt thousands,
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Read the' without any organization, and I ceuld read
whole of the clause.
any number ef letters I havê received.
commending the passlng et a law et tuis
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It continues:
and when a juvenile delinquent who lias not kind. Theretore, I think that riet enly dees
been guiity of an act which is, under the pro- the. Bill net Intringe en the riglits et the
visions of the Criminal Code an indictable provinces, but it meets a public demanil
offeno., cornas withia the provisions of a provincial statute, it may be deait with either which sheuld be satIsfted willcut furtiier
under the. provincial Act or under this Aot as delay.
may be deemed ta be in the best interests cf
sucli child.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (MiddIesexl-WVe are lnBut. this clause is te be read la connec- dchted ta my hon. tricnd f rom De Salabcrry
tion with clause 17. 1 shotild say first for the attention hie hbas paid t.> this very
that under clause 16 the judge of the important subject. 1 feel convinced that
juvenile court is empowered to commit the surest way to prevent the ;ncrease et
the chuld te the care or dustody et a pro- aur criminal. population-and statistica show
bation officer, or to a .Childrcn's Aid So- that that clasa ef our population Is untorciety, a reformatory, au' Industrial School or tunately on the increase-is ta beglu wlih
to a toster home. And clause 17 provides: the yeung.
Early lu the history et con17. Whenever an order has beeu, made un- tederatien, Ontario cstabllsbed retormatoder the. next preceding section committing a ries. They were penal Institutions rachid to a children's aid society, or to a superintendent of neglected and dependent child- ther thian retermaterles. Those confined ln
ren, or to an industrial school, if s0 ordered them werc sent there on limlted sentences.
by the -secretary of the province, the chuld An attcmpt was made te provide for their
fiaT thereafter be dealt wath under the laws
cf the province in the saine manner in ail educatien and te teacli theni trades, but
respcts3 as if an order had b>en iawfuliy Uic lads werc under restraint, and there
made iii. respect of a proceediag instituted
under authority of a statut. of the province; was not that f recdomn et action ~hc
and froni the. date of the issuing of such order would help thcm te devclop théir own self
the chuld shall cease to b. a ward cf the court reliance and place them on thoir good beand, except for new offeaces, hie shall not be
furtiier desît with under the. provisions of havieur. In 1882, wc establIshed a arethis Act. The. order of the prqvincial sacre- tem ot Industrial scheols fer boys and girls
tary may be made in advance and to apply
ta ail cases cf commitment mentioned in this boUi Protestants and Catiiolice. The gevsection.
erument subventcd those schoals; teachers
1 have dratted this clause for the purpose were provided and the boys wcrc net under
There wcre ne walls or guards
ot sateguarding. as completely as possible, restraint.
the righits et tic provinces In dcaling with to prevent the chIîdren tram running awny.
juvenile dellnqoency and preventing pro- It wns expccted tint tbe attractions etffthc
vincial Institutions being iatcrfered with. schoel would be sufficient te keep the yeung
1 consider it our duty to be the guardians lads and girls there, and that by a course
of provincial rights, but we must net carry et trainIng, gymnastica, by courtesy and
that ta extremes, and If good can be donc kindness, these boys would b. rcermed.
by juvenile courts throughout the Domin- Our Industrial achool systcm lins been a
1 cnnnot say iuow the
Ion as Is souglit to be done by this Bill, cemplete success.
there Is nothing In the. constitiitien te pro- number exactly, but there nmust have beeuî
vent It. On more careful readlag efthei hundreds et lads whîo entcrcd there, say
Bill, 1 think the hon. memaber wili corne te from tea years up te 15 or 16, w-ho remainthe conclusion that thc rîglits of the pro- cd la the school sanie for two years and
vinces are preperiy safeguarded. and that some tor- longer, wbo .recclved a course ef
'3
REVISED

EDITION

1154

SENATE

SENATE
1154
instruction. The practice was to draught an Industrial schiool, be should flot be placed
these boys from tbe Industrial scbools into ln the cornpany of criminals.
That was
foster bornes where they acqulred sucli a a delicate stage ln bis career, and lu order
training as the apprenticesbip would war- to avoid that danger, the police mugisrant
lu tbat respect a great deal bas trates'and officers were warned to care for
This Bill probeen done. Iiater, lu 1892, we copied from the boy lu the meantime.
Australla a law to which my bon. friend vides for more than we are able to do ii
In the lnterval bemade no reference; but it was the basis of the provincial courts.
tbe present law really that the bon. gen- tween capture and sentence, be is put lu
He Is not
tleman bas lntroduced, a law wbereby charge of a probation officer.
neglected and dependent children would be sent direct to the police court. He Is flot
protected.
Tbat went furtber tban the beld under police control until the time of
reformatory or Industrial Scbool Act.
It bis sentence, but under the control of sonie
provlded that children froin one or two other officer, 'wbo will see that be does flot
Tbat, 1 think,
years and up to a certain age, sbould be mix wltb otber prisoners.
taken fron bornes where facilitles for their Is most Important, but I consider the miost
education were flot provided, or wbere the important feature of this Bill is that boys
lives of their parents were of such a char- or girls are flot necessarily sent to tbese
acter as to warrant the community lu pro- reformatories or schools, but their educaviding agaiust tbe eilîdren rema.inlng long- tion is supervised at their own homes. Thle
er amid bail environment.
In tbe case of probation officer secs that a boy or girl wmo
a drunken borne, or lu a home -%here vicions is hiable to a crirninal career is cared for
habits prevailed, these children were sent with bis own parents which. to my mmnd.
into foster homes and educated. For these is an -Important feattire of thîs Bill. There
we bad to provide a shelter ln tbe nien- 15 no education for that child-that is the
time, and the shelter was so provided at proper kind of education-so good as that
considerable expense by the governmeat. whlch he receives lu his own home.
The
Althdug-h this P)rovision was made for these two advantages arise: first be has the pleadelinquents and neglected children, tbey sure of a borne, such as it may be, and secwere not left to the guardianshîp of the ondly tbe parents are supervised,-to acerfoster borne. We have the superintendent, tain extent, hy a probation officer to sec
a Protestant superintendent and a Roman that tbeir conduct l5 of such a character as
Catbolic superintendent. to look nfter tbern. would warrant the cbild being lef t to their
We have a miatron whose business It la to control.
That ive do xîot seemi to .be able
vîsit the children lu their homes: so that to reacb under the Ontario systemn to the
there is a strict supervision over themn fromn fuall satisfaction of those concerned in the
the moment they are edneated and put into welfare of delinquent chldren.
This Bill
the foster borne up to the time they miglit will aid the province lu carrying out Nvbat
marry and settle in life, or until tbey are 1 think is very important legislation. wb.ile
released fronm control.
That systein has ive may be jealous of provincial rigbts, and
worketl adinirably.
The numlber is be- I think rîghtly too, ail the provinces-and 1
tween tlmree and four thousand clilîdren wlho arn sure the province of Ontario -%vill most
have been so rescued irom a vicious life happily recelve anv assistance f romi this
and have been provided for.
That is whiat House lu the way of heg-islation iii the manthe Province bas done and is now doiag.
I fier I have indicated.
These chîldren wbo
now corne to the point. ivhicb, perbaps, 1 would, under this Bill, be un(ler the eye of
was a long timie lu reaching. narnely that lu a probation officer, as in 'Massachusetts-I
the administration of the law w'e feit tbat thiak that is the law la Massachusettsthere m-ere one or two evils to be renioved. and who m-ould be watched in their homes,
Iu the first place, when a child was brouglit and whose parents also would be nder the
before the court lu order to see what dis- eye of the probation officer, are more likely
Position was to be miade of hlmii, it was to grow Up with somne love for borne and
found to be necessary that during the inter- with regular habits than tbey would be if
'val between bis arrest and capture by the this probation officer exercised no superPolice officer. and the tirne lie was sent to) vision over thern, amd. besides, it seemns
Hon. Mr. lZOSS (Middlesex).

JUNE 16, 1908

1155,

JUNE 16, 1908

1155'

to me the parents should feel the fuli re-intellectual
flot
sponslbility, moral only of tbe their
iieducafion of
but of the
If these juveniles are to be taken
dren.
aivay from the parents and sent to a school,
the connection between the borne and the
I think Ibat sbould flot
child is broken.
be ailowed wben it is at ail possible to preKeep the child wlth its parents;
vent IL
see thaf the parents look after hlm properly, and save f0 the state the expense of bis
education, for the parent Is tbe nafural
guardian of the child and responsible for
his educaflon and maintenance. and ln that
way you weave into and Interfuse into thle
comm-unlfy tbe supervision of a court. of a
probation officer, wbetber a man or a woman, of bigb cbaracter, and thus rnodify
and Improve the moral or Immoral habits
of children who will corne ululer t bis Act.
We are greatly Indebted to the bon. gentleman from De Salaberry who bas given
titis measure to titis House, and I arn satisfled if will be accepted t'y tbe people
of Ontario, and arn sure t'y ail philanthropie and humane people, for they
are not llmited to Ontario nt al,) as a
I arn sorry f0
useful piece of legislation.
notice that our central prison is fuller today titan if bas been nt any firne since if
Our penitentiaries are
was establisited.
Statistics show, tbat
belng overcrowded.
youtbs from 16 to 2i are becoming less
respectful to the lnw than prevlously. 0f
course, a foreign Immigration rnay accoutt
for a great deal of titis; but apart from that
I thinkit i is our first duty f0 see, ln the
congestion

in the large

cities, tbat

care

should lie taken f0 provide that we- bave
no slums, and that vicions habits are inot
formed where they can be prevented. and
that sucb homes wlien brouglit under the
supervision of probation officers,- should if
fail to bave the -moral effect sought for,
thte juveniles sbould be removed to Industrial schools witere they can be tauglit good
trades, and rendered beneficial f0 'tbeir
country and comfortable Io t.bemselves.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I caîl attention of
tbe bon, gentleman f rom De Salaberry to
clause 34 of titis 'Bill w-hch reads as follows:

34. Titis Acf may be put in force in any
province, or in any portion of a province, by

proclamation, after fte passing of an Act br
the legisiature of such province providing for
the establishment of juvenfle courts, or designating any existing courts as juvenile
courts, and of detenfion homes for children.
As I understand titis clause, if la a proclamation issued t'y the federal authorities,
that puts fte Act lu force ln each province,
subject f0 tbe aufhority ef the province
for the establishment and the maintenance
of fthe court Ifseif. But clause 19 goes further and says :
35. This Act may b. put in force in any
city, town, or other portion of a province, by
prolaatinnotwititstanding thaf the. proMincal leisaure itas flot passed an Act such
as referred to in section 3.4 of thîs Act.
1 do uot see wby because a place Is a
toivu or city II: does not fali withln the,
jurisdiction of tbe province in this respect. Even thougit it la a elty, If Is lu
the province ail tbe same, and is subjecf
I do not see
f0 provincial juriadictiou.
thte reason of a distinction. j" one place
if Is a general euactment, and 'ben lu another if Is a speclal enacfment applying f0
cities and fowns. I do not s~ec wby provincial rights sbould be trampled upon liecause fte provincial legislature bas not
Clause 35
passed the Act referred f0.
rends as follows :
35. This Act rnay b. put in force in any city.
fown, or other portion of a province, by prot thte provinclamation, notwithstanding
cial legisiature itas not f>assed an Act sucit as
referred to in section 34 of titis Act, if the
Governor in-Council is satisfied thaf proper
facilifies for the due carrying ouf of the provisions cf this Acf have been provided in such
city, town, or cither portion of a province, by
te municipal council titereof or otiterwise.
Tbaf Is giving f0 the municipal authority fthe power fo provide wb'ft the legislafure has nof given ftem p9wer f0 doIf the legîslature has nof enacted anything
of the kind, bow can fthe muaicipality have
authorlfy whlch Is nof besfowè.d upon themn
t'y the provincial legisiature ?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE--I cal attention f0
fte fact fbat under titis Bill uo up-v courts
are created. Thte provinces are Invited f0
create courts, and If tbey do nof creafe
courts, then fthe courts already exisfingmxay
be designafed t'y fte Governor lu Counchl.
as juvenlle courts.

1156

SENATE

SENATE
1156
Hon. Mr. LANDItY-But that Is creating set as juvenile courts, wbere-is It might
a court.
flot lie put lu operation lu St. Hyacinthe
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The Aet does flot or lu other cities of the province, because
there *are flot courts establlslied which
seek to create any court.
wouid Justify the puttlng lu eperation of
Roen. Mr. LÂNDRY-Except *;nthat way. the Act lu that municlpality.
Hlon. Mr. BEIQUE-It is înerely under
the Criminai Act as we bave it in the
statutes now. If you refer te article 8W0
aud foiiowing ef the Crimiinal Code, you
find there provisions deiling with juvenile
offenders, and lu these provisions It lf
stated how these offenders are deait witlî
by tht criminal courts and by thle courts
of the province, because ail the courts are
established by the province. Now in dmapter 148 of fthe code you find speciai
provision applicable te Ontario andl tiien
special provision applicable te Quebec eniy,
and ethers te Nova Scotia and ahl thie
other provinces ln regard to the question
of chidren, and prescribing b.owv the cUid
shall be dealf witb by tue court, Jiow it
shahl bi sent to a reforiatory or te an
Industriai school, or how otherw,7ise it shahl
be deaif wvith. This Bill dees itof really go
auy furfhcr flan that, excel)t by enactingthiat the Acts mentioned, violations by
ch'ildren of 16 years or und2r of ny of
the provisions of the Criminal Code or of
any provision of the provincial statute or
of provisions of a by-law of a -municipality
for which punishimenf by imprisonient or
fine is enacted, shall coine withiu this Acf
and shial be considered as an offence under
thîs Act, and shall bring the Jnvenile delinqueut under the provisions of this Act,
and it provides iow Lie shall be deait with.
Now, 4ill thaf is uecessary to have the Acf
go into force eithier la the province or auy
part of a province, is thiaf preper machinery exists for the operafion or the Act,
and the moment the Governor lu Council
Is satisfied that the machinery exists, if wili
lie in the power of the Governor lu Council, by proclamation, f0 deciare that the -lct
shall be lu operation for thaf province or
ln tbaf part of the province. I fail to se
the difficulty tlînt Is la the mind of the
hon. gentleman. The Acf may lie put lu
operation lu the chfy of Montreal, for instance, becanse the governm3nt is sutisfied that there are courts there which can
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.
2

Hon, Mr. LANDRY-I thlnk the Act
goes further than that.. If says:
2. The Governor in Council may designate
asupernor court or ouaty court judge or a
justice, hsving jurisdiction in the city, town,
or other portion of a province, in which the
Act is so put in force, or may appoint some,
other duly qualified person. te act as juvenle
court judge for such city, town, or other portion of a province, and the judge or justice or
person so designated or appointed shall have
and exercise in such city, town, or other por.
tien cf a province, ail the powers by this Acf
conferred on -the juvenlle court.
That Is the establishmenf of a court
wliere ne court of that nature exists.
i
tonfend we Lave~ nu rigit to do that.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The federal geverument bas a riglit te do tIat.
Hon. 31r. LANDRY-But %vhere there la
no court, yon come with this A.ct and establush one. You may establish eue lu Montreai, and say :'We shahl net Lstablish one
lu St. Hyacinthe ' but If you catablial If
ia Montreal yen establishit ifn the province, and If ftic Governor in Concl iIs
satisficd that in a clty like Sf. Hyacinthe
or Tbree Rivers there la ne juvenile court,
by this iaw they have a riglit to establish
eue. If Is la thiaf part particularly yeu aré
cncroachiug upon the riglits of the pro-.
vinces. If the province dees net sec fit te
establisi a court, 1 do not fzec Nvhy we
shonid de IL. We bave net tlie right te
do If.
The Senafe divided on the bou. Mr. de
Bouchervilll&s motion fer the fhree months
holisf, which was iost on the following division: Yeas 4, nays 41.
Contents:
The Honouxabie MesieurB
Belduc,
Bouehervilie, de,

Laudry,
McMiiian.--4.

JUNE 16, 1908

Non-Contents:
The Hionoiirable Messieurs

Baird,

MacKeen,

Carbwrdght

McLaren,

Béique,
Beàth,
Bostock,
(Sir Richard),
Cesgrain,
Choquette,
Comeau,
David,
Derbyshire,
Dessaulles,
DeVeber,
Douglas,

Ellis,

Fiset,
Frost,
Gibson,
Gilimor,
Godbout,
Kerr,
Ring,

McGregor,
exgr
MeHlugh,

MieMullen,
MeSweeny,
'Merner,
Perley,
Power,
Riley,
Robertson,
Ross (Moosejaw),
Ross (Healifex) ,

Bos M.ddesx)
Roy,
Tuibt,
Tabot,
Watson,
Wilon,41
e-1

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I inove:
That the said Bill be not rend n third time,
but that it ha further nmended by ndding the
following words to subseotion 3 of section 23:
<the person s0 nppointed rnay in their discretion ait as oaa joint committes.'
Ia some places there are Protestant coinmittees aad in some Cntbolic commnittees.

Ia tbe city of Ottawa there is one committee in wbicx ahl denominatiolis join, and
tbis allows thern to join of they please.
Tbe ameadjuent was adopted.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I move that clause 35
of the Bihl be arnended by adding thereto
the fulowing- section:
3. lu addition to those expressly mentioand
in this Act, the Juvenile Court judge hes ell
the powers and duties, with respect to offeaders under or apparently under the age of
sixteen years, vested in, or imposed on a
judge, stipendinry magistrate, justice or justices, by or under the Prisons and Reformatories Act, chapter 148 of the revised statutes,
or aay amenament thereto.
I lilive added a few words to the ameadment of whicb 1 gave notice. This does not

burt anybody.

It does not take away any

powers wblch tbe juvenhle court judge has
under the Bill before us; but It is Intended
to rernove a doubt whicb, 1 at any rate, en-

tertain as to, wbetber without some ameadment of this k-bd the juvenile court would
bave aIl tbe powers and the duties set out
la tixe chapter of the Revised Statutes whicb
Is clted. Take subclause 4 of clause 3 of
the Bill recently passed, it la said there
that the superintendent of the Industriaà
Sebool may, wlth thle conseat of the parent

or guardian of the boy, or If sucli consent
cannet be obtained, with tbe consent Of the
stipendiary magistrate of the clty of Halif ax, apprentice the boy to a fariner or other
person. ILt might be contended that under
this Bill the juvenhle court had. not that
power, and the objeet Is to vest in the juvenule court judge ail the powers withirespect
to juvenhle off enders wbicb are conferred
by the existlng laws on the magistrates or
juciges at present. Tben under eubclause 9,
there i a provision that the police magistrate at Halifax may, under certain circumnstances, issue a warrant. Lt may be clairned
that witbout this amendment bie would flot
bave the power to do this. There are twa
simUlar provisions in clause 5 of the Bill. I
do not tblnk, there cau bc any possible
objection to this clause.
Hon. 'Mr. BEIQUE-I regret that 1 amn
unable to accept the proposed amendment,
not s0 rnuch because I tbilk it unnecessary, but because I amn afrald it would
Interfere with the ecouorny of the Bill, and
First, because it cannot
1 will state wby.
be contended that the judge bas not ail the
powers of a stipendlary magistrate, as will
be seen by reference to the following part
of the second clause of the Bill:'
(e) 'justice' has the sane meaning as it
has in the Criminal Code.
(f) 'the court' or 'the Juvenile Court'
mens any court duly establishod under any
provincial statute for the purpose of denhing
with juvenile deliaquents, or specially authorized by provincial statute, the Governor .in
Council, or the Lieutenant Governor in
Couacil, to deal with juvenile delinquents.
<g) 'the judge' mens the judge of a

Juvenile Court seized of the case, or the jus-:
tice, specially authorized by Dominion or provincial authority. to deal with juvenile delin-_
quents, seized of the case.

Then. wby adil that juveiiile court judges
shall bave ail the powers and duties with
respect to offenders under or apparently
under tbe age of sixteen, vested la or Inposed on a judge, stipendiary magistrate,
justice, &c., wben it Is stated by tbe clause
wblcb I have just rend that the judge bas
ail the authorlty under any law of the DoThe reason wby I arn afraid It
minion?
may interfere wltb the econorny of the Bill
la this: under the Bill the juvenile court la
perfectir free to deal with the child by
committing bixu for a year or six months
or for any teri bie miay think proper,

1158

SENATE

1158

SENATE

wbereas under chapter 148 of tIse Revîised
Statutes referred to In the amendusent section 105 provides that wlien any Roman
Catholic girl evidently under the age of 16
years is convicted of any offence for whicb
by law she is hiable te Iniprlsoument, the
Judge or magistrate by wliom she Is tried
may sentence snch girl te lie detained In the
Good Shepberd's school at Hallfax for -any
term net exceedlng five years and not less
two years. The hon, gentleman will te
that It would bie lhable to tle the hands
of a Judge If lie decides te commit a girl te
He would be prevented
that Institution.
frous commltting the child for less than
two Tears. It is against the economy cf
the Act, and 1 hope the hon. member wili
flot inslst upon lis amencdment as It Is clear
that a Judge of the juvenile court under
the definition in clause 2 of thse Bill bas
aIl the power souglit to be given hlm by
the amendment.

clause be struck out, becau-ee it creates a
provincial court which we have no power
to do.
Hon. -Mr. BEIQUE-If the lion. gentIe.
man wiil lirait bis ameudment to striking
out 'or may appoint some other duly quali!fied person,' it will useet bis point, and 1
would accept the amendment.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not tbink it
meets it altogether.
Lt substitutes thse
federal for the provincial authority, and we
bave no riglit to do that bere.
Let the
provincial legisîntures create tIse court. By
clause 34 it is provlded that:
34. This Act may be put in force in any
province, or in any portion of a province, by
proclamation, after the passing of an Act by

the legisiature of aucli province providing for
the establishment of Juvenile Courts, or designating any existing courts as Juvenile
Courts, and of detention homes for chiîdren.
That is rigbt, because it recognizes the

Hon. Mr. IJANDRY-1 would asic tIse jurisdiction of thse p)rovince,
bon, gentleman If the Bill lias been re- thirty-fifth clause does not.

prlnted?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes.
Hon. Mr. ILANDRY-I do not flnd in tIse
amendments lntroduced on June 4th auy
clause -No. 35.
I would ask that that
clause 35 lie rend.
Hon. M1r. BEIQUE-It Is as follows:

35. This Act maY be put in force in any citY,

town, or ether portion of a prov.ince, by proclamation, netwithstanding that the p'rovincial legisiature has net passed an Act sudh as
referred to in section 34 of this Act, if thse
Governor in Couacil is satisfied that proper
facilities for the due carrying eut of the provisions of this Act have been provided in such
city, town, or other portion of a province, by
the municipal council thereof or otherwise.
2. The Governor in Council may designate
a spperier court or county court judge or a
justice, having jurisdiction in thse city, town,
or other portion of a province, in whîdli the
Act is se put in force, or may appoint some
ether duly 'qualified persen, to act as Juvenile
Court judge for such City, town, or other portion of a province, and thse judge or justice
or person so desigaated or appointed shall
have and exercise in such Ci.ty, town, or other
portion of a province,,ail the powers by this
.Act conferred on the Juvenile Court.

whicb

this,

.Hon. Mr. ELLILS-This is trifling- witli
thse time of thse House.
We voted against
the principle of tbis amieudment wlhen we
refused to grant thse six montlîs hoist. M-%y
lion. f riend fromu De Saiaberry lias agreed
to thse withdrawai of tIse very thing involved in the vote we took a few moments
age.
Hlon. Mr. LANI>RY-That vote was on
the whole Bill: now I arn moving to strike

out one clause of thse Bill.
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-A. very important
clause of the Bill, and if it is struck ont
it wili injure the Bill very seriousiy.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No. Where tbe provinice acts and establisýhes such courts we
say, we shahl corne in and take advantage
of thse court tlius created and apply our law
to that court; but where tlie province lias
net created a court, I do not see wliy «we
sbould intervene.
Hon.

Mr.

POWER-This

constitutionai

Hon. Mr. LA.NDRY-I mnove an amiend- question was d*.cussed by tIse lion. senator
ment te that amendment, that clause 35 be
struck eut. If I accept an ameudment
whlch adds te thse clause, I consent thereby
to retaining clause 35 wliich is against rny
'Intention, and tîlerefore 1 meve that tIse
Hon. Mr. BEIQUJE.

frora De Salaberry on thse former amuendment.
I wish to say to the lion. senator
from Stadacona that this question of the
Dominion using- a provincial court and appointing- ad hoc jud.-es and that sort of

JtJNE 16, 1908

thing was ail tried out and settled ln the'
It was concase of the election courts.
sidered and discuissed and went to the
Privy Council, where it was heid that the
Dominion had power to utilize provincial
judges and courts for Dominion purposes. So far for the objection of the
hon, gentleman. The senator from De
Salaberry undertook to Say, ln opposition to the very reasonable ameadment
'which I proposed, an ameadment wbieh 1
showed I thlnk to be necessary, that it
mlghit interfere witb the economy of the
Bill; but the hon, gentleman neyer showed
How can it interhow it wouid Interfere.
fere? This ameadmeat says, la addition to
the powers specially mentioned la this Act,
the juvenile court judge bas ail the powers
given by chapter 148 of the Revàsed Statutes to stipendiary mag-Istrates and other
officers; and 1 pointed out certain powers
which were not given by the Bill bèfore us,
and as to whilh doubt iniglit arise afterA question might arise if lt were
wards.
proposed to apprentice a boy from one of
these Industrial schools la Halifax to some
person outside-the question who should asIt la provIded. by tue haw with resent.
spect to these schoois, that the stipendiary
magistrate of Hahfax shahl do that, but
there la nothing ln til Bill to say that that
partîcular power is to be enjoyed by the
Judge of the juvenhie courts. The hon.
gentleman quoted some definitions. 'Justie~ bas the sanie mneanlng is it 'bas la tlue

1a

schools lu Halifax are not of the saule character altogether as those to which the hion.
gentleman from Middlesex referred la the

course of bis address -this afternoon. They
are achools and homes rather than prisons.
They are flot prisons la aay strict sense,
and, a great may Instances, the chIldren
would be sent to them and tben from these
achools apprenticed out to suitabie persons.
It would be a great mistake to omit anythlng necessary to, prevent lis being beld
that the juveale court judge had no power
to asseat to the apprenticiag of the child.
The ame -way witb respect to a chld
wbom It la desired to bring back w-ho lias
misconducted hiniseif. -For these reasons I
Insist upon my amenaiment.
At six o'clock the -Speaker left the chair.
After Recess.
The committee resumed consicleration of
the motion for the tird readîng of Bill
(QQ) An Act respecting JuvAnile Dehinquents, and the ameadments thêreto.
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-Afier ocomparing
notes wltb the hon. member froul Halifax,
1 am disposed to accept bis ameadment
by addlng thîs proviso, if It la acceptable
to the bon. member :
Provided the discretion of the Juvenile
Court judge as to the term for which the
juvenile oflender may be committed is not affected by this subsection.

The SPE-IKER-nasmiuch as I hoici
Ia my hnnd an ameadment to the amendChapter 148 is flot the
Criy£LIlzal Code.'
quesThen 'juvenile court ment aiready, I wiii state how the
Criminhi Code.
tion stands. On the motion for the third
menus any court duiy estabhislied under
Mr. Power
any provincial stniute for the purpose of reading of thîs Bill, the Hou.
bas inoved an amendment to clause 35,
deaiing with juvenile deliaquents, &c.' This
moves
definhtion does not sav that that court shall and the hon. senator froin Stadacona
that the clause be struck out.
have àll the powers that these mnagiatrates
have. In the saine way ' The judge means
Hon. Mr. FEIRGUSON-I biave not folthe judge of the juvenile court seized of the lowed the discussion on this Bill closehy.
case. &c..' but it is not set out anywvhere I made up my mmnd that lt ls a very good
that these powers . which are flot strlctly measure, but since the questio:i bas turapowers connected with the criminal iaw, ed on this last clause, I have letuked ai it
shahl be enJoyed by the judge of this court. somewhat carefully, and 1 thiik itlIs not
No hon, gentleman can point out hîow tibis within the power of this parlianieut to pasa
ameadment wihl interfere witiî or damage
that clause.
I Say
this Bihl la the sligbtest degree.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I have inviied an
there is g-reat reason to doubt 'whetber the
hon. member of ibis House to mnove to
absence ef this amendment may not sertously interfere wlth the operation of the strike out the words :'Or 'nay appoint
1 may siy that these. industrial some otber duly qualfed personl' la subBill.

1160
1160

SENATE
SENATE
clause 2 of clause 35, so thaqt there wlll facilities for the due carrying out of the prothis Act have been provided in such
be nothing in tisis clause wbici may be ln- visions of or other portion of a province, by
city, town,
terpreted as giving the rlght to thse Gov- the mýunicipal couneil thereof or otherwise.
ernor In Couneil to create a juvenîle court.
Notwitbstanding that the provincial lethse very thing
SON-lt wouid be very gisiature may refuse to do
Hon. Mr. FERGU
they are exclusiveiy empoweredl under thse
desirable that we should see thse amendNorth America Act to do. that is
ment ln order that we might judge of its Britishs
to constitute a court, and notwithstanding
It cannot corne before
scope and effect.
step ln and override tlieir power
tise House until tise otiser amendment to that we
is dlsposed of. Ini thse very and put thse Act in operation, notwithstandtise amendment
legisiature in its wislittle Investigation I have been able to give ing thse provincial
flot
corne to thse conclu- dom may have determiued it wiil
to thse niatter, 1 bave
do it we are overriding it. I may
sion thiat we cannot do what lq proposed
but to niy mmnd it la a very
to be doue under clause 35. 'TurnIng to be wrong,
clear case, nnd we iwfll be #iecidedIy lathe British Norths America A-ct we find
ou thse provincial Jurisdiction If
tisere are two sections w-hidi cleai parti- fringing
As far as I have
tbis subject. Subsection 27 ive pass that section.
cularly witi
been able to consider thse Bill, 1 think it
of section 91 deals wltls the powers of the
and wll iio doubt profederni parliament. We have to deal with is a good mnipsure,
duce a very Important reform, but it would
and
tise criminal iawç% procedure lu courts of
sucli a nieasure by
criminal jurisdiction. Subsection 14 of sec- be a pity to miutilate
have the right to
tion 92 gives tise province tise administra- going furtiser than we
go. We slsould not go one iota furtiser
tion of justice la tise province including thse
tise rigbt to go. 1 think we
constitution, maintenance and org-anization tisan we icave
are overridiug tise power of 0-je province
of provincial courts. The Bihl riglit up to
Amierica Act, and
thse iast clause seems to me to lie In bar- under thse Britishs Norths
mony and lna une with the provisions of
Section
the British North America Act.

34 ls ail right.

It reads.

34. Thsis Act inay be put ini force in any
province, or ia any portion of a province, by
proclamation, after the passing of an Act by

constituting

a court of criiuai

jurisdic-

tion-for it miust be thiat or tiothing at ail
I wlli tiserefore
-witbin tise province.
support the amendinent to strilze tise clause
out of tise Bill.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I thinik parliamnent
thse legislature of such province providing for
the establishment of Juvenile Courts, or de- has the pow-er to pass clause 35 in tisé
signating any existing courts as Juvenile
shape la which it is; but the lion. gentleCourts, and of detention bornes for chidren.
man from De SaIaberry bas etated that it
We have no power
That la ail right.
is bis Intention to have the words: 'Or
except w-bat is given to us la subsecmay appoint some otiser duly qualified pertion 27 of section 91, of thse Britishs Norths
son,' stricken out. These are tise only -%ords
America Act there is no exception made
which might tisrow any doubt wisatever
aýgainst Ibis parliament ivith regard to thse
upon thse power of this parliament to, pass
constitution of courts of cri-minal jurisdicthis clause. Parliamient bas eriacted ail
tion, and tisen the otiser clause, subsection
tise criminai law, and bas decidéd, in tbat
14 of section 92. gives tise administration of
portion of the Crîminal Code xvlnchl deais
justice in tise province icludiag the constiwitis procedure, as to wbat judges shall
tution. maintenance and organization of the
offences, and wisat the
provincial courts of the province. 34 la aIl try tise different
of the judges In criminai inatters
and in isarnsony w-ith these two pro- powers
right
be. They do not undertakie to create
visions of thse Britishs Norths Airerica Act. shahl
new courts, but they decide as to which
But when w-e come to section 35, il reads:
of tise existîng courts shahl try criminal
35' Thsis Act may be, put in force in any city, cases and set ont thse procedure. Thse Bill
town, or other portion of a province, by proclamation, notmrithstanding that tise provin- wiih we are dealing with, la a measure
cial legisiature bas not passed an Adt sncb as to amend thse criminel law as to juvenlie
referred to in section 24 cf this Act, if thse delinquents. ani with tise ameudment wliich
in Council is satishied thit proper
Governor
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

JUNE 16, 1908
the hon, gentleman from De Snlaberry says
wll bie made, this clause whic l i uder
consideration wlll bie simpiy Enying that
certain existing judges shahl deal wiith the
subject matter of this Bill; so that I do
not think there can be any question wia tever as to the jurlsdiction of rarliament
extendlag far enougli to enable us to pass
this clause. As I said before recesa, dealing witli the ameadment moved by the
hon, gentleman fromn Stadacona, we 'had
several years ago this samne question, or a
sImilar question, raised as to the power
of tbe Dominion parliament te Impose upon
judges of provincial courts the duty of
trylng election cases.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Tijat bias ne analogy at ail, no bearing on this case.
It
Heiu. ',\r. POWIER-Oli, excuse nue.
lias a bearing. It la a parallel case. Tlie
Dominion parliament bad the riglît te deai
withi eleutions for tlie Ilouse (if Commons
as it lins the riglit to dent with the crinîlual
law, and tlie Dominion parlizanlent, lu exercising that rîglit, deputed a numuber of
powers te the judges 0f provincial courts
wlio were instructed by the laxv te try
these election cases, and they stil1 continue
te try them. That question Nc-ut to the
Ihigliest courts, and if was 'leeided that
the action of the Dominion parliament wns
within Its jurisdiction; and I think if is
quite clear fliat wbat this clause proposes
Is within the juriadiction of parliament.

H1on. Mr. FERGUSOXe-The case that my
hon. frlend refers f0 Is plainly no paraliel
wblatever, for this reason: the exception la
the British Nortli America Acf against the
Dominion is ln tlie constitution of criminal
Witli reference te the election
courts.
courts there cau lie no doulif flat there
was jurisdiction. With reference to n
court of criminal jurisdiction, the two sections I bave read are clear. The federal
parliament 'lias no powers respectîng- the
constitution of a court of criminal
jurisdlction. If Is expressly excepted,
aud the oflier section 27, la la entire
My lion. frlend froni
barmony witli flat.
Halifax seems to thlnkz tInt fthe werds tliat
are proposed to bie strucli out of tlie Bill
remove the strongest and the ouly objecWitli
tion to It from lits point 0f view.
due deference f0 ny lhon. friend from De

Ilit

Salaberry, 1 may say that 1 do flot see so
very mucli objection to the words lie proIf there was a court
poses to strike ont.
for a judge to bie deslgnated to or appointed
It is
to, that Wouid be perfectly riglit.
Some years ago I
the want of a court.
gave the subject some consideration, and
as the resuit of a very extended inquiry,
and as the resuit of consultation with some
very eminent authorities, I f ound this was
the systemn with reference to courts and
judges under the Britishi Northi 'America
The constitution of the court is
Act.
We have the power to establlsh
divlded.
courts for Dominion purposes, but the establishment of courts for provincial purposes is entirely vested ln the province, and
exclusive power to coustitute criminal
courts; but with regard to the judges the
power ls witli this parliament altogetherthat la the appointment and control of
judges. There is no divided jurisdictloa s0
far as they are concerned, and for that
reason I do not think there ia mucli objection or any objection to the words -lie proposes to strîke out-If the province had provided the court la the proper way for the
judges to be appointed to preside over. The
objection fromn my point of view Is mainly
la section 35, that this Act may bie put ln
force In any city, town or otber portion of
a province by proclamation, notwitiistanding the provincial legisiature lias flot passed
an Act such as is referred to la section 34,
la othier words aithougli the province has
not doue whlat the Britisli North America
Act says It sball excluslvely do-that la establinli a court of criminal jurisdiction. For
my part, I oniy took it up just now, but I
made myseif familiar with this isubject
But
some years ago on another matter.
my niind ls clear on the point, and, aithougli
a layman, I venture to express the opinion
that If tis clause is passed as a -part of
the Bill It: will be found Inter on to bie
ultra vires.
Hon. 'Mr. BEIQUJE-If I may lie permitted to answer the objection of the hon.
gentleman fromn Marshfield, 1 desire to cal
lits attention to the fact that the firat paragrapli of section 35, and tlie second paragrapli deal witb two different things altogether: the first paragrapli lias nothing at
ail to do witli the creation of any court.

1162

SENATE

It refera merely to the facililties for
the creation of the Children's Aid Societies
or foster homne or other place .wbere the
-It Is the faclidelinquent may be kept.
But
ties for the working ont of this Act
It refers la no shape or form to the creation
The reference to the creaof the court.
tion of the court, or that subject, Is deait
witu only In the second .paragraph of the
clause.
Now the second paragraph says
what? If we leave ont the words I have
Suggested to be strnck, It reads as follows:
2. The Governor in Council may designate
a superior court or county court judge or a
justice, having jurisdiction in the city, town,
or other portion of a province, in which the
Act is so put in force, to act as Juvenile
Court judge for such city, town, or other por-

tion of a province, aud the judge or justice
so designated or appoiated shall have and exercise in such city, town or other portion of
a province, a-Il thue poiers by this Act conferred on the Juveni e Court.
Now, I respectfully subinit tliat this is
mnereir dealing wîth mnatters of ilrocedurû.
Subsection 27 of section 91, sta tes that th,,
federal parliament bas exclusiee jurisdic.
tion lu tbe crirnîlul law except tbe constitution of courts of crimiaal lui isdictioîî,
but Including proceedinigs in criminal matters. Take tbe criminal law~ as it is under
the existing law. the trying of juvenile
offenders is entrusted by the criminal Act
to sncbi and sucb courts, and 1be revisioîî
of the judg-meats Is entrusted to tbe court
of the Queen's Bencb, lu the province of

Quebec. To-morrow tbis parliainent inay'
change tbat part of tbe procedure and exitrust it to tbe Superior Court or to the Circuit Court or any court o! provincial jurisdiction crented by the province. W'by would
not this purliament' be likewise cntltled te
shall
be
offeuders
say
that juvenile
tried hy sncb court as the parliaineat may

designate, or as the Goveruor ili Council
miay designate hy proclamation?

It ls not

creating a cou rt; it is mierely designatîng
a court created by the province bavlng tbe

power to deal witb juvenle offeuders.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-To be another court.
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-No. it will remain il
provincial court ; but it *i11 be entrusted
wlth tbat special power. As 'l say, tbe
Superior Court to-morrow, rnigbt be entrusted witb the trial o! ail offences und,2r
Surely th,ý hou. genthe Criminal Act.
Hon. Mr. BEIQIJE.

tieman would flot suggest that It would
flot be wltbin the province of Ibis parliaI
ment to enact a law of that kind ?
repeat It is flot creating- a court, but
merely déaling wlth a matter of procedure,
prescribing tht sucb and suclb courts
of provincial creation shall deal ivith sncb
and sucb offences under the Criminal Act.
Hon. Mr. F'ERGUSON-My bor. frlend
stili keeps to subclause 2 and Insists that
it is siu'ply procedure.
If subelause 2
stood there alone without the principal part
of zlause 35. I would not be lr.ciined to
argue withi my bon. friend ; bit It Is tlue
principal part of the clause that created
the difficulty and Infringes on the British
North America Act. Clause 34 la perfectly
clear and lu accordauce witb the practice
of this parliament ever since confederation. We kuow that the province constitutes a court, and that there bas been a9
little dliatoriness on the part nf thia goveramiient lu different provinces lu appointing a judge. The province bad to provide
and constitute the court, and lt wvas thea
for the government of Canada to appoint
a judge and provide bis salary. The
Domnion imight hiesitate and think. the
judge was flot necessary, but it ultiînately
had to cornply. It is the right of the province
to coustitute a court, and If we undertake
to do that we are sirnpiy overridlng the
power of the province. Clause 35 provides
that the Act may Pe put la force lu iiny
city, town or other portion of rhe provInceý
by proclamation, notwlhstaading the provincial legisînture bas flot passed an Act
such as Is referred to lu clause 34. If tbat
is jiot overriding the power of the province, I cannlot conceive anythiug that
would do It. Supposlug-, as an illustration,
a court were established la thue city of Ottawa. Those Interested ia the proper care
of the yonnger generation wvould make
their application to the provincial government at Toronto, wbo çvould Inquire into
it and determîne whetber the needs of the
administration of justice would warrant the
establishment of the court. If they shonld
decide, after inquiry. that it w-as unnecessary to establisbi snch a court at Ottawa,
tlis clause provides that the Governor In
Coiunil matv designate a judge to preside
over a court whicb the province refuses

JUNE 16, 1908

1163

I arn only
ay; it may or it maY flot.
to constitute. While the subciause strikes a rguing -witbout knowing the facts; but asmatter of procedure, there is a a
me as a
uming It bas the riglit; this Act is prefatal objection to the principal part of s .icated upon that assumuption.
The Act
d
the clause.
annot be operated unless some provincial
34 c
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Mt1ddlesex)--Cialse
Lutborlty, eitber the legisiature or tbe
it clear that this Act shahl not be anuiiicipai couDCil makes provision for its
makes
If the municipal council
put In force except wlth tbe approval of I oming in force.
e
the provincial government. The difficulty ias flot the power, then the proclamation
Is
witii my lbon. friend from Marshfleld.
vouid bave no effect, for the preliminary
if it does tep towards Its becoming operative is -the
that clause 5 rather obscures,
proIf that be
not supersede to a certain extent, the
Let of the municipal council.
visions of clause 84. 1 tlionght lie wns rue, and the municipal council bave the
rlght; 1 think hie is wrong now, or I arn, power, we do xiot supersede provincial
the proand It la mereiy a matter of argument and lurisdiction. In the first place,
interpretatioli. Let us rend It cnrefully. vince is given tihe power; In the second
Clause 34 provides : 'This Act înay be put place it is assumed that the rnunicipaiity
la force ln any province, or lu any por- bas the power, and if it exercises the power,
By the Act cornes In operation. If the munition of a province, by proclamation.'
clause 34 the Act cornes ln force by a cipal council bas flot the power and does
proelamation of the province. By clause flot net, the Act does flot corne Into operaSo the municipal and the provincial
35 the Act may be put in force in&nny city, tion.
town or other portion of n province by authorities are recognized, and both are
proclamation, notwithstanding Iliat the pro- provincial and provincial rights are not
vincial legislature bas not passed au Act superseded.
sncb as is referred to ln clause .34. IteadHon. Mr. FERGUSON-My -bon. friend
ing that, it would seein that the proclama- bas referred to these proclamations, one
tion of the Governor la Council supersedes
as provided for ln clause 34, and the other
the action of the province. But ]et us rend by clause 35.
To rny mmnd, these must
furtlier:
both emanate from the Governor In Council.
If the Governor ini Council is satisfied that.
no reference to the Lieutenant
out of
proper facilities for the due carryingprovided There is
the provisions of this Act have been of a pro- Governor in Council.
in such city, town, or other portion
,Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middiesex)-If there is
vince by the municipal council thereof or
otherwise.
any doubt on that, it might be cinrified by
.Now, the ,W-ords Provision being made saying ' By proclamation of the Lieutenant
for the operation of the court by. the muni- Governor.'
I assumed it was by proclacipal council, la, to my mmid, whnt saves mation of the Lieutenant Governor. You
The municipality derives its bave no evidence to the contrary anyway.
the clause.
power from the provincial g-overnielit. If The assumption on the part of my bon.
the municipal council, wbichi la a creature friend is that It is by the Governor in Counof the provincial goverament, niakes pro- cil?
vision 'whereby It ny be enforced, the
Hon. Mr. FEILGUSON1ýUndoubtedly; this
proclamation of the Governor in Council
of Canada.
OtherwIse tbe proclamation Is an Act of the parliamnft
takes effect.
because it la diswould flot take effect,
Hon. Mr. UtOSS (Middlesex)-It does not
provided that lie must be satisfied become operative ln a province except by
tinctly
that due provisions for the carrying out proclamation of the Lieutenant Goveriior,
of the Act bave been made by the munici- and la that 1 tblnki the plain meaning ls
pal council.
tbat we are taking care not to supersede
we
Mr. LANDRY-Hfts the municipal provincial power by saying, although
Hon.
for a pass tbis Act it does not corne into operacouncil the rigbt to make provision
tion until proclainied by the Lieutenant
juvenile court?
OtherwiSe tbe clause would
Governor.
Hon. MNr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I arn îîot have no meaniflg. We do not require any
sufficiently farniliar with it to be able to

1164

SENATE
1164

proclamation 0f the Governor in -Counceil wJiicii it places upon a court in any proof exercising jurisdlction
to bring it into operation unless it is speci- vince the duty
withi reference to the subject of this Act.
aliy reserved.
1 mnust confess that I do flot appreciate the
Hn. Mr. LANDRY-It is reserved lu that point of the bon. senator from De Salaberry
clause.
In striking- out line 19 ' or may appoint
some other duly qualified person to act as
Hon. r.ROSS (M-%lddesex)-I assume It
The federal govjuvenile court judge.'
Is flot a reservation In behaîf of the. Gover- ernment cannot appoint ad hoc judges to,
nor lu Couacil, but is operative by the pro- act in this particular case, and It seenis unclamation of the Lieutenant Governor.
So far as
necessary to strike that out.
Hon. 'Mr. BELQUE-It is by proclama- uslng the expression municipal concil Is
tion of the Governor la Councl. 1 thought concerned, which rather staggered niyblon.
0f course it friend from Middlesex, 1 mighit point this
the words had beeni added.
is an Important piece of legislation. and it out: there are certain urban municipalities
witbin the Dominion of Canada charged
Is weli that It bie fully considered.
with the support and maintenance of city
Hon. «31r. LOL'GHEED-As this is very jols.
For instance the city of Toronto
at
largely an academic question, 1 amn
Toronto bein.g a
supports its owII jails.
liberty to differ from my hon. f riends from
municipality could make provision lu that
We are rather
Marshfild and Stadacona.
jail for the reception of juvenle delinquents,
confusing- the Issue on account of the ian- and I think the emiployaient of this Ianguage lu clause 34, which makes provision guage lias refercuce to a case of that parfor the designation by the province of a ticular kind.
1 suppose that obtains In
court for tHie trial of those partîcular cases.
os ia Toronto.
federal other municipnlities as weii
The
That Is not necessary at ail.
lIon. Mr. ROSS ()Middlesex)-It couid
goveriument, If It flnds a court lu existence,
cer- provide shelters or jindustrial schools, and
cao desiguate, practically imperativeir,
tain duties and it is flot necessary for tbe if those are not provided, the Governor ln
province to designate any particular court Council couid not bring the Act luto operawhich shal receive jurisdictiou frorn the tion.
federal g-overnment with reference to exerHon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-So fur os the emclsing- jurisdiction lu any motters %-,Ithin ployment of the language ' Governor lu
the comlpetency 0f the federal goveruiment. Council' 1is concerned, that is imerely a proConsequentis, It seems to me that the lani- vision as to bringing the Act luto, force,
guage in clause 814 of the Bill is ainiost un- that this Act will not be broulit into operanecessary os to a province designatlng- a tion indiscrimiaately througbout the Doporticlilar court to bave jurlsdictiou lu tbese minion where It may not be regarded ase deThe hon. member from sirable or necessary.
particular cases.
'Lt 15 simply a preHalifax- bas referred to the Dominion Elec- caution placed on the Goveruor lu Council
Tlîat Is o case In point. Lt lias to mak-e inquiry, and having found It detion Act.
been wveli estabiished as a constitutional sirable to brinig the Act into force, a proprinciple that the federi goverument eau clamation is. issiued briuging tbe Act into
designote jurlsdiction ln any provincial force wlthin that particulor district.
court u-ith reference to any subject coming
The House divided on the amnendment to
witbin the competency of thie federal gov- the ameudment, which wos rejected.
ernment.
Hon. 'Mr. DAVID mnovedl an ameudment
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But wbere a provinito the amendment, that the following bie
exist.
cial court does not
added:
Hon. Mr. LOUJGHEED-If that court
P.rovided that the discretion of tHe Juvenile
does not exist, the Dominion g-overunent Court judge :as to the terni for which a
It is a juvenile offender may be committed is not afconnot coul a court into existence.
mistake lu assumling that clause 35 creates fected.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-I bave no objection
Lt does flot create a court: it
a court.
to accept thot, and would sug-gest that it
simply provides a method of procedure by
Hou. Mr. ROSS5 (MiddIesexý

JTTNE 16, 1908

1165

be an amendment to clause 30 instead of body will approve of whdt the bion. gentleclause 35.
1man bas proposed, and what lie bas sald.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It ls dIfficuit ladeed for an lion. member to know the beuring of a motion made ia that way, -wltbout
having an opportunity of readiug It over.
I must say I cannot give an Intelligent vote
on the ameudment, comIng up witliout notice at tlie last moment and rot handed to
tIc cliairman, so that hon, gentlemen could
look at it. It becomes difficuit, to understand tliem?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I tbinlz tiiere sliould
b;_ notice g-iven of amendments te a public
Aet.
Tlie ameadment -vas agreed to.

Tbe motion was agreed to.
SHUSWAP AND THOMPSON RIVERS
BOOM COMPANY BILL.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN moved concurrence
lu the arnendments made by the StandIng
Coinmittee on Rallways, Telegraplis and
Harbours to Bill (49) An Act to Incorporate the Shuswap and Tliompson Rivers
Boomn company.
Hec said:.I arn simply movlng the adoption of these ameudments as c1hairman of
the committee. 1 ar n ot In charge of the
Bill.

Hon. Sir MACKE-NZIE BOWELL-An
The SPEAKER-The question is now on bion, gentleman asks me to request that this
tlie amendaient proposed by the hou. gen- mensure be postponed, tbat lie liad to go
tleman from De Salaberry, seconded by nway, and deslred to mnake
some motion iii
tlie lion, gentleman from De Lanaudière, reference ta it,
and I tbink it would lie
tliat clause 3 bie amended by striking out advlsable
thiat lna
matter of so mucli
the words: 'Or miay appoint some otlier importance as thîs, wliicb
will create a
duly qualified person,' and lu uine 21, the great deal of discussion,
some bours no
words 'or person.'
doubt, lie miglit consistently delay It until
Tlie amendment wvas cnrried on a divi- there is a better House than we bave tonliglit.
$Ion.
The Bill w-ns then read a thied tîme and
passed.
CARE

0F

JUVENILE

DELI.NQUENTS.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I call attention to
the fact that the amiendaient proposed by
the lion. gentleman from Prince Albert 1is
for the tuird reading of the BUi.

. Hon. Mr. BOSTOOR-This measure lins
aiready stood over since last Wednesday,
nenrly a 'week now. II: wns fixed for toResuming the adjourned debate on the day, 1 thlnk at the request of the lion. genmotion of the Honourable Mr. Comeau :-That
in the opinion of the Senate steps should be tleman from ïStadacona. I understood the
taken to provide an institution for the keep- objection of the hon. gentleman froni Staing of Juvenile convicts separate. from aider dacona
was on a point o! orde3r.
criminals.
DEBATE CONCLUDED.

The order of the day bein,- caiied:

Hon.

Mr.

DeBOUCHERVILLE-Since

movlng the adjoumument of the debate, 1 I
liave rend tlie resolution proposed by tii'

'Hon. Sir MbiACKTNZIE BOWELL-That

miglit be taken up to-nigbt, but 1 think tlie
main question should stand over.

lion, gentleman, and considered It fully,
and 1 bave no objection to maire. I hope

Hon. Mr, LANDRY-I want tu maise a
question of order on this Item. The retbe lion, gentleman mIll succeed lu ob- port of the coxmlttee is now before this
taling from tue provincial goveranents House, and tbiat report decIdes ini one way
wliat lie requmes. Of course lie wiIl bave a question whicli that coînînttee lad aito apply to the local goverament, and I ready decided in another way.
Bourinot,
tliink ln the province of Quebec, provision at page 55C), says :
la now being made in respect of this matAs the miles of the House govern the proter by the building of a new and up to date cedure of committees generally, a committee
Institution for sucli cases. I think every- cannot renew a question on which its judgment lias been already expressed.

SENATE
1166

1166

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The bon, gentleman
If you look at page 451, you wlll find
1from Toronto.
the followlng:
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The hon. senator Is
When a motion lias been stated by the
Speaker of the Houe and praposed as a ques- flot offended. The Bill was referred back
tion for its determination, it is then in thie to the committee for further consideration.
-possession of the Hanse, ta lie decided or accordlng to the bon. gentleman, that masothémwise disposed of according ta the estali1 suppose be
lished forms of proceeding. Lt may then lie ter of Vie Engllsh tongue.
resolved in the affirmative or passed in tlie won't be offended tils tîme. Tbe commitnegative; or superseded by an ameadment, or
withdrawn wjth the unanimous consent of the tee cannot reconsider or take baek a declHouse. It is, hawevem, an sucent rule of par- sIon it bas already given ou a question, If
liament that ' no question or motion can re- reconsideratlon
or furtber consideration
gularly lie offered if it is fubstantially the
samne with one on which the judgment of tlie means that Vie commlttee must go back
Hanse bas already been expressed during the on Its decision. It Is flot lu that way that
current session.'
tbe report should have been returned to
That la Vie rule that governs Vie House, the commlttee. There Io a rule of Vis
and Vie mule Viat goverus Vie committee is House Vint says that the House could
Vie one I bave just stated, and Vie mules instruct a committee, aud the Instruction
of the Hanse goveru the procedo'e of coxu- given by the House Is 'what exnpowers Vie
mlttee. What are tbe facts ', That Bill committee ta do a -thing that tbe commitTbe coxu- tee bas not Vie riglit to do wlthont It. The
was referred ta a committee.
mittee decided Viat the preamble liad not committee bas flot Vie rlght to reverse Its
been proved, so Vie report of the coxu- own decision.
In this case the committee
mittee was to that 'effect. The committee not baving the riglit to go back on its depassed judgment. Lt negativcd Vie pro- cision, the course wbich should bave been
position that Vie preamble had been: pro- followed, was ta refer the Bill back to Vie
yen. This Is a negative decision. Lt la stil committee 'wlth Instructions to, do sucb a
furtlier more dIffIceult ta encounter Vian thing. That wns flot done. Bnurinot at
an affirmative decision. His Honour the page 556, just after the paragrnph I bave
Speaker wi know that. The committee rend, says :
lad ta pronounce itself on that question.
For instance, we recoguize the operatiou of
Tbe report was mnade ta this bouse. Wlint this mile in the fact that in committee on a
will not lie
did Vhis bouse doi This bouse, on a Bill a new clause or amendment previous denllowed, in contravention of a
motion tu adopt the report of the commit- cisbon (g.> It lias been ruled in the Engiisli
tee, decided by an amendment Vint was Ilouse that when n select committee lias meprivate bill
adopted tbat tbe report aud Vie Bill le solved that the preambie of a the chairmanlias
to
nat been proved, and ordered
referred back ta the committee for recon- report, it is not competent for the coinmittee
to reconsider «nd reverse its deoision, but that
sideration.
the Bill should lie re-committed for that purHou. 31m. KERR-For fumtber cousidema- pose (li).
Lt must lie recommitted for tbat pur.
tion.
pose; that is to say the Bill must lie sent
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-WeIl, wbat ls re- back Nvitb an Instruction for Vint purpose,
conaideration ? Wbat right bas Vie bon. to do a thing whicli a committee lias no
gentleman to Interrupt me ? Wbhat is fur- riglit ta do without n special order of Vis
ther considemation If not reconsideration?
bunse empowering Viem ta do what Vicy
Hon. 31r. KERR-I beg pardon for iii- have no right to do. Tbe paragrapli proterrupting the bon, gentleman. I thauglit ceeds
lie would like ta be corrected as ta thp
Consequently the correct precedure in ail
analogous cases is for the Hanse to give the
expression.
committee instructions whicli will enahle it
bon. '-\r. LANDRY-Wehi, I want ta lie to consider the wliole question again.
corrected in a clever way.
We find ln May the same doctrine, page
SIS of Vie lat edition. We iind Viat :
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-That is offensive.
Lt has been ruled tliat wlien a committee
have resolved that the preamble of n private
Hon ..\r. LANDRY-W'bo Is offended ?
TT-1n, f,

TAXDT1Ry

JUNE 16, 1908
Bill bas nlot been proved, and ordered the
chairman to report, it is not competent for
themn to reconsider and revert their decision,
but that the Biil shouid be recommitted for
that purposeThat is Just wbat 1 bave said:
This course, however, of recommending a
Bill of which the committee bas reported the
preambie not proved is unusual and requires
a strong case to be made out for its adoption.
in 1854 the preamble of two out of three competing railway BiLW- were declared net proved, but the successfui Bill, aiter it was reported, having been withdrawn, the two other
Bis were recoxnmitted, and the preambie of
onie of them was deciared to be proved. In
1861, the case of the mould and Den'bigh Junçtien Raiiweay Biii, the committee repor±ted that
the preambie had flot been 'proved, but al
opposition having been subsequentiy with
drawn, the Bill was recommittedl to the former committee who reported the preambie
proved and the Bill was passed. In 1874 in
the case'of the Boiton-ie-Sands, Warton and
Silverdale Reciamation Bill, the committee
having reported that the preambie had nlot
been proved, the Bill was afterwards recommitted to the former committee with an instruction to the committe-e to strike out of the
Bill ail powers for the compuisory taking of
land, to which any opposition was offered. In
1902 in the case of an omnibus Bill-the South
Eastern and London, Chatham and Dover
]Raiivrays Bill-the promoters not having beeu
able to accept the provisions suggested by
the committee in one opposed portion, ' Railway No. 1 ' of the Biii, the commnittee reported
that the preambie of the whoie Bili, inciuding
other and unopposed portions, was not proved.
Tho Bill was thereupon recoinmitted with an
instruction to the committee to reconsider
tbeir'decision upon so mucli of the preamble
as did not relate to Railway No.- 1; and the
committee subsequentiy reported that they
had done so and had found the preamble
proved except inl s0 far ns it reiated to Railway No. i. And in severai other cases where
compromises have afterwards been sffected
and the promoters have consented to make
amendments, the Bis have been recomniitted
fer that purpose.
M'e see by those quotations that iu al
cases wheu a Biii is recommitted to the
it was
to be reconsidered,
cornmittee
always w-len instruction was giv~en to the
committee. Tihe mile stands for tise coinmittee as for thse House. They bave no
right to reconsider a decision or tu reverse a decision given except wben a speci Instruction is given ta tbem by tis
House, and If hon. gentlemen xviii refer te
tise volume of decisions given by thse exspeakers of the English House of Commons,
tisey -wll find tihe definition af an instruction, and It is also te be found In May
Whbat is an Instruction?
and Bourinot.
Wliat Is the nature nnd thse scope of au

1167
16

Instruction ? You wili find tisat an Instruction is always given by this Honse
to a cammittee ta empower thea committee
to do wbat In thse usuai way It nas fia riglit
ta do. For these reasons, 1 ;daim tisat
tbe Bill, flot bavlng been referred back
with a speciaI Instruction empawerlng the
committee ta reverse Its decîsian, the commlttee had fia rigbt to reverse its decisian, had fia rlgbt ta maire a Tiew report.
and tbls report la now before the Hanse
without any antbarlty wbatsoever. There
Is anatiser point 1 could raise or. that question, and It was pointed ont ta me lu
cammlttee.
They said that a comniittee
may always reconsîder Its decisîon, but T
say It did not appiy ta a speciai committee, but snerely ta a Committee of tbe
Wbale, and tise quotatlon tisat was made
at tbat tîme appiied fiat ta tbe report af a
Senate Cornmittee but on a deeision of a
Cammlttee of tise Whoie, so tisat It did flot
apply ta the present %case. 'f tisat coinmittee isnd fia rîglt ta do wisat it did except on special instructions, but supposing
it bad a rigbt ta reconsider, wbat la tbe
procedure tisat It sbould bave followed ?
Il w-i just cali the attention of thse Speaker
for a moment ta page 539 of fBourinot,
wbere lie says :
Committees are regarded as portions of the
House, iimited ini their inquiries by the extent of the authority given them; but governed for the most part in their proceedings
by the same ruies which prevai in the House.
Every question is deternsined in a select coinmittee in the saine manner as.in the Houss ta
which it beiongs.
At page 542, he says:
If a question or Bill is rejected in the Sonate or Commons it cannat be reguiariy revived
in the saine Hlouse during the current session.
Circuinstances, however, may arise ta render
it necessary that the House shouid reconsider
its previous decision on the question. and in
that case thora are eneans afforded by the
practîce of parliament of again considerIng
the matter. Orders of tbe Hanse are fmequently discharged and resointions rescinded.
It gives tbe pracedure ta lie foiiawed
wben tise Hanse wants ta rescind Its decision :
In such a case the motion wiii first be made
ta read the entry in the journal of the resointien, and when that has been done by the
cierk, the next motion wiii be that the said
resoiution be rescinded.
A simiar nmendment cannot lie proposed an a future day. For tisase reasons

1168

SEIKATE

SENATE
1168
1 ask that the report of this committee tee to receive furtlier considemation; and tise
be declared to lie out of order altogether comrnlttee were at liberty to report lu neand completely ngainst the miles of this cordauce with the Indications of tise wili
0f the House, whichi thse House liad given
House.
Hlon. Mr. POWEll-I do nlot thiuk the tliem, thougi possibly theme miglit be soe
question If the committee bad perslsted iii
point of order la well taken.
thse opinion tliey bad expressed the first
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I would lie asto- time--there miigît be somne question as to
nished If the bion. gentleman thought se.
wvletlier tlie wère dolng their duty.
thse passage frein
Hon. Mr. POWEll-I think that la un- With respect to
kind of the hon. gentleman frorn Stada- Bourinot, I miglit say that Bourinot
cona, becanse day after day 1 eoncur lu there refers to tise Englssh practice, and 1
bis expressions of opinion with respect to purpose calling thse attention of thse House
questions of order. Just now I think the and of lis Honour thse Speaker to wliat
It Is a matlion, gentleman lias a good deal of confi- M-Nay says about this subject.
dence ln my judgment and he feels lie ls ter which Is deaît with ln several places.
wrong, and knows that I shal flot agree At page 420 of thse hast edition of May we
are told that:
witli hlm.
Motions also may be made that thse report
Hlon. Mr. IÀXDRY-I feel inucli confibe recommitted, or recornritted with minutes
dence in the lion. gentleman's judgrneut, of proceedings se far as they relate to a cerbut I do flot thînik 1 arn wrong.
I lbave tain paragi-apli; or recornmitted and the
great respect for the hlou. gentleman's judg- order of reference amended; or cornrunicated
to thse Lords at a conference.
ment, but 1 do not feel Ilke foflowing him.
That. is that it may lie recommnitted. Tisat
Hon. 'Mr. POWEll-lt is î>erfectly true shows whnt Bourinot speaks of, and Le
as to Bourluot, and that the comn- says if you want to alter thse report of n
mittee is
goverued by tihe ruIes of committee, you have to recommit ItL This
tlie House ; that is, while tlie committee Bill was recommitted.
We followed the
is sitting doiug business it lias to do busi- i)ractice laid dowa la Bourinot and May.
ness ln accordance wîth the miles that gov- Then I caîl His Honour's attention to pages
era the House; but that is not the case liere. 497 aud 498 of May:
This committee did its business at the first
It may lie necessary to recommit a Bill to
meeting in accordauce wlth the mules of a Çornmittee of the Whole House and occasthe Hlouse.
Lt înistructed the chairman to ionally to a select committee before it is, read
a third time.
report.
Whien the comniittee adopted that
Now, that is whsat has been done liere:
first report aud instructed thie chaimman to
A Bill ray lie recommitted first wîthrepors the Bill to the House, the commlttee
out
in
the enwas functus officio. Lt liad nothlng more tire limitation, again which case in coinBill is
considered
to do with thiat Bill.
It was completely rnittee, and reported with
' other ' or
clear of it.
The report of tise cornmittee 'furtiser' arnendments. Thse Bill may lie recommitted with respect to particular clauses
came up to the House.
The House lias or emeadments only, or to the clauses in which
supreme control over its own committees amendrnents are proposed to lie made, and the
preamble. On clauses or schedules being ofand over their doings.
Tihe House was fered, or intended
to lie proposed, the Bill
flot satisfied wltls tise rep)ort thse commit- .may lie recornmitted with respect to these
tee made, and lu the exercise of a righlt clauses or schedules. la these two latter cases
of
which ouglit to be clear to everybody, and no other parts Bill, thse Bihl are open to consideration. A
however, has been recoinI amn satistied is quite clear to the in. mitted in respect of certain clauses, and of
gentleman from Stadacona, tlie House, prac- new clauses relating te the subject matter of
clauses. The
tically said to tlie cormlittee, you take this those an instruction Bill may lie recommitted.,
-and
given to the cornmittee.
13i1 back agin and reconsider It.
Wieu that they have power to make sorne particuthe Bill went back to tlie committee, the~ lar or additioaal provision. next meeting of the comrnittee was flot as
Iu this case it was recommitted without
thougli it were a part of thse first meeting; limitation.
There were no instructions
it was an entirely new thing.
This Bill
lad corne from the -House to tlie commit-

Hlon. Mr. POWER.

given,' because if the House lad instructed
the comrnittee, then tise comrnittee could

JIJNE :16, 1908
only have made the amendments they were
lnstructed to make. In this case, the Bill
was sent back without limitation, In i'hich
case the whole Bill was open ta be reconsldered In .committee. Further on May
saysan Bill may bie recommitted as often
as the House xnay see fit. Bills have been
committed twlce and three times, and as
many as six and seven times:
It has been ruled that when a committee
have resolved that the preamble of a private
Bill lias not been proved and ordered the
cliairman ta report, it is not competent for
them ta reconsider and reverse their decision,
but tliat the Bill sliould bie recommitted for
that purpose.
That la what was doue here--it was recommItted.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Not for thiat purpose.

lit)

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-For reconsideratien.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-If 1 say thiere la
no need of reconsideration, what then? The
lion, gentleman is only evading the question.
Hon. Mr. KERR-I would caîl attention
to the fact that on tue page of Bourinot
referred to by the hou, gentleman froin
Stadacona, the matter la cov~ered quite
sufficlently wlthout reference to the other
points brouglit forward. Let' me refer to
page 526, of Bourînot, just atove thp
words that were cited by the Jion. gentle'A report nxay bie
man from Stadacona.
referred back to a commlttee for further
That la what was done
consideration.
here. 'Or with Instructions to ûmend the
samne lu amy respect.'
It may be either way: 'In this way a coinmittee may regularly reconsider and eveu
reverse the decision they liad previousiy
arrived at.' That la exactly w1ri't was done
here. Now, the order that was made lu
thiis case was that the report bie net now
adopted, that la to say the report whicb
found the preamble nlot proven was flot
adopted by the House, but thit the said
Bill bie referred back to the said commlttee
for further consideration. Plourinot says
wlien It la referred back for fui ther iconsideration, the decision may be reversed.

¶Ion. Mr. POWER-Yes. for that purpose.
Then at page 831:
-In some cases private Bis reported from a
committee have been recommitted; and, unlesa the House lias otherwise directed the recommitted Billlias stood meferred, in the
1
ordinary way, ta the comnnittee of selection.
Usually, however, when any private Bill is
recommitted, it is referred specifically «to
the former committee': and noa member ean
then ait unless lie had been duly qualified ta
eerve upon the original committee on the Bill.
Téhen on page 832:
Unless the Bill be recommitted by the
Hous with express reférence ta particular
Hon. Mr. FERGUISON-The point turnls
provisions, the whole Bill is open ta reconni1together on the questlon -whether the orsideration, in committee.
der of the House ln sending- It back for
Hon. Mr. LANDR.Y-Reconsideration?
further consideration lmplied an instrucHon. Mr. POWER-Yes, the committee tion to reverse the prevlous action. Now,
can consider the whole Bill, and the coin- I was not ln the House at the tlme'of the
mittee dld so ln this case, so I do not think debate, but 1 have gone over the report,
that the point of order la well taken, and and I think that la the way to ascertain
1 think that the hon. gentleman's confience what wns ln the minda of the Hanlse when
in my judgment la justified.
It was under discussion here. Very few
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Supposing you members indeed expressed theinselves ln
send a Bill back, would It not bie siily flot favour of reversing the decision of the
to state the cause for sending it back? committee, but they tbought more inforSurely a Bill cannot bie sent back 'witbout mation should bie obtained. Any lion. gen1 do not say tleman who will take the trouble of going
statlng why tîmat la doue?
common sense ta say over the debate will find that the bulk of
It la the law, but It la
that theie ahould bie some reason mention- the discussion turned on that. How would
ed for aending a Bill back. 1 have a riglit It bie possible to construe the order sendto rise, as a member of the comnmittee, and lng It back for reconsideration Into an luask whîy a Bill is sent back to me aînd to struction to reverse the order, Nvhen members in their speeches and arguments
get an answer.
74
REVISED

EDITION

1170

1170

SENATE

showed that w-bat they wanted w-as more~
information ? The order of the House
came very far short of that and ln the
lîght of the speeches that were made, very
many w-ho voted to send It back were not
pronounced ln theîr opinion as to what should
be done, and how could they Instruct the
committee to do somethlng that they were
net prepared to do themselves ? While It
w-ould have been competent for the commîttee to makre a report setting forth the
further Information they have obtained, I
do not thînk it was competent for them
to reverse their former action and declara
the preamble proven, w-hen their former
action w-as that the preamble w-as net
proven.
lion. Mr. KERR-The report lu this case
w-as one paragrapli, that the preamble was
not proven. It was ordered. by this House
that that report bé not ndopted, but that
It be referred back-the report on w-bat ?
The report that the preamble lhad nlot been
proven-for further consîderation.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-To elicIt Inforin theîr
mation w-hlch hon. gentlemen
speeches show-ed was required. It w-ouid
have been competent for the committee
te bave reported agnin and supplemented
theîr former Information nnd leave the
House, 'which w-as the only tribunal conipeteut, to reverse' their former nction.
Hon. '.%r. BEIQUE-I have alrPady taken
n position similar to that taken this evening by the hon. senator frein Hlifax. 1
did so without exarnining the question ; but
on looking Into it I must say that I confirmed my first Impression that the committee, ns w-as very properly stated by the
bon. senator froin Halifax, in reportiug as it
did then, became functus officlo. The report
w-as not adopted hy the Heouse -the H1ousý'
recommitted the BIHl for further conslderation. This House might: as weIl have
committed the Bill to another select conimittee. It was wîthIn the power ef thîs
House to do so. but the Hou.,e chose to
recommit the Bill to the sanie comniîttee
w-ith Instructions to deal w-ith it as though
it
they had neyer denit with it before.
became the duty of the committee to reconsider the Bill and not to li- beund by
The commlttee
any action It had taken.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

w-as no more bound by the conclusion at
which it had arrlved on the !Irst commitment, whlch was exhausted qfter its report had been presented to thîs House,
than another committee would bave been
bound by that decision. Therefore In my
humble opinion, the point of oider ls neot
weil taken.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-No one wiii
doubt for a moment that It vouid. have
been competent for the committee. under
that reference, te bave sustaitied their former action. Does any one loubt that 7
Hou. Mr. GIBSON-No.
Hon. Mr. PERGUSON-How then couki
It have been an Instruction to reverse It ?
The authoritîes are clear that tbis can only
be done by the committee on au instruction,
that Is te reverse the conclusion they had
corne to that the preamble xvas nlot proyen. How could a reference wlicb left it
open to the committee to do w-bat they
chose be an instruction to take a particular course ?
Hon. Mr. GiiBSON-Was It ?lot possible
for the committee to bave bitought back
the same report It had preseluted before,
that the preamble had not beeni proven 7
Hon. 'Mr. PERGUSON-That is just the
point I have made.
Hon. Mjr. GIBSON-But the cominîttèe
did not do that ;the committcc reversed
tbeir former decision.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The hon. senator
What
from Toronto has quoted Bour!ntbt.
does Bourînot say ? That a report may be
referred back to a comIttee for reconwith
sideration, but Bourinot ndds :'or
He
instructions to amend the report.'
goes on :'In this w-ny a committce mny reconsider and even reverse,' that is la case
of an Instruction. To show wlio la right
and 'who is wrong ln the Interpretation
given to these words, let me quote further
from Bourînot :
As the miles of the Hlouse govern the proceedings of committees generally, a commnittee cannot renew a question on which its
judgment hale been already expressed.
Is that clear ? He continues:
For instance we recognize the operation of
this rule in the fact that in commlittee on a

JUNE 16,1908

M71

JUNE

1171

Bill, a new clause or an amendmnent will not
be allowed in contravention cf a previons decision.
Is there any doubt about that? He continues:
It has been ruled by the English House that

when a select committee has resolved that the
preamble cf a private Bill has not been
proved, and ordered the chairman to report,

it is not competent for the committee tq reconsider and to reverse the. decision.
La that chear?

16; 1908

the subi ect of -the decision of tbe committee had been referred back for reconsideratien. The preamble generally contains&the
Lt Was on the -imprînciple of a Bill.
portant principle of jurisdiction that.:the
discussion took place ln this House, and
whlch prornpted this House te send back
the Bill for further consideration. The bon.
senater from Stadacona bas clted May who
says at page 818:

It has been ruled that when a committee
Hon. Mr. CASGRALXN-Until It la refer- have resolved that the preamble of a private
Bill has not been proved and ordered the
red bnck.
chairman to report, it is nlot competent for
and reverse their decision,
to
Hon..,-Mr. LANDLIY-They must liave the themthat reconsider should be reeommitted for
buit
the Bill
Instruction. Lt says so:
that purpose.
It has been ruled that when a coinmittee
The decisiou whîch la cited on wbich. this
has resolved that thse preamble of a private principle is based Is to be found ln a foothas net been proved, and ordered thse
Bill,
chairman to report, it is net competent for note wbere lu 1858 reference la made to
them to consider and reverse their decision, the case of Shrewsbury and Welclipool
but that the. Bill should be recomnsitted for
1 could not find any.parthat purpese. This course, however, of re- RaiUroad Bih!1.
lamentary decision elther from thç c9mcommitting a Bill of which thse committee has
reported thse preamble 'not proved' is un- mittee or the House that bore on any prousual. and requires a strong case te b. made
cedure that wouid have been adopteà p~y
out for its adoption.
the commlttee to revlew%and reverse a deThiat la
They caunot do it otherwise.
cislon previously taken, but 1 find ln the
I leave it ia
chear and proves thse case.
Journals of the House of 1858 the procedure
thse banda of thse Speaker
Tbe Bill had been comon that very Bill.
Thse -SPEAKER-Tse matter unider dis- mitted wlth a certain number of Buis te a
Bourinot Select Committee, wbich was called G irouýp
cussion affects a prîvate Blill.
at page 7S6 says:
10 of Rnilway Bis and the report fromthat
Whenever a committee reports unfavour- commlttee rends as folows:
ably on the preamble of a Bll, it has ne
Mr. Cobbett reported from the committee
place on the order paper in eitiier Bouse. 0f
10 of Railway Bis: that in
course it is always open te the Bouse te refer on groupShrewsbury and Welchpool the. case
Railway
of the
a Bill back te a oommittee for furtiier consid- Bill, they had examined the allegatieus. roneratien especially if the reasens for net pro- tained in the preamble of the Bill, but the
oeeding with it appear insufficient te thse same had net been proved to their satisfacHouse. Or thse House may give inEtructions tion. Ordered that the Bull be recosnmittrd
te thse cemmittee te strike eut certain pie- to the former oommittee, and that they have
visions and report the saine as amended.
heave to sit and proceed upen Monday next,
L migbt aay la answer te a remarl. made at twelve of the dlock.
by thse hon. senator frein M.arsbfild, that
That was thse whole order. At the date
even wben there is an instruction, that in- meatloned, M. Cebbett reported from tIse
struction la net mandatory or imperative; Committee on Group 10 of Rallways: .
it ia always that thse cemmittee be allowed,
That in the case of tIse Shrewsbury and
and of course tIse comniittee can stilh main- Welchpoel Railway (recommitted) Bill, they
But the In- had examined the allegations ceatained in the
tain its decision or reverse it.
struction is only given te extend the juris- preamble of the Bill and amended the same,
bystriking out se mach thereof as had rediction of thse coinmittee te glye power te ference to the proposed deviations of the line,
the committee which otberwise it would and to agreements to be entered into with
preportions
In thia case thse committee re- other companies, those proved to of the satisnet bave.
their
amble not having been
that the preamble et tbe Bll was faction; and found thie saine, as amended, to
ported
Thse Bouse toek, apparently, be true; and had gene through the Bill and
net proven.
made amendinents thereunto.
a contrary view and recommitted thse Bill
This second report was concurred ln and
It would, wltbfor furtiier consideration.
out leokiag ut tise nuthorities, imp]y that the 'Bill was rend tbe third time.
74J

1172

SENATE

1172
SENATE
-So thia Is the case upon whicl -May relies to that effect.
The motion requires very
to m&ke tbat declaration of principle.
I littie exposition.
It practically explains
find tliat it la a very parallel case with the itself.
The first proposition is to divide
one under review, and I do flot see the Province Into senatorial districts.
that there was any Instruction to the cotaHon. Mr. ELLIS-I do not wish to lumlttee to revlew Its decision on the preamble.
My opinion la that when a Bill118 terruPt the hon, gentleman, and I wili
recommitted without special Instructions, mention my point of order after be conthe wbole Bi I la under review, and that thue cludes bis remarks, If that -will be the corprocedure fi 0owed. by the committee lu rect way. I should like to knowv whether
I must do it 110w, or w-hether I -wiil be ln
this Instane, was n proper on1e.
I declare
order ln raising the point after -the hon.
tbe point of )rder flot well taken.
gentleman bas spoken? I take it the Sesiate
'Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN uuoved that the bas no power to constitute a commrittee to
Order of the Day de dlscbarged and placed do sometbing which the Senate
itself cannot
on the orders for to-morrow, first after thue do.
third readings.
Hon. Sir MALCKENZIE, BOWELL-Wbat
The motion was agreed to.
ls the point of order?
BILL INTRODUCED.
The SPE.AKER-He says this motion is
Bill (EEE) An Act respecting the Hamil- ultra vires of the Senate.
So that the
ton, Waterloo and Guelph Raiiway.-(Hon. point being raised, the bon. gentleman may
discuss it If be desires.
Mr. Gibson.)
The Senate adjourned tili to-morrow at
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Betbree o'clock.
fore the hon. gentleman discusses the
motion, wouId be indicate to us blis reasons
for raising the point of order? 1 underTHE SENATE.
stood the Speaker to sny that the point he
raised was that tise Sente bas no power
OTTAWA, Wednesday, June 17, 1908.
to appoint a committee to declare what porThe SPEAKER took, the Chair at Three tion of the province of Ontario a senatoro'clock.
not that he shall represent, but by %vblch
be shall be designated.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I do not wish to raise
tbe point of order In order to shut off the
Bill (DJDD) An Act to incorporate the hon. gentleman's speech, If I would be ln
Alberta Soutbwestern Railway .Company.- order after the speech bas been delivered;
(Hon. Sir Mackenzie Bowell.)
but I do not desire to be put off then by
saying, 'You are too late.'
I make the
SENATORIAL DIVI-SIO-NS.
statement 110w tbat the motion is out of
MOTION.
order'as the resolntion is asking- the eenate
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex) nuoved:
to exercise a power which is not provided
TJ2at -a commrttee of seven mombers of the for ln the British North Amierica Act.
Senate tc be namned by Mr. Speaker, be -aplion. Mr. POWER-I do not understand
pointed fto divide the province of Ontario into
as -rnany Senatoiial divisions as there are that the hon, gentleman from 'Middlesex
members of the Senate, from the said proproposes to amend the British North Amevince.
2. Te designaite saiid divisions by appropri- rica Act rigbt away. 1 think that bis obate itities.
3. Tc aillot the qsenators erom -the 6aid pro- ject is to simply bave this commiittee convince ta such divisions, having regard es far sider the question, and suggest to this
as -possible to 'the wi-shes and preference -of House a plan for subdividing the pravinca
the senator-s concerned.
of Ontario. The language is a littie too
He said: I think I shall have to add to direct, and I thlnk If the hon, gentleman
the motion the words 'To report to the from Middlesex were to secure a commitHouse nt a reasonable timie,' or something tee for the purpose of considerig a diviThe SPEAKER.

THIRD READING.

JUNE 17, 1908
JUNE 17, 1908
sion we wouid get over the difficuity. W1e
ail agree with the bon, gentleman froin
St. John, flbnt we sbouid Ilke to bear the
discussion on a very Important question,
and we are -satisfied that a dUscussion by
the bon, gentleman from Middlesex wouid
be moat lnteresting and instructive, and I
sbould be sorry that we sbouid, lose lt.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middiesex)-Of course
any motion 'that I migbt move would be
subject to the concurrence of the Senate.
It la not intended as an amendment to the
British North America Act; that can oniy
I
be done by the imperial pacliament.
did not tblnk tbe matter was of sufficient
moment to propose it as an ftmfendmeut:
of the British Nortiv America Act, nor do
1Iike to bave tiiis parliameut of Canada
going too often to the imperial parliament
to tinker witb the British North America
Act. I thought by convention, or comity,
the Senate mlgbt agree. to the recommendatiens If such were made by a éommIttee,
designating certain districts as the senatonial districts for the province of Ontario.
1 will give a few of the reasons for this,
bowever, as I go along.
Hon.' Mr. MILLER-Does the bon. gentleman tbink that that would give power
to the government to appoint a senator
from Ontario to represent n particuiar district ?
Hon. '.%r. ROSS-Yes.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I do vot tbink It
would. It would be a matter of courtesy.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-Pureiy a xuatter of
courtesy. The province of Qnebec, by the
British North Anierica Act is already divided lute senatorial districts, the obligation being that the senator mu,-t be either
a resident of the district or the owner of
property situated ln. that district. I do
flot know%
whether that arrangement wvorks
better than the arrangement la Ontario ;
but ln my judgmeut it ls a inore equitabie
distribution of senatoriai representation of
the province, and carnies wvith It a certain
amount of fairness and justice to the different districts of the provinze, wbichi I
think are wortby of cousiderMiion, sO my
first proposition is, If this commlttee is
appointed and the matter is considered, that

1173

1173
it could report senatoriai districts for the
province of Ontario that wo-ild give a
xnuch'better distribution of senatorial representation than at present prevails.
1
an not blaning the government that the
senators of Ontario are not distributed
tbroughout the province. That is for them
to consider, but the fact remains that If
you take a parailel of iatItude-say east
and west fron Linday-that the wbole of
the province of Ontario north r'. that parallaI of latitude wouid be unrepresented la
this -House. The wboie of the district of
Nipissing and the wboia of the district of
Aigoma, tbat new and growing part of
Ontario, are not heard fron ln this House
by any one having local or other connectien witb those districts, and lu the same
way the counties west of Losidon-Essex,
Kent, Lambton, Huron Bruce, Grey and
Simcoe, a very large, wealtby and prospereus agricuitural district ls not heard from,
directiy or indirectiy ln this Chaluber.
1
thlnk 4that is, not to say unfortunate, but
It is an anomaiy that might very weli be
corrected. It does not followv if this idea
were carried out that a senator sbouid necessariiy ba a rasident of the district ha
represents, any more than it !oliows that
tha sanators from Quebec are residents of
their districts. 1 notice, by iooking up the
post office addresses of Quebec senators,
that eleven reside ln M.%ontreai and tbree la
Quebec. More thani baif or the representatives of! Quebec are, therefore, residents
of thesa two cities. 1 do not propose to
iay any restriction upon the Crown. It
is not necessary under our sYstera or the
British systen tbat a member -if the House
of Commons, shouid' be a resident of the
district ha represents. The qualification for
a senator of the United States Is that hc
That
shall be a resident of the Stitte.
qualification is foiiowed in tbm' province
of Ontario, and that ls ail we can say o!
It ; but a better distribution for us, with
our large number of senators, wouid be
the distribution whicx I propose. lu thé
United States. each state bas but two senators, s0 te give a subdivided reprasentatien in that case would be siniPiY to cnt%
a state ln two. 1 propose to divide the
province of Ontario into twenty-four districts. Another reason for thls is. If this

1174 ý

f14
SENATE

distribution were carried out, von would
create a local interest ln each diistrict the
senator was representing. Wloui do I represent? Nominally I represent Middlesex.
1 have associated my namne ln this Chamber wlth Middlesex. slmply because of my
connection with it for 30 odd yýears and for
a -sentimental reason I desire to retain the
connection. We have four senators resldent -In Toronto, tbree resideut in Ottawa
and. two resident Ia London. If I were
designated either by courtesy or by comity
to. the county of Middlesex, then the eiectors of Middlesex, the taxpayers and lahabitants of Middlesex would speak of me
as tlaeir senator, and I would bave a local
interest Iii the county and its population,
and the people of Middlesex would have a
personal interest ia me. For thiat reason,
Bills affectlng senatorlal districts wvould be
more likely to corne to the Senate than they
do now. Private Bills go laigely to the
House of Gommnons because at niember of
that: House la closely ldentlfled. with his
constituency while we la the .Senate are
flot Speclally ldentlfied «wlth any district.
If we have any designation, It is of our
own selection.
The hon. seliator from
Smlth's Falls le so designated of his own
choice.
He le sometimes designated as
the senator from Leeds and Grenville ; theni
we have the senator from Bowmianville, the
senator from Hastings and the senator
from Alexandria, &c.
A wlder designation would give a senator a wider Interest
lu a certain district, and the people of thiat
district a personal intereet in thieir representative lu the Senate. It le possible thiat
because of the waut of this 1'>ersonal and
local intereet, people take lees iDterest lu
tIieiSenate than they otlierwise would.
if
you ask the people of Bruce, Simicoe, AIgomna or Nipissing : -What interest have
you in the Senate,' they would say: ' None;
nobody speaks for us lu the Senate ; we
rnay as xvell go to one as to another or
alinost to a senator from another province
as to any senator from the province of
I hold, therefore, the chiange
Ontario.'
which I propose would give a better disIî-ýbutioni of senators tlirougbolit the provix4c,, whlch would be an advantage, ani
It would give senators a local Iiterest whicli
would be perhaps an advantage to them,
Hlon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

and give the people of the several districts
an lnterest lu the Senate also. Suppose
au limportant public function was takîng
place lu whieh a locality was interested,
such as the opeulng of a new rallw13y, or
some other public enterprise, it would add
to the influence of the senator and of the
district If they could cali upon the senator
to takie part lu the proceedings as their
representative. Thiey are sure. t o cail upon
a member of the House of Gommons, but at
present there is no reason to, cail on any one
senator of Ontario, more than ou another.
Nor do I suppose that thîs would lîmit the
choice of the Crown In any sense.
The
cholce of the Crowia le not limited lu the
province of Quebec.
Eleven senators
chosen are resideuts of the clty of .Montrezil, althoughi eachi bas a separate district.
The <'hoice of the Crown Is flot limited now,
neitîjer should it be limlted under the new
system.
It would be qulte proper for the
governiment, lu Its wlsdom, If some person
of highi standing, commercial experlence, or
social position, or of any other distinction
whlch would qualify a man for the position lu this Flouse, sucb as political experience. n'as not a resident of the district,
to desig-nate hlmi to that district, just as a
constituiency chooses a man outside of its
own boundaries; because of some pecullar
qualifications:
the choice of the crown
would not lie limlted.
That Is rny first
propositioni.
My second 'proposition le that %we
should
designate the senatorlal districts by soine
iame, indicatiug their locality. .The
liresent designation, as I have already hiinted
at, is flot suitable, lu my judgment. It
gives dignity and limportance to the position of a senator to have it kaown that he
represents a larger area of population than
our piper niow indicates thiat a senator does.
When seators were elected lu the province
of Ontario prior to confederation, each senator represented I)ractically two or tbree
counties. For instance, there was the seator
for the St. Clair division. That represented
.Lambton and a portion of Middlesex. Then
there was the Malahide division, which represented. part of Middlesex and Elgin, and
that distribution was general.
There a
senator was designated by some locality
that gave hlm a standing, and that enabled

JUNJE 17, 1908
Ilim to looki to those constituencies as the
people la wbon lie w'as lnterested, and
perhaps who would eall upon him for sucli
services as lie inight bie expected to discharge. A change ia the nomenclature of
the tities by whichi senators are known, or
the designation by which they are known
would certainly bie an Improvemeat, If no
other change was mnade.
The next point Is to allot the senators of
the province of Ontario to the districts so
That may bie a more difficuit
deslgnated.
task, but 1 think that a cormlittee could
very soon, by personal Intercourse with the
senators,. find out what districts would suit
For Instance, the City of Tothem best.
ronto miglit bave two or three senators
deslgnated to it, as being a large City.
Hamilton, a large City, would also have
sorne senator designated to It, and so on,
and la thxe eveni of the senator for tbis
particularly designated. city or locality bielng deceased or retlring, tben the uew
senator who took bis place should be deslgnated to the place so vacated, no matter
from what part of the province of Ontario
The system would
lie was appolnted.
work out automnaticaily, and I arn satisfied
it would give very satisfactory results. I
do not know whether the goverament wvould
net upon auy recommendatIons we make,
aithougli 1 feel satisfled that the report of
a commlttee would recelve due consideraTt does not bind the goverunment, but
tion.
It would ludicate the wlsh of the iSenate as
to what miglit properly be doue, aud I
,would. have every confidence, from what I
know o! the mimd o! some o! the members
of the governeut. that any recommeudation we iniglit niake to this effect would
*My resolution
have the desired resuits.
niay appear a Ilttie positive la lts stateIt us rather to be suggestive tîxan
ment.
mandatory, and if it is .passed by the Senate aud a report made and adopted, I arn
satlsfied the resuit 1 bave lu mind would
be acceptable to the governent, aud I
thluk it would have a beneficial effect upon
the status of the Senate aud upon the Influence of senators.
Hon. '-%r. McM-%ULLEN-I thluk the hon.
gentleman froin Middlesex bas doue well lu
bringlng this question before the House.
For my part I tbink part of the cause of

11Vf

the unpopularlty of the Senate la the province of Ontario Is the fact that whlle we
have 24 senators, there is no senator allotted to any particular district. There là; no
senator that represents any particular district as the senator for the district in whlch
I have noticed the unfortunate
lie lives.
condition o! the section o! the country to
whlch the lion. senator from Middlesex lias
That Is the whole northwestera
referred.
section of Ontario. There is not a senator
at ail from any of those counties that lie
I tblnk that is a very unlias named.
This new
fortunate condition of things.
and Important district should bie recoe~
-Sénatoril districts are recoguized
nlzed.
In the province o! Quebec, and we should
have them recognlzed Ia the province o!
When a sens torshlp beconies
Ontario.
vacant, In ffiling that vacancy 1 think it la
well that a district such as the county of
Grey, aud Bruce, the Hurons and New Ontarlo, where for a hundred square miles or
more there la not a senator at ail, should
1 arn not complaining that
be recognized.
Toronto aud some other populous centres
I do
have qulte a number of seaators.
not wlsh at ail to challenge the proprlety of
the appolntment of those gentlemen. They
are ail good men; nt the samne tume I thînli
ut would bie better If we had thern relegated
to certain districts so that the people would
recognîze theni as the senators from those
I cau go back, of rny
particular districts.
own recollection, to the turne o! the old
1 can well rernember
legisiative concil.
when we had the Saugeen district, and
when we had the Huron district, and other
districts from whîch we elected senators.
At that tixue, people were disposed to recognize these men as their representatives.
They were elected by popular vote at that
That system bas been doue away
tie.
1
with and senators are now appolnted.
should Ilke to see the Seuate occupy a better position lu the estimation o! the people
of our province than it does. 0f course It
may partly be the fault of those who In
pat years critîclzed the utility of the SenAt
ate, as I acknowledge I did myself.
the samne tie, the longer we live the more
we learu, and 1 arn prepared to argue that
tbe work this Chamber lias doue froxu year
to year sînce I have been lu it, hbas, lu my

1176

SENATE

SENATE
1176
humble opinion, clearly justified Its exist- the other provinces ith the exception of
ence, and 1 notice also that men who have Quebec, appoints them for that province at
been a long time lu parliamentary life bave, large. The only nrbitrary divisionî to whlcli
as a rule, expressed their desîre to continue senators are ailocated wlll be found lu the
the existence of this Chanxber, even If province of Quebec. It Is not necessary
it were ln the power of parliament under the British North America .Act that
to abollsh IL. Under our systern, this they should lie resîdents lu thol"ý particular
Chamber Is part of the constitution, and districts, aithougli they are appointed for
exlsts owlng to the constitution .provlding a partîcular district, but a reference to
for a Senate.
Of course the people are the British North Arnerica Act Nvill at once
sll-powerful.
If they rose ln their mlgbt convince my bon. friend froin Middlesex
for the purpose of abollshing this Chamber, that lu ail the other provinces they are
I faucy that a united effort on their pirt appoluted for the province at large. The
might possibly bring about a change.
I resolution might be modified, It seerns to
do not know how It wouid corne; but'lu me, lin the shape of expresslng a recoinorder to perpetuate thxe existence of this mendation or a suggestion by this House
Chamber and bring It more la touch wlth to the goverament that the British North
public approval and public estimation I Amerîca Act should lie amendcd so as to
thInk lt would lie a most desirable change ling the Act Into conformlty with, say,
to brlng about the one that bas been sug- the province of Quebec ; otherwise If we
gested by the resolution of the hon, gen- pass the resolution la the form la whichi It
tleman from Middlesex.
1 should like to appears ou the order paper at present, It
see It, and I believe lt wouid make the will be open to the crlticism that we have
existence of the Senate more acceptable to no authority wbatever to allocate senators
the people of the province of Ontario, and to any arbltrary division la aay of the
would resuit lu good. Therefore, I thInk other provinces. If my hon. frlend
wll
It is <julte necessary that some change of modify bis resolution lu that shape, I fancy
the klnd should take place.
I arn heartily It wll not meet with the reception which
lu accord with It.
I do flot know what is it ma posibly meet ln the arbitrary
wny
thxe system applied to other provinces. We lu which
It is draughted.
also have the new provinces, and I do not
know that anv division hbas been made
Hou. Mr. ELLIS-If bon. gentlemen wîll
there.
I arn not. now speaking for any look at this resolution they will Eind that
province except Ontario, and my reason for It proposes:
supporting the motion as heartily as I dolis
1. That
committee of -seven mexubers of
because I thinik it would tend to Improve the Senetea to
lie nanied *by Mr. -Speaker, lie
the standing of the -Senate, and also its appointed to divide the province of Ontario
into as many Senatorial divisions as ithere
popularity, aud It Is 10w enough at the present time, If some sucli method was car- are members of thse Senate, f rom the said province.
ried out as that suggested by the resolution
2. To designate isaid divisions liv appropri.
just moved.
Hon. '-%I. LOUGHEED-I thirik- it highly
undesirable thiat a resolution should be

passed by the House eimployring lauguage
which it mxust lie obvious to every lion.
gentleman we would not have power te
crystallize eitlier Into a rule or n statute.
I rnay lie in accord with tise lion. gentieman froni 'Middlesex as to theý desirabîlity
of elcli member represeatîng ti particular
district; but we cannot overlooc the tact
that the British North America Act, lu provîdinýg for the RPPointment of senators for
the province of Ontario, in fact from ail
Hon. Air. McMULLEN.

ste tities.
3. To allot the senators .from 'the said province to such divisions, having regard uas far
es possible to the wishes and preference of Mhe
senators conoerned.
I hoid, first, that the Senate itself lias ne
power to do this. Tlierefore, it casxnot dielegate the power. The Britishs North Ainerica Act expressly provides how the senators shall be appoiuted. The seilators are
appointed, as everybody knows, by the gos'erument. Iu Quebec they arc appointed for
a particular division.
They arie not appointed lu any other province to any particular division, and their povers cannot
lie limited, and tlie authority ,h-iich they

JUNE 17, 1908

1177

JUNE 17, 1908

1177

bave as senators cannot lie ireuxnscribed
iu any way by designating u senator for
this place or that, and wlhule if is customary, as a matter of convenience, to refer
to the lhou. gentleman from Hastings or
the hon, gentleman front Rofliesay, yet
tbey are flot divisions whiel these gentlemen represent la thec sense la -%vbich mcmbers of the House of Commons represent
tliem, or whlch the senators from Quebc
represent districts. 1 do flot propose to
pursue the matter any further. 1 was
anxions to hear what the hon, gentleman
from, Middlesex liad to Say, and whlc It
inay be very well to pass a resolution sucli
ats lie lias suggestcd, declaring thie feeling
of tlie House, I make the point of order
tliat we cannof adopt the resolution. If la
confrary to the Britisli North Amnerica Act,
and out of order.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I do not for a
moment cousider that I arn a judge of
the constitution or the Act, or tbaf I could
attempt f0 expila It, but ln my simpliclty
I cliallenge the stafement made by the hon.
leader of the opposition. The governimenf
unquestionably have the righf to appoint 24
senators from Ontario.
The governînent
have a perfect right f0 say by that appointment whaf district fliese ssnators shall
represeat la Ontario. There Is nothing ln
thie constitution f0 ieadl any person f0 suppose that tliey have not the riglif to exercise thaf power if thcy choose f0 do If.
The constitution simply provides thaf tliey
lad thle appointmcent of 24 senjttors from
Ontarid, and so many for flic other provinces. Does that simple worçiing prevent
thec goverament froin saying that fliese senafors sliall lie represcnative fer certain
districts la their province ? Lt doe-s nothing
of the kiad. There is no limitation whatever. If you falce the constitution, yoit
ivill fiad tiiere is no limitation, so that file
Interprefation suggested by thle lion. genflenian fromi St. Johin is, in my humiible opinion, absurd. The goi-ernment car undonlifùdly do IL. Does any hou, gentleman Say
thaf If this dotintry shîould propose a change
in the nianner of appointinent and declare
thaf senators should be elected, iiere Is no
power within this House and the other
Chamber f0 make an arrangeme~nt of thaf
k-ind?
1 do not k-now.
The constitution

in thaf case miglit have f0 be altered. But
ln this case It does flot Interfere wlfh
the appolnfmeat. We do flot propose to,
toucli tlie appolnfmenf. We refain ail that
power; but when the Governor ln Council
do appoint fliere Is nofhlag in flie constitution fliat deprives them of saylng thaf
these senafors, when appointed for Ontar,
shahl represent certain districts.
Hon. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL-Tlie
only object fthc hon. mover of this resolufion lias ln vlew Is simply f0 designafe
by courtesy how a senafor shahl be addressed ln this House.
The most of bis
argument wouid be la favour of a change
in flic constitution.
There la no doulif la
my mmnd about that.
lu that respect I
should differ from the lion, gentleman la
toto.
Tlie constitution provides now that
wlioever is appointed for flic province of
Ontario represents not fhe partlcular district la which he lives, but lie Is appointed
as a senafor and legisiator for the province
of Ontario.
If seeme f0 me the only ohijecf my lion. friend lias la vicw is flic one
I first indicafed, that you should give f0
ecd senafor a name by wliich lie sliould
lie designafed, wlien lie addresses tlie
House.
A dlfficulty arises, liowever, la
this way: flic bon, gentleman referred f0,
Essex.
Thaf is thie extreme southeru portion of Ontario. The gentleman appointed
f0 the seat of our lafe coileague 'wlo represented that coasfltuency is a resident of
Ottawa, and If tlie suggestion contained la
fthe resolution whiclh is before flic. lHouse is
earried ouf, we should have f0 designate
flic resident of the city of Ottawa as flic
hon, gentleman from Essex, or represenfIng
Essex.
-There would be a difficulty fliaf
The
wouid suggest ltself f0 my mmnd.
gentleman who would lie appolnted mkght;
live ln a -different section of flic province
nltogeflier, as far away in flic case I have
indicafed as you could wcll imagine.
If
is very well known fliat wlîen flic old legislafive council of Canada, before confederation, was made elective, if niattered flot
wliere ftic candidate livcd.
Hé could live
in any portion of flic province of Ontario
and represent flic mosf distant portion of
if. Take for Instance flic district of Saugeen.
Thaf iras represented la this House
by flic Hon. Sir David McPherson, wliose

1178

1178
SEINATE

residence was in Toronto, and even
under Our present eyetem a gentleman
may bie a resident of a district that reaily
lias no representative iu this House, and
atter hie lias been appolnted lie may move
to another section of Ontario. I could give
During
you a number of Illustrations.
the time I was ia thie goveramnent, questions
were considered of appointing gentlemen
living la certain localities, so that tliey
iniglit represent those localities; but after
their nppointmeut they moved to other
cities.
In fis way a aumber of senators
came to live lu Toronto, liaving disposed
of the properties on whicb tliey lad been
living, or because of soine business change.
There Is no coastitutlonal reason çvhy the
lion, gentleman wlio lias raised the point of
uirder slould no 't lie designated as the senator
f rom St. John; lie is so designated because
lie hiappens to live in St. John. Take niy
own case; I live lu the county of Hastings.
31y old constituency used to bie, wlien the
legisîntive couacillors were elected, la the
Trent division.
It was known as the
Trent division for the reason thnt the Trent
river, whidli is a very important river, ruas
tliroughi the county of Peterboro, Northi
Hastings and Lennox.
That part of Ontario constituted a division.
Then Belleville, South Hastings and Prince Edward
county -were designated as the Quinte divisIon, simply liecause they front on the Bay
of QuintC.
1 bave givea these as illustrations of wliat I mnenu.
If 1 ivere designated the member for Quinté division, It
would then Include the whole district
tlirougli whicli the Bay of Quinté runs,
down as far as ilngston.
That is an illustration of wliat flc lion. senator frorn
Middlesex means by his amendment. The
constitution lias ivisely provided that the
goveramnent have the riglit to select such
men as fliey think are best âftted to represent the province in whicli they lîve and flot
confining themn f0 any particular localify or
district. There are many districts In whiclî
there might not be gentlemen whom the
goverument would consider best fitted for
seats here,- and wlille the fathers of confederation iîisisted upon dividiug Quebec
into districts, they wisely decided flot to
confine members f0 those districts, but
slmply required thiat they should either
reside or bave property qualification la the
HNon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

district represeuted.
We know of cases o!
recent appointmnents «%here they were coinpelled t0 go and buy thieir property qualification In the district for wliich they were
nppointéd, thougli they lived in the 'clty of
Montreal.
Tliere is no reason why we
should not come t0 some decision as to hiow
eadli senator should lie deslgnnted withouf
vlolatîng the provisions of the constitution.
Hon. Mr. SUIjLIVANI tliouglit la secondin.- this motion that it was a very good
Idea, because It Is dîfficult now to know
what Is the nomenclature of fhe division
for which a senator Is appointed. I iniglît
lie called the senator froin Cataraqui. That
was the title of the district represented by
the late Hon. Mr. Hlamilton.
I do not see
any trouble about the constitution in this
rnatter. The lion. gentleman wishes a coinmittee to lie named, ad tflant the committee sliouid inake a recommendation. TalcIn- a map of the provinîce, tlîey would divide It Into different districts and give the
districts euplioulous namnes, as far as piossible, and send flirougli the Senate a report
to the goverament.
The SPEAKDR-The motion of the lion.
senator froin Middlesex lias eitlier for Its
object an amendment to the constitution or
a change lu the usages of -the House.
0f course If the motion tendeti to alter the
constitution, if would lie ont of order; but
as It reads it can lie applied as for the use
o! fhe House only, and I am bound to take
that view of tlie question. Yet 1 would
suggest If there Is no hurry lIn nitting- the
motion, fiat It sliould be amended slightfy
to show tIat it Is for tlie domestic use of
fie Senate only. We bave rule 32 whicli
Baye:
A senator desiring to sDeak ls 'to rise 'n his
plasoe uncovered end address himeelf fto the
rest of the senators, and is not to refer to
anv tsenator by naine.
Bouriniot states wliat Is tlie uisage lu this
House at pages 477 and 478:
,lt i%a raie of varliamené tint a inember addreeging the House should not mention another member by naine. The Senate have an
expresed r-ule on this point, and it is usual
in tha-t House to speak of ionother senator- as
the hion. member for Grandville, &c.
This being the ruIe and practîce of the
Senate, I see no objection to the Senate Itself designatin.- members by the divisions

JUNE 17, -'908

1179

1179
JUNE 17, 908
thley corne from, or somne other mode, and there Is a vacancy, and lie may r-ot be wIliInasmuch as this motion tends te this oh- lng ta be put in that position. -I apprebend there wili be great difficulty lu carJect I arn of opinion that It is in order.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I should like to draw rying It out. The better way is for the
attention ta the point whlch I have made, 24 memberg fram Ontario ta gpt tagether
There is
that the motion gives certain powers to a and settie It for tbemseives.
no difficuity la my littie province; we have
committee of the Senate without requirone senatar for each of the twa smalier
lng further refereace to the Senate.
caunties and two senators -for the larger
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I propose counties.
xnaking an amendment whlch practicaliy
Hon. Mr. JONES-If the Hause Is going
was to anticipate the remarks made by his
ta deai wlth this question, 'why Rhould we
Haflaur the Speaker.
I had inteaded to
If
add a fourtb clause ta provide " Sucb divis- select oaiy the province of Ontario?
ions and designations af senatorial districts this Hanse cansiders It desirabie that Onto be regarded as the designatian of sena- tario sbauld be divided Inta divisions, nnd
tors In the Senate.'
That is, we make cer- senators ta be desigaated as representiug
tain senatoriai divisions by whlch we are those divisions, why not deal with the
wider question of ail the provinces except
to be known in the Senate.
Quebec, sa that the Hanse might deai with
Han. Mr. BEIQUE-I w-ould suggest an- the ivhale matter at one time, rather than
other warding. which -would be to the effect be tnking it up again and agalii. If It is
that the province of Ontario shauid be a good thing for Ontario, It auglit ta be
dlvlded Into as mnny senatorial divisions ns equally good for the other provinces, and
there are members of the Senate frein the they aise shouid be divlded, ind probabiy
said province, having regard as far as pas- lion. members from those proviaces wauid
si1ble ta the wishes and preference of the be influenced by this action, sand we wlill
senators cancerned, and to designate Ia the have this question coming up again session
praceedln-gs of the Senate by snch tities.
after sesgion, deaiing with anc province at
The SPEAKER-I would suggest that a tirne. Persanally, I do not syinpathize
the hon. member adjoura bis motion and with the hon. gentleman's motion. It seemus
have It redrafted, after the debate we have ta me It miglit have the effect of creating
dissatisfaction la the provinces, uniess the
bad as to the end la view.
Hanse hopes by this change ta influence
Hfou. Mr. FERGUSON-We ought ta came the goverament ta make tbe nppointments
ta some decisian on this question to-day, from residents of the severol divisions.
becanse I tbink we are discusî;.ag the Sena- Otherwise it appears ta me that It wauld
ate too mucli. I do not agree withi the naturaliyv make the electars la' a division
bon. senator from Wellington tbat the Gov- feel that they have been negl.'cted.
If
ernor In Council in calling any bon, gen- there la a vacancy lu, say, the niortheastern
tleman ta the Senate can d2signate biai part of the province, and a resident of
for aay division. He van only cali hlm Toronto or Hamnilton Is appointed, It miglit
to the Senate for the province hie is to ernbarrass the member and cr-3ate dissarepresent. Any arrangement mnde under tisfaction in the constituency. Surely If
the motion of my hion. friend colild have thiq Hanse is going te deai with the matno possible influence on the go)vernent ter it ougît to be dealt with in a compreIa caliing members ta the Senate la future. bensive way instead of seiectlng one proAnd after they are tbrown tipon the vince- for making a change.
Hause It may be found very dIfficult ta
Hon. Mr. PROST-I cannot very weii
aliot divisions for them lu the Hanse
according ta any prearrangement. For support bis resolution, because I feel very
Instance yeu divide Ontario into twenty- mudli as the haon. senator froin St. John
four divisions, and the very fIrst appoint- feels about It, that it is somewhat uncanment may be of a gentleman living Ia a stitutianai. The senatars are appointed by
divIsion different fromn the -- e In whidh the gaverameat. We are here by the grace
n

1180

SENATL

SENATL
1180
of the Crown. Therefore if we change the divisions, yet eleven Of the senators from
manner of appointment and u-ndertake to that province live in Montreai.
Lt does
designate certain districts for Lhe Senate, not look as If the designation was helping
Whiie it
whlch were neyer contempiated by con- to distribute the representation.
federation, we are derogating to a certain may nôt be unconstitutionai for us to pass
extend from the prerogative of the Crown. this motion, it ought to he, for it is absurd
In that sense, 1 think It would be advisable designating a man ns representative of a
before we vote on tb.is question, that we division ln one part of the province Nwheu
should take counsei of the Minister of Jus- he lives lu another part of the province.
tice or some other welI quaiified constituH-on. Mr. M.%cMUIjLEN-Wlhen confederational Jawyer, and see whethpr such a tion took place, senators represented cermotion as this Is a suitabie one to be tain districts, and were appointed by the
adopted by this House. I wo9iid sugge-st Crown as senators.
that the hon. senator from Middlesex witbHon. Mm. KERR-Some of themn.
draw bis motion ln the meantime, and If lt
*Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-They were rebe found ln order, draft it so as It wiil
meet with the generai approval of the cognized as the representatives of the districts for whlch they were appointed. Hon.
House.
'Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWVELL,-Does D. L. MePherson, who lived in Toronto,
was appointed for and rei)resented the Sauthe hon. gentleman think it unconstitutouai
le Bat for the Saugeen
that hie shouid be designated on the diagrain geen division,
division before confederation, and at the
as the senator for Leeds and Grenville? If
that be not unconstitutional, wouid it be time of the union wns appointed and was
iess constitutionai If he were designated the representative of that division, aithe senator fromn Sniith's Falls, with the thoughi he lived in Toronto.
consent of the Senate?
The difficulty lu
the present system is that names are duplicated. there are ive senators from Toronto,
and If you are to designate them as senstors from Toronto, one must be knowxî as
the senior member fromn Toronto and the
others as No. 3, No. 4 or No. 5; or we must
gîve their names, Senator Kerr and Senator
Jones, &c.
Hon. Mr. FROST--.That diagram to whlui
the hon, gentleman refers is prepared by
the clerk.
Hon. Mr. KFERR-I do not appreliend
that my hon. coileague from Toronto would
object to being calied the Hon. Mr. Joues.
Certainly 1 have no objection to being
known by my own name.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWýlELL-MvNl
hon. friend forgets that it is contrarv to
our miles to designate a member by bis
name.

Hon. -3mI.JONE.S-Wouid it not be less
difficuit to change the rules tha 'n have the

absurd condition that a gentleman frorn
Wilndsor shouildbe deslgnated asenator fron
Ottawa.
The hion, gentleman who introduced this motion says that Quebec is the
only province ln which senators represent
Hon. Mr. FROST.

Hon. "-%r. WVILSON-Had lie flot been
elected by the popular vote as the representative of the Saugeen division ln tie
Senate?
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-He w-as eiected
first, and before confederation sat as n
member of the ITpper House, representing
the Saugeen division.
At confederation,
lie was one of those appointed a senator,
and was looked upon and recognized as n
representative of the Saugeen division, and
other Ontario senators w-ere appointed to
represent certain divisions in the same w-ny.
The fact is that ceasîng to name senators
as representiug in this House specific districts began under the govemument of -Sir
John Macdonald.
The appointments w-ere
made regardless of the district or without
aliocating them to certain districts.
The
government quit namîing them ns senators
representing certain sections of the prov-ince.
The resuit is that it bas gone on
ever since. and the condition is just what
I have represented-senators have ceased to
be ncknowiedged representatives of specific districts. and it has tended to render
the Senate and its members less popular lu
the province.
The change would be a
great improvement.

JUNE 17, 1908
'Hon. Mr. BERNIER-There are two phases of this question. If it is lntended to
make a domestic arrangement within tbe
Senate, there la nothing unconstitutionai
about the motion. We aiready have that
arrangement ; but If it w-ere intended to
do anything more it would be unconstitutionai. In thecase of Quebec, cach senator la appointed for one of the electoral
divisions ln the province of Qneêbec. Whieu
It cornes to tbe other provinces, the constitution does flot provide anything like that,
and the mere fact that an excepron is made
ln tbe case of Quebec makes It clear by
Implication tbat the other. provinces are
mlot subject te that rule. For the other
provinces, the senators are appointed for
the whole province, and we cannot change
that
Hon. -'%r. POWER-I sympatliize withi
the bion. member from Middlesex in bis
main object, but I wouid suggest that lie
accept the hint given by some lion, gentleman, that lie should redraft his resolution
and get It into a shape ia whieb it would
be more likeiy to find generai acceptance.
1 do flot look at the matter in the ame
way as my bon. friend from Toronto
(Hon.
Mr. Jones).
The oniy effect 0f the action
wbich the hon. gentleman proposes, would
be that the goverument in maklng appointments to the Senate would not lit- so iikely
to overiook the interests of outiying portions of the province. There Js a great
dan of force ln ws-at bas been said by
the bon. gentleman from Toronto to the
effeet that this mile, if appiied to Ontario,
sbouid apply to other provinces as weli.
On the -whoie, the hon, gentleman from
Middlesex would do better to withdra-w
his motion for the present, and bring the
matter up in a siigbtly different lorm.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (MiNfddiesex)-The resolution wsas not intended to bind the goverament. 1 was quite weli aware that we
could not do so. It would be« suggestive,
however, to tbe government, of sucb a division of the province of Ontario as might
give to the Senate its most useful representation. That la wbat I had mnainly ln
view.
It is rather an anomaiy, to use a
mild terni, that so large a portion of this
province should lie unrepreseuted. I do

1181

not biame the government .for that; neither
the present govemament nor past government; but the tact Is that the province, If
divided Into senatorIl districts, wouid be
a suggestion to the govemament that, in
filiing vacancies, those unrepmesented districts sbouid become represented.
That la
as far as we can go. It la not proposed
to amend the Act. The Speaker bas bld
that the resolutioxi as far as it goes la ln
order. I think it certainiy ls la order for us
to make suggestions. Then as to the point
raised by the bon. senator fr6m Toronto,
there ls notbing anomalous la a member
mepresenting a district la whi-ch le does
not reside, or whicb is very remote from
bis residence. The same rule prevails la
the House of Commons. There ls a member
living la Ottawa wbo represents Nipissing
district.
Hon. Mr. JONES-In that case, you go
to the constituency and they put yon la
the House of Commons; la the other case
the government arbitramily put you ln the
Senate.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-The Crown
puts us bore.
If we bave to go to the
people we wli go and stand our chances
and probably bave about as good luck as
the ordinary candidate for a seat la the
House of Commons.
By this motion we
suggest to the Crown, bere are certain
senatomiai districts wbicb, If mecognized and
represented, wouid remove a grievance. If
membors fmom the other provinces approve
of my view, tbey couid have a similar meadjustment for their respective provinces.
That is for tbem to say.
I do not wlsh
to interfere with the state of public opinion
la the otbor provinces of wblch I arn not
advised.
Wbat Is a grievance la Ontario
may not be a grievance la another province.
Take the west: Manitoba bas four senators,
and eacli of the other prairie provinces bas
four senators, and British Columbia bas
thmee.
A redistribution of those provinces
wouid lie easy, and perbaps miglit lie sottled
witbout any trouble; but ws-at may not lie a
grievance thero la, to my mmnd, a griovance
home. 1 need flot dIscuss tlue constitutionai
aspect of the question, because that is not
before us. A sonator represonts the wbole
of bis province ivhethet ho is designated to

1182

SENATE
SENATE

1182

a district or pot.
The principle of the
constitution is t-bat the province should be
represented by so many senators.
It was
to suit local conditions that Quebec was
subdivided.
There were the Frenchi and
tbe Engllsh portions of the commuaity, and
It was t-o scat-ter t-be representatlon to al
certain extent equally between Frencb and
Englisb and for other reasons that the divisions were made. The same principle prevailed in establisblng the divisions as to the
House of Commons. Conditions there necessltated t-bat feature of the constitution. Similar conditions did flot prevail in Ontario,
and so we are appointed senators at large,
for the province, no matter wbat district
we may live lu. That Is t-be case ln the
United States.
A St-at-e senator Is senator
for t-le State, no matter wbat part of lt-lie
may lire ln.
W9e are senators in t-be *first
place for the province, and secondariiy for
the Dominion.
A member of the House of
Commoas ls flrst a member for t-le particiular constltuency that elected hlm, and following t-be rule of the British constitution
hie Is not a delegate but a representative of
t-be constituency, and then a representative
of the wbole country. -We are representatives for the wbole of Ontario. -Supposing
t-bis provision of my resolution were carried out, liow would It work out? Our commission would ive us a seat la t-be Senate.
There is no provision In the constitution to
give us t-be representatlon of a partîcular
district; but wben we came t-o the House
we would lie spoken of and deslgnated ns
the senator from such and sncb a district.
The cOurt-esy of t-be House would prevail In
that case and the fact would be a warnlng
t-o the goverument to give representation
t-o t-be different distrcts, and the Senate
would be benefitted In t-he process. 1 understand thie resolution migit be somewliat
Rlt-ered t-o meet the vlews of the House aind
under t-be circuinst-ances I ask permission
t-o wit-l@aw it.
The motion was withdrawn.
THE KINGSTON INVITATION.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-It is witb extreme regret t-bat I have to aunounce t-bat
t-be invitation t-o lion. senators to visit
Kingston Is cancelled.
I shall take care
t-bat t-le commandant of thbe mnilitary school
lion, Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

lias a list of t-be namnes of those bon. gentlemen wlio were good enougli t-o signlfy
t-le acceptance of tbe Invitation.
ADJOURNMENT.
Tbe notice of motion being called:
That when t-be 6enate adjourne on Thursd-ay, te l8th instant, àt do stand adjourned
until Tuesday, July 7 prox.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I piaced t-bis mo tion on
the paper lu order t-bat it miglit be discussed to-day, but In the abseace~ of any
member of t-be governmeat except perbaps
the bon. gentleman from Halifax-and 1
am not quite sure of bis position-I t-hîak
I had bet-ter not proceed witl It to-day.
The public business of t-be country Is ln
sucli a state t-bat I miglit have made t-be
adjourament much longer.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--Perhaps t-le bon, gentleman from Halifax,
wbo Is leading the House, could Indicate
what the feeling of thbe goverament is, ani
if lie could not, perbaps t-be' ioti. gentleman who is occupying the sent of t-le Secretary of State (Hlon. Mr. Frost) could give
us some information.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Ând if hae cannot do It, somebody mglit take tlie sent
usually occupled by t-le Mifnister of Trade
and Commerce, and lie mîglit give It t-o us.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I amn in n position
to say tliat tbe government do not see their
way clear to accepting the resolution of
t-le bon. gentleman from St. John in lts
present formi.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I am
glad I drew ont t-bat information, because
I desired t-o Indîcate wben the mot-ion was
made, t-bat before It was put we sbould
ascertala wbet-her t-le blockade In t-be
lower House had been removed, and la
case it bas not been removed, I proposed
t-o move an amendment t-o t-be bon. gent-leman's motion, t-bat t-be Senate adjourn
subject t-o t-le caîl of t-be Secret-ary of State
or t-be bon. Speaker, I am not partidular
wbicb, so t-bat t-bey can communicate to
senators, lu t-be different parts of t-le country and inform them wben t-he blockade is
raised and business can proceed.

JUNE 17, 1908

1183

JUNE 17, 1908

1183

Hon. Mr. COMEAU-It whil be. notlced
The notice of motion was allowed to
that, strlctly, the only amendmeat ls a
stand.
clause declarlng the undertaking ta be for
SHUSWAP AND THOMPSON RIVERS the general advantage iof Canada. BeBOOM COMPANY BILL.
fore that motion Is put, I desire ta move
that It Is Inexpedient te declare that the
CONS&DERATION 0F REPORT 0F
proposed. works are for the general advanCOMjMITTEE.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON ([n the absence ot tage et Canada la as mach as the legislaHon. Mr. Casgraln) maved concurrence lu ture ef Britili Columbia have tull jurisdicthe amendments made by the Standing Com- thon te Incorperate such a company as thât
mlttee on Rallways, Telegraphs and Har- which the Bill seeks ta Incorporate, and to
bours to Bill (49) An Act to Incorparate thxe regulate the works and operatlon eftheli
Shuswap and Thompson Hivers Boom Com- company lu ail respects except In se far as
they may Interfere with the navigable wapany.
ters, as ta whlch laterterence full provision
Hon. Mr. COMEÂT-Wauld !t flot be 1n le already made by the Domlamon statute.
order to have the amendinents read at the
Han. Mr. BOSTOCK-I raise the point
table ?
of order tbat this amendment le eut of
Hon. '-%r. .POWER-Tbat le a very un- order, In as much as It does flot amend
usual proceeding. The better w9y would thle Bill.
be for the bon. gentleman in eharge ef
The SPEAKER-The point <'t arder tît
the Bill to explain the ame ndments. It is
raised, that this amendment dees net amend
introdnclng a new practice, and 1 should
an amendaient ln presnggest that the hou. gentleman la charge the Bill. It le net
per ferm, and the hon, gentleman can take
of the Bill explain the amendments.
natbing by It. I miglit draw the attention
Hon. Sir M1ACKENZIE BOWELL-The of the bon. gentleman ta the tact that there
report et the commlttee rends as fallows :
le anether notice of amendment by the
The Senate, Comjmàttee Rjoom No. 8,
lion. gentleman tram, Saskatchewan whlcb
TIhursday, Janne 10, 1908.
1 slmply
the saine end.
The Standing Oommittee on Railwaye, Tele- would attaîn
graphe and Harbours, beg leave toc report as Inter that the abject wbich tae lion, gentleman bas In vlew Is that the Bill shauld
In obedience to the ordar of your honourable House, -made May 21 la9t, referring back be rejected as being outelde of tbe jurlsdlcte 1-aur oommittee for fuTither consideration thon ef this parliament, and that would
the Bill £rom the Honee of ~Cmmons, No. 49, affect the whole Bill. If Vthtsl its inten'An Act to incorporate the Shuswap and
Thom.pson Rivers Boom Company,' your com- tion, lie can take advantage of the motion
mittee have reeansidered the said Bill and ef the bon. gentleman tram Snskatchewain,
now beg leai-e ta report the samne with -the
whlch rends as tellows :
following amendmente:
Page 1, Uine 15.-Insert the following as
That the Bill le net now read a third time;
dlaunse A:
but that it lie referred Le a Committee of the
Clause A.
Whole for further oonoideration.
Thie underwtakiing of the company is declared
to be for -the general advantage of Canada.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI,-The
Page 3, lire 13.-Af ter 'in' insert 'The suggestion made by the bon. Speaker Is
Canada Gazette and.
After qulte correct, no doubt; but can that not
Page 4, line 22.-Leave out 'and.'
'Gazette' ineet 'and et lea-A one news- be arrlved at wlthout tbe Houqe adopting
paper published in the "ites of Kamnloops and
the repart of the committee ? in dolag that
Rerelstoke.'
Ail which is zee.pectiully submitted.
you are cencurring la the report et thec
J. P. B. CASGRAIN.
committee whlch bas made the amendment.
Chairman.
I would suggest a sharter mode oif attainThe undertaking of the conipany, it will
lag the ebject lie bas la vlew, namely a mobe seea, le declared by this report ta be for
tion that the adoption of the repart be conthe general adrantage of Canada.
sidered this day tbree months.
These are ail the amendmeî'ts proposed
Han. Mr. COMEAU-1 sbould like to cati
ta the Bill, but the principle of the Bill
attention te the tact that If we 'waIt untl
tbey do not affect.

1184

SENATE

1184

SENATE

the motion of my bon. friend to have the
Bill sent to a Conimittee of the Whole, la
put, we la the meantime affirma the*prlne1le declarlng this Bill to be fGr tbe general advantage of Canada, and that la precisely wbnt I want to avoid; beeause that
motion may be voted down. In the menutime the principle bas been affiraed.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Move the three
months' bolat.
Hon. Mr. COMFLU-If I ar nl order. 1
wlll witbdraw my motion, and move that
these ameudments be taken lnto'consideration this day three montbs.
The SPEAKER-I bave made no rullng
on the point of order raised. i thought
tbe motion was contrary to mile 44.
The motion was allowed to be withdrawn.
Hon. Mr. COMEAU-I move lu amendment that these ameadmeats bé eot now
concurred In, but that they Lie consldered
this day tbree montbs.
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL-Ia the bon. gentleman amending the motion of the bon.
gentleman from Saskatchewan or bis own
motion ?
The SPEAKER-No, it is his own. The
motion la that the report be now concurred
ln, and tbe nmendment la that this report
ba not uow concurred in; but that it be
considered this day three montiis.
Hon. Mr. COMEAU-As I have already
pointed out, If we nccept the report of the
committee to-day, we shahl be deharred
hereafter from raising the question as
to whether thia undertaking Is or is flot
I
for the general advantage of Canada.
desire to cali your attention to the fact
that no later than last year, this House
put ltself on record ou this vpry important
question, by passing a series of resolutions,
one of whichi rends, that it Nwill lie not
only neceasary for thia House la declare
that a Bill la for the genemal advantage
of Canada, but that there must be proof
given. This is a very important question,
so important, I think, that we ieLould either
have an opinion froni the Minister of Justice, or ah leat a pronouncemiert from the
govemament. We shouId. at any rate, try
Hon. Mr. COMEAU.

to be consistent witb ourselves. The works
contemplated under this Bill are to be
wholly lu the province of Britlsh Columbia,
and tbe government of British Columbia
have protested agaiust the passage of thls
measure. Now, as there Is a conflict of
opinion as well as tbere appears to be a
conflict of jurladlction I tbink that the goverament (and I arn sorry the hoil. leader
of the House is flot lu bis place) should
make a pronouncement ln regard to this
matter. We surely are not goiig to make
a lot of children of ourselves here by saylu.- one day that because a Bill, or certain
works contemplated under a certain Bill,
are to be wbolly wlthln the province, that
we refuse to Insert la that Bill a clause
declarlng tbe work to be for ihe general
advantage of Canada, and then pprbaps the'
next day sanction a Bill containing the
ame provision, and for work wbich it la
not even deaied la to be wholly witbin one
province.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-ln answer to what
my hon. friend bas said Ia moving that this
Bill be read this day tbree months. I would
point out that bis whole argument is tbat we
sbould not declare this to be a xvork for tue
general advantage of Canada. If be wants
to attain that object, be can do sO by striking out that firat clause ; but ha prefers flot
to do that. He evidently wants to kili the
Bill. It Is evident he does flot sl1mply want
tbe Senate to be consistent, but wants to
khli tbe Bill altogether, because ïf he moves
to strike ont that clause, which la the
ameudment proposed, the Bill would stili
he one under wbich the people promotlag
It could carry on their work. The only
object of askiag to bave this clause inserted describlng the work as a work for the
general advantage of Canada, 'was to reniove any doubt. We had the cxpression
of lawyers that this Bill, unless Ihat clause
was la It, was a Bill that could not be
passed by thîs Chamber. Now the opinions
are entirely dîfferent about thnt matter. It
is wholly a legal question, and I do iîot
waut to take up the time of the House
going Into legal questions, because thos,
questions are ones that should be left to
'the courts; but I may point out that ln
addition to what I have already said ln
favour of the contention that 1 make. that

J UNE 17, 1908

1185

JUNE 17, 1908
1185
The boomiug and ill that wiii
riglit pince te come te get tis reserve.
tis la thc
hegIslation, tbat 1 hold lu my baud an opi- bave to bp doue ou an ludian reserve.
nion given by tbe Justice Departrueut te
Hon. Mr. COMEÂU-Âii of it ?i
the Department cf Indian Affaire ln conHon. Mr., BOSTOCK-Part of it. I dû
nection witis the Keremeos Land Company
Incerporated under the inw cf British Ce- flot say ail ef It. They have te deai with
humbia, and those people appiied te de thse Indian reserve, and the ouly way thiey
The can deal with thse Indian reserve is by getcertain work on an Indian reserve.
We
opinion given by tbe deputy MInlster. et ting legisiation from til pariament.
ci) the 2Sth have, this session. aiready pased a Bill
Justice, Mr. E. L. Newcombc,
bere called the Saskatchewan Power Bill,
of AprIi, 1908, rends as feliows:
yesterday, and that meaI have thea boueur te ucknowiadge receipt assented to oniy
of your latter of instant, with refarenca te sure le net as Important a Bill for generai
the application made by éthe Keremees Land purposes as tus oue; but that Bill went
Company, incor-porated under the law of the
province cf Britishi Celumbia, for permissioxi tlirougbi tuis Heuse wltheut nv question
to, cross Indaan reserves Nos. a aud210 df the being raised, and It was for work wheily
Lewer Siinilkameen, -Britieh Columbia, thse within thse province of Saskatcbewan. and
former wikh a diteis and the latter with a
ditch in part and a pipe fine, for the purpose dealiug with Dominion Lands exactiy as
of diverting aud carrying water from Asis- this Bill proposes te deal wiLhi thein.
1
nela c.reek for egriculturai purposes to the
conipany in (the ueighibourheod caunot sc bew tis Heuse eau be consislands cf the
cf Keremees. Yen aVaLae tisat the Indiens are tent If It passés a Bill like the Saskatchenpparently antageniatie to the proposition.
eut a
aud that it would appear te be -not possible to wan Power Bill and tisen tis'ovs
,obtain their ceusent. aud you ssk me te ad- Bill of this nature whlch la pro cticaily on
vise as te wlietier the -permission asked- for thse ame Ues. 1 thinli there !e another
ean Ïbe gran.tedl nder tise 46th section of the
Indian Aet, chapter. 81, Revised Statutes ot great question lu regard te tis matter
1906, with tise consent of the Geverner iu whiich hen. gentlemen have prnbabiy net
Couneal.
queslin rapiy 1 beg te stata that tise question considered. Lest year there was a
bere in.voived has on iseverai occasions been tion brought up about a combine amougst
befoe thia deparutment for oousideration. aud the lumbermen iu Britishl Columbia. New
the position heratofore teken iv the Depiiment lias beau in affect that sectien 46 of the the Dominion goverument have laid aside
Indien A* dos net of i'tself gisve any pewer foreet reserves fer the purpose cf proto take lands in a reserve without tise cousent of -the Indians under section 48, -aud tisai tectiug the tImber and.retaining a certain
it is iutended merely te provuide for tise pro- coutrel lu their own bands. I t le quite
tection of the Indians whare thea ýràglt te have possible tisey might fiul it very convenieut
such consent dispensed with has beau obtained
aiiunde. 1-n snob cases -tise section makes tise if sucil a thing as a combine sisould exist
cousent ef thse Governor in Counoil essatiai, amongst lumbermen, to take some meaand provides for tise settiamant eud dispesitien ef tisa compensation te lie paid te the sures wlth regard te handliug thse timber
Indiens. lit hes aie been held tisat power te on thest- reserves. and If bon. gentlemen
take witbeut tise consent of tise Indians can wiii read tis Sbushwap and Thompson Ricuir be obtaiued from thse panseament of.COn
ada, a provincial legisiature sa.viug ne jures- vers Bill, tbey will sec that the hat clause
diction ite &%'pense wi.th the requirements of ef the Bill gives the Dominion goverament
section 49 of the Indian Act.
1 see ne rason for departing from. ibis vieiw and parliament power te expropriate these
cf tise iaw. and I amn te ata-te thet I have works if tbey think It lu the public luteconulut&d thse Minister of Justice with. regard reet te do se. It gives them »'wer te do
to the mat-ter, sud that lie concurs in msy
that werk, and It wculd put thema iu a
opinion.
I have the lioncur te be, sir,
very mucil better position If liu the inteYour obedient servant,
*
rest of thle provinces of Alberta. SaekatcileE. L. NEWOOMBE,
Deputy Minister of Justice.
wan and Manitoba they isad -to deai with
This conspany would be in tie camne po- a serious questien ef a combinè amenget
sition us tint et thle Keremeos Land Crn- the humbermen ln Britishl CelumNia If they
pany if tlsey went ta the provincial legie- kept a eharter sucb as til ln their own
lature for tileir hegIsintion. The work they bande, and they couid regulate thc toile
propose te de on the Nertli Tiompson charged ou the iogs coming down the river
river will bave te be doue ou an Indiau and cee - iat eomebedy did neot get hbid
REVISED EDITION

1186

SENATE

1186

SENATE
dangerous power to give to any private
company. Whiie we have done It ln the
past, I think most members wlll admit it
ls a wrong princîple to adopt ln this House
or any other House. The only riglit they
require for boom purposes le Vie rlght of
the shore, to fasten booms or te erect
damns by whlch they might dimage some
of the lands, and ln Viat new country, 1
do flot think the lands are se valuable Vint
the members of Vie company couid uot
obtain Vie rIghts frem the settier or whoever owns the land. I do flot tbink his
legîsiatien should pass in his House. Another reason la, I thlnk, It la legialatien
Vint la entlrely wihin the jurisdictlon of
the province of British Columbla, and the
sooner we place ourselves upon record Vie
better, even If we have done wrong lu
the past, that we sheuld leave matters that
are entirely wlthin the Jurisdictien of Vie
province te be deait wiVi by the province.
The question breught Up by Vie lbon, gentleman promotlng Vie Bill ln regard te Vie
decisien respectlng Indian lande, la an enWe ail know
tirely different question.
that Indian lande belongiug to Vie Dominion
government, and leglalation muet be sought
If
from Viem to deal wi Indian lands.
I understand aright, Viere le very Ilttie,
If any, ef Vis river wbere Indian lands
are held, and r amn sure most of the werks
wili be carrled on at Kamloops, and I arn
flot aware Viat Viere are any Indlan lands
ia the immedlate vicinity of Kamloops.
If Viere are, I wieh to be corrrcted; but
as far as my Information goes, 'wbere Vie
booms are erected ln Kamloops lakes, Viere
are no Indian lands, and for a1grcat many
yearsHlon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Does Vie hon, gentleman say Viere are no Indian lands at
Kamloops ?

of a charter o! Vis ki.nd, wlbereby they
could lay back and charge a high toil on
loge. over whicb Vhis Dominion governiment
had no control. This wbole question han
been Vioreughly Vireshed out, and hon.
gentlemen are prebably getting tired of It;
but 1 wish to point out that <iwiug to Vie
discussion Viat we had Vie oVier day la
Vie committee on Vis Bill. some hon. gentlemen who were opposed to .'13 measure,
wben It firat came up, are now In favour
of it and I Viink Viat anybody who wli
give It fair consideration, wilI sep Viat
Vils la a Bill which should be passed.
Hon. Mr. BAIRD-Â Bih -sirallar to Vils
was passed last year. and it was fully discussed. That Bill was defeated on Vie
ground Viat It was ultra vires of Vie Dominion to pass such legisiation. It Js true
Vie personnel of Vie commtittee was different last year from Viat of the committee
Vis year, but I see ne reason wby that
shouid change Vie vlews o! hou, gentlemen
of Vis House. They sheuld taire the saine
vlew Vils year as last year, because Vie
Bill la of the samne character. I oppose
Vils Bill for Vie very samne reason Viat 1
opposed Vie Bill of last yen'-. I know
noViing of the men who formed Vie comnpany ln hast year'e Bill, nor do 1 know about
Vis one. I treat it from a public standpoint, and oppose it for Vie same reason.
I see no reason why Vils Bill Fbould pase
ln its preseut form. 1 wouid .wthdraw my
opposition to Vie Bll, provldiug ail Vie lumbermen 'wbo own auy limita on Viese
streame and tributaries would be entitied
to eorne ln aud form part of the cornpany,
together 'with ail oVier lumbeemen 'who
may own limita on the river hereafter.
Thie would give every humberman the sane
riglits and privileges. In our country we
do not Impose any tai upon the lumber
itef by fixing a rate for Vie cost o! raf tIng, driving or boornîng. We tax the people who bave logeS there pro rata. Iu that
way we only pay .what it actual coste
to do Vie work aud it has worked well
for yeare. Therefore, 1 Vhilai Vie experience o! some fifty years on Vie St. John
river with boom companles -shouid work
weli op any Cther river. Another very
important clause ln Vhie BiIle ise right
to expropriate lande. I thinir Vil le n
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK.

Hon. Mr. BAIRD-Yes. 1 iaked for information. Are there any Indian lands at
Kamloops where the boom !s erected ?
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Yes, the Indian
lands are on Vie opposite side of Vie river
from the town o! Kamloops, and Vint le
where the dam would be erected.
Hon. Mfr. BAIRD-I understand that the
present boom company have ail these righte,
and are not molested lu auy way In fasten-

JUNE 17, 1908

JUNE 17. 1908
Ing their booms on the shore.
I do flot
know that the Dominion government have
Interfered ln any way with the rights they
have there.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-What la the hon.
gentleman referring to as the boom company?
Hon. Mr. BAIRD-I arn referring to the
mli at Kamloops.
They have booms
erected there for the holding of their loge.
That la the ouly place where they have any
improvement, as I understand, and where
they wll have nny Improvements for a
length of time. The granting of powers to,
expropriate lands for private purposes Is
a dangerous precedent to establish lu this
House. It ls weli enough to expropriate
lands for telegraph and telephone lunes and
public utllities. It is necessary we should,
have a provision that lands might be exProprIated for snch purposes, but In a case
of this kind In a matter of a boom corn
pany, I thlnk It ls a dangerous precedent to
establsh.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-In vlaw of the position
wbIch I have taken mauy tirnes ou the question f provincial rights, I wish
to say only
a few words. There la no doubt that mauy
Bis ef the same character have been passed already by the Senate, and it is true
the Saskatchewan Bill was similar te thîs
one; but the difference la this: that lu many
cases those who, like myself, are so particular about provincial rights, do not want
te be extreme, and that when there is no
objection made to such Buis by the provincial authorities, we do not thluk proper
sometimes to vote against tbem, and sometimes pas Bis whlcb we should not permit to be passed.
But with regard te the
Saskatchewan Bill, when the third 'reading
took place I said, 'On division.' I wanted
to reserve my right later on.
Now, let
us look at this Bill. 1 am of opinion that
having taken sucb a strong position as the
one we have taken as regards provincial
rights lu many Instances, we cannot vote
conscientlously against the motion m ade by
the hon, gentleman from Digby. There can
be no doubt Iu this case that the object of
the Bill1 la provincial.
Those who have lnterpreted the constitution are unanimous In
saylng that when the ohject of a -Bill la

1187

1187
provincial as regards terrItory, as regards,
idea, and as regards legisiative powers,
which are giveu. to a compauy, that It
cornes withiu the jurisdictlon of the provincial legisiature, and that the cornpany
which requires such power rnust apply te
the provincial legislatures. The provWsons
of this Bill1 are such that It was properly
rejected by the Raiiway Cornmittee.
The
report declared that the preamble had flot
been proved.
Then the promotera of the
Bill were couvInced that the ouly way to
-have It passed was to Insert the declaration
that the works mentioned lu the BUI were
lu the general Interest of Canada.
But
last year we decided uuanimously that it
was not sunicent merely te put such a declaration ln the Bill1, that It was aIse necessary to show that the declaration was justifie d by the facts.
How can we reverse
that decision and say to-day that the de,claration lnserted lu the B311i luI conforrnlty wltb the tact
I challenge the
friends of the Bill te show where and In
what way the works mentioned lu the Bil
are to be considered lu the general Intereets
of Canada.
They are works ou certain
rivers lu the province of British Columbia,
the Shuswap, the Thompson and other rivers. 'Let ns suppose that the prornoters of
the Bill came before the Senate askIng that
aimilar powers be given by thîs parliarnent
to a cornpany te cenztruct sirnilar works on
the Shawlnegan aud St. Maurice rivera, and
lu order to cemply wlth the conditions ef
the constitution, to declare that those works
were lu the general Interests of Canada, ln
there a senator from Quebec who would not
laugb and Bay: 'We nnderstand. wby that
declaration bas been put lu the Bill1, but It
has no foundation lu fact'1 Now, 1 say
there la no dîfference between the Bill
grauting snch powers on rivera lu -British
Columbia and a Bill granting such powers
on rivera lu Quebec.
They are as provincial lu one case as they are ln the other.
Whén the tramera of the constitution provlded that lu certain cases a declaration
that certain works are lu the general lutereat et Canada wonld give this parliament
jurisdiction. tbey did net have lu view a
sham declaration.
They couid net have
suspected that later ou that provision of
the constitution would be luterpreted lu
such a way that the declaration cenid be

1188

SENATE
1188

made in any case; because if you ean make
Lt ln this case you can make it in one
The views which I amn
thousand cases.
expressing now are in accordance wLth the
resolution passed by the.Senate last year,
and also lu accordance with the resolution
of the Senate In the case of the Western
In that
Rivers Improvement Company.
case the report made by the Rallway Committee -was that tbe preamble of the Bill
bad flot been proven tn the satisfaction of
I cal! attention to the reathe committee.
sons given by the committee In its report:
The grounds on which your cormattee have
arrýived eat such a decision are that it is iaexpedient to declare that the proposed works
are for the general. advantage of Canada inagmuch as the legisls.ture of Britiish Columbia lias full juriladiotion to incorporate sucli
a company as that which the Bill eeehis to
incorporete and to regulate the works Étud
operations of the cornJpany in,, &Hrespects except àn so far as they may initerfere with
navigable waters, as to w.hiich provisions are
aiready ma.de by Dominion statute..
In that Western Rivers Improvernt
Company Bill, whielh was rejected by this
committee unauimousiy, there was a deciaration that the works were in the generai interests of Canada, but the Senate was
unanimously of opinion that the declaration
Where is
was not justified by the facts.
I
the differeace between the two cases?
ask the promoters of this Bill and those
members of the -Senate who are in favour
of the Bill to show the difference between
this case and the case-of the Western Rivers
Improvement Company's Bill? And tint is
lu accordance also with decisions that have
I couid cite the case of the
been given.
Queen against Hodge, where the principie
was affirmed that the federaI parliament
cannot extend its own jurisdiction by a
territorial extension of its luws and legislate on subjects that corne exclusively wîthlu the jurisdiction of a provincial legislature.
In accordance with this decision. palliament cannot extend lts own jurisdiction by
declaring that the powers granted to ibis
private compafir shail be operative iu the
whole Dominion. Le Froy, ln bis work:
' The Legisiative Parliament of Ca-nada,'
laYs down the same prInciple.
This shows the danger of incorporating
such companies v-heu the object Is provIncial. There is a second point which 1 do
flot intend to make now, but which is onie
Hon. Mr. DAVID.

of the reasons why I oppose the Bill. Nobody cau deuy that the provincial leg-Isiature has jurisdlction In this matter. What
wouid hnppen If tbe federal parliament Iucorporated such a company and mnade laws
and reguiations governing that company ?
There would be double jurisdlction. If a
provincial leg-isiature has a right to legislate Ln such matters, Lt bas a right to pass
regulations governlng such works. If you
lacorporate those companies and make regulations and give them certain powers,
there wIll be couflct between the federal
and 'the provincial- legisiatlon, and, accordIng to decisions wbicii have been given, the
provincial legislation would be superseded
by the federal legisiation and the provincial
legisiation wouid be nuli and void and of no
effect. For these reasons I shahl vote for
the .amendmeut.
Hon. '-%r. GIBSON-Of a11 the hon. members v-ho have addressed this august assembly, I amn sure there Je no stronger advocate
of provincial rights than my hou. friend
from Mille Isles, but I notice on any occ-sion ivbeu there is a Bill affecting the provincli ri.ghts of Quebec, is respect for provincial rights does flot crop out s0 strong-ly.
There may be a grent deai of truth Ln v-bat
my hon. friend has sald about provincial
rigbts, but souietimes the judgment of hon.
members must be inflnenced by other thilgas
in a matter of this kInd. As I understaud
the question, there La a company operating
upon this river v-ho own and operate a
boom. When this company first appeared
before our committee and applLed for a
charter the Bill was rejected. The subject
was discussed and Lt v-as sent back to the
committee. The committee, after fuIl cousideration of the facts of the case presented before them, have made a differeint report. My hou. f riend from New Brunswick
said that nîistakes bad been niade lu the
past v-ith regard to granting charters of
this kind. But no mistakes would be made
if this charter were granted; a niistake
v-ouîd be made if the charter wvere refused.
Whien tbis Bill was first before the coniiittee, the gentleman W-ho v-as opposing it
met myseif and others In the corridor of
the House, and botb parties agreed that a
Bill should be drawn up wbîchi wouid be
h gentleman iveut away to
satiýfctr.

JUNE 17, 1908

1189
18

no question
see bie colleagues and returned iu two or hlave been maîiy sucli cases and
,as raised ln connection with tbern at ail.
tbree weeks, and du1ring that tixne the Bill v
for fair play. Here is a
was held up awsiting bis returu. Ile re- 'I ~bis Bill appeals
ompany that bas iuvested a large amount
turned and the decision of bis psrtners wss C
the lumber trade lu
to oppose the Bill lu toto. The people wbo 0 f money In developing
Iritieli Columbia. A emaller concern f urare aeklug for this legisîstion. are men ef 12
compelliug themi to
large meaus, reputable citizens who aret lier down the river is
se their boom aud is cbarging tbem extorable to carry on large operations ln the lum- Il
Tbey t louate toill. Is this parliameut prepared to
ber trade lu British Columbia.
reveut this Important company baving the
bought fromn these people the limite wb.lcb P~
and expected 'r lgbt to boom tbe river?
tbey now eeek to operate,
tbey would have a rlgbt to use their booms.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Wby did the
To their surprise tbey fouud that the boom ion, gentleman vote last time against the
dhh mot belong to the compauy that sold 3111 ?
tbe limite; cousequeutly there wae no other
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I voted againet the
resource for tlîer but to apply to parlinbefore the committee and
before 3111 wben it came
ment for relief. Their Bill le now
;ave my reasous. So far as I was concernthe House. No represeutative of Britisbh
ýd, the wbole matter liiy between the rival
Columbia opposes the Bill. The opposition
rnrnpanles. 1 did my best to briug about a
nas been raiged *by menubers wlio are not
reconcillatiou on the basis that botbi coInfamiliar with ail the circumetauces of the pauies shial bave equal riglits, sud that
case, aud the unfair advantsge that bas
belng conceded 1 dld not care wblcb comnbeen taken ef the gentlemen who purcbased
?any wss to do the work. Wbheu the other
these limite. Tbey were under the limprescompany came bsck tbree weeks altersion tbat every opportuu.lty wouhd be given
wsrds aud decided that they would bave
tbem te use 'the boom lu existence on reaxotbiug- to do wltb the compauy, aud would
sonable termes. Tbst pnîvilege bas been
the Bill lu ail Its stages, I decided
denied tbem. Tbey were willing, and la obstruct
to support the Bill.
tact offered to let the other compsny come
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Why do 'they not
lu under this Bill sud enjoy ail the rigbts
this Bill confers. It le not a question of go to the leglelature of British Columbia
provincial nilbte so mucli as a question of for this legislation ?
Justice hjetween two rival companies. I am
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Thiey could do that I
told by Mfr. Wbitney, tbe brother of tbe suppose if tbey saw fit, but you bave laeard
premier of Ontario, that the gentlemen lnpetitions from legai gentlemen that lu order
terested in thie matter are tbe best lumber- to get coutrol of Iudian lande ou wblclî
men ln British Columbia sud amouget the the works are to be erected, tbey require
beet on the continent. Tbey are flot asklng Dominion legislation.
panliameut te give themi exclusive rigbts ;
tbey are williug.to give to othere tlue saine
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Ndthrigbts and privileges tbat this Bill confere ing of the kiud.
on theinselves. There le no other place for
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I submit that this le
tbemi to corne. It le ail very fine to tnhk
a case that sbould be treated upon lt
about the British Columbia legisiature bav- menite, and that legal techuicahities sbould
ing- tbe power to give them a charter. How
flot be eiployed for the purpose of destroyunany charters have passed throngbi this
ing, or ut ail evente retardlng the progres
House every week aud month that mniglit of British Columbia. This Bill bas the apwell bave been obtalued from tbe provincial
of the bou. member from Yale (Hon.
The bon. member aeks for proval
legielature?
Mr. Betock) wbo uuderetands the wbole of
cases; case ut ter case has corne frorn bis
the circumstiucee, snd knows wbereof bie
own province.
speaks. He eays if tbie Bill does not go
Honi .%Ifr. DAVID-Cite one case.
through, you will tie the bands of tbis ,reat
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-l ecannot cite a case company and prevent themi doing a work
off-baud, but thiere 15 11o question that there which would redouud not ouly to the bene-

1190

SENATE

1190

SENATE

fit of British Columbia, but of Canada generaily. I tried to, bring the two rival coinpanies together and tbougbt that ln acting
as a peacernaker I was doing somethlng la
the intereât of British Columia. I trauft the
Bill wIll pass.
At six o'cloek the Speaker left the Chair.
After Recess.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I feel that 1 should
say a word or two to explain the vote wblch
1 propose to, gîve, and to answer somewhat
the argument of the boa. gentleman from
Kamloops. I must say at the outset, that
it vouid be rnuch more agreeable for me to
vote in favour of the Bill. 1 have no doubt,
as was stated by the bon. gentleman from
IKamloops, that the promoters, are men of
mens, and 1 have no reason to doubt that
oil its mnerits the sebeme rnay be a proper
one. wbich shouid coinmend ltsclf to this
parliament or to the local legislature. But
I cannot bide fromn myseif the fact that
there are Insufferable objections tojnmy supporting thc measure, and I amn golng to
state the reasons very concisely. The first
renson is tbat 1 arn satlsfied the provincial
legisiature bas exclusive jurisdictîon over
the matter, and la addition to that there is
thc very important fact that last year -when
the parties wbo had been opposing the Bill
this session came before this parliament
with a Bill exactly of the same nature, the
present promoters of the Bill obtained the
rejection of the Bill on' the ground-I go
flot know that It was urged by them, but
as far as this bouse Is conceraed, the Bill
was rcjected on the ground that it was
,witlîin the exclusive jurlsdictioa of the
local legisiature. Now, after havIng conirnitted ourselves to that extent, and nfter
baving- again comrnittcd ourselves-I amn
speaking of this bonourable House-by the
action of the Rallway Committee to which
this Bill was rcfcrred. and whicb committee reported la favour of rejecting Uic ý3îll,
on the ground that thc preamble of Uic Bill
ha.d not been proved, it seems to me that
we cannot with any consistency now corne
to any other conclusion, unless there are
new facts wbicb would juStify us"la adoptMy mmnd bas
ln, any otier conclusion.
been fully open to any new facts, and I
must say that not a single fact bas been advanced wbich sbould have any weigbt with
Hon. Mr. GIBSON.

this bonourable House ln arriving at a diff ercnt conclusion. It bas been stated by the
hon. gentleman from Kamloops as a reason,
that these works are to be constructed on
Indian* lands, and be clted the autbority of
the Deputy Minlster of Justice to the effect
that Indian lands could flot be appropriated
wltbout the sanction of this parliameut. To
this 1 readily assent. We do not require
the authorlty of the Deputy Mînister of
Justice. We bave a stilI better nutlîority:;
we bave Uic Indian Reserves Law, wbich
i.s to be found la chapter Si of the revised
statutes and which is to, this eff ect :
Section 46 of chapter S1 provides 'that:
No portion of any reserve shall be taken for
the .puoePOSe of sny raihway, roed or public
work without the consent of the Governor in
Council.
Now that is Uic only exceptioa where ludian reserve lands an be expropriated. Lt
must be for the purpose of any railway,
road or public wor-k and theu it bas
to be donc with the consent of the
Governor in Council. Now these works
do not fali under section 49. If I refer
to section 48 1 find that, unlcss otherwise provided, no portion of a reserve shahl
be sold or ahienated until It bas been surrcadered to Uhc Crown, and section 49 says
that except as otbcrwise provided no release or surrender of a reserve held for the
use of Indians shahl be valid or binding unless the relcase shahl be assented to by n
aiajority of the maie members of the band
at a meeting of council surnxoned for that
purpose, accordiag to the rules of the baud,
hehd la the presence of thc superintendent
or an officer authorizcd by the government.
Then we have a provision setting out bow
the vote is to be taken, so that we bave it
embodied la this Act, that Indian reserve
lands cannot be expropriated except for
railways or public works and then oulY -ith
the sanction of Uic Governor lu Coun cil.
Apart frorn that, flot an inch of reserve
land can be hcased, appropriatcd or sold
even wlth thc consent of the Governor in
Council cxcept with the assent of Uheic njority of the Indians lnterested In Uic land.
We are told ns a reason wby this Bill should
pass bere that the local legislature could flot
give Uic cornpany Uic right of expropriating
the lands. I assent to that cntlrely, but we

JUNE 17, 1908
are not doing It by this Bill. I amn told that iaxed, but It was, If I amrn ot mIstaken, lu
the rigbt is given and I admit the right Is cases where the province whlcb was congiven to expropriate, but oniy to expropriate cerned was assenting, so to speak, was relands that are subject to be expropriated, maining sulent; but when we have the probut flot to expropriate lands not subject to test of the province that It is n matter
be expropriated except for the purposes wbicb ls exclusively within is Jurisdiction,
I have mentioned. And so long as it is flot It seemas to me that we must, and are Iu
sliown that It ls for the purpose of a rail- duty bound to be very guarded ln our action
way or other public work, I say tbat the before Ignoring a protest of that klnd. And
right of expropriation cannot be used es far thîs protest bas additional weight witb me
as tbese lands are concerned, sn that thîs from. the very Important fact that It is a
reason cannot weigh ln my mmnd lu favour matter whlch deais with the placl.g of
of the Bill. Now, so far as tbe declaration booms on the river and the levying of touls.
is concerned, the only way it can bring- this 1 ar n ot aware that there là any general
Bill witbin tbe jurisdiction of tbis parlia- legislation ln the province of British Columment is tbe deciaration wbicb was added bia on the subjet, but tiiere rnay to-morrow
by the committee, that it is a work for the be legisiation of that kind, and there sbouid
general advantage of Canada. 1 was somne- be. I know that there is legisiation of that
wbat puzzled at findig in the last clause character lu other provincqs, and especlally
of the Bill, power gîven to His Majesty at ln Ontario. Tbey bave ln Ontario most
any time to assume possession of the pro- complete legisiation on this snbject, and the
perty by expropriation, and by paying coin- legialature ls the autborlty whlcb Is most
pensation: as set out ln clause 17 of thîs Bill. competent to deal with matters of that klnd,
On looking over tbe record of the otber because tbey are local rnatfers. Suppose
House, 1 found how tbis clause came to be that we have a similar Bill to-morrow, On
lnserted. It was a surprise to me to find it a river situated entirely In Ontario, and that
ln a private Bill. It was inserted at tbe re- we had the province of Ontario objectlng to
quest of members of the opposition, snd not our Interfering with its exclusive jurisdicat the request of the goverument or of the tion In the matter, would we be prepared to
prornoters of the Bill. The M.%inister of Fin- ignore that protest and assume a jurlsdic
ance, witbout objecting to tbe clause, ln- tion whicb I believe we are flot justified lu
The declaration that It Is a
slsted upon subclause 2 hein.- added. Thîs assuxning?
rider on the clause coises to this : The work for the general advantage of Canada
works cannot be expropriated without the was added to the Bill without any reason
consent of parliament being obtalned. The heing- heard nt ail why It was a work
clanse is not necessary. Wben parliament wbich shouid be considcred as being for the
decides to expropriate any works, then the general advantage of Canada. For my part
Expropriation Act takes effect, and the Ex- I cannot assent to that and I propose therechequer Court determines wbat compensa- fore to vote against the Bill.
tion la to be paid, so I fail to see how this
non. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-In
clause 17 may be urged as an addîtional referring to the discussion in the Commons,
reason. it was flot urged ln the cornmittee;* what reasons -were given for the addlng Of
ut cornes up to-day for the first time, before the clause wbich the bon. gentleman bas
tbis honourable House, and 1 fail to see read?
wbat it bas to do with tbe matter. The adHon. Mr. BEIQUE-The only reason that
ditional objection to the Bill Is tbis, that flot
only is it exclusively witbin tbe jurisdiction I could see was that they added a clause of
of tbe local legisiature, but we cannot ignore that klnd in the Ottawa and Georgian Bay
the fact that tbe local legisiature bas *Canal Company's Bill. They followed 'the
asserted its rigbt to deal with this precedent on the suggestion of one of the
matter by a letter which was sent to inembers of the opposition, 1 think It was
tbe Railway Committee by tbe Attor- *Mr. Lennox, and there -was no Objection
ney General as representing the province. *made to the clause, except tbat the bon.
I know that lu otber Bills the ruIe has Mr. Fielding, Minister of Finance, objectedI
been relaxed, and possibly too niuch re- *to the clause, unless this rider was added.

1192

SENATE

1192

SENATE

Hon. Mr. McMelULLEN-I think it niy
duty to say a few words in reply to wbat
Last year
the bon. gentleman bas said.
wben a Bili dealing witb this question w~as
before the House, 1 then agreed w'itli the
contention that hie bas laid down to-nlgbt.
I tbougbt that the Bill sbould flot 'pass,
owInýg to the faet of Uts beiug entirely wltbIn tbe jurisdiction of tbe province of British
Columbla. At tbat tirne 1 understood-and
I tbink 'that 1 had been correctly Inforrned
-that the party tbat was tben applylng
for the legIslntion was cornposed largely of
the party that had sold out to the present
occupant of tbe extensive milis and limits
that are located there, and wbo received a
very large surn for those limits, and after
tbey had disposed of the limits w'hich the
purchasers thougbt carried ail the rlgbts
and uses of the boomns and the liberties that
the sellers enjoyed with regard to fioatinig
logs, &c., tbey came bere and asked legislation to place tbemn vlrtually in a position
to, exact tolis not only of tbose to whom
tbey bad sold limita, but ail others who
cboose to use the streams and had the use
1 thougbt that of itself
of their boom.
was something- that sbould not bie tolerated.
My sympathies for the present Bill are
It la well enougli to talk
based upon this.
1 quite agree that
itbout provincial rigbts.
If we eail do so w'e should corne to a distinct
understanding bow far this bouse and tliis
parliament should go in legislation that interferes with the rights of the provinces,
and that the Uine of demark-ation should be
clearly drawn, so that we would distlnctly
understand how far we can go and no fur1 would be quite willing to adbere
ther.
to the absolute riglits of the provinces, conceding to them the privilege and the right
of enacting all legislation entirely -withîn
their own jurisdlction; but we bave been'
riding rough-shod over that particular privilege. We have granted chàirters in open
violation of provincial rigbhts, even worse
tbani in tlis case. to comnies coming here
for the construction of ronds and for othier
Xow if we are going to put a
purposes.
stop to it. let us do it ut the close of some
session, or at the beginniing of some other
It is unfair to deal with one Bill
session.
on the basis of provincial rights, and shut.
thein out, while we permit other Buis to
Hon. M.BEIQUE.

pass througb, with the evidence on the face
of them that tbey are clearly witbin tbe
rights of a province, Just as mucb, perbaps
more so tban the BiII we are dealing witb
If there ls anytbing lu the argunow.
ments of the bon, gentleman from De Salaberry nt ail, lu my humble judgment, it
proves that we abould pass the Bill tbat is
now bef ore us. In the first place, bie clearly points out that tbe only question upon
wbicli posslbly any argument could be
founded la tbe fact that It bas to deal w-itb
He
some Indian reserve property there.
bas pointed out that the Crown bas no rigbt
to devote any portion of that property, or to
consent to its alienation except for certain
speclflc purposes. Wbat are tbey? Eitbier for
the purpose of building a railway or public
work or public road. When you get outside
of those, they bave flot the riglit to deal with
it.
The'only other course then la to approach the Indians and get theni by vote
to consent to, ternis upon which these w-orlis
could be built, or else corne to parliament
and ask parlament to pass a Iaw that will
enable tbem to utiliZe a certain portion: but
tbey have to settle with the government if
they do lt, .nnd the governiment have a rigbit,
as a private Indtvidual would, to exact the
value and place It to the credit of the
Inidian fund. whîcb no douht tbey w-ill do.
I tbink that of ltself clearly proves thiat tbey
bad two choices, either go to the Indians
and try to get the riglit frorn tbem. or conie
to parliament and get an Act thut will enable tbein to. secure it. and then the goverument w-il! lookv ufter the Indians'. inLnder those circumatanicesý. that
terest.
julifedi. to a certain extent. tleîi comuing
biere. There ig alzo the fact that it is dealing wvitli a navigable streanm. if that can be
Thien the Attorney
uised lin argumient.
General of Britisbi Coluinibia lias, over bis
own signature. saidl tixat thiat province is
The
prepared to deai witli the question.
Attorney General that precedled bimi said
over bis 0w-n signature. ' Ottawa is the proper place to go to get legisîntion ini regard
Now, wbio are wve to beto tîil matter.'
The previous Attorney Genieral or
leve?
the present Attorney General? There lias
evidently been al confusion somnewvere, a
difference of opinion, and ns a resuit of
that difference of opinion thesc PEopie bave

JUNE 17, 1908
JUNF,
Tluey are prepared to risk the
corne boere.
legislation tbat we may give tbem, declarIng their work to be one for tbe general
They are prepnred
advantage of Canada.
to accept Our legiaslation on these ternis,
and lt la for us to say wbetber under al
the circumstances we shaîl grant it to them
or not. Those people purchased that large
lumit and pald their money for it in good
faith that they w-ould be placed In possession of al the advantages tbat the sellers
enjoy and that they hoped to enjoy by the
purchase, and I thlnk it is our dnty, If we
can possibly, to 'secure to themn the rights
that they antlcipated that tbey were getting
by that purchase. That is mv feeling, and
lt ls promoted by a desire to do îi'hat ts
rigbt. and under these circumstances I bave
Conicluded that I shahl support the Bill.

1193

17, 1908
1193
wbich are, to niy mmnd, nlot oniY illusOrY,
but are unworthy of any legisiator or anY
legisiature. I hesitate flot to say tliat from.
my standpolnt. Let us consider thls simple
question b ave we the rigbt lu this parliament to deprive the local legialatures of
tbat power and authority to deal 'wltb questions of this kind under the constitution ?
An appeal bas been made to senators to
pass this Bill, nlot because they eau properly do it under the constitution, but because they allege that certain Improprieties took place on the part of the company
f romn whom those wbo are seeking this legIslation obtained the property they hold.
Tbat argument does nlot touclh the question
of provincial rigbts or justify the iùterference of the parliament of Canada witb a
question of tbis kind. The promoter of the
Bill very judiciously deciared wben bie
commenced bis argument In faveur of the
. Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-I bave passage of the Bill that bie ignored tbe conHe said hie would
listeiied w-itb a good deal of attention to stitutional question.
tbe different speeches wbich bave been de- leave the legal question to lawyers. Now%
livered sInce thîs question came under con- it is tbe constitutional question with whicli
sideration to-day, and I bave corne to the we should deal, and not %vitliwbat lie ternis
conclusion that the real point at issue bas the equitable side of the question, because
not been touched by any one of the speak- the equity can be decided by the local legers ivbo bave spoken la faveur of the pass- islature, who bave, lu my Judgmient, the exage of this Bill. It is not a question wilh clusive rigbt to deal witb this question.
us as to w-bat took place betiveen the par- The other argument to whicbi the bion. gendies w-bo purcbased the properties to whicbi tieman turned bis attention was tbat of
tbe bon. gentleman who bas just spoken re- deaiing witil Indian lands. That lias been
ferred. I desire to bave it distihctly under- very successfully answered by the bon.
stood tliat so far as the intere§ts of the senator froni De Salabery. The hon. menilndividuals are concerned, they sbould be ber froni Beamsville made the broad stategiven the rigbt to constrnct booms wbicb ment that there w'as no one bere frein Britdo not Interfere wlth the navigation, Iu or- ish Columbia opposing this Bill. He forgot
der to protect tbeir property. The only to state the fact that the Attorney General
question to wbicli 1 desire to speak or te of British Columbia bad protested against
consider is tbe right of tbis parliainent to the passage of this Blill as an infringement
'Tbat
deal witb a question of that kind. AIl tbe of the rights of British Colunmbia.
th statenient that a prele
and privileg-es wbieh it bias been ivas ansîvered
rigbts
1urged sbould bo given to this coniany ýwbo viens Attorney Genieral bail given a differaire seeking this Act of incorporation cali eut opinion. This only shows that lawyers
be obtained fromi tbe local legfisînture lu ditier. But there are other eminent lawyers
the province of British Columbia, ani it wbo bave given a positive opinion as to the
seelus to me that tbnt is the only point tliut unconstitutiona lity of legîsiation of this
It would
this House sbould deal with, and ujot the châracter by this parliaunent.
question of equity as hetween the purchas- bave been ns weil bad those gentlemen iners of the property tbat tbey noiw own and formied the House what the opinion of tbe
Reasons bave been law clerk of the Senate w-as on tbis questbose who sold it.
given for change of opinion by soino geni- tion. He gave a written opinion, holding
tlemen who took a different course wheîî that it ivas strictly ivithin the !egal and
considering, tbis question ia another placite, caii-stitiutional rigbts of British Coliubia

1194

SENATE

1194

SEINATE

to deal with this matter, and that unless the
words that it was for the general benefit of
Canada were added te the Bill, we have no
rlght to deal with It !Ience tire committee, after many of them had changed their
opinions for reasoas that, to my mmnd, are
neither conlusîve or correct, added that
clause to the Bill la order to bring It withla the jurisdictlon of this parliament. The
authorities quoted la another place against
the interferenoe by the Dominion parliament wlth questions which properly belong
to the local legislature, must have proved
conclusive upon the question of adding
these words 'for the general advantage of
Canada?' Judges la the past have laid It
down as an evasion of the constitution to
add those words to Bis which were exclusively local la their character. We had
a number of Instances and quotations
gli-en by gentlemen representing the province 0f Quebec la another place la dealing with provincinil powers. We bave a
decision also by the late Chief Justice Harrison to the same effect ; but it appears no
matter w-bat authorlties and precedents
may be cited, when it becomes a question
of what is terrned equity, tihe law and the
constitution vanished from the minds of certain senators, and they act entirely upon a
principle wbich Is not equitable nor is it
justifiable. If hon. gentlemen wlill consult
the leading organ of their party, many of

thern who have changed their minds on
tlhis question-at

whose

instigation

1 amn

flot prepnred to say-they may take a dîfferenit view. Tihe Toronto 'Globe' says lu
in article publislied on the 27tb of Marcb,

dealing with ibis question of Interfereuce
w-ith provincial rights of tbis parliarnent
The moat ouitsta.nding of ail objections to
thre provisions, that -the works authorNzed by
tira Act ara deciared to ha for the ganeral advanta go of Canada, is tira very anti-clirnax
of legisiativo foolery.
1 bave miany extracts from tis journal
that show verr. clearly w-bat the opinion of
the legal organ of thre Liberal party in
Ontario is upon that question. lu dealing
with thre interference with powers and
nuthority of the local legislature, both parties in Ontario are one upon tint question.
I shaîl not weary the House by reading thre
resolutions whici were proposed by Premier
Whitney upon thre subjecf, and -tihe amend,'on. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

ments offered by Mr. McKay. the leader of
the opposition ln the Ontario legislature,
wblcb were equally strong and .polnted on
this question. The whole House, ministerlai and opposition, were agreed upon the subJect. It Is wlth that wve bave to deal. 1 do
Blot know If I sPoke for hours that I would
change the vote of any one la this House,
because 1 arn convinced that thre lobbying
and canvassing whichi bas been zoing onHon. Mr. KERR-Order, order.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI-My
hon. friend is a lawyer of good standing,
and If he will consuit the dictlonary lie will
find thit 'lobbying' ls aot an offensive
word, altbough the manner ln whicb it bas
been used outslde of the House may make
-it appear so. I do flot want to bç understood as using- the word ln an improper
sense. However, 1 wili use the word canvasslng, because that is less objectionable.
Hon. Mr. WILSON--Oit whiat authorlty
does the bon. gentleman make the statement that canvassing- Is going on?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
maie the general statemeut. I do not propose to Individualize.
The hon. senator
from Wellington said n few moments ago
that until we laid down sorne principle by
whlcb we are to be guided la matters of
thils kiiid, we should flot stop at thîs Bill.
I was under the impression that the adoption of the resolution rnoved 1w- the lion.
senator froni Mille Isies and whicb was
affirmed by this House with but one objector. last year, was afflrmiag the principle
whicb should guide us in the future. No
language could h ave been more direct and
pointed than the resolutionls which we
passed last session. First we laid down the
principle that we should not iffterfere with
provincial rights. Thea w-e went furtber
and stated:

Thre 8ena-te -will not consider the mere insertion of a deelaratiom that e work 'is for the

general advantage of Canada to ha in itualf
sufficiemt foundation for the exorcise of the
leRrie1aibive -au-thor.ity of the parliament of Ginada.
Now there is a declaration which is very
clear, and lu order that the Senate mlght

corne to a conclusion as to whether these
words ' for the general advantage of Can-

JUNE 17, 1908

1195
19

We affirm
ada,' should be placed ln a Bill, the next thîs motion le strictly correct.
a principle to-day and violate It to-morrow,
paragraph reade as followe:
than gentlemen
The Sens.te will not paae any Bill contain- acting more like eIldren
ing a deolaton that a local -crk or unaer- wbo are occupying the important position
takiing le eor tihe general advantage of Can- of legisliors ln a branch of parliament lnada or for the adveuntage of two or more o!
the.prom'noes, unlese the truth of thet decla- tended by the framers of the constitution to
protect the rights of the different provinces.
ration hma been proyed.
Now, I sbould like to ask whether any Instead of acting la accordance with tbe
evidence bas been lald before us wbich doctrine laid down by the fathers of con! edwould comply witb the termes of that re- eration when they drafted the British
solution? It le true It has been stated that North Âmerlca Âct, we are constantly viocertain parties have purchased property, iating IL l do nlot deny 'that it has been
and they want to protect tbat property by violated In the past, but the records show,
constructlng booms. That is no ýreason wby as far as 1 arn concerned indivldually that
we should add tbeee words ln order to I have not done so, and on this occasion I
briug the Bill withln the purview o! this shall vote sticriy la accordance with my
House, when it belonge exclusIvely to the record ln the past, affirming the principie
local authorities who bave the rigbt to laid down ln the resolution that I have
grant sucb concessions as are necessary to quoted. Every senator who votes for this
enable the company to carry on tbeir un- Bili; wiUi stultify bimself so far as hie reThen the fourtb paragrapli cord is concerned ln the vote he -gave last
dertaking.
year. I hlope that ln future, when we
Baye :
The Senate will not consider the preseace make up our minds on great constitutioiial
in a Bill of a clause relating to aubjete ith- questions of this klnd, unlese ample ressens
in the legisiative «uthority witbiin the parlia- are given for changing the policy we should
mnent of Canada to be îin itef oufficient reason of the enactmuent of other olauses relating adhere to It. No 'ressens have been given
to eubjecte net within its outhority.
why we ebould change our views on tliis
Now I should like to ask this House, wbe- partîcular Bill, and any vote given la oppother we could bave stroager language than sition to the stand we took before, wlll be a
je placed la these resolutions, wbicb were stultfication of the action taken by the
affirmed by the Senate, on the vers ques- Senate last year on this question of provintion to wbich attention bas been called ? cil rights.
Tbose resolutions were supported ln an adHon. Mr. KERR-It bas been argued bere
mirable and unanswerable speech by tbe
that this Bill is within the jurisdiction of
hon, gentleman who moved -them. They
therewere sustalned by the ex-premier of On- the province of British Columbia and,
fore, we should not act. On the other
tario la a long and elaborate arguynent, in
dlaimwhich he quoted from the records of the hand it is claimed, and I think justly
ed, that whether the province of British
Ontario legisiature the affirmnation of the
came principles whicb were contained in Columbia could Incorporate and confer auy
are in tbis Blill, they
the resolutions to wbicb I bave called the of the powers which
that are
of the House. Then when we could -not confer ail the powers
attention
provided la this Bill. and whether theY
came to vote upon that question, so unaninot, this parliament at ail
mous was the feeling of the Senate as to could or coulî
events has the power to pass it, and under
the correctuese o! the priaciple -involved ini
of this case, wbich are
the resolutions moved by the bon. gentle- the circumostinces
exceptional, they should pase It., The arguman. that it received almost a unanimous
bas been presented by the bon. senvote-the oniy vote recorded againet It be- ment
ator from De Salaberry tbat this parliament
Ing that o! my hon. friend from- Kingston.
power to deal with the Indian lands,
There were others, I know, who took the bas no
and that the tact that some of the landesame view that he did on this question; but
lande le no reason why we should
tbey relleved themselves o! the uresponsi- are Indian
Intervene by Act o! parliament. I1say this
blhity o! casting n vote by leaving the
HEouse. It seeme to me that the statement parliament bad not the power to deal
made by the hon. gentleman who moved with Indian lande. Tis Bill deals *witb

1196

SENATE

S E NA T E
1196
Indian lands because the lands sit- muent of Canada miglit, and the parliarnent
uate upon the river are-at ail events at of Canada, if it deemed proper, could
certain places on it, and at the places at say that It could be expropriated or utiwhlch the works are to be constructed, as Ilzed and sold under the conditions tbey
was stated ln the evidence-thiat Is the speak 0f, elther for public or prIvate purevidence on whlcb we are acting now-are poses, and so parliarnent can -iow say that
Indian lands and are vested ln the Dornin- for this definite purpose, these lands can
Ion. And the Dominion holding those lands, be taken and used.
It was said the Indian Lands Act does not
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Does kt say so ?
apply, because these elands are Indian
Hon. Mr. KERR-It Is assurned it does,
lands and there was no power under that
Act to deatl wlth them, unle-4s with the and It Is because it assumes tbat it does,
consent of the majorlty of the baud of that the Act is belng attacked. I assume
Indians. Týhat would be so itider that tbat It does, and tbat It does so by sufficient
Act, but It Is because the Indian Act does language, and that It is on that ground the
not give power to the goveramenit here or attack Is nmade and argued-tbat there is itot
to British u-olumnbia to deal witb those that power. Apart from that, as I said
lands, that It Is necessary that it should before, titis Bill Is to be justitied on the
be done by the oaly power that can do It, ground that these are navigable waters,
and that navigable waters cannot be
Rnd that ls the parliarnent of Canada.
Hon. '-%r. BEIQUE-Under wh'iat clause interfered wlth wîthout the conscut of Canada ln some way. It is said : 'Oh, you need
are you doing it ?
not corne bere. You can Incorporate your
Hon. Mr. KERR-The powers of expro- cornpany In the province of British Columpriation deal with It, and enable the Domn- bia, and you can corne to paliament unM.ýii.ister of der the Public Works Act and get the neinion governent and the
Public 'Works to approve of the plan under cessary consent to utilize, and Interfere,
wbich the wtork ean be done on Indian witb the navigable water ; 1 but wben these
lands, and It Is quite true that, under tite people did go to the Britisht Columbia govIndian Lands Act, before the go- ernment erament for the purpose of acquiring that
cau deal wvith those lands, titey Inust have very riglit and of being lncorporated as, a
the consent of a majority of the band, be- company to utilize these waters, they were
cause that Is the provision of the Indian told tbat British Columbia colild not give
Lands Act ; but tbe parliament w-bich pass- theni that power by legisiation, and that
ed that Act can pass this Act and cati tlîey nmust corne here, and they were to]d
confer the power to use thos-3 latnds just that by the luighest authority of the govas they would under the Indian Lands ernment of the province of Britisht ColumAcý,t If they had the consent of tite Indians, bia at the tume.
an(l it is to my mmnd one of ilie stron-'est
Hon. Mr. COM1EAU-Has te bon, genreasons why this legislation can be justitleman ana proof of the fat that these
fied by titis parliament. But there- la the
larger question, and that is tie control off people have really gone to the Britisht Conot only thte Indin Lands, but of the lumibia goveramnent and been refused a
charter ?
ýwaters 0f navigable streanis.
Hon. 'Mr. BEIQUE-Do 1 understand the
hon. gentileman to argue the legal propositiou, that an Act w-hich gave che right to
expropriate takes effect upon (2rown property or Indian lands property whiclî is
not. subject to expropriation except for certain purposes, public works and railwnay
purposes ?
Hon. Mr. KERR-The Indiatu Lands Act
is Ilinited. to public'works, but the parliaHgon. Mr'. KER

Hon. MNr. IIOBERTSON-Tae letters are
there.
Hon. 'Mr. KERR-Thte persan you would
go to would be the Attorney General of
the province, and that is whiat they did.
Hon. Mr. COM.NEAIJ-He protested against
the passing of this Act.
Hon. _Mr. KERR-And titey were advised by hlmi that the prov-iace had no

JUNE 17, 1908

1191
19

jurisdiction la the matter of navigablea nd the Dominion autbority under ht bas
waters, and consequently that -the province t lie legisiative, autliority over the saine,
could net grant,-the compauy the necessary and thie Attorney General of the Dominion
of Canada dlaims on behalf of His MnJesty
autbority by order la councîl or by legis
Ethe King, a declaration that the record la an
latien.
wilm the property subjeet to
Hon. Mr. COMEÂJ-What le the date Interference
thie exclusive jurlediction of the Dominion
ef that letter '
parllament; that it la an interference with
Hon. 3fr. KERR-I have net the date of tlie public riglit of navigation and the riglit
It; but let me aay aise that that ls the of floating down the timber on the sides of
contention of the Dominion government as the river which la also under tlie exclusive
set eut la the case ef Britishi Columbia autliorlty of the Dominion of Canada, and
againsi the Burrard Power Company, LIm- dlaims un Injunction Ln that case, and tliat
ied,, a company whlcb was incerporated. by suit is xiew ln course of ltigatien. I venthe Britishi Columbia legisiature and which ture te sulimit the case, witb reference te
sought te utilize the waters ef the LiEcoet that, se far as it gees, and only se far as it
river, which is a tributary ef the Pitt river goes, la a direct authority in faveur net;
and the Lilleeet lakes, frem which it rises, enly of the proposition claimed by the apand which are wbelly situate 'Withln the î.licants tliat this parliament eniy cau con-,
limits of the railway belt, wliich, as lion. gen fer the power, that ht las the power te de
tiemen know, are vested ln the Douàinion so, and It should exercise it in tbis particugovernmeat. The Llleeoet la about twelve lar case. Apart from that, If It la net exmiles long, and is a public and navigable clusiveiy se, it is one ef the ces which
stream. Now, the lands wltliln the railway it may be urged is undoubiely witlxin
beit being Dominion lands as applied to ibis the line ef wliat are called by the
case, are aise, I suppose, te be deemed autherities, the overlapplag cases. Wh reDominion lands which we are deaiing with ference te that, 1 do net propose te repeat
here, because they are selely within the the autherities cited before.
The latest
raiiway belt. Ia the above case, the com- case and higliest autborlty was a decîsion of
pany Is an lncorperated cempany, lacer- the Judicial Cemmittee of the Privy Ceunporated by the province of British Colum- cil, wliere it was beld that there are overbia. They made the mistake of makIng lapping cases where there Is a provincial
their application la British Columbia and jurisdiction and Dominion jurisdictien
geitine- a consent under the authorlty of the as iveli, but apart from that there is
geverament there, gîven under the Water a clause la the British. Northi America Act
Courses Act of that province. They were that whereas the work ln question may be
proposlng te iaterfere witli navigable whelly withln the province. yet If the parliawaters, and the chiarge was made-the ment of Canada by Act declares that these
contention was made by the 'Dominion works are for the general advantage of Cangoverument-in the litigaien whicb Is new ada, the exclusive right ef legisiation with
pending wlth reference therete-that on the reference te them passes lmmediately te
public lands forming part ef the railway the parliament of Canada. For these reaheut and adjoining the Lillooet Like.3 and sons, it seems te me that we ehouid piss the
rivera, is a large quantity ef valuahie tim- Bill.
ber whicli is entitled te lie floated doiva the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Permit me te
river and the said grant and diversion weuld
say, ln the firsi place, that at the lasi sesnîaterially interfere wlth the said right;
sion ef parliament we rejected a BUl prethai the alleged grant and riglits under the cisely similar te the eue now befere us for
Water Courses Act would materially inter- censideration upon the greunds that It was
fere with the rlhts of the Dominion governwiihin the cempetency ef the province of
ment on the raiiway beit; and the alleged
Columbia te pass the Bill. I need
grant and prepeaed diversion ihereby authe- British
opponents ef
rized wiil materially intertere wiih the pub- net remind the House that the
that Bill were the prometers of this Bill,
lie navigation la the river. Then the record
sets ont that tue British North America Act. and «Il the justice, be it warm or cohd, that

1198

1198
SENATE

.we deait out to the promoters of the Thompson River Bill of last session certainly
should be the mçasure of justice that we
should deal out to the promoters of this
Bill this session.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Were they the saine 7
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-:-Preciseiy, ail the
conditions were the samne, so far as territorial consîdlerations are concerned.
Hon. Mr. DÂVID-Were the waters as
navigable last year as they are thîs year?
.Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, preciselyai conditions were precisely similar.
Hon. Mr. KERR-But the reasons wbich
were given for that were flot only as stated
by my hon. frlend, but it was because they
were Interfering with the people here, and
If Vie leglsationHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No. The conslderations which moved this chamber on
that occasion are precisely the samne couiderations which are movlng the chamber
on his occasion. The only additional force
that bas been brought to bear upon many
bon. gentlemen Is what I might termi a reenforcement of argument la favour of the
present Bill. It goes w'ithout saylng that
Vie action of the Senate upon any partîcular Bill, and partîcularly upon so important
a principle as the one lnvolved ln Vils case,
is a matter, or should'be a matter of deep
Intereat, not only to the Senate Itself, but
The people of
to the people of Canada.
Canada look to this chamber to dispassionately and dlnterestedly see that Vie constitution, so far as we understand lt, and
so far as we can embody it ln our legîslation, is carried out lu its entirety, irrespective of ahl the Influences Vint may be
broughit to bear upon senators. This chamber, particularly lu dealing with a question
of this kind, la looked upon es practlcally
a semi-judIial body, and certalnly should
be only moved by such considerations upon
a very Important constîtutional question as
would move the highest court of justice ln
the reaim, and therefore it Is raVier humillating, with ail due deference to the action
whlch bon, gentlemen may taIre upon
this Bill, that having deliberately and
solemnly taken a position upon precisely the saine Bill last session, we
should reverse Vie position we Vien took
Hlon. Mr. LOIJGHEED.

and pursue a course directiy opposite. If
Vis be Vie case, If Vie Senate of Canada is
to be moved by outside Influences, be Viey
argumentative or otherwise, what confidence wIll Vie people of Canada bave in Vie
action of Vils body on Important questions
sncb as the one now before us? Permit
me to say, bon. gentlemen, Viat fromn a very
close examination of thls Bill, 1 faîl to understand wby practically the promoters of
this Bill cannot obtain the saine relief from
the legishature of British Columbia that they
are now seeking fromi Vis House. If hon.
gentlemen wili go through Vis Bihl and look
at 'the marginai notes, I challenge any lion.
gentlemen to show that Vie saine powers
cannot practlcally be obtained-I will not
say that they can be obtained wlth Vie saine.
expedition or Vie saine readliness, but cati
practically be obtained throngh provincial
legislntion. The province certainly could
Incorporate this companY, could empower It
to enter upon Vihe territorial -rights -of Vie
province so far as Vie Thompson river is
concerned. 1 need not point ont to Vie
Hoitse thet tl2e -river and the bed to'f Èie
river are vested ln the provincial govertiment, and Viey bave the exclusive right,
apart f romn navigation, to legIsiate as to the
navigable streams wlthin their boundaries.
IHon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Wili Vie hon. gentleman explain why hie maIres out the bed
of the river Is in Vie provinces?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I say that Vie
title to Vie river and its bed is vested in
the province.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-But that la not just
the question, is It?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-And the reason
we are urged to pass Vis legislation la that
Viere la vested ln the Dominion goverament
a jurisdiction to permit of works being carI might point out
ried on ln the river.
that assumlng- this charter hnd been obtained from the province of British Columbia,
or assnming that It had. been obtained by
letters patent, applications could have been
made to Vie Governor ln Council under the
Navigable Waters Protection Act, which in
any event wili have to be made practicaliy
under thîs Act, and the power or the authority conld have been given by the Governor ln Council to a provincial company

JUNE'1,7, 1908

1199

1199
Tbe Governor
to be given by this Act?
ln Council bas first to be set in motion before a foot of property can be expropriated.
The same power could
under this Bill.
have been given -by tbe legisiature of
British Columbia.

JUNE 11, 1908
to enter upon the Thompson river and carry
out preclseiy the same works that are au-thorized by this parliament and whlch bon.
gentlemen dlaimi can only be autborized by
I need flot refer bon.
this parliament.
gentlemen to the particular Act In question,
namely the Act respectlng tbe protection of
navigable waters, wberein it Is provlded by
section 4, 'No bridge, boom, dam or reservoir shall be constructed so as to interfere
wltb navigation unless the site therefor bias
been approved by the Governor la Council
or nnless it Is built and maintaiaed ln accordance with plans, &c., approved by the
Governor in Council.'
This company could have been incorporated and could have obtained ail the powers
asked for by this Bill from the provincial
government and they could bave corne to
the Governor General ln Council and obtained the necessary autbority to make the
1 think that
improvements ln the river.
Wili any
position cannot be controverted.
bon, gentleman point out to me why the
powers are sougbt for from this parhiament
and flot from the provincial legisiature?
Dealing witb that phase of the question, my
bon. friend from Toronto bas advanced a
proposition that owing to the Indian lands
being vested ln the Dominion goverument
or in tbe Crown, no autbority could bave
been given by the provincial legisiature to
1 quite endorse
enter upon those lands.
wbat the hon, gentleman froma De Saiaberry
bas said, that there Is notbing within this
Bill to authorize this company to enter
upon Indian lands and expropriate them.
I migbt point out to my bon. friend from
Toronto for bis Information, that as wide
powers of expropriation could bave been
given by the provincial legIsiature as by
Under their power to
this parîlament.
deai with property and civil rights, tbey
couid bave authorized this company to enter upon any land that we can authorize the
company to enter upon, and expropriate
it. I mlght also point out for the Information of the bon, gentleman from Toronto, that this Bill does not give to this
company or purpose to give to this company, powers of expropriation which tbey
ean exercise without first applying to the
Governor in Council; so -wberein bas any
additional power been given or is proposed

Hon. Mfr. POWER-Does the bon. gentleman think tbat it makes any difference
tbat both the lands tbat are covered by
the river and the lands Wbich fl-e not covered by the river, but which tlils company
Is to deal with are owned by tbe Dominion ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would say to
my bon: friend candidly, no.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The lion. gentie'man's Idea Is that the local legislature can
give pow-er to expropriate the Dominion
Lands. That is flot tbe view the bon, gentleman took. with reference to the Saskatchewan Power Company Bill.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-My contention
ha this, as evIdenced by thie brief of the
Attorney General of Canada which my hon.
The
friend from Toronto bas just read.
litigation peuding before the Exchequer
Court ln that particular case, in wbicb I understand the Burrard Company are respondents, Is based upon this proposition: The
Dominion government, flot as the DominIon government, but practIcally as an lndividual are proceeding for relief. They
take the same position as 'un ludividual.
Tbey say : ' We bave certain lands ln the
province of British Columbia, aad thie Barru.rd Power Company, under a provincial
charter, and without obtaining the necessary power under the Navigable Waters
Protection Act for the making of improvements upon a navigable river, bave under
that legisiation wbich would not empower
tbem to make the improvements upon the
river, entered upon the river, and bave
themselves hnjured the lands In question;
consequenthy the Dominion government
take no higher position In thut particular
case than an Individual would do.
Hon. Mfr. KERR-The contention goes a
good deal further than that. The dlaim
wblch la made there is also that under section 91 of the British North Amierica Act,
1867, tbe exclusive hegislative autbority of

1200

SENATE

SENATE
1200
parliainent of Canada extenis to ail closed in the letter of the Attorney- General
the
matters coming within the classes of siib- of British Columbia. Under these circunijects next liereliuafter euunerated: 'The stances, no injustice w-ould have been done
public debt and property,' 'Navigation and to tis conpany If w-e had pursued the saine
shlppingé, &c.' and It sets out ail these suli- course .as w-e did with reference to thieir
opponents of lnst session aad refused to
jects.
grant legisiation upon the'ground of Its beHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, î'reclsely. lng peculiarly within the competency of the
As to navigation, an Individual could provincial legisiature. Ia conclusion, may I
bave set ln motion the saine inacbinery o11 bie pernîitted. to point out as to the Insertion
the grotind of a provincial company flot of the clause thiat this Is 'a work for the
having been authorized under the -Domi- general advantage of Canada,' that under
nion Act to make the necessary improve- the British North America Act It was neyer
ments upon a navigable stream. The Domi- conteînplated that we sbould recklessly lanion goverament slmply states that navi- sert these words liringing legisîntion of a
gation lieing vested la the federai autho- purely provincial character within the jurîsrity bas to be first applied to before navi- diction of the federni parliament. If hou.
gation can be interfered with. Reverting. gentlemen will look<
nt paragrapli (c) of
again te wbat the bon. gentleman froni section 92 of the British North Anierica
Halifax bas sald upon this question : If Act, it wili lie seen w-bat the intention of
the provincial legislature bad granted the the lunperial parliament was w-len tbis Act
riglbt of expropriation to this vempany, 1 xvas passed:
apprehend that so far ns Crown Lands nre
Sncb works as, aithougli wholly aituate
concerned, the Crown would have been witIbin the province, are before or after their
quite as willllng to observe the mandate of executien declared by -the parliament of Canadvantage of Cantbe provincial legisiature as this parlia- ada to lie for the general of two or more of
ada -or for the adventage
(oncerned. the provîÏnce.
ment, so far as those lands are
because the conmpany, under this legisînNow, hou. gentlemen must see froui this
tion, cannot expropriate the 1nwls la ques- language that tiiere must necessnrily bie evition:; tlicy must tirst set the Governor ln dence that that w-ork must not lie for the
Council la motion before they eau expro- advantage pecullarly of the province la
priate.
which it Is situated, but imust have soine
Again, as to the action of the province inanifest bearing or Influence upon n i)roln refusing this legisiation, whie 1 carefully vince outside of that particular province,
followed the proceedings of the committee and if there is no evidence of that fact that It
and ail the evidence tinat was submritted. to affects an adjoining province, or provinces,
the commlttee wlth reference to the act of how can we poss1bly Interpret the British
the provincial goverament, I arn aware of North Anierica Act to say that we can proany evidence -bavlng been adduced whichi miscuously punt lu a clause of Ibis kind and
,%ould lie construed for a moment to indi- dlaim federal jurisdiction for a purely procate any hostility on tbhe part of the Brit- vincial work ? It is doing mnifest violence
isli Columbia gov-ernment to refuse this leg- to one of the most important constitutional
isiation. On the contrary, w-e hiad not the principles laid dow-n ln the British North
letter referred to liy tbe lion. senator froui Ainerica Act. If the jurisdiction of the
Toronto, before tbe committee, but we had a provinces eau lie taken aw-ay liy the inserletter from the Attorney General of British tion of these words, entirely irrespective of
Columbia directed to the Attorney General their liearing upon the adjoîning province or
of Canada pointing out that this legislation the Dominion as a wbole, then no reliabulity
wvas i)eculiarly within the competency of cau lie placed upon the provinces enjoying
tue provincial leg-isiature, and protestiag ln the exclusive rights wvhich have beein given
th'e most vîgorous ternis against this par- theni under the constitution. If hon. genLainent enacting- thîs Bill. That lieing the tlemen w-i look at subluse il of section
case we tire la duty liound to give due 92 it will lie seen that they have nlot only
iveight and a mneasure of courtesy te 'the
the right, but the exclusive righit to make
protest of the provincial goverument as disHon. Mr. KERR.

-

1201

J UNE 17, 190S

J UNE 17, 1905

laws as to the Incorporation 0f comupanies
~vith proviacial objects, and we in this Parliament cannot incorporate n company wvith
a provincial object except It comes witbîn
the exception (c) which 1 claini this Bill
does not. Under these circumstances, I,
witli aIl due deference to the adverse opinions expressed by hou. gentlemen opposite,
believe that tbey are doing violence to the
constitution and injustice to tlie responsibility cast on us as a Senate If we pass this
Bill.
lion. Mr. WILSON-If I had auy doulits
prior to tbe speech made by the leader of
the opposition, ail those doulits would bave
He bas
ben rernoved by bis remarks.
stated emphatically tînt were this Bill
i.assed by tbe local legisiature, to bave full
force nnd effect the company would have to
appeal to the Dominion parliameut and that
the Dominion parliarnent or the Goveruor
lu Council would concede tbat which the
Inc'orporation Ini British Columbia failed to
accomplisi. If that ls so, It shows a joint
Jurisdiction betwveen the local and federal
He proved to my satisfaction
vuthorities.
that it is absolutely necessary thnt the Dominion government sbould eitber directly
or lndirectly endorse the action of the Britilh Columbia goverument. That belng tbe
case, wby should w-e flot Incorporate this
coxnpany under a Dominion charter and
give it tbe jurisdiction thnt It Is asking
for ? The ex-leader of tbe opposition stakes
bis wbole case on tbe jurisdiction of the
local legisînture, claiming thnt tbey aloue
have the power; wbile my bon. friend from
Calg-ary says it Is pnrtly the Dominion and
partly tbe local. 1 would advise the two
gentlemen to barmonize tbeir views on tuis
subject before nssertlng in sucb stroug
termis the rîgbts of tbe provinces ns against
the jurisdlction of the Dominion of Caniada.
Tbû bon. ex-leader of the opposition is flot
to-day Nvhere lie was mauy years ago wbeni
biis leader, Sir Charles Tupper, encroaclied
up~on the provincial charters in Ontario and
other provinces, by declnring that certain
works were for tbe general advnntage of
Canada. He says tbat members of this
House should not stnltlfy tliemselves. Wbere
slie
b? He was with Sir Charles Tupper
wlien bis goverument brouglit ail the local
railways of Ontario. on wbich millions of
dollars hid been expended, under the juris76

1201
diction of the Dominion. and yet n'y bon.
f riend swallowed the dose without making
a w-ry face. But to-day, wbei lits leader dges
flot agree with hlm, but declares that this is
partly a local and partly a Dominion matter, lie does flot repudiate the view of bis
leader. Wbich of them are we to follow ?
If 1 were a follower of one or the other,
and under the circuinstances 1 arn grateful
that 1 ain flot a follower of either la this
cliamber, 1 would bnrdly know what position to takze on this question. Is this Bill
purely local or 15 it partially under the juristllction of the province and partly that of
the Dominion ? If it lie the latter. a Do.anion ch arter is an absolute necessity.
The bon. senator fron'i De Salaberry refers
to thie niatter of the Indian lands. He
knows that thiese lands are under the jurisdiction of tbe Dominion government, wbo
are tlie guardians of the Indiian w-ards.
Would lie deprive the Indians of tbeir just
riglits? Lt appears hie would do so If bie
could tlirow thils Bill out. I bave always
understood tbat the guardian lad greater
care over the property of a ward than even
iÈ lie owned the property bimself. Tlierefore it would seen' to me tbat Indian lands
lieing lnvolved would furnish ample reasoii
bywe sbould pass this Bill. The question
wbicb arises is, whether It is right and proper tbat w'e sliould grant a charter to this
conliany. No one will deny that navigable
wvaters come under the jurisdiction of the
Dominion, and tis company w-ould eitber
liave to get the Governor In Council or tlie
Dominion parhiament to give themi rights in
connection with then'. The bou, gentleman
asks w-hy did they not do so and so. Tliey
were the best judges of the aleans to nccomplish the object' they bave In view.
Tbey corne bere and ask for justice at the
bands of tbe 'Senate, amd 1 sbahl therefore
haqve very inucli pleasure iii voting for the
Bill.

The Senate divided on the amendmnent,
wvhich was rejected by the folowving vote
CONTENTS:
The Honourable Messeurs
Béique,
Boucherville, de.
Bowell
.(Sir Mackenzie),

Coineau,

]REVISED EDITION

Dessaulles,
Ellis,
M
ay(Truro>,
Montplaisir.-9.

1202

SENATE

1202

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answer sent me
is that the Information is being obtai-ed
and will be given to the Senate later.
It
appears they are sending abrond for the
inform'ation so that the inquiry wlll have
to stand.

NON-CONTENTS:
The Honourable Messeurs
Beith,
Mitchell,
Bostock,
P>ower.
Campbell,
R.iley,
Derbyshire,
Robertson,
Fiset,
Ross (Moosejaw>,
Gibson,
Boss (Halifax),
Jones,
Talbot,
Watson,
Kerr'
MeLaren,
Wilson,
MIeMillan.,
Yeo,
MeMullen,
Young.-23.
MoSweeney,

f0

The following gentlemen announced that
they had paired :

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Will It take long
obtain the Information ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It should not take
long. It la to be obtained from Quebee
and Rivière du Loup.
The motion was allowed to stand until
Tuesday next.

Hon. Mr. David wltb Hon. Mr. Frost.
cot.TONNAGE ENTERED AT ST. JOHN,
Hon M. wthHo. M.
ouhee
Hon Mr wth on.Mr.Scot.
Loghed
N.B. AND HALIFAX, N.S.
Hon. Mr. Baird wltb Hon. Mr. Domville.
MOTION.
The motion was agreed f0 onl the sanie
Hon. '-%r. DO.MVILLE moved:
division reversed.
1

Thaf an order of the Sonate do issue for a

BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (148) An Acf f0 amend flic Inspection
and Sale Act.-(Hon. Mr. Scotf.)
Bill (150) An Acf f0 amend the Yukon
Placer Minlng Act.--(Hon. Mr. Scott).
The Senate adjourned
af tbree o'clock.

until

to-morrow

return shouing the tonnage entered at St.
John, New Brunswick, e-nd Halifax, Nova
Scotia, for the yeare 1905, 1906 and 1907. Âlso,
the value of imports fer the samne years at
St. John, New Brunswick, and Halifax, Nova
Sootia, and slso, the value of exports for the
same vears f rom St. John, New Brunswick,
and Hialifax, Nova Scotia.

He snid: 'My hon. friend. from Halifax
bas somefbing f0 say in regard to this
matter.

Hon. Mr. POWER-As my hon. friend

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA,

Tbursday, June 18, 1908.

The SPEAKER fook the Chair af Threé
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
ACCUSATIONS AGAINST
GOVERN.

MR.

INQUIRY.

Mc-

bas faken notice of n soffo voce remark, I
may say that I feel thaf fthe motion of the
hon, gentleman is an abuse of the powers

and rights of the House. All the information
fthe bon. gentleman asks for Is f0 be founid
in the blue-books-the Trade Refurns for
the lnst three years.

The clerks in fthe

various departments are busily engaged ln
getting answers f0 orders from bofh
Houses where the maferial is mucb less

accessible.
I do not say
thaf
the
Senaf e has ijot flic rigbt to give tile
1. Is if true that the governmenf lias ordered order; but I fhink if is an abuse of our
an inquiry info fthe conduot of Mr. J. MeGovera, foreman of the Intercolonial Reil- rightfs f0 cail for a fhing which any hon.
way between Lévis and Rivàère du LoupP
gentleman cau fiud ini the space of hait
2. Has f his inquiry be-en ordered as the resuit of grave accusations of peculafion brouglit an hour, and I do nof see why, under
againsf this employee?
fliese circumstances, tlie order shouild ls3. Whaf is the precise nature of 'the accusations the 'truth of which. the comsnissioner sue.
holding the inquiry bhs been ordered. to find
Hon. Mr. DOMVIýILLE-MNy hon. friend,
ouf p
4. Who hue ileen appointed. oornimissioner te thie dual leader of fthe government, finds
hoold the inquiry? Is -if Mr. T. C. Buirpee, of faulf wifh the motion. Perhiaps I sbould
Moncton? If not. who?
5. Whon 'we fthe appoint2ment made, and not bave taken notice of what he said.
but this is a very important question, and
when às the inqu±iry fo comumence?
Hou Mr. WILSON.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:

JUNE 18, 1908

1203

1203
'Hon. Mr. DOMVIILE-I did flot want
a smail array of figures w!il enable us
to debate the question In the House. Sup- to take the time of the House.
posing I bad corne remarks to make ou
The motion was agreed to.
it, how could I move a vote of want of
confidence witbout the figures? What steps QUEBEC BRIDGE AND RAILWÂY .QOMshouid I take te brlng It before the flouse?
PANY.
I would say te my hon. friend that thére
INQUIRY.
ls a grave rumour-I do not say that It
Hon. Mr. LANDE
inquired:
ls correct or weli-founded, but there le a
1. The government, in 1903, having concludrumour that Halifax Is pushing te take
ed with the Quebec Bridge and Railway Coinaway the steamers from St. John, and that pmany, a financial. arrangement in whioh one
the Canadian Pacific Rallway are to have o~fthe obligations of the contract; was addithe amount of $200,000, who
tional
runnlng rights over the Intercolonlal Rail- are theshares toiithat subscribed blie addàtional
parties
way to Halifax. 1 would like to be In a amount P
2. How many ehares bave been subscribed
position to show the House and the counby or allotted to each shareholder?
try at large, if I were able, that the vol3. fI)d the company afterweTds devote the
ume of trade from St. John, as compareil amount which îit so obtained to pay fer works
raflier
to capital, or has
with the volume of trade frorn Halifax, chargeable almost the whole of it not eu. ta,
that
employed
would flot warrant sucb a movernent belng wit: $188,721, in payment of the discount %t
had been
made. I represent St. John, as my hou. which secuirities of the company the bridge
issued, the builder of the piers of
I bave beon havàng oonsanted to extinguish a olaim of
friend represents Halifax.
there 42 years. They look te me to stand $M8,279 which hie hiad against the comPany
the said company ta
up for their rights or at any rate to gay by taking deben'tures of thet is to Say, &t a
the amount of $472.000,
a klnd and pleasant word, and to use any discount of 40 per cent?
Information whlch I mlght be able to ohHon. Mr. SOOTT-I have no answer to
tain as a set-off to the representations of that question.
the Board o! Trade lu Halifax. It will
The SPEAKER-lt stands to what date?
take a very few minutes to obtain the inHon. Mr. SCOTT-I have already information, and I think the bon. gentleman's objection is net well founded. The formed my bon. friend tbat the departmnent'
other House and this House are not rising says ail the Information they can supply ia
up ail the department's time, and sinrely before tbe House. I aran fot in a position
his simple little matter would not take to Investigate it myseif; of course I canIn the first
long. Naturaily there Is jealousy bêtween not be expected to do so.
Halifax aud St. John, but St. John 'Is a place, It was unqualifiedly stated by me,
very progressive place. Halifax is morp and I assume the responsibillty of It betony.' Iu the past, It had a fleet Rnd an cause 1 got It from a member of the gevarmy, and lt w-ants some compensation for ernment, tbat the $200,000 had been paidregularly paid, but it had
losing them. I do not see why those two I wiii not say
It was not mentioned te me
been paid.
cities, Ehould net conduct their own busihow it was paid, but it bad been paid and
ness, and if St. John ls doing. the biisiness3 appears credlted on the books.
I was
lt should flot be taken away merely te gra- asked If I could not produce correspondence,
tîfy the bon. gentleman from Halifax. 1 showlng how and by -whom It had been paid.
do net see why anybody sbould. object to The answer to that is, we have already furVis motion.
nished that to the Senate and it ls In the
papers laid on the table two or three weeks
Hon. .Mfr. SCOTT-I have no objection to ago. My hon. friend says hie bas searched
this motion going, but at the sarne tirne my through those papers and does not find It.
hon. friend could have cecured the object I ain flot. responsîble for the omission.
hie bas in view by perusing Vie bine books
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-When the bon.
and putting- i notice on the paper that lie member states to the House tbat he obproposed caliing attention te the ligures and talned such and sucb Information, the
House readiiv believes hlm; but when lie
the trade of the two cities.

JUNE 18, 19O~

764

1204

1204

SEINATE

says that the information given t0 this
House comes froin Mr. Ross5, and wben a
member of this House denies wbat mr.
Ross says, I do not see why the minîster
should take Mr. Ross' assertion againg.t tbiP
inem.ber's assertion.

Hon. Mr. ILANDRY-I repeat whiat I hiave
alread Said; I do flot bold my bon. friend
responsble; but wben I ask for the naines
of the 'subscribers of the $200.000 additional
shares 1 want to get those naines; I have a
righlt to get thei; wby should tbey flot be
Is it to please Mr. .Ross or
gîven me?
I
SCOTT-I anm not taking It.
Hon. MINr.
so-and-so, to keep themin l the dark ?
hon. miemler is want those naines put before the public,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Thie
and so, long as the hon. mnister says thiat
taklng It.
thle Information lias beenl given whien it lias
Some lion. GENTLEMEN-Order, order. not heen given, I will say that lt lias flot
The mnister refers f0 correthird been given.

Hon. Mr. LiNDRY-Thils is the
spondence that ivas laid on the table thle
time the bon, gentleman comes bere and
What Nvas that corresponother day.
tells me that the information ordered 'by
If was the estimates week by
furnisbied. I say it dence?
this House lbas been
wveek or niontb by mionfli of work iu conbas not yet been gîveni.
nectlon with the Phoenix Bridge Company
Soune lion. G.ENTLE,MENX-Order, order. and the Quebec Bridge Company. They inscril)ed on tlue cover of the return iny motion
Hon. '-%r. ,LANDRY-Aii 1 expected f0
of the House, and thiougbf
this infor- and the order
fell a lie to be In order? I say
that by putting thiat endorsement on the
mation bas not yet been given. I have cover 1 would find It lu the documents furbeen asklng for this information, and shahl nisbed wbaf I had asked for. Tbat was for
flie
continue f0 ask for it every day until t
the purpiose of deceivinug the House. I do
end of tbe session, and we shall see if I not say flue deception was practiced by the
do flot get if. I asked if tbe $200,000 was lion. minister; but they biad bis naine put
Thaf information bas been
subscribed.
on the papers, and assured hlm, I suppose.
.furnisbed. The bon. Secrefary of 'State that the return contalned the information
says If was subscribed, and I know that It that 1 have asked for, altbougb it does flot.
took five years f0 pay one of the notes; theai I waint tbis question nnswered. If I bave
I asked for the naines of the parties who a righit f0 put tbe question, I have a riglit
had subscribed, and papers are produced to gef tbe answer. unless the miaister savs
and I amn fold that the naines are there. there are no naines, nofbing lias been doue,
Mr. Boss asserts the naines bave been shares have not been t aken fo that ainount.
given-where are they?
&c., but If the sharebolders are there, I
There is a respousiMr. SCOTT-I bave simply sfatei want their naines.
Hon.
w-bat w-as fold me. 1 assume no responsi- bilify imposed on thein by the law of this
Does flue bon. gentleman country and I want f0 know if the Iaw bas
biîify myself.
expect mie to look info the books of tue been obeyed* and to what extent. I shail
Finance Departinent in order f0 verif y the leave the motion on the order paper. and I
statenients furnisbed fo me by the depart- ask the lion, g-entlemian not to fake for
I simply gave the information that g-ranted what Mr. Ross says, wluen I corne
ment?
Surely the bon. gentleman does iuot biere and assert the contrary, and I do asI got.
bold me resp)onsible for fhe answers tbat 1 sert ftue contrary on niy responisibilitv as a
'Mr. Ross deceives the bon. g-enI cannot be expected f0 go fur- senator.
give bere?
ther flan f0os the officiai whose duty if tleman whien lie says the nies are furMr. Fielding nisbed In the correspondence placed on the
Is to give the information.
states thaf he gave orders thaf the informa- table.
tion be furnisbe 'd, and thaf if I applied f0
T
TUIE ANNI NCIATOR SYISTEM.
the departinent 1 could get if. 1 did apply,
MNOTIO'N.
and tbey said they bad included the Information in the papers given me f0 lay beHon. Mr. PROST nioved:
I eau onîy repent w-bat
fore the Senafe.
That a coimmit'tee, coruposed of ýHis Honour
the çffll,,-r and the Honourable Messieur's
I have been told.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

JU'NE 18, 1voS

1205

1205
JUNE :18, hius
Ferguson and the -mover, be appointed to inj- In the Roman Senate, ln olden times, senaquire into the advàsability of introducing duto tors spoke from the rostruin, and the other
the 8enate Chasuber the 'Ânnunciator Sys- senators, gatbered around the rostrum. If
tem,' as du vogue in the United Statee Congress, for the purpose of assing senstors to tbey bad been placed as we are bere lii
overcome tihe defeotive acoueblo properties of the old Roman forum, the senators wouid
this chamber.
have bad the saine difficulty that we expeHe said : I did flot brlng up this morience bere. We can obviate that difficulty
is any very great
tion because I feel there
by the use of this apparatus. I know it
degree of defective bearing amongst the
Is belng Installed ln several legislatures
senators ; but w-e aIl know tbat the proln the United States, and in several
portions of this chamber are very large, churches, concert houses and theatres tu
and that tbe beigbt of this chamber very
Canada, w'bere It can be easlly adapted
miaterials affects the sound waves, and
and does flot look unsIgbtly or unseemly.
many inembers at a distance from the
slxnply fo~r the
the House. fal to catch I ask for the commIttee,
member addressing
purpose of maklng an Investigation and
the exact w-ords that are being -;poken.
reportlng later on, and then it w-i lie for
Even our bon. Speaker finds bimseif very
the Senate to say w-betber it ls desirabl-i
frequently at a loss to catch remarks conito instal this apparatus or not.
in- from a long distance down tbe chamnknow tiat our Speaker is not
ber. We
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Would the bon.
deaf lu any sense. His facuities arp ail gentleman descrihe to us w-bat this apparof the brigbtest and be is constantly alert. atus Is?
We bave often seen evidence of the defective acoustic properties of tbis cbambetr.
Mr. FROST-It la pretty bard to describe.
Members are frequently seen w-itb ýbeir Wbat 1 understand, sud w-bat I saw myself
bauds bebind their ears trying to catch was this: 1 saw a small receiver on the
the words of speakers, flot becausa tbp * platform near the Speaker ia the House of
are suffering to auy great extent t-om Representatives, and others here and there
dullness of hearing. but simply because the througb the House, aud If any one found
distance Is so far aw-ny and ow-ing to our bis bearIng w-as flot very good, be could lift
seats being placed longitudinally w'ith the the receiver to bis ear, and I arn told by
chamber. We cannot aIl sit on tbe front members of Congress that by means of this
seats. If w-e couid do 'so, w-e cotnll al Instrument tbey could bear perfectly.
heèar very comfortably. Many of our menaHon. Mr. SULLIVAYýN--Tbe chaniber
bers on tbe back row are not able to hear
front of theni, so that If must lie charged w-itb electricity, because
the members lu
there Is any -way of overcoming this de- the telepboue is w-orked by electrieity.
fect it w-onld be wel to try it. [n the
'-%r. FROST-I expect it is something
United States, they have an appnaratus
The Senate 'can
similar to the telephone.
used ln Congress, w-hich auy member w-ho
If
may lie sitting at a long distance from tlic deal w-lth the resolution as they see fit.
it is supposed that lt might refleet upon
speaker cau utilize for the purpose of arnnot take it up;
proving bis heariag. It is uot inteiided us ln any w-ay, w-e need
but it Is being used lu the United States
that every member should use it, but siniw-bere they have
ply those members w-bo are a long distarce House of Representatives,
420 inembers. Tbey sit iu a semi-circular
aw-ay from w-here the speaking Is going on,
of our w-ny of placing
and w-bo may be, perbaps, a littie luil of form there, lnste.ad
Of course tlîey are iu that w-ny
bearlng. As tbe resuit of a littie discus- the seats.
to the centre, and are able to bear
sion w-e bad w-hich came up incideatally nenrer
rnuch better In a chamber of that kind
regard to hearing iu this chamber.
w-ith
than w-e are lu this chamber. If tbe motion
reuiembering havingt seen an apparatus of
committee w-i do their best
lu the House of RepresentnitiTes is carried, the
this kind
to makze a report that w-i give a full deslu Washington, upon iuquîry 1 foun-i It
la
w-as inteuded to lie used by those simply cription of tbe apparatus and everything
wItb it.
w-ho feit tbey could riot hear very w-eu'. connection
lIon.

Mr. LANDRY.

1206

SENATE

1206

SENATE

The SPEAKER-I suppose if this coin- show that It la an amendment to the Bill,
mittee Isanppointed it implies the right of ail right; but If he cannot show that, I do
flot see how he can raise the point.
the members to go to Washington.
Ilon. Mr. GIBSON-It 13 an amendment
The motion was agreed to.
to the motion.
QUE-BEC BRIDGE CRNIMISSION RFHon. Mr. IANDRY-I have a right to
PORT.
move an amendment to a motion without
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is there any news giving notice.
of the printing of the report on the Quebec
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It la an amendment
bridge disaster?
to the motion.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tbiuik part of it bas
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes. Lt Is flot an
been printed.
Does the hon.
amendment to the Bill.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbree weeks ago, I gentleman understand the difference bethink, the bon. minister had tbat samne feel- tween the two?
ing.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Let the hon, gentleHou. Mr. SCOTT-I uuderstood that a man take another tone in addressing the
portion of the report-lt inay flot be the House.
same--some papers were printed and disHon. Mr. LANDRY-I wiil take the toue
tributed in conniection witb the bridge ac- 1 like.
Lt does ,iot
LIt is my property.
cident.
When he says
beiong to my bon. friend.
I arn out of order because I dld flot gîve
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Not iu the -Senate.
of motion. I say he Is wrong, and
non. '.%r. SCOTT-I will makie inquiry, a noticea rigbit to say he Is wrong, because 1
I have
but I was under tbat impression.
He may have a conbeiieve he la wrong.
I give hixn the benefit of
'Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I am under a con- trary opinion.
his opinion, but I have a right to move ali
trary Impression.
I
amendment to any motion mnade liere.
SHIUSWAP AND THOMPSON RIVERS do not ask to amend tbe Bill, but I beg to
BOOM COMPANY.
move ln amendment to the motion that tbe
Blill be referred to the Supreme Court, as 1
THIRD REAIDING.
do, the saine as I
Mr. BOSTOCK moved the third have a perfect right to
nHon.
could imove without notice on the motioni
reading- of Bill (49) An Act to incorporate
reading that the Bill be not 210w
the Shuswap and Thompson River Boom for third
read the thfrd tirne, but that It be read the
Company.
third time this day six months.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I move in amendHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I think the hon, genment that the said Bill be flot now rend
tleman is very wrong in his tone; but I
the third time, but that it be referred to
thinlk he ls right in his motion.
thse judges of the Supreme Court of Canada
Hon. Mr. KERR-I venture to submit hie
for their opinion wbetber It la not a menwbich falls within the classes of sub- is flot right ln bis motion, and I eall attensure
Rule 23 says:
Jeets exciusiveiy allotted to the provincial tion to the rules.
legisînture under section 92, subsection 11,
Twoû days' notice muist be given of a motion
of the British North America Act, 1867, for eny of the folowing purposes:
reiatlng to thse Incorporation of companles
Rule 25 prescribes that notice is required
with provincial objecta.
for any of the following motions, and they
Hon. Mr. POWER-The -hou. gentleman are deflned, and this la not one of them.
bas failed to give any notice of this amend- ule 24 provides that one day's notice must
be given of any of the following motionsment.
and subsection J reads as follows:
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It la not an ainendFor any
It la an amendment to preoe&lng pur.poie to whiieh neither the neit
ment to the Bill.
nor the next enoceeding ruie 9.-If tbe bon. gentleman can
the motion.
Hon. Mr. FROST.

JUNE 18, 1908
Under Rule 23,
This is one of them.
two days' notice must be given for any of
the following purposes, and It defines wha t
they are, but this is not one of tbem.
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-Read the first lune.
-Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLý-Does
the hon, gentleman contend that If an hon.
member desires to move the three rnonths'
hoist of a Bill at the third reading, that It
la necessary to -Ive a day's notice before
This Is a motion of a
ho can move it?
character, that the Bill be not now
silar
read a third time, but that It ho referred
to the Supreme Court for an opinion whlch
la tantamount to deferring the third rending of the Bill until thxe question has been
declded.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I tbInk I brought iïp
the question of order, and I amn sorry now
that 1 did, because I find that I was In error.
I -think the hion, gentleman from. Stadacona, lu witbin bis rigbt and If the hon
gentleman from Toronto wiii look .àt raie
4, ho wil] see that the question Is defineti
as a motion rnoved, and proposed froci th,
Chair, so that this is an amendment to
the question, and 1 think the hion. gentleman ls qulte wlthin bis rights ? 0f course
the House can vote the motion down if
they' wish. I migbt be ailowed to *say with
respect to the motion, that it probaily
means the defeat of the Bill, because thec
Supreme Court have adjourned. .Some of
the judges have left the city. The judges
on varions occasions have declined to give
opinions on questions of this kind, a-d
the probabilities are that we shah] not
have the opinion at any rate during the
present session, and as the constitutionai
question bas been discussed very f ally,
we ougbt to ho able to judge for ourselves.
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-We are lu the face
of two judgments on thxe constitutional
question. We are la the face of the report that declared the preamble flot proYen because it was unconstitutional, and
In the face of another decision 'which says
that the preambie 18 proved, because it la
constitutional and in the lnterests of Canada. It Is precisely because we do flot know
whether It la constitutional or not that we
ask that the matter be referred to the
Supreme Court to have the opinion of thxe

moï7

judges on the question of constitutlonaiity.
That was the procedure followed witb respect to a Bill ln 1876. 1 took a precodent:
that was given in our journals, wben a
similar question bad been brought before
this House, and wben tiiis House unianimously accepted the motion that the question ho referred to the Supreme Court,
and the judges of the Supreme Court gave
their decîsion. The judges may be now
absent; that Is nlot our fauit. When the
question came to this Hlouse the first time,
lt was declded by the Standing Committee
on Ralways, and there was no need to
appeal to the judges of thxe Supreme Court,
because the committee declded there was
no Bill at ai], the Bill bavlng been refused.
It came up again la thue committee, and
It Is before this Hlouse, and according to
our laws, we have a right to propose to
refer It to the Supreme Court to have the
advkce 'of the judges on Its constitutionality.
Hon. Mr. BEIQU-I cannot for my
part, support this amendrnent, because 1
thlnk It la too eiementary a question te be
referred to the Supreme Court judges or
anybody else. If the Bill were as It was
ln its original shape, then I would john
the hon. member in the demand that ho
la maklng; but wlth the declaration as
made In thue Bill and reported to this
House, that It Is a work for the general
advantage of Canada, the question is coucluded under section 92 of the British
iche
North Âmerica Act paragraph C,
says :
Such works, although wholy situaite wiithin
the province, are before or elte their execution declared by the parlisment of Canada
to be for ithe general a vantage of Canada or
for the advantage of two or more of the provinces.
This declaration being In the Bill, -the
question Is precluded, and It has beeli held
over and over again by the courts flint
nobody can go .beblnd. a declaration of this
parliament. Nôw the declaration appearing la the 'Bill, te my mi, It would be
perfectly useless to refer the Bill to the
Supreme Court.
Hon, Mr. LÂNDRY-If this House sbould
declare that 'this square table Is a round
table, would It be round ?

1208

1208

SENATE

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I may tell the hon.
gentleman thatlIappeared before the Court
of Queen's Bencb to argue a case which
was an extreme case, and to argue agifst
the declaration. it wias tbat of tbe Quebec
Liglit and Power Company, incoriporated
by the provincial legislature for the plurpose of manufacturling electric liglit 1,1 the
clty of Quebec, and for the purpose of
selllng electrie current ln the clty of Quebec. Tbe company, atter being incorporated by the provincial legisiature, came before this parllauiient and obtalned nu Act
declarlng that the 'work wias for the genieral advantage of Canada. 1 tried te argue
tlint on thie face of It It wias a declaratioli
which was rebutted by tlie very facts of
the case. It appeared from tbe Incorporation of the company Itself tliat the declarationl wias not made In good faith, liiid I
wias prevented from proceeding wltb my
argument. The judges wiere unanimohs la
saylng that It 'ias not open to the court
to Inquire Into a declaration as madie by
parliament. Tlie declaration 'ias madie by
parliament, and it 'ias conclusive, and I
think tbat they could flot take any otlier
vieWr. 1 refer to tbat case especially, but
I L-now of otlier cases, even ln the 11rivy
Council, where this doctrine was asserted
and was maintalned. If It were not so,
then It would be always open to anybody to inquire Into the bad falth or good
faith of the declaration as made by parliaThe constitution says tbat this par-ment.
flament takes 1'urisdiiction on any local
worlîs the moment that the declaration is
miade. Now, the declaration belng embodied in tlie Bill, It seems to me to be bie
to refer that question to the judg-es or the
Supreme Gourt.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-MiJt
court did the lion, gentleman refer fo '
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Court of Queen's
Beach. court of Appeal.
Hon. 'Mr. LANDItY-Not the Supreme
Court?
Hon. 'Mr. BEIQUE-N-o.
DeBOUCHERVILLE-AlMr'.
Hon.
tbougli 1 arn not n lawyer, I do not think
the case cied liv the lion. member applies
lu thal
to the question before us to-day.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

The matter
case there was a law paSsed.
had flot merely been denit with by tlie
Flouse of Commons and the Senate, bll:i it
had bgen sanctioned by the Governor, and
although the laws miglit be erroneous, It
was the law; but lu tbis case there is no
If the notice had been given,
law yet.
for example, to strike out the words, 'for
the general advantage of Canada,' It would
I tblnk the bon, gentleman
be dIfferent.
Is mistaken when lie compares the case lie
referred to wlth the present case.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I am n ot going to
discuss the merîts of the Bill, but I sliould
like to take up) the. declaration made by the
I
lion, gentleman froni De Salaberry.
think It Is alrnost destructive of the British
I tliink It is a wroug
North America Act.
principle to lay down before this lionour
able House and before the country, because
any prornoter may corne before parlianient
witb a Bui contaiuing tbe 'words 'for the
general advantage of Canada,' before parThe bion, gentleliament lias accepted It.
man from De Salaberry lias put the cart
Parliarnent bas as yet
before the horse.
mnade no.declaration la regard to the principles of this Bill, wbether It is for the
general advantage of Canada or not, and
to have. the Hlouse accept the tbeory that
because the promoters of a Bill, men wlio
are pusbing a seheme througli, have lnserted
la their Bih that It Is a work for the general
advantage of Canada, parliament lias to
take It for granted, wouid be subversive
of our most elementary riglits, and subversive of ail riglits between the federal and
I contend that the lion. genlocal powers.
tleman sliould not ask the country to accept
that as sound constitutional doctrine. I amn
flot talking- for or against the Bill. buit
with regard to the priaciple laid down. 1,
as a legislator of Canada ýwoulid ob.iect.
eitlier on behaîf of the Doinion or of the
province I represent. to accept sucli a
theory, that because the declaration put ln
a Bill, 'for the general advantage of Canada,' it Is therefore to lie accepted as one
coming within federal purview or federal
I amn quite ln accord on these
jurisdictlon.
grounds with the demand made by the
bon, gentleman from Stadacona that it lie
referred to the Supreme Court as a matter
tof riglit and princîple, and I cannot agree

JITXE 18, 1908

1209
10

aiaberry, that this ,lotion As flot one that
with the bon. gentleman frein De Salaberry 'S
to the House.
false ground or on1 s bouid appeal
that the demand is on a
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Tbere !a evla f aIse basis. Under those circurnatancea,
1 would bav-e to vote, If there la no stronger d.entiy a misconception of the nature of tie,
argument put before tbis bonourable Flouse, a .mendmnemt. As 1 understand it, thse hoýi.
1 nember proposed by the amendment to ask
to defeat the purpose of the measure.
tbe measure la one that ls going to hie Supreme Court to give us an opinion
believe
deveiop the resourcea of Britisb Columbia; vhetber we sbould declare this particular
but If it la not witbin our juriadiction, and vork to be a work for the general adranwitbin our Inherent right under the British age of Canada.
Nortb America Act, I arn not prepared to
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Wbether the Bill a%
violate the fundamental principiesý of our t stands is conatitutionai.
goverament for tbe sake o! any govern-i
Hon. Mr. BELCOUBT-TbSt is the saine
nient or any intereat. That la tbe position
argument t0 t bing. The effect of the aniendrnent is
If tbere la any solld
I take.
put before parliament that this Bill ia w-ith- t o request tlue Supreme Court to say 'wleln our juriadiction, aud n'a bave tbe rigbt t er this Is an undertaking n-hich we may
te legialate on It undar tbe British N,ýortb or may nlot declare to be for the generai
America Act, I amn prepared to stand by sdvantage of Canada.
the Bill; but arguments bave beau advanced
Hon. Mr. POWEII-Certainlv.
againat tbat stand, and I believe the Bill
Hou. Mr. BELCOURT-Ifl other word..
cornes nearly altogather within the purview
and tbe jurisdiction o! the local legislature.j Lt le -aaking the Supreme Court to give Uts
There might be one or two Items, like the opinion as to wbat we sbould do ln this
Indian reserve question, which may corne matter, by deciding affirmatively or uuegawlthin tbe federal power, but la that suffi- tiveiy whetber this is a work for the gendient to take the rights from the provinces era! advantage of Canada. 1 say that under
and put tbern In the banda of the federal the British Nortb America Act, parliament
Tbat is a question tbat can alone is to pnss on tbat matter, and if we
governinent?
be eaaily deterrnined la the Supreme Court. refer the Bill to the Supreme Court tbey
I amn not preparefi te aay lt sbould be done. wiil tell us tbey bave no opinion to give,
I amn not familiar ivith thue local conditions tbat It la for parliament to decide.
wbich this measure la supposed to ameliorHon. Mr. LANDRY-They bave already
ate or lmprove; but there bas been so mucb
sncb circumstances.
said one one aide or the otber that I would given an opinion under
of
nlot ba against a reference to the courts
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Tbe decla ration
tbe country to find out really If it were whetber the particular undertaking la or la
n-itbin the jurisdiction o! tbis parliarnent not for the general advantage of Canada,
to deal witb the matter, or within tbe la a matter which cornes under the exclupo-wer or the jurisdiction of tbe local legis- sive jurisdiction of tbis parliament.
The
lature. I arn ln a quandary. I bave nlot Supreme Court bas neyer given an opinion
been able to attend the slttinga of the Rail- on that. We are tbe judges of the matter
wav Committee which discussed thesa mat- It la for us to decide wbetber in a partiters. and where tbis question came up cular case au undertaking is or la nlot
We bave te vote on questions o! for the general advantage o! Canada. Theragain.
ivbieb we bave practicaliy no knowledge. ean be absolutely no question o! that. 1
It la another argument ln favour of refer- repeat : If we ask the Supreme Court to
ring aIl Blls to a Comrnlttee of the Wbhole tell us 'wbat to do la the matter, tbey wîi
House, irbere every one, wbetber a meni- likely tel! us: 'That la a matter for you
ber of the Railway Committee or not, may and not for us to say.' Tbe power of noarbave an opportunity to take part in the liament to declare a work for the general
It
discussion. Under the circurnatances, I fai! advantage of Canada is witbout luit.
i%anything ln the declara- la lef t entirely to the discretion of parliat0 see that there
1 submit, the
tien made by tbe bon. senator from De ment and to nobody, else.

.

1210

SENATE

SRNATE
1210
amendment is asking the Supreme Court are inserted Is witbln our jurisdiction, then
to do somethilg wbich manifestly the Sup- we shali know wbat position we -jezupy.
reme Court bas no power to do and which That is the object the bon. senator froni
we alone bave power to decide.
Stadacona bas ln view. I do flot think
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The that under our constitution we have the
hon, gentleman bas flot paid close atten- rlght to Insert that declaration lu a Bill
tion to the authorities whic bhave beeu whicb Is purely local ln Its character.
quoted on the very question we are disHon. Mr. BELCOURT-Does my hon.
cussing. It must be borne in mmnd that friend go to the
extent o! arguing that If we
we had Vie authorities given in another
declared any particular work to be for
place when the question was under diathe generai advantage off Canada, Vie Supcussion.
Chief Justice Harrison, soine
reme Court could decide to Vie contrary ?
time ago, gave an opinion precisely to the
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
contrary of that enunciated by my ho'.
friend from Ottawa. The question is, If 1 think 50. I do not see 'why Vie Supreme
the Supreme Court should confirm the opi- Court, the blghest court ln Vie country,
nion given by the judge to whom the hou. couid not give an opinion on that question
gentleman from De Salaberry referred, it just as welI as a judge of King's Bench.
wlll be an end, ln the future, of any doubt
Hlon. Mr. BELCOURT-The
Supreme
as to the insertion of these words in any Court Is flot the bigbiest court
ln Canada.
Bill we piease. If parliament decides that This parliament Is the
bighest court.
the Incorporation of a cannlpg factory be
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Parfpr the general advantnge of Canada, and
parliament has the right under the consti-' liament la governed by Vie constitution,
tution to add those words, thon there is and the Supreme Court bas to decide azno emali corporation that might not ask to cordlng to the law and constitution.
be Incorporated here. That Is the position
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Our ruIe No. 116
my hon. friends take. I should like the quesprovides that:
tion to be referred to the Supreme Court
-Atany
for the very reason that tiiere have been private time before the final passing cf any
Bill, the sa/me .may, if the Senate
confiicts of opinion on this very question thinks fit, be referred to the Supreme Court
for examination and report as to any point
between different judges, one ln Quebec
*with such
and another ln the province off Ontario. or malter in connection reference. Bili expressed in the order of
My hon. friend shakes bis bead ; I amn
I quote his to meet Vie objection off thc'
sorry I have not the authorities before me.
hon, gentleman from Ottawa, that we canI expect to have authorities that weré, cited
not submit Vis Bill to Vie Supreme Court
lnx the comlittee when we were discussing
tVis question, in order that I may have for Ils opinion. On Aprîl 4, 1876, the order
tbem under my hand should this question of the day belng read for Vie consideration
arise again. In view off the confliet off opi- off the Bill entltuied : 'An Act 10 Incorponion on this subject I shouid Ilke to have rate the Brothers of the Christian Schoois
the opinion off the Supreme Court. I sbould lu Canada,' as proposed to be amended by
like to know whetber under the constitu- thé Committee on Standing Orders and
tion off the country this parliament bas the Private Buis, Vie Hlon. Mr. Belierose
moved, seconded by Vie Hon. Mr. Arrnand,
power to declare any Bill, no matter what
that the ameadments off Vie said qcommittee
Its character may be, wbetber exclusively
prîvate or affecting one or more provinces, be now concurred la. The Hon. Mr. Odel!
a work for the general advantage of Can- moved in amendinent :
ada, and whether that declaration brings
That ie question be not now put, but t1bat
It withln the purvlew of this parliament. the Bill be referred to the judges of the
Supreme Courit for their opnion, whether il
If we had the opinion of the Supreme Court, is not a measure which IeU within th. clas
It would save us a good deai of time and of subjeobs exclusively allotted to -provincial
under section
discussion ln the future. If the judges de- legisiatures, North Âmerioa92. subseetion 11, off
the British
Act, 1867, relating
cîde that any Bill ln which these words to the incorporation off compeniee with proHon. Mr. BELCOUET.

JUNE 18, 1908
vincial objects, *and section 93,
education.

rel*ting to

The motion was agreed to on a division,
and the question bel ng put on the main mxotion as amended It aise was resolvAd ln
answer came on
the affirmative. ,The
April 11, and the. Speaker presented to the
House the. opinion of the Suprenie Court
as folews
In pursuance of -the order of referenoe of
your hon. House of the. 4'th day cf April,
1876, we bave considered the. Bill eatitled 'An
Act to incorporate the Brothers of the Christion Schools in Canada,' and we are of the.
opinion that it is a measure which f«Ils within the. cass of subjeots exclusively alilotted. to.
93 of the
rovincial logisiatures Act, section
pBritish North Arnerionunder 1867.
There is a case wiiere a Bill was referred
to the Supremne Court for lis opiniou, and
an opinion was glu-en. Now. thatis ail wc
want te do in this case--to submit the Bill
to the. Supreme Court for the.ir opinion and
get an answer.
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-I would support the
amendment If the declaration was not ln
the Bill.
Thie Senate divided on the amendruent
whicb was rejected by the following vote:
Contents:
The. Honouable Messieurs
Bolduc,
Bouciierville, de,
Bowell
(Sir Mackenzie),
Cioran,
Landry,

*McDonald (C.B.),
McKay (Truro),
Merner,
Montplaisir.
Ross (Middlesex)-1O.

Non-Contentê:
The Honouable Messieurs
MeMullen,
Béique,
Mitchell,
Belcourt,
Owens,
Bostock,
Power,
Campbiell,
Rîley,
Derbyshire,
lnber tson,
Domville,
Ross,(.Moosejaw),
Douglas,
Ross (Halifax),
Ells,
-Roy.
Fiset,
Talbot,
Frost,
Watson,
Gibsen,
Wilson,
Jones,
Yeo,
Kerr,
Young.-29.
'MoGregor,
Menugii,
Tii. Bill was then read thse third t: me
on a division, an d passed.

1211

ASSURANCE FUND UNDER -LAND
TITLES ACT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading of Bill (168) An Act to authorize the
payment te the provinces of Saskatchewan
and Alberta of part of the assurance fund
under the Land Tities Act, 1894.
Hie said: In the year 1886 the. Torrens
systeni was introduced into the Northwest.
lion, gentleman are probably aware that
thnt wvas a' systeni under which the geverament underteok te guarantee thle titi. of
lands. A fund was established by the. gevernment of thie day, and It accumulated year
by year as the lands were seld. Wiien the
territories of Alberta and Saskatchewan became provinces they adopted the Torrens
systeni, and the. proposition of thus Bill je
for the federal government now to divesi.
The provinces havitself of the systern.
ing introduced It, as a motter of course,
the. fund which bas accumulated must be
handed over te the provinces. Differeuces
may arise as to thie proper amount te b.
transferred, and the. Bill provides that If
there are any differences of opinion between the 31inister of Finance and the
government ef eltiier of the provinces, the
question shall b. referred to arbitration.
The provinces, of course, are entitled te the.
money now, having introduced the Terrens
Thse iast clause makes provision,
system.
se far as thse federal power Is concerned,
that a certain guarantee must b. given
them that tbey wiIll net herenfter b. subJect te any demand ia connection wlth the
Torrens system.
The motion was agreed te and thc Bill
was read the second time.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill b.
committed to a Cemmittee of the Whole
House on Tuesday next.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-The Bill Is net
We
printed ln Frenchs as it should b..
have rlgbts here whichi must b. respected.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL_-Hns
the Englisis edition of the Bill been distributed?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I arn just receiving
I protest
the. Engllsh editIon of It new.

1212

SENATE

SENATE
1212
ngainst the Bili heing- passed Nvithout ha"'- to the Miulister of Justice for bis opinion
ing it properiy before us. I wiil stani up about it. I did s0 but I bave not received
It is a question pureiy of
for our rigbts tbat no Bill shall be permittel1 -tn nnswer yet.
policy; is it wise and proper, in our judgto pass uniess it is prînteil in French.
ment, that tbe property and assets of a
Hon. Mr. POWEIt-I would1 sug-gest to railway sball flot be subject to the charges
the hon. member for Stadacona tlhat in this of ruingii. expenises and other charges that
House and iu the other House the riglits of are usuaiiy a first charge on the road ?
the province of Quebec are genierally deuit Tiiere is niotbing that the Departinent of
with very tenderly, and that it is flot jiadi- Justice couid giv'e us.
W'e would flot be
clous, if I may venture to say that to the gov'erned by M1r. Ayiesworth's opinion,
bon, gentleman, to raise this -question of îvhetber It is equitabie or proper or flot.
priviiege continuaiiy. The second reading Every bon, gentleman can form bis own
of this Bill bas been carried. The principle opinion on it.
of the Bil ils a very simple thing: no0 o1e
lion. Mr. YOUNG-1in the absence of the
can bave any objection to It, and the hon.
lion. gentleman wi-o bas cbarge of the Bill,
minister proposes that it shall be sent to a1
perhaps lt wouid he botter that the order be
Committee of the Whole H-ouse next week
discharged aiii placed o11 the orders for
the French edition will bave been
"lien
Tuesda~y next.
printed and distributed. 'Surely it is not
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
business by raising
worth whiie lnterrupting
slîould like to cail the attention of the blon.
this question now.
senator froin De Salaberry to the notice
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
wbich lie bas givel as anl anindment to
bave not seen tbe Biii, and was huntiugý tbis Biii.
I notice that It provides for
for It wben I presurne tbe second reading
securing the interest to the parties f romn
was cnrried, but there is no question about wbom property bas been purcbased for
this, and particuiarly at this period of the
riiway purposes, but be inakes no provision
session we have Bis thrown before us of
for the payînent of the principal. Wbhether
a most Important character, of wbichî we that is intended or flot, 1 do not kîîow.-.
We bave not eveni
reaiiy know notbing.
Hon. Mr. DEIQUE-That cau be settled
bad an opportunity of ioolzing at tbemn and
"'e are asked to suspend the ruies to en- wlien the matter cornes up.
able the government to put thern through.
The motion w-as agreed to.
I like to know w'bat I arn doing before 1
MARKING 0F GOLD AND SILVER
I arn not going to object
cast My vote.
PLATED WARE BILL.
to referring this Bill to a -Cornrittee of the
I take it for granted that
Wbole, because
IN COMMITTEE.
rny bon. friend wll put it off long enougli,
The House resoived itseif in ComminitTbe SPEAKER-I wnited sorne seconds tee of the Wboie on Bill (AAA) An Act resbefore deciaring the second reading car- pecting the Sale and Marking ofMaîaI rnay add, I was surprised tbat no turcs of Goid and Silver, and Gold and Silried.
one rose to discuiss the Bill.
ver Plated AVare.
The motion w'as agreed to.
(Ia tbe Coînittee.)
RAILWAY ACT AMEND'MENT BILL.
COMMITTEE STAGE POSTPONED.
The order of the day being ea]led: the
House agin l Coiumittee of tbe Who]e on
Diii1 (P1P) Ain Act to aniend thec Railwvay
Act as regards the preferentiai chiirge
created by the issue of securities.
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-'My lion. friend wbo
bas charge of tbis Bill asked mie to write
Ilon. Mr. LANDRY.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It inay bc well to
say a wvord in reference to this Biii. Tnu
or tbree yeaqrs ago a similar ieasure w-as
introduccd ini tis CIhamber, and I tbiahc it
wvas before tbe Commnittee on Binkiing and
Commerce foir six or eigbht weeks. Eviden<-c
was offercd by parties pro and con. rhere
was a divided opinion uponl it on sevorai
points. Tbere were confictîng interests. I
presunie tbere are about tliree differeut iii-

JUNE 181 1908

1213

1213
JUNE 18, 1908
terests. There are the manufactures of gold aine carats to be solti. We, how-ever, came
and silver plated w-are in Canada, w-ho have to the conclusion that w-e should stanîd for
a very higli standard, w-ho -ant to pre- the ten carat standard. Elther last sesserve that high standard of the precious sion or the session before, my hon. friend
metal, w-hether It is w-orked up into watches fromn Liacoîn introduced a Bill ameuding
or any other article. There are then the that Act. I xnay say that the Act diti not go
retail deniers whose interests do. not qîto- Into operation at thnt tîme, because Lt
gvther colncide with the laterests of ib,, was subje.fl to a clause that provided It
large manufacturer. Thea there are coin- should go into operation on proclamation
panles like the American Watchi Oominany, by the Governor General.' We thought it
who are favourable to practically a% f ree was only fair that time should le allowed
trade as can be obtaiaed, because they buv after the Bill w-as put through parliament,
their goods ln Swltzerland, Germany and before w-e proclimed It. On the followh-g
the United States, Nvherever tbey eau get session, the hon. gentleman from Lincoln
them. People buyiug goods of that kind introduced a Bill nmending it, the main
Imported lato Canada, are very apt to be fenture of w-hich w-as reducing the etandecelved. We liad evidence of thant ou a dard to nine carats. There w-as a differformer occasion w-heu this mensure w-as ence of opinion in the trade. Those w-ho
lbefore the committee. Gentlemen w-ho w-ere bought largely from the foreigli counitries,
opposing that particular view of it, sald United States, Sw-ltzerland and Gernianý-.
tiiat, very often, goods, tlint Is dhais or thougit It w-a going to curtahl their buçsirings, or anything made of gold or Iliver ness, as they w-ere bonnd by a ten carat
v-Pre. tînt %vere guaranteed. to stand for standard, because there w-as considerable
fifteen years, oaly kept ten years. lt w-ae difference la the price, and they aeguerl
show-n by indisputable evidence that those tint people la Canada w-ere buying nine
certificates and thnt assurance w-erp enti-' carat gold ornameats, and there w-as no
rely unworthy of credit. The goods svere justification la mnking a higlier standard,
assured to last ten years, aithough the gold particularly as a large trade w-as doné !in
p'iitiag would be w-orn off la fixe or six the aine carat; that If a mnan w-anted a
yeirs. or perhaps less, and if hon. ge'utle- higlier standard lie could easily get lt-ie
0f
men w-i refresh their memories they wi could obtain ten or eleven carats.
recollect there w-ere gentlemen in the trade course the hall-mark: marked the goods acw-ho produced chains w-hich had oaly been la cording to the standard, and the hall-mark
use four or fire years and they could see the is the guide. The low-est hall-mark, as a
gold w-as w-orn off. The interests w-ere very rule, lu Englaad, la aine carat but it r.as
conflictlng. We at that time passel th1e up, aine, ten, twelve, fourteen, sixteen. a'-d
Ili the highiest la eighteen. On the represpatabest Bill w-e tbougit w-e could frame.
lt w-e made provision thnt the standard tlous made by the hon. senator from flamshould be tea carat. That Is known aa one Mlon, w'ho w'as advised by people w-ho w'ere
of the hall-marks of the trade ln the city very largely Interested la the trade. that it
of Loadon, in relation to pure gold as w-ould le far better andi more la the inte2eigiteen stands to 24. Tint is 24 w-ould rests of the people w-ho w-ere la the 'iabit
represeat absolutely pure gold, but therA of buying ornaments, to allow a standard
.ilways Is some foreiga elemeat la it, andi of aine carats. andi an amendaient w-as
the highest, as a rule, which w-e have gen- ýzarried. reducing the standard to nine.
erally spoken of Is 18 carats. That would The Act still coatinueti. but the g-overnbe as higli as the pure gold is really made ment did not put It in force, nnd legisiation
up. The alloy represeats the additional w-as introduceti la the early part of this
How-ever, on that occasion session that It shoulti not go into force
percentage.
the advocates for the legalizing of 9 carat until the first day of the following session,
standard presented very maîiy reasons w-hy hoping thnt la the mieantime some underIt w-ould be bétter la the interests, at al standing w-ould be coxue to between the
events of the retail dealers and of those varions interests. the Cnnadian mnanufacw-ho deait largely la the articles. to illow turers. tie purcliasers 'of jewelry froni

SENATE

1214

abroad and the retail dealers who deal la professionais to, put in proper f orm. tbe
In
ail kinds of ornaments, some gold and some conclusions which tbey bad reached.
Varlous conferences were beld, addition to the action of tbe Department of
flot gold.
but it is said that a large number had corne Justice, I askeji our law clerk, '-%r. CrelgbTbey pre- ton, to «go over it carefuliy, as be lad a
to an agreement on this Bill.
wbicb 1 bave in xny good deal to do with the Bihl on a former
pared a draft Bill
haud, but tbey could flot agree on the ques- occasion, and le bas prepared tbe draft
tion of the fine or ten carats, and tbey said, Bill that bas been clrculated, witb very few
1It is important we should have some Bill, changes In It.
because we are hlable, now tbat there ls a
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is
trade depression lu the United îStates, to that draft of the Bill which the hon, iminishave a great deal of inferlor jewelry ter bas in bis hand different from the one
dumped luto Canada to the very serlous wbicb bas been elrcuiated?
detriment of those who stocked up Ia the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Not materially. They
trade, because we know people are capsent several drafts dewn, and one %-as
tured by cheaper prices, aud nothing eaui
to the Justice Dcpartmleat and one
be more deceptive tban gold or silver orna- given
to Mr. Crelghton, asking them to cenferm
ments, because no man, unless he bas had
possible to tie views expressed
experience in the trade could say whether as neariy as
Iu tbe rougi draft whici w-as preparcd.
tbe article had a sufficient amount o! gold
the draft was prepared and our
Iu it, or wbether tbe proportion of gold Even after
Bill bad been sent out, I sent to one of the
and alloy w-as suifficlent to allow the ornala Toronto, who sent a conmment to be preserved for 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9 ieading firms
munication to me that they were flot satisSo tbey came to a conclusion.
years.
Then 1
clauses.
Tbey said W e want the Bill, and we will ficd witb somne particular
As 1 bave sent to tbe gentleman who was chairman
to fix the standard.'
allow you
the Joint Committee to see the Ellis firm,
given a good deal of attention to It, per- of
to ascertain whether they ceuld not meet
laps a good deal more than my cofleagues,
otber's vlews, la the hope that absolute
1 tbought parliameut bad at the last ses- eacb
Mr. Roden
discussed, come unanimity wouid be obtalned.
sion, when the subjcct was
of Roden Brs., was tic gentleman wio preto thc conclusion to allow the 0 carat stanand tbis is
dard; that that would scem to piease a slded at thc Joint conference,
the last letter 1 bave on June 12, addressed
larger number-perhaps not tbe largest iu
up to say I iad
capital-and tbat It was open to a person to myseif. 1 telephoned
received a communication from the firm of
purcbasing an article to say 'Wcll, I am
objecting to certain
not satisfied with the 9 carat, you ean give Elhis & Company
Bill, and that .Mr. Roden and
me thnt in 10 or 14,' and would bave a clauses ln tbe
hid
_No doubt thc goldsmiths ',%r. McNaugbt, who attended here, wbo
rigbt to do so.
cali on me
quite able to furnish articles of a higher an iaterest la the trade, sbould
are
Tbe clauses are witb Mr. Ellis and sec wbetber they could
value than the 9 carat.
The letter
technical and difficult of expia- net barmonize their views.
extremely
rends:
nation, unless one is thoroughly familiar
Have seen Mr. Ellis as suggested re nia)e
1 have had the law
witb the subject.
caret clause and have agreed to the following
clerk put thc Bill in proper shape, and I changes whieh are purely olerical end neit
tbink the Justice Department bave aiso pro- affeeting the principle of the Bdl.l, but I think
In their agreeing to the it is malcing the principle more clear. &c.
nounced upon It.
I gave this letter to Mr. Creigbton, and
varlous clauses, one cati quite undcrstand
the people ipterested, were not professional nSiked hlm to intreduce the changes ns sugmen, but from their own view, tbey came te gested la the letter from Mr. Roden, which
1 feel constrainan agreement In regard te several of the he tells me be bas donc.
clauses, and In submlttiag these clauses to cd to make these observations. because
the Justice Department, they theught the *there is se mucb tbat is technîcal la the
Bill ougit to be re-cast to carry out legaliy *Bill, that la readlag it ever it is very diffiand fairly the views fiat the trade iad *cuit for any one whe ls not familiar with
They lef t it, of course, to the tie metbeds ln tic trade to comprehend
decided on.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT.

J UNE 18, 1908

1215

1215
J1ITNE 18, 1908
wbat the object la view is.
I may say tii. Sen:te,and the Act as introduced is flot
that la the Bill we passed somne years agc, quit. ia acrdance wàth. the understaamding
arrdved ait betweea os and the rest of the
the main differeace was the question of the manufacturera. Tch. nnderatanding was tilat
9 or 10 carats.
Some gentlemen opposed the 9 karst hall marked g'oods ehould b. adthe 10 carats, and the Bill allows a hall- mitted. Subsection 2 of section 9 reade as foilOWs:
mark as iow as 9 carats.
.2. Tase provisions of subsection 1 of this section shall not apply. as respects eucli hall
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is mark or other governmeat mark, to an1 artMr. Roden a manufacturer or an Importer? icie of goid or of silver, of any alloy of gold
or of ailver, to wiiich is appiied (a) any hallimark Iawiully applied aocording îto the le"s
Hon. Mr. KERR-He le both.
of the. United Kingdosa of Great Brdtain and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The tîtle of bis cern- Ireland; or (fb) any mark indicating the quaipany La : 'Designers and Manufacturera cf ity of the. gold or of the smuter, of of the alloy
godor silver, and appll.d by the. respect
=of c any feeign country; if with governsterling slver.1
ment
to such article a.ll the etÀher provisions 6f this
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I am aorry the bon. Act are oomplied with.
The. words 'as respects such hall mark or
Secretary cf State lu asklng for lnfotma' see. rt
thon ia regard to this marking dld uot ex- o)ther goverament markintrodueed. have been
-inserted in the. Act s
1 do nect
tend the same courtesy to manufacturers know *what the. introduction of these words
means. They ehould oertainly b. left out of
In the city cf Hamilton who are as large, If
the subseotien, as they render the. meanig
flot larger, manufacturers cf gohd and il- doubtfuli
The understbanding b.tween ail parties wus
ver than eltiier of these gentlemen In Torthat the. Âot should cerne iuto force on Ocente.
tober 1, 1908.
1 arn sorry to trouble you about tbLis matter
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I .did net hear auy
again, but 1 arn a littie doubaul about the.
pretest from Hamilton.
good faith cf the. people iatrested in putting
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The protest cn-ne the. Âct throngh.
Tiahnycn. beiieve me,
from Hamilton.
ours very truly,
G. H. LEVY.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The gentleman £rom
These people were and are not only
Hamilton who advocated the aine carats
manufacturera but large importers of
called on me with reference to it.
gold and ailier wares, and by the
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I desire te place befiret Bill that came down here It was
fore the House the facts of the case and shown te the committee at ail events,
show wbere the trouble began. I have or It was stated te the satisfaction cf
ne doubt the bon. Secretary of 8tate acted the committee, mysélf amongst the numla good faith towards these Toronto geni- ber, that It was the general desire cf the
tlemen, but the Toronto gentlemen have wbole cf the trade cf Canada, that the
not acted la good faits towards the Ham- lowest standard cf ball-marked. gold sho'uld
ilton people wbo were manufacturers alike be ten carats. This was exactly opposite
witb tbemaselves. it le evideat that wbat to the arrangements that were entered into
bad been orlginaliy placed la the draf t between the members' of the'trade themxBill submltted te tbem bas been altered selves, and this alteration was made for a
la the Bill tbat la aow laid before the speclal purpose by those lnterested lu the
House, and I may say that one gentleman manufacture of 'watch-cases ln the citv of
connected witb this firm la a lawyer of Toronto. By this raising the sýtandard te
some standing, a brother of a member of ten carat gold, vou practlcally confiscate
the cempany. On June 4, 1 received a lat- every article cf gold that la manufactured
ter from hlm stating that lie lied recelved la the United Klngdom or anywhere else
a copy of the Gold and Silver Mefrking Act, and Imported under the original Bill as it
as lntroduced la the Senate. His letter firet came into the House. These people
read as follows:
were In England, bad their goods erdered.
Hamilton, Ontario, June 4, 1906.
witb the assurance of course, and under
Hon. Win. Gibson,
the belief thnt the people who were la the
The. Senate, Ottawa. Ontario.
trade were playlng a square gabne with
Dear Sir,-I have just recolved e copy of the.
.Gold aad Silver Manklng Act as introduce. la them, and weuld net be unfaîr to t"ern

SENATE

1216
1216

SENATE

in their ab)sence. On inquiry being madie,
tlîey founti the standard ý%vas 10 be te"
carat gold. Lt w-as flot wbat was agreeti
upon amoug themseives, because of the
tact that there is no such a tbing as ten
carat golti -%are iu Engiand. andi we were
told that If England titi fot care to raist
the standard to teu carat they would have
t0. Now wbat is good enough for Great
Britain shouiti le good enough for Canada.
In otber words, if any one went to buy
nine carat goods, madie either in Canada
or United States or lu Engiand, as far aç;
that i*sconcerueti, they have a perfect right
o tio so; but under dte'original conditions
of this Bill it becamne proliibitory anti the
gootis coulti bave been seizeti anti would
bave been seizeti. Then. on the advice ot
the MiNlnister of Justice, a clause was put
into the Bill to lower the standard to the
British standard of aine carats, ainti 1
went tbrougli this House. The Bill wvent
down 10 the Couinons anti w-as threshè<i
out there, anti so mucli attention was giveu
10 the question, that the government ait
that tilue deferred the bring-Ing of tbo- Act
inito operation anti gave some nine Diontlis
for its consideration. Thiat niue rnontlis
wns increasedti 1 another year, anti Parly
this session dte Minister of Trade andi Coinmierce bronglit in a short Bill proving
that tbis Act shouki not go mbt operation
for twelve nionths. Wlien these men get
together anti agree upon a certain arra igement iu the± tradec ivhy shoulti one party
to tlie arrangement be asked for their opinion anti the othier party lef t ont ? My lion.
frienti points out-anti 1 trust that the matter is not a serions one-that the Secretary
of State will allow tbese w-ords to lie adtdeti:

that was reully the only important question on which tbere was a tiifferenc, ln
the tratie.
Hou. 31r. GIBSON-I wunt 10 ask the
Secrehary of State the renson these wortis
were iserteti lu the draft Bill that was
agreeti upon by tratie lu the city of Toronto? The Toronto anti Hamilton people
What new liglit titi thiese
got together.
people who tirafted the Bill receive which
induceti themi to put Iu these words, xnakThe geuing the meanlng very obscure?
tieman wbo wrltes me is not only a memiber of the firm but a lawyer, and a distinguisheti member of a liw firii in Hamil-

ton, whio writes on beliaîf of bis brother:
The words 'es respects such hall mark or
other goverament; mark' sèem to have been
iaserteti in the Act as introduceti. I do not
know what the introduction of these words
means.
Thiat is subsection 9 of section 2.

Hon. '-%r. BAIRD-We have not reacheti
that yet.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-No, but the Secretary of State bas been discussing the Bih!,
anti 1 want to say that 1 have hourd trom
thlese people, anti that is the only objection
they make ho ih; I sitnply lay the matter
before the House anti nsk the Secretary of
State liow those w-ords come ho bie tbere?
Houi. '.%I. BAIRD-Better proceeti
the Bill.

w-ith

BOWELL-t
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
know tlîat the mIles governing discussions
inx Conmittee of the Wbole confine the discussioni to time clause under consideration,
anless ltb le mnderstood w-len the second
reading takzes place withouh discnssing the
monits of the Bill, tbat you have permisThe provisions of the subysectýion of this sion ho discuss the principies of the Bill
Act shall not appiY as respects such hall wvhen it is lu committee.
mazrks or governinent miarks.

Hon1. gentlemen wvould like In explanDalion of what is ineant by that ?

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That w-as understooti.

'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
Hou. Sic
Hon. Mr. SCOTI-Thiete must be some
wtisi to ask the Secrotary of Stxtte, la thtece
Thtis mneasure is baseti o-i
misconception.
any mnaherial change in the Bill now beforo
nine carats.
a
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-These words wvere
not iii the Bih1 Mwlien it wvas sent to theie.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe lion, g-entlemani is
speakîng 0f the Bill of three 3-ears aigo.
This Bill reduces lt ho nine carats, anti
Hon. Mr. GIBSO'N.

the Senate from that w-hiclx w-as propo!sed
niumber of years ago, with the exception

The lion.
of the golti standard adopteti?
gentlemni remienibets very w-eh that the
inre.at differencee of opinion at timat tinie
wvas betw-een thie' uxanufaicturers iii Cana-da

JTJNE 18, 1908

1217

1217
JUNE 18, 1908
Han. Sir MA.CKENZIE BOWELL-Then
and the importera from Germauy, United
guarantee as ta
States and Englnd, and at that time the lie can sell it without any
arguments were strong in favour of the 10 Its character.
carat gold -%vatehes and jewelry, aud(
Hou. Mr. GIBSON-In England the euskuaw of no member of that couimittee or tom la entlrely different. Ail manufactures
of the Senate wlîo took stronger grounds lu of gold and sîlver are sent to Goldsmith's
favour of the higlier grade of jewelry thMu Hall lu London, where they receive the
my hon. friend who la advacating uaw go goldsmltli's stamp, and that la the guaranIt was
strongly tlie 9 carat standard.
tee, because the government la behind Goidagreed at that tîme that a 9 carat plece of smith's Hall lu England. It was held *by
jewelry would flot last the Iength of time some members o! the trade that even tlue
that those who sold It would guarantee lt nine carat hall marked goods lu Euglanil
1 remember dlstinctly that were equal ta hall marked goods in! 10
sliould last.
was the argument, and the answer ta it was carats in Canada, for this reason. If there
that if you buy a gald watch with a stamp wvas the slightest particle of allay more
of 9 carat gold wlth the guarantee of the than was uecessary ta manufacture the
The
seller, that ought to be sufficlent.
The ,zousegooda, they -were destroyed.
answer was, aud 1 thluk a very conclusive
quence o! that la that with the solderlng
one-that when one buys a watcli from a
aud other necessary alloy, the Engliali manjeweler and It has a 10-years' guarantee,
ufacturer made a standard quality o! hîs
the difficulty la ta know where ta find the
markiug o! abaut
the watch, at goods sent up for hall
jeweler or the man who sold
nîne and a hli carats. That la what I
the end of 10 years, and that consequently
from those clasely assoclated
the guarantee. did flot amount ta anythlng. understaud
wltli the trade.
It was contended on the part of the manufacturers of Canada that no piece of
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-I find by comjewelry or watch case could be manufac- parlug the Bill before us with the Act
tured, having any lasting quaitles, unlesa which was paased two yeara ago, that
It was af 10 carat strengtb, If I may use the form o! the Bill la very materlalThe uainitlated cauld not tell ly changed, and that it wll be moi3t
that word.
the difference betweeuq two watches of dl!- difficuît for lion. members ta make
ferent standard when placed before them, comparison 'and learn what changea aire
but after wetiring- them a whlle they would Involved In the Act passed twa years ago.
find the dIfferenc e. I understand the han. On that occasian, the Bill waa referred ta
Secretary of Staté ta say that the goverfi- the Banking and Commerce Committee
ment, after full cansideratlan, have corne
and bath aides came before us, aud after
ta the conclusion ta adopt la this Bill the a very long discussion It waa settled that
9 carat standard.
the form of the Bill was not satisfactory.
The Law Clerk o! this Hlouse theu preSCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mfr.
paredl a Bill ou consultation with thc parHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbat ties on both aides, which Bill was passcd
wlll meet the vlews of the Importers from after a great deal a! discussion. It la an
Eugland, and the purchaser takes the risk, extremely techulcal subject. As the result
if he buys, or the quality. Ia there a pro- of a goad deal af very liard work, I came
vision made In the Bill that the mau,îfao- to uuderstand a little about It when we
turer cithe7r lu Germany or the United had it befare us lu 1896; but now I
States or England shall atamp the article find that Uic Bill la turued upsîde idown
lie sella signifying that It la of nine carats and inside out and If It reaches nearly Uic
same conclusion, there is a differeut way
aud givlug the place of manufacture ?
o! getting at It, because It la liardly pasHon. Mr. SCOTT-The general prilaclplç sible to compare the two clause by clause,
of the Bill Is this : that a man need flot pul sud know where we are departiug £rom
on the mark, but If lie puts It on It musi tlae legialation a! two years ugo. 1 aubmlt
It would be perfectly unreasouable ta exbe a true mark.
77
REVI5aiD EDITION

1218

S E'l'\-A T E

SENATE
1218
pect the leader of the House to, give tech- member thbe argument that was addressed
nical explanations of a Bill like this, and to us froin both aides. The Canadiau manwe must ail, I thlnk, plead to be as deficient ufactures iasisted very stroagly that ten
carats was as 10w as you could make it
in information as he is.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn quite wiiling and get a really gopd serviceable articie.
that the Bill Bhould go to the Cornmittee The Importers contended that as aine carts
on Ban'king and Commerce. The marnufac- wae. admissible la England It wouid shut
tarer referred to by the hon. senator frein out British goods and restrict the trade
Hamilton can be examlncd, A gentleman very mucli. If they bave corne together with
from Hamilton, who represented himself reasons.ble unaimity as to the question,
as the largest jeweller in Canada, cailed we miglit accept that and go on, but I arn
on -me and expressed bis satisfaction wlth afraid there are a good many other changes
propose more Important and drastic than
the Bill.
that. 1 arn not sure, however. I notice
Hon. Air. GIBSON-He says, Soule there Is this change: In the Act as It stands
changes have been made since.
on the statute-book-s, it applies to aIl perHon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon. member froin sons importing into the country; 1 find it
Hamilton admits that Mr. Levy did cali is made now to apply eaiy to dealers. I
on me and express satisfaction, but now can understand the effect of that If any
he aays that two or three words in clause person la lmporting for bis own purpose lie
9 have been changed: They do not read la flot governed by the Act but the dealers
as they did. 1 ar n ot quite able to dis- are bound by It.
cover ln what particular they changed the
Hon. Air. SCOTT-Yes.
Bill. The Law Clerk of thls House, who
was present on the former occasion, and
Hon. Mr. FERGIUSON-Owing to 'the
who remembers a good deal of what then great difficulty of making comparison, the
occurred, ln conjunction witb an official Bill being la such a dilferent forin froin
of the Justice Departinent, endeavoured to the Act, I bave not been able to understand
make the Act con-firi as far as possible It clearly. We took care la passing the
with the draft agreement sent by the Asso- Act now on the statute-book that la plated
ciation.
goods there should be a distinct rnarking
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-This year ?
indicating their quallty. If that la preserved as It was before, I should hope that
Hon. AMr. SCOTT-Yes. And I hnve a
number of letters from various members aIl the other changes la the form of the
of the trade expresslng their entire satVs-, Bill do flot rnake any material j1ifferenie;
faction with It except they say you know at the sarne turne 1 mnust confess that we
my vlews with regard to ten carats.
1 have to take lt very mucli on trust if we go
would prefer the ten carats. But 1 fired through It la this way without a reference
the larger number, among thein this par- to the commlttee and heariag experts.
ticular trader in Hamilton referred tu by
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Instructions give2n
my hon. friend and at whose instance the to the Department of Justice and the Law
hall mark was changed to nine, la biaving Cierk of the Senate
was to conforrn as
his way.
They are giving way to hlmi closely as possible to the views
that were
practlcaiiy, because the Iarger number ot expressed lu the draft
supplied to us. Wc
the jewelers ln Toronto, including Mr. Mc- had a number of drafts,
and oae copy was
Nauglit, who Is a pretty large dealer, would given to Mr. Creighton and
one Vo, the Dehave preferred to adhere to ten carats, but partment of Justice. I have
received .1
tbey said :'We waat the Bill and w- wll good maay letters stating
that the parties
flot quarrel wbether it is aine carats or ten have agreed to this Bill as it now 'stands,
carats.'
that is assurning that ia the recasttng of
Hon .- r. FERGU SON,7.-As far a;3 the It our Law Clerk and the clerk of the De%
question of carats is concerned, that partinent of Justice put It la proper forin.
proposition is easily understood. I re- The parties dld not say : 'You must adopt
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

JUNE 18,1908

12le

JUNE 18, 1908
121w
uis the judgment on thls Bill ? It will be borne,
in mind when the Bill was Introduced before, the importers had very scant notice -f
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Have the twn
what the manufacturera had been nionths
sides to this controversy about the naine
The Bill was Introduceà
in preparing.
and ten carats agreed to compromise? It
bere witbout anybody being consulted repla really a contest between our own manureseating the Importers, and when Uhey
facturers and the importers? The imperdid appear they had a very scant hearlng,
ters wanted to be free to Import fine carat
and the Bill was pressed through. It was
goods and our manufacturers 'wanted to
of vast Importance that the Bill shouid he
keep the standard at ten,- wlth the main
passed at once, because notice would hav-i
object, I suppose, of getting ail the proto be given of its coming hâte operation,
tection tbey could.
and so Important was It that It was pressed
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In this Bill the stan- through wlthout givlng the importers the
dard la laine carats. We have given way to adjournment they asked for, for the purthe large dealer ln Hamilton. .A Bill went pose of being heard.
tbrough this Chamber last year reduclng
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Where was that ?
the standard to nine carats and we bave
Hon. Mr. KERR-At the committee.
followed that.

our language.' They said : 'Give
objects set forth ln the draft.'

Hon. Mr. FER GUSON-But It dld flot
become law.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-What committee ?

Hon. Mr. KERU-The committee of thls
House.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Bill was before
the committee for six 'weeks, and they apThcy
peared there and stated their case.
appeared again before the House of Commons, because Mr. Fielding was chairman,
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-This letter distinctly and I was asked to go down with Mr.
atates that the understanding betwe.n Il Fielding to the Banking Committee of the
parties was that fine carat hall-marked House of Commons to bear It ail over
goods should be admitted. As the hon. sen- again.
ater from Marshfield says, If -there 1a nothHon. Mr. KERR-The hon. gentlémn
lng else put into the Bill except wbat WDS has forgotten somethlng about this Bill.
agreed to, there would be no trouble ; but The Bill that was introduced was not the
If there ls soniething else latroduzed into Bill that was considered by the committee,
the Bill, both sides should be heard.
and although a Bill had been introduced
.Hon. Mr. KERR-May 1 asIc the Secre- six weeks before, an entireiy new Bill ln
tary of State whether the draft of this form and substance was presented to the
Bill bas been submitted to any other inte- committee only three days before It wa.-j
rest ln the trade but the manufacturers ? heard.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Is the bon. gentleman
Hon. *Mr. SCOTT-We have nothing to
do with the draft. The draft was prepared speaking of the Bill of two years ggo ?
by people outside.
Hon. Mr. KERR-Yes.
Hon. Mr. KERR-But we have to do
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There was no change
with It now.
made, except wbat was made lu the couiHon. Mr. SCOTT-A copy of the draft mittee.
was handed te the Law Clerk.
Hon. Mr. KERR-The represeatative of
Hon. Mr. KERR-The manufacturers are the importera liad very scant hearing or
The
not the only people iaterested ln this busi- opportunity of consldering the Bill.
Have importing trade was practically not repreness. There are large Importers.
the Importera had an opportunity of passing sented at that time. The Bill had to be
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If I
understand the circular isBued by the parties, It stated that tbey had agreed upon
nearly ail the points except that one as
to the standard quality of gohd. That was
left open for the goverament to decide.

1220

1220

SENATE

SENATE

passed la great baste, and what was Ilin
.sequel? It was flot Put lu force. Again, tili
year, it is flot in farce; and now a Bill isý
:presented and there Is sorne dispute whe-ther tbe manufacturera are themselves
'ngreed about It. Wbiat I want to kaow is,
'have 'the public, bave the importera had
-an opportunlty of knowing about thi.a Bill'
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mfr. KERR-Wbat opportualty?
Hou. Mfr. SCOTT-Copies of the Bill were
ctrculated.
Hon. Mr. KERR-Tbe manufacturera
looked after their own intereats, but their
laterests may flot be icientical 'witb the
laterests of the Importera. Wbat appartuuity have the importers bad of seei'lg
this Bill ? 'l bave taken a good dent of
trouble ta go over the Bill, and, except lu
two or three particulars. it is substantlally
t
the old Bill, but Iu an absolutely differe
1
fori of expression and construction.
am glad ta find that it la sa, because wheu
thiI Bill was before the committee saine
members of the commlittee were almoat Indignant wlth me for saying tbat if was
a badly drawn Bill, and people could not
understand Its operation. I arn glad ta
find that this la a mucb better Bill, aînd lu
better fanai. It la absolutely reversed iii
Its construction and ta now ia a formn that
It ean be consldered; but I tbiak the trade
generally ougbt ta know about tt and not
We ouglit to
merely the manufacturera.
have an opportunlty of knowing wbat their
vlews are. I approve of tbe suggestionî to
send It ta, the Committee on Bankiag and
Commerce, where tbe trade geaerally 'wtll
bhave an opportunlty of pressing their
vlews, aad I arn glad the bon. Secretary
,of State bas suggested It.

ini passing the Bill, înserted a claus-ý tlhat

it should not corne juta force exce2p! 1)y
proclamation, and sa it bas remnained uiltil
now. At present botb parties are very
anxious to have some definite law on the
statute-book in order to enable theni to
carry on their business under the law;
but that the manufacturers and importera
liad ample opportunlty to consider andi
discusa the Bill two *years ago is be.youd
question.
*Hon. Mr. POWER-I cannot, as a meniber of the comrnittee, npprove of the itiggestion that this Bill sbould be refer,'ed
to the Commlttee on Bankling and Coinmnerce. The wbole matter, as lias bcten
stated, was discussed at very great lengtb
and very thoroughly before the coinmittee. The members of that carnmittee
are bere sound In mind and body,
mast of them, and have flot forgotten
what took place. And furtbier, if it
la uaderstood that the cormlittee is to
meet and Ilsten ta ail the parties -wba wisli
ta be beard, the reference of the Bill ta
the commlttee is equlvalent to sayiug that
It shahl not pass this year. This Bill lias
flot been before the other Huse, aud if it
Is ta go through there it lias to be passed
bere In a very short tume. The businesslike
WVe
metbod la to take up the Bill now.
are la commlttee and the rule ia ta take
up the Bill clause by clause. and wben -we
reach clause 9 the hon. senator froxu Beuasville can make bis objections ;but tils
dlscusslng of clause 9 before the first clause
is dlsposed of, la very Irregular.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That discussîoù
bias, In a manner, been forced upon us,
becausc nabody was prepared ta explin
the Bill at the second reading. Far that
reasan, 1 tbiak the preliminary canter is
perbaps supplying what was short lu the
discussion at the second readlng. As it is
near six o'clock, It wauld be well to pastpane further conalderation of the Bihl until
to-morrow or aext day of meeting, wheii
we cauld take It up and compare it with
thue Act upon the statute-book.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
not know ta what periad tbe boa, gentleman refera when bie says tbat no opportualty waa given ta tbe importera to atcArtala wbat tbe Bill really contained. l'his
'I do knaw, that the importers and the
-manufacturera bad ample opportunity two)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Soaîe bon. gentlemien
1
-years ago ta coasider the question.
_know they dlacussed it for bours and bau" i, wlll kaow who John Waaless & Ca. are.
and day, alter day, and sa diverse wvere. I bave a letter fromn theni ln whicbi they
'the opinions expresaed that the goveranmeat, say : 'The substitution of aine carats for
Hon. Mfr. KERR.

JUNE 19, 1908
ten carats in section 10 is acceptable to as
and tbe other clauses are on the wflole satlsfactory.' Then 1 have a letter frotu the
American W9atch Case Company, practically to the sanie effect. There are als;a
vommunications from Mr. Trower and
otlhers all In the sanie line. Among theni
are Ryrie Bros., Limited, Kent Iiie Goldsmitbs' Stock. Company, T. H. Law, So-"s
& Co., Limited, Levy Bros.-so tbere Is p'
good deal of unanlmity.

GOVERNIMENT

the bon. Secretary of State bas ta makie
sbould be lu the bands of the committre.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree
a'clock.

GUA:RANTBED

BONDhS

0F THE GRAND TRUNK P.ACIFIC
RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
.FIRST READING.
A message waa received froni the flouse
of Gommons with Bill (171) An Act respectlng Governient Guaranteed Bonda of
the Grand Trunk Railway Company.
The Bill waa read the firat time.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill bp
Hon. Mr. KERR-Are there any other read the second time on Wednesday npxt.
changes than appear 110w on the face of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE- BOWEL,-Mlghit
the Bill, because If there are any atend- I ask If this Bill Increases the liabllties of
ments to be proposed, It would be lipor- the country ?
tant to bave theni before us ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-'Na. It la to meet
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-As I understand, there some modifications the company have asked
Is nothing affecting the principle, but there for.
are changes to inake the Bill clearer.
The motion waa agreed to.
Hon. Mfr. KERIt-1 wlsb ta know wbeThe Senate adjourned until to-morrow ather this ia ta be the Bill, or whetber It
tbree o'clock.
Ia to be amended ? If It ls to be ndded
to, It la very Important that we sbotild
know what the suggested amendments aire
THE SENATE.
and bè lu a position to get Informatiou.
OTTAWA, Frlday, June 19, 1908.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Whatever changes

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbese
made by the Law Olerk wvltb
rying out what be. tbought
perly expressed ; It !a not a
any outsider.

changes are
cara vlew +(%
was inot prosuggestion of

Hon. Mr. KERR-It would reniov* a
good deal of crIticiani If tbey were put iii
the Bill before It la taken up again.

Prayers and routine proceedinga.
QUEBEC BRIDGE COMPANY.
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
The order of the day being called:
Ily the HEon. Mfr. Landry-

1. The gavernment, in 1903, having concluded with the Quebec Bridge and Railwsy ComiHon. Mr. SCOTT-The proposed arnend- pany, a financial arrangement in which. one
of the obligations of the contract was the iruments wil be printed ili the Minutes of mediate subacription of additional shares ta
Proceedings before this Bill cornes up the amount of $200,N00, who are the parties
that subscribed the additional emount?1
again.
2. How many shares have been subscribed
by or alloted to each- shareholder?
The first clause was adopted.
3. Did the company afterwards devote the
pay for works
Hon. 'Mr. FROST. froni the coinmitLee. amount which. it an obtained to it not; rather
chargeable ta capital, or has
reported that theT bad made sanie progres employed almost the whole of that sum, to
with the Bill, and asked leave ta ait agaln. wit,: $18,721, iîù payment of the discount at
which securities of the company had been issued, the builder of the piers of the bridge
BILLS INTRODUCED.
having consented to extinguish a dlaim of
$472,000, that is ta say, at a discount of 40 pur
Bill (119) An Act to encourage the con- cent?
Hon. 3fr. LAINDRY-I suppose this Instruction of Dry Locks.-(Hon. Mr. Seoti.)
Bill (162) An Act to amend the Post quiry can stand, if tbe bon. minister bas not
Office Act.-<Hon. Mir. Scott.)
the nuswer?

1222

SENATE

1222

SENATE

Hon. Mr. 90OTT-All I could do was to
send -a copy of the debate to Mr. Ross, and
I showed a copy of it te Mr. Fielding, and
he informed me tbat Mr. Ross was out of
the city a ttending the funers! of some relatÈve.
Thé inquiry was allowed to stand.
,RAILWAY ACT AMNINDiUENT BILL.
ORDER 0F THIE iDAY POSTPONED.
The order of the day being called:
Committee of the Whole Hfouse on (Bill 112)
Au Act to amend the -Raiiway AÂct as respects
the constitution of the Board of Railway Cernmissioners.-Hon. Mr. ïScott.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I miove that this order
be discbarged, and that it be plsced on the
Orders of the Day for Thursday next.
-Hon. Mr. LOUGHFiED-May I -ask the
objeet of postpening a Bill which originated
ln the Hlouse of Commons, sud bas been
passed by that House?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Several suggestions of
Important amendments bave been made ln
this Chamber, and 1 have net had an oppertunlty of discusslng the matter wlth the
Minlster of Railways.
1 did correspond
witb the Minister of Justice, but with the
pressure of work just now, lie has nlot been
abie te attend to it.
SECOND READING.

Bill (EEE) An Act te Incorporate the
Hamilton, Waterloo and Guelph Railway
Company.-(H1on. Mr. Gibson.)
BEIJLEVILÂE, PRINCE EDWARD
BRIDGE COMPANY BILL.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex) moved the
second reading of Bill (20) An Act respectkng the Belleville, Prince Edward iBridge
Company.
lie said: This Bill lbas been piaced ln .niy
bands as It came from the Hliuse of CernMons.
The proposai ln the Bill Is te lacrease sliltiy the touls on the Belleville
and Prince Edward Bridge. Th is company
wsas lncorporated ln 1899, and teek over another Incorporation ln that year.
It was
authorized by Act of this parlisment te levy
certain tolls, and I understand the rates are
s0 10w as to make It impossible fer the ceralion. Mr. LANDRY.

pany te psy expenses.
This bridge connects the county of Hastings at or near
Belleville with Prince Edward ceuuty.
There is a slight increase in the touls
which' right, I think, be more properly discussed lu the Ceminittee of Railways than It could be at the second reading.
The Increases are net very great. 1 migbt
Just brielly refer te them by way of coinparisen.
For knstance, it is proposed te
charge the rate of 10 cents on automobiles.
There Is ne sncb charge nder the old tariff.
The charge on euch person cressing the
byrid-ge Irernains unc-hanged, j5 cents per
capita.
It was propesed aise te ndd te
the tariff of toill a tee of 10 cents fer a
bicycle and rider.
Ne Increase in the
charge on a single herse. A reduction iii
the charge fer a twe-berse carniage frem 290
cents te 15 cents.
There is an increase on
the charge for horses and cattie crossing the
bridge, and se on. There is aise a tell for
threshlug milis, for other milis and for farrn
implements drawn on their ewn wheels.
There 15 some addition te the charges, and
on the -wheie it would mean an increase te
the ewners or proprietors of the bridge.
The Comrnittee on Rallways and Transportation sbouid discuss this matter in detail
and see whetber the charges are reasonable.
The eniy thln-g that commends it nt this
moment Is that this matter lias been dis,cussed by, I suppose, the proper committee
in the lieuse of <Jemmens and bas been
'handed te me on bebalf of Mr. Porter, whe
had charge o! the Bi there, te see if I
would net do hlm the courtesy of asking
this House te consider it in the varions
phases tbrough whlch lt ought te pass.
lion. *Mr. DERBYSHIRE-Is thîs net a
provincial matter?
lion. Mr. LANDRY-Is this a Dominion
ilridge?
,ion. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is a cempany
incorperated under a Dominien Act.
lon. Mr. ROSS (M.%iddlesex)-I de net
knew whetber it is or is net. 1 assume
it Is. In the first place, I assume that
this lieuse cau de ne wrong. This Hous2psssed the Act cf 1899, and therefore 1
have the imprimatur of the lieuse as te
its being a proper Bill te pass. I do net

JUNE 19, 1908

1223

1223
JUNE 19, 1908
know whether miy bon. friend was a memn- bridge. Why should flot Hastings and
Prince Edward have the samne power?
the House then.
ber o>f
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No, I ar nfot guilty.
Hon. Mr.. ROSS-Myv bon. friend bas
commîtted sias enouýgh since that timeHon. Mr. LANDRY-And before.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-To make hlm wortby
of censure, If it were worth ivhile to censure hlm.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIR-It la flot even
a provincial matter; It la a matter affectlng
the county of Prince Edward and the county
of Hastings, and wby the -county couneil
should flot manage these matters la a wonder to me. It is flot even a provincial
matter.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-Clause 10 of the Art,
ays :
The said bridge shall be and continue to be
provided with a draw or swing so constructed
as to have not lesa than .100 feet space for the
f ree passage of vessels, steamboats, rafts ând.
other water craft, which draw or swing, shahl
at ail times be worked. at the expease of the
company so as not to hinder or delay unneceasarîly the passage of any such vessels, steamboats, rafts or water craft.
I do flot know the bridge, I bave not seen
It, but from that clause I wouid assume
the bridge was constructed over a part of
the 'Bay of Quinté which was navigable,
and for that reason the authority was
given to the company to construct the
bridge, and having given autbority to construct the bridge, some provision had to
be made for tbe maintenance of the bridge,
and It was to be maintained by toila. Tbat
la ail I know about It
Hion. Mr. LÂNDRY-It la a swing bridge.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-It la a long bridge,
f rom n quarter to liait a aile long, and there
la a swing la the bridge indicating tbat it
la a navigable section of the Bay of Quinte.
If that be so. it la properly within the funetions of this House. That la a matter that
might be discussed .before the Railway
Committee when It came up for discussion.
Hon. Mr. D>ERBYSHIRE-Tbe county of
Leeds and Grenville and Lanark have just
sucb a bridge over the Rideau Canal, connecting tie two counties, and these two
counties bave done the work and -but the

Hon. Mr. ROSS-We are inot asked to
build the. bridge.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I thlnk we sbould
have a fuller description of the requirements of his bridge. Certainly it strikes me,
as my hon. friend from Brockviile says, thiat
It is flot a provincial matter, but that lt-la a
municipal matter. It Is a matter that
comles under the Juriadiction of the county,
and wby should we find provincial rigbters
quietly subiltting, forgetting what they
did yesterday aad now trying to do something else. It appears to nie that tbey are
unreasonabie, and we ought to'have a decision on this question of juriadiction. Perliaps niy bon. friend who nîoved la the
matter'yesterday might move to-day that
this Bill be referred to the Supreme Court
to ascertain wbetber it cornes under the
local or Dominion jurisdlction. That would
be a proper course for hlm to pursue in
order to decide this matter; I am sure
that bis ex-leader and bis leader will vote
with hlm on a motion of this kind, as they
did on the occasion before. The Bill anthorlzes the bridge company to ievy toîls
on automobiles. It requires us to make a
boy or girl riding on a bicycle going over
thia bridge pay five cents or ten cents.
Why is there a charge of thia kind ? Ten
cents for going over a municipal bridge, a
littie bridge bult for wbat purpose ? Talk
about steamboats and piers and navigation
making It a subject for leglsiation by parliament. It was originaliy bulît for the
purpose of a sawmill. We know who Is
bebind It and 'wby It is being brouglit bere.
There Is no justification in saying this was
orlginally passed by parliament. If parliament did wrong la the pnst, la It right
that we should continue doing wrong and
do again that %vhich parliament before
ought not to have done? Is -the House
anxlous to pasa retroactive leglalation of
this kind ? Does my bon. friend from
Hastings think this is a proper tbing?
Hie knows the whole locality. He knows
what the bridge la for, and hie knows full
well wbetber it la a Dominion or a municipal enterprise. The company was formed, it la true, under the Act of this parlia-

1224

SEN ATE

SENATE
1224
ment, but why sliould they charge the touls charged under an Act of this parliatolls they are cbarging? 1 do flot hiappen ment are sncb touls as migbht be cbarged on
to be a member of the Itailway Committee, a public bridge, the com.pnny building the
and I would flot have an opportuiinty of saine baving been organized by thils flouse.
2?xpressing an opinion there. If I tried to
Hon. Mr. WILSOIN-Is it a public Bill?
do so, I would be told I had no right to
Hon. lfr. ROSS-It is a private Bill,
vote or speak there; therefore I assert my
rigbt to speak here. I ask bion. gentlemen but a public rond and public bridge authoof this House to caret uIly consider this rized by this flouse to be built. If this
Bill and to ask wlietber the promoter of Flouse can by nny lngenuity that I do not
It has given any jnst reasnn why It should see at the present moment, get .behind the
be passed. He stated It came from tbe simple proposition and maise the question of
Cominons. Who lirougbt it from the Coan- provincial rights, we will ]et that be argued
mons, or why was It lntroduced Into the and sec where It stands. I amn not raising
I do not think It is legitimntely to tbe
Gommons ? He bas given no just reaSon ItL
Ail we are asked
why this Bill should be brought here, anid front In this Bill nt ail.
why It ought not to continue, as ail these to do la to re-consider the question of touls
bridges continue to be, under municipxal on the bridge, to wbich the flouse lbas
If the comnmittee to
Jurlsdiction. They certainiy should not bej gîven Its sanction.
taken out of the municipal jurisdiction and which It is referred say, 'We shahl make no
placed liere. I therefore amn opposed to change,' that Is an end of tbe mnatter. They
are dealing wlth touls end tolls only, aud
the second readlng of rhis Bill.
if they think It would be a proper thlng to
Hon. '.%r. ROSS-I want to disclalm en- reject the Bill la this flouse. uothlng- Is
tire responsibilty for the Bill as .being with- galned.
The old Act stands, so that you
la or without provincial rights, and I do do not accompllsh anything by your cry
not suppose the hon, gentleman from St, for provincial rlghts. The old 'Bill is operThomas is in a position to lecture me or ating nnfairly to the proprietors of the
any other hon, gentleman of the flouse -who bridge.
If my bon. frleud, who was s0
bas so faxr chainpioued provincial rights warm a frleud of provincial rigbts. and
so
wlth some degree of sincerlty.
I hid the Indifferent a frieud hast eveuiu.g, thiuks te
honour of votiug on the opposite side from accomphish anythlag la regard to provincial
my hon. friend yesterday, simply upon that rights In rejecting this Bill, well and good;
ground-he wlmo witb so mucli humility and but lie cannot accomplish nuything.
The
urbnity and coudescension joiued what I original Act remnins.
The ivrong lias
wonld cali an lhonourabie procession I arn been doue.
I do not know -whether my
sure, for every memnber of this flouse is hiou. friend wns n party to It, but It
lias
honourable, in favour of sacrificing what 1 been doue anybow.
would cali provincial rigbits, to-day rises in
'Hon. '-%r. WILSON-I stated distiuctly
bis place wîth calmness and deliberation, not
that it was a municipal and not a provincial
to say effrontery and lectures the humble
matter, and I hope the hon, gentleman wil
minority lu this House wbo Lad the courflot put words lu my mouth wbicb I did
age to stand up for a well-defined and
clear-cut principle of provincial rights. This flot use.
Hon. '-%r. ROSS-This flouse thougbt it
is the relative positioa of the lion, gentleman fron St. Thomas and myseif. I arn was a Domninion matter and flot a nunicinot pronioting this Bill. It is not necessary pal, and if the Bill is rend n second tirne, I
this flouse should affirm whcther it is for shall move tiflt It be referred te the coinor agaiust provincial rigbts, I do not tbink mlttee for consideration.
that question necessnrily arises.
If it Is
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-This Billlinvinig
renhly a question of provincial rights, 1 been passed by thils flouse, and the powers
would be prepnred to withdrnw the Bill, If therein contaiued, having been given by
that conld be doue, but I do not think that parliament, I have no doubt this is the
question arises at aîî The only thing this proper place to propose aur amendmeuts
flouse Is asked to do is to say wbether the to the Act-, but I must coufess that any
Hlon. Mr. 'WILSON,'.

JU-.T\E 19, 190S
Bill that provides for the levying of toIls Ontario, and If the arguments used agaînst
House yeson a bridge by a private corporation strikes the Bill wbich -vas before the
a sound from past ages terday were good, they should have preme as If it were
sornething that ]iappened ln medieval times. vented any gentleman w'ho voted la the
The question of toits is one that shouid nlot minority fr'om supporting n mensure of titis
bie favourably regarded by this House. It kind. I have a good deai of sympnthy witli
Down vwith us In tbe opinions expressed by the hon. senator
is old tirne legislation.
the maritime provinces it *rnay bie we are from Acadie (Hon. Mr. Poirier) wlth resmore advanced thon the provinces in the pect to the increase of toits, and I hope
We long ago aboiisbed everything thnt the cornmittee to whldh thia Bill la to
west.
I find It etrauge be referred wlll pay particular attention te
that sounds like toila.
upon here to sanic- the question of toils. Everyone knows that
that we should bie called
tion an Increase of toita by an amendment to there la no vehlicle s0 lajurlous to a road
an Act wblcb waa, unfortunately, passed by as an automobile, and I find thiat this proIf It coules posed list of toila chargea an automobIle
pariament some years ago.
to a vote for the cancelling of this charter, only ten cents white a bicycle rider la
If no harmn be done to the stockbolders of charged the sane amount. That certainhy
It la obsurd to
tbe compauy, I shail fa,vour it. .If thiey requires readjustment.
work out their own destinies, as I charge a mon who happena to use a bicycle
can
understand they can, by virtue of their ten cents, white the automobile whichl Éi~s
original Act, we should not bie a party up the whoie surface of the rond, If It la
to any Bill calllng for additional toila or uaed often, la charged the ame amount.
Ia the Private Bis I arn not feeling as atrongly on the subfor any toits at ail,
Commlttee, I ehall taire that attitude -more ject of provincial rlghts as the bon. senator
boldiy than I do here, and If a vote la taken fr*om Middlesex, and I do nlot propose to
ln thia Ho'use on the question of ivhether oppose the second rendlng of tbe Bill.
bîcyclista shall be charged 10 cents tol],
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I arn glad to see that
I ehahl certainly -enst my vote against legisthere are a few provincial rIghters la the
lation which bringa ua back to the barbarHouse yet. I hope our friends wbo stood
Oua ages.
up for provincial riglits yesterday wvIll corne
Hon. '.%r. POWER-I was very glnd to to the rescue now. As we bave opened
hear the bon. gentleman from Middlesex tue door to legisîntion of thia kind, we
disclaimi any reapoasibllty for tbis -Bill. need not be aurprised at anything, but any
I underatood from him that hie almpify ln- one who renda this Bill and fanda that we
troduced it as an Act of courteay to the are asked to estoblial toils on a local bridge,
bon. gentleman la the other Chamber wbio must feel tbnt this la golng too far. Here
had it lu charge, and that lie did not hlm- la a iist of the toita to be authorized:
self assume any reaponsibility for the meaperson pasing on or over the
sure. I did not understand the hon. gen- For each or that portion of the approach
bridge
tleman from St. Thomas. or the hon, genlying between the bridge and Zwick's
_........5
......
iqland.. ......-....
tleman from Brockvilie to expresa thernChiîdren under six years of age accompaselves as being specially lu favour of pronied by parent or guardian.......F.ree
vincial riglits la this matter but rather to Automobiles...............10
express their surprise that ail lion. gentle- Bicycle and rider.............10 carniage, wagF]or every horse and single
man ýwho had beeu so distinguishied an
gon, cart, or other vehlicle and driver.. 10
was proposing For each carniage, waggon, cart; or other
advocate of provincial rights
vehlicle drawa by two horsea, driver and
a measure wbich was certalnly not ia the
horses included.............20
5
direction of supporting that principle. This For horses and cattie on foot, each..
awine, on
la much more a provincial mensure thon For calves, sheep. goats, and......
...
......
foot, each.. .. ....
the Bill which was deait 'with yesterday For every threshing mîlh, dloyen miii or
whlch we pasaed yes- * separaton................10
afternoon. The Bill
every mule..............
terdny deait wlth several miles of navI- *For every colt...............
For
Bihl slmply dents Farming implements dra;n*on their owa
gable -water, -white thîs
wheels.................
wîth a single bridge acrosa au arm of Lak(

SENATE
(In no case shall any traction or other
engine, or any load or waggon exceeding
three tons pass over the said bridge
without the permission of the Company.)
The toits hereby fixed are for passage
either way.
My bon. friend says that this is flot a
provincial matter; it 15 a municilpal mat-

ter and ouglit to be settled by the municipal council. I do flot thlnk it is a proper
matter to bie brouglit before this House,
and I therefore move that this Bill be flot
now read a second time, but that It be
rend a second time this day six months.
.Hon. Mr. POWER-I hope the hon, gentleman wiil flot persist in that motion.
Hon. '-%r. KEILR-It appears to me that
there lbas been about enougli said on the
subject of this Bill. It is a measure to
amend an Act of this parliament and is
entitled to cousideration.

This parliament

chose to pass an Act some years ago
whlch Is now ln force, and this is slmply
amendlng that Act and being a Dominion
Act there Is no other jurisdiction could dccl
with It. It la, at ail events, entltled to
the fair consideration whlch any Bill coming before this House should receive.
The principle
ofthVe Bill
Is
not
adopted by the second reading. It being
a private Bill. The tolls cliarged wll lie
subject to discussion before the Private
Buis Committee, and we ouglit, tiierefore,
wlthout further delay, give Vie Bill the
second reading.
Hon. Mfr. PERLEY-I had the plesuLre
the other day of travelling over that bridge
and lad to pay 30 cents, n mucli larger fee
Vian is dliarged in thîs Bill. I understand
Vie bridge was built by private enterprise
and bonused by tie counties of Hastings
and Prince Edward. It is flot a nmatter of
provincial riglits; it is a matter of persona!
riglits. The bridge ls a mile long, a very
expensive iron structure and the touls are
altogether too low.
They are not hlgh
enougli to give a reasonable retura on the
investment. In establishing these 10w
toila, we are legislating ngainst Vie rights
of private individuals.

and tatcîng a different. course to-day. Does
the hon, gentleman for a moment compare
this Bill with the one which was before the
flouse yesterday?'
The hon. gentleman
said yesterday that on account of provincial
rights lie would flot support thc Bill then
under conaideration wvithout having -an opinion from thc Supreme Court. If lie considered Viat necessary then, how does lie
iustify his support of tVis Bill?
I bave
seconded the motion for the six months'
hoîst and feel Viat I arn justified ln dolng
so. -This company possesses aIl the rlghts
conferred by the Act of Incorporation, and
can collect toîl.
Now they corne to this
parliament for legislation te increase Vie
burdens of the people who have to use thîs
bridge.
They have sougît this legislation
without properly advertislng their Intention
to Increase tise toil.
It is not enough to
tell us that tils Bill bans passed the House
of Com-mons and therefore we siiould adopt
it.
My hon. friend from Middlesex lias
evidently adopted a child 'wlthout knowing
Its parentage.
My hon. frlend from, Toronto comes tu the rescue, and gives a
reason why this matter sliould be taken out
of the bands ef thc municipallty and deait
wltli by the Dominion.
If the adoption of
the amcndrnent woutd ln any way Injure
the position the company occuples to-day, I
wouid hesitate to vote against the Bill; but
if the six months' lioist carrnes, they wll lie
left la the enjoyment of ail tli, rights thcy
possess under the existlng law,' and we
would prevent Vis company fromn inereasing the burdens on the people of tbnt
locallty.

I-on. '.%r. CLOR.AN-I have tIe statute 0f
1899 la my biands, and I should like a littie.
expînnation from experts la regard to this
inatter.
I should like to know how clause
10 happens to lie la this Act if it is altog-ether a municipal or provincial matter?
Clause 10 provîdes that Vie bridge ghali lie
provided m-ith a draw or swing so constructed as to have not less than 100 feet
space for thse passage of steamboats and
other craft, whlch draw shahl at ail tirnes
lie worked by thse company so as not to
delny unnecessarily thc passage of such
Hon. '%r. WILSON-I have been eharged steamers and craft, and shahl maintain
liy the bon. senattor froni :Middlesex with lights on Vie bridge.
That bridge could
having taken a certain course yesterday not be built without reference to thse fedeHlon. Mfr. DAVIS.

JUNE 19, 1908

1227

1227
JUNE 19, 1908
rai authorities.
The company would bave with by this pariament, tells me sornething
to sulimit their plans to the Publie Works whicli I regard as an absurdity.
HowDepartrnent and Marine -and Fisheries De- ever, in courtesy to my bon. friend wlio
partrnent here.
Aithougli It la essentinily has charge of the Bill (and I amn sorry
a local miatter, it interferes with -federai that he lias) and wltli the consent of. the
rigbts.
The bridge~ crosses a navigable seconder, I withdraw my motion.
water and can only lie constructed with the
Hon. Mr. WILSON-As lt Is the desire
sanction of the federal goverament.
Is
of the mover of the nrnendment to withthat aufficient to bring it under the juriadiction of the Dominion parliament?
We draw It, and I do flot desire to do any
are asked to rejeet the Bill on the ground Injustice to rny bon. friend from Middlethat It is purely a municipal and provincial sex, and as I fully appreciate the awkward
matter. If that can be establislied, I shahl position lie ls placed ln, feeling a deep
vote as I did yesterday; tbis parliament consideration for hlm, I consent to the
aliould not laterfere with local riglits. But witlidrawai of the motion.
this la simply an arndment to a federal
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I arn greatiy
Act, and surely we sliouid extend to the indebted to *my lion. friends for their exlion. inember who introduced the Bill the treme condescension and courtesy. It makes
courtesy of allowlng it to lie read the sec- me feel that my position in thie Senate is
ond time and be referred to the Private higher and nobler tlian I ever thouglit it
Bis Comrnittee, wliere it can be thoroughly was before. Sucli courtesy, lion. gentleconsidered.
men, marks an era ln my life. Reference
'Hon. Mr. POIRIER-If this cornpany de- was made to the circumstance of this Bill
not belng advertised, and, consequently, Its
aire any ameadment to tbe Bill It must
come to this House and therefore it la fol- provisions may not have been known in
the locallty. As a private Bill, it is neceslowing the proper course.
The original
Bill was apparently passed under Dominion sarily advertised for a number of weeka
jurisdiction on accouat of the fact that the ln a local journal and that would probridge Is over navigable water. Those peo- bably lie ln a newapaper publislied in tlie
pie are rightly before us now, and I dudn clty of Belleville, or la tlie county of
no fauit with tliem; but I doulit very mucli Prince Edward, so I think tliere ean he
that the people Who hive la that locality no doubt .that it was properly advertised.
and who are interested know of this at- However, the Bill will go before the proper
tempt to Impose wliat I consider unduly la- committee and we shahl know more of Its
creased tolls.
I believe we should flot fate thereafter. Personaliy, as I said liesanction sucli toila; but I also believe la fore, I arn acting as a matter of courtasy
lieing fair to ,people wlio are riglitly before to n gentleman la tlie other House and I
us.
The proper and legitirnate way to amn glad my hon. colleagues appreciate
deal with this Bill is to refer it to the corn- what may be called the courtesies of parmittee.
I shahl therefore, without coin- liament la this matter.
prorniaing rny attitude, vote against the six
The ameadment was withdrawn.
months' hoist. reserving to myseif the priviThe Bill was then read the second tine.
lege of dealiag with the Bill witliout gloves
wlien it cornes before the cormlittee.
PRISONS AND REFORMATORIES (N.S.)
ACT AMENDMNENT BILL.
lion. -%Ir. i'-i.I
s-I
take Issue witn my
hon. friend who thlnks this ls a Dominion COMMONS AMENDÎ&ENTS CONCURRED
The original Act sliould neyerIN
matter.
have been passed by this parliarnent. The
Hon. '.%r. POWE.R moyed concurrence ln
lion, gentleman says that the fact that the the arndments made by tlie Hlouse of
bridge crosses navigable water briags it Commons to Bihl (KK) An Act to arnend
under our jurisdiction. Any one who will the Prisons and Reformatories la so far
tell me that the collection of toila on a as the sarne affects the province of Nova
local bridge is a proper subject to be deait Scotia. He said: The first ameadment Is

1228

SENATE

SENATE
1228
to leave out clause 1. Without the clause, past? The passivity of the department with
part 1 of the Prisons and Reformatories reference to the enforcement of the law
Act applies to ail Canada and this clause bas been a matter of criticism for several
was inserted ln order tbat the ordina-ry years. One can scarcely take up an
readers of the measure 'wouId understand Englisb newspaper without findîng very
that fact. But It was flot necessary as a severe criticism -upon the laxity of the wCanamatter of law, so that there can be no par- dian governaient with reference to inspectticular objection to accepting that amend- ing the various exports which are sent ta
Enghand from time to time, and whicb cerment.
tainly should be enforced most strictly unHon. Mr. DeBOUCHIERVILLE-Doe-q
der the Act. If the Canadian market is
the amendaient concern subclause (c) of
sufferlng from one thlng more than anclause 1 ?
other, It la the Indifference of the gavera.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The first clause ln ment ln exercislng the autborlty which is
the Bill was flot necessary. It was simply v'ested ln them as to the inspection of exintended for the Information of persans ports such as thaose enumerated.
Nfay I
not famllar with the Revised Statutes. In ask my hon. frlend If bis attention bas been
chapter 148 of the Revised Statutes there directed to, the causes -which I bave ýmenare a number of clauses under the general tioned, and the bearing upon our exports,
heading 'Part 1, General.' All the sections partlcularly ta the Enghish market?
under the headlng 'Generai'1 apply to, the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It must be in the
whole of Canada. Then there are certain
immediate recollection of everybody that
other parts of the Act which apply to, the
those products are the result of the
several provinces, so that the original
industry of hundreds of thousands of
was not necessary and the amendclause
people, and It Is very difficuit indeed to
ment made by the Gommons does not alter
fallow the articles of butter, cheese
the effect of the Bill. The other amendand apples and the other things, unless you
ments are purely formaI.
appoint an addltlonah number of Inspectors.
The motion was agreed to.
However, the importance of proper inspecbon. frlend is quite
M-Ny
tion is apparent.
INSPECTION AND eSALE ACT AMEND- right la referrlng to the criticism la the
MENT BILL.
British press on the defective fruit, cheese
and butter, and other products of the farm.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read- This Bill authorizes the Mi1nister of ýAgriing of Bll (148) An Act to amend the In- culture ta Increase the number of inspecThat is one of the provisions of it.
tors.
spection and Sale Act.
He said: The Bill before us refers chiefly to, the changes ln the Act with regard
to dairy produets, fruits and fruit marks.
The effect is to exercise g-reater care, seeing
that marks indicating the quality are flot
removed, and lncreasing the penalty. Lt
is a matter purely of detail, and 1 shahl be
glad to gîve full information when the Bill
There is no new
goes into committee.
principle lnvolved lu the Bill, slmply mere
details made froin time to time fromn experience in the department.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-M-Nay 1 ask my
hon. friend if the passage of those numerous amendaients is calculated to induce the
department ta enforce this Act to any
greater extent than it has enforced It ln the
Hon. Mr. POWER.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What are the
present lnspectors doing?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They do not seemu ta
I arn somefollow every case and barrel.
what of a critique la regard ta fruit, and
I flnd barrels marked XX and No. 1, ani
1 find a large arnount of scrubby fruit in
theai, but I recognize the difficulty. Lt la
unfortunate that thie producers la Canada
do flot comprebend the v alue of giving an
increased importance ta the inspection of
their food pr.oducts that they send abroad.
Take
They could send twlce the amount.
Apples could
apples as an Illustration.
just as well command a higher price on the
London market, by exercising greater care
0f course producers are stand*n packing-.

JUNE 19,1908

1229

JUNE 19, 1908
1229
the former Act and the reason I make
the observation is this : there bas been .9
great deal of public criticism and very
deep-seated feeling, particularly in the Ynkon, with reference to the policy of the
government lu prectically vestlng la a large
mlniag corporation known as the Guggeahelms, most of the placer miuing ln that
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
country. It Is said that this firm, a forwas read the second time.
elgn corporation, without practiclly. any
PLACER MINING ACT -kMfEND- lnterest la the Dominion o! Canada, conYUKON
trois nearly the whole of the placer mlnlng
MENT BILL.
o! substantiel value la the Yukon TerriSECOND READING.
tory. Wlthout professing to be very femiHoa. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read- liar wilh the operation of this Act upon
ing of Bill (150) -Au Act to amend the their lnterests, It %vould look to me that
Yukon Placer MIning Act.
possibly the exception o! this particular
He said: In the early history of the ciass of streames may have arisen owing to
Yukon country, the personai management the interest and the Influence of that comnof the mines was purely by the agents there, pany. Can my hon. friend say anything
and under Orders lu Concil, no doubt very! upon the subject ?
many mistakes were made, as was-nntural,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I really could not.
and from time to time those Orders In CounA year I notice that- la the arndment the size
cil were amended and changed.
or two ago I think they were crystallized o! the stream is considerably reduced. It
Into the form of Acts of parliament, and reads la the Act :
now they find in the experlence of last
Creek
year, that It is necessary to meke a variety courses, means and includes ail natural waterwhether usually contaiaing water or
Hon, gentlemen wlll note the not.
of changes.
changes, If they take the Bill as introduced
The amendment restricts that to
They can folin the House of Commons.
A water-course not exceeding 150 feet in
matter out by reference to that
10w the
Bill when the House goes into commlttee. width.
So that It la qulte clear It Is lu the naThey are ail matters of detail, and are not
ture of a reduction. 1 wlll be giad to
establlshing a new precedent.
as to whether It bears
Hon. Mr. KERR-The Bill, as orlginaily make some inquiry
dlaims. I understand,
introduced In the Commons, is in parallel on the Guggenheim
but I cannot speak authoritatively, thet
columns.
they have purchased individuel rights In a
Hon. -Mr. SCOTT-They reprinted the Bill large number o! cases.
and dropped out the explanatory observaHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-M.Nay I ask my
tions, and I suggest, theirefore, that copies
should be obtained by hon, gentlemen, and hou. friend, so that we cau more Intellithe matter can be discussed la commlttee. gentiy discuss this la committee, to ascèrtain-and the Information will be wlthia
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Mlght I ask my reach of my bon. friend If he asks for Ithon. friend why, la the first paragraph, a as to what the interests of the Guggenvery Important exception is made by whlch heinis are la the Yukon Territory, la the
the operation of the Act does not extend placer mining, and as to their bydraulic
to streams which may be.considered rIvers interests. It seems to me that consideraln the provision o! the dredging regulations:- tion might have a very Important bearing
that Is streams liavlng an average width upon the BihI.
of 150 feet. Without havlng looked very
The motion was agreed to, and elhe Bihi
carefully Into It, inferentially, 1 should say
that this cless of stream was lncluded la wns read the second time.

iag in their own light in flot keeplng up
Inspectors are constantly
the standard.
callng attention to the inatter of flot properiy curing cheese. It Is hoped that some
improvement will arise ln consequence of
this Bill. One of the adantages is ta-king
power to increase the number ef Inspectors.

19,30

SENATE

1230

SENATE

ISSUE

0F DOMINION

NOTES BILL.

FIRST READING.
A message was recelved from thé House
of Commons with Bill (159) An Act repecting the issue of Dominion notes.
Trhe Bill was read the first Urne.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill be
read the second time on Tuesday next.
He sald: This Bill confirma the action of
the government hast autumn ln maklng un
advance for the purpose of movlng the
grain from the Northwest.
The motion was agreéd to.
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday next
at three o'clock.

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA,

Tuesday. June 23, 1908.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
PAYMENTS TO ALEXANDRE TASOHEREAU.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
1. Have the comuvissioners of the Transcontinental railway ever paid a sum of $29.20 for
judicial expenses to Mr. Alexandre Taschereau, of Quebec, advocate, an ex-alderman of
the city of Quebec?
2. What is the nature of those expenses?
3. Were they not incurred, to aid the swearing in of a certain number of constablesP
4. For whiat abject and for what purpose
were these constables sworn?
5. Where did they serve?
6. What was their number?
7. Was Mr. Taschereau paid. a uniform price
for the swearing in of each of them, -and what
is that price?
8. Multiplying that individual price by the
number of constables sworn in and deducting
f rom the sum total paid. the produet thus ohtained. for what was the difference which remained utilized?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers given me
are as follows:
1 and 2. The commissioners reimbursed
of Quebcc,
Alexandre Taschereau, K.C.,
advocate, the sum of $29.20 for cash disbursements paid by hlm to police court iiicurred ln connection with the arrest of
Monaco and Lacoste for offences committed
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

on the hune of the Transcontinental
way.

Rail-

Hon. Mr. I.,ÂNDPRY-Were those expenses
incurred to pay for the swearlng in of n
certain number of constables?
Hon. Mr. SOOTT--I can only read, the
answer as It Is furnlbed to me, and 1
thlnk the mile Is that a member Is oblged
to accept the answer offered.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is that answer given
by Mr. Ryan?
.Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, it las by the secretary of the Department of Raihways. 1
suppose he igot It from the commissioner.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I wlil see what he
has subm*tted, and will give notice again
for the remalnlng questions.
Hon. Mr. POWiER-Tbe disbursements
connected with the prosecution would include constable's fees.
Hon. Mm. LANDRY-.Perhaps the bon.
gentleman from Halifax is better posted
than the minister.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I wns only suggeting that the expenses connected wlth the
prosecution of those men -would Include
constable's fees.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Why does the minIster not say so ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Perhaps they'have Pot
the information.
Hon. *Mr. LANDRY-Wby do they not
insert It ln the Auditor Generah's Report?
QUEBEO BRIDGE AND RAILWAY COMPANY.
INQUIRY POSTIPONED.
The order of the day being calied:
Hon. Mm. LANDRY hnquired :
1. The government, in 1903, .having concluded with the Quebec Bridge and Railway Company, a financial arrangement in which. one
of the obligations of the contract was the immediate subscription of additional shames to
the amount of $200,O00, who are the paýrties
that 6ubscribed the additional amount?
2. How many shames have beau subscribed
by or alloted. to each shameholder?
3. Did the company afterwards devote the
amount which it iso obtained ta pay for womks
chargeable to capital, or has it not rather
employed almost the whoie of that sum, ta

JUNE 23. 1908

1231

JIJNE 23. 1908

1231

wit : $188,721, in payment of the discount at turn, and then it will be sent to ail the dewhich eecurities of the company had been
issued, the builder of the piers -of the bridge partments.

having consented to extinguish. a claim of
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wi1th the permission
$283,279 which hie had against the company by
taking debentures of -the said company to the of the House, I will change my inquiry into
amount of $472,00, that je ta say. at a dis- a motion for a return.
count of 40 per cent?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have flot the ans wer

to that question.
The SPEÂKER-It wll stand.
CONDUCT OF INTERCOLONIÂL FOREMAN.

Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I have no objection.
The.motion was ngreed to.
THE EXCIIEQUER COURTJ

JUDGE.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Before the orders of the day are called, I *want ±o ask
my hon. friend the leader of the ïHouse
whetber an ad hoc judge bas been appointed

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY lnquired:
1. le it true that the government has ordered to take up the work of the Exehequer
an inquiry into the. conduct of Mr. J. Me- Court? I amn led ta ask this question fromn
Govern, foreman of the Intercolonial Railway the f act that wben adjourning a 'few
between Lévis and Rivière du Loup?
2. Ras this inquiry been ordered as the re- days ago, the inquiry Into the Marine Desuit of grave accusations of apeculation partment wbich Judge Cassels le naking,
brought against this employee.
bie is reported in the papers ta have
3. What je the precise nature of the accusations the truth of which the commiesioner said that adequate provision bad not
holding the inquiry has been ordered to find been made In the iaw ta enable a judge
ont?
.4. Who has been appointed commissioner to to be appolnted to take bis place, and consehold the inquiry? Is it Mr. T. C. Burpee. of quently hie was obliged to, adjourn the inMoncton? If not. who?
vestigation until September.
-He added
5. When was the. appointment made, and
that the provision that was -made ln the law
when is the inquiry to commence?
was flot broad enough to enabie bis assisHon. Mr. SCOTT-They teli me tbey have
tant to undertake the court work. I ebould
wired for an answer. I do flot know wlby
like to know how the matter stands.
Is
they have not had an answer. They sbotnld
it true that no ad hac judge bas been aphave it before thus. The last reply was
pointed, and that, ln consequence, Judge
that they were expectlng It. It will proCassels bas been obliged to adjourn this
bably corne ln a day or two.
inquiry Into the Marine Department until
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I suppose the wires September, and If It le true, is It due to a
are eut ?
defect in the Act? My hon. friend wiil
remember that wben It was passing through
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know.
this House I poInted out that ln my judgPÂYMENTS TO ALEXANDRE TÂSOHE- ment the provision of the law was not broad
enough ta permit the appointment of an adREAU.
hac judgc ta take the place of Judge CasINQtJIRY.
sels when hie wouid go away, and that the
*Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
Marine inquîry was flot of the character
1. How mucli has Mr. Alexandre Tasche- that would admit of an ad hoc appointreau, of Quebec, received each year from the. ment. It was flot really judicial work. I
Federal treasury during the. years 19051-6, 1906called attention ta that point, and itbou.ght
7 and 1907-8?
2. On what date was each ainount paid P
it was worthy of consideration. Perbaps
3. For what services in the. public interest,
and how much for each service, was paid ta zny hon. friend wili be able ta tell us ail
about it, and if an ad bac judge bas not
hum each time?
been appointed, wby?
Hlon. Mfr. SCOTT-That, of course, cannot

be answered ln the farm ln whicb it ap'Hon. Mr. .SCOTT-Speaking subject to
pears, because it -would involve getting correction, I do not tbink an ad hoc judge
answers from ail the departments.
The has been appointed.
I have not beard the
bon, gentleman had better move for a re- subJect brought up when I was ia -councl.

SENATE

1232

SEINATE
Wlien the Bill was before the House, ny about it, and the statement was made by
attention was drawn to this point by Judge Cassels, what la the matter witli the
the bon. senator from De Salaberry law that the goverument lias not been able
and probably by my hou. friend and to make the appointment?
other gentlemen, and -I thinl, the Bill
The
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Hear, bear.
was lield over for a day or two iu order law la aIl riglit.
to get the opini!on of the Minister of Justice.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The law Is not
I SaW hlm aud lie expressed the opinion
that the words in the Bill were quite large aIl right.
enough to admit of an ad hoc judge belng
FRENCHI TRANSLATION 0F CIVIL
appointed ln the place of the present judge.
SERVICE REPORT.
That is the only explanation I can give. I
was not aware that Judge Cassels had giveli
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-May I lie allowed
that opinion, thougli lie xnay have doue so
to, ask the hou. leader of the House If he
wlthout my attention havlng been called to
lias any Information to give us concernlng
I tlilnk when Judge Cassels was first
It.
tlie Frenchi translation of the report of
appointed lie took the ground that lie would
the Civil Service Commission? The Engndt do auy work durlng what la cnlled the
ul version of that report was laid ou the
vacation. Judges are rather tenaclous of
of the House long ago, and I suppose
having liolidays durlng July and 'August, table
edition
did lie gay lie would we mîglit ask wlere las the Frenchi
and I think ut no time
got to ?
carry on the Investigation during those
That la my recollection of what
months.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I liad a report on
occurred soon after his appolntment.
that matter la my desk for several days,
put, and I
Hon. Mr. FEiRGUSO.N,-Of course I do thinking the question mîglit lIe
not know what may have taken place priv- canaot lay my biand on It just 110w; but,
I
ately between the lion, gentleman and his speaking from mernory, -the information
bon. senator from De lad was tliat only about a fourth or a
supporters; but the
to
Salaberry was flot heard f rom in the -House third of the translation liad been sent
us. I the Bureau. I amn speaklng subject to corou that point wlien the Bill was before
raised tbe point, and my hion. friend the rection. That la slmply fromn memoiy. I
leader of the House said that the Mlnlster made inquiry when the bon. gentleman firat
of Justice lad been consulted about It, and brouglit up the question, and It seems to
tuat he part iculaýrly prided himself upon his me that that la the s.nswer I got, that the
I
sklll ln drafting measures of that kind. 'Mly translation bad not been completed.
lio9
mmnd turued at once to the subsidies ad- will make furtber lnquiry and let the
d'ess of last year, whidi lie had drafted and gentleman know to-morrow.
whichl took a good deal of trouble to put It
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We feel that It lias
riglit. However, we bave nothing to do vwlth not been completed.
that just now. The statement was mnade in
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It la not the fault of
the press last week, headed 'a bungle,' that
this House was the Bureau.
the Bill that was passed by
not broad en-ougli to admit of the registrar
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We kuow it is flot
AIl It the fanît of the lion, gentleman.
being appointed to uct as a judge.
did was to permit hlm to do chamber work.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It say It la not Uic
While there was onie clause in the Bill
that, there was another fault of the Bureau.
which provided for
clause lu the Bill1 that permitted as a perHon. Mr. LANDRY-Tlie lion. gentlemlan
manent statute that an ad hoc judge lie wlll procure the information for us?
ndmitted wheu the judge was a-way
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. Wben the Buon judîcial worlç, and It was held there was
the Immediate passing reau has been dliarged witli delay, on maka g-reat demaud for
Now I thiuk we have a riglit ing lnquiry, I bave invariably fouud that
of that Bill.
to know, wlieu the newspapers know al the fault was elsewbere.
1232

Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JUNE 23, 1908

13
1233

ais governed the affaîrs of the Northwest
Territories la the early days. The evoluSECOND READING.
tion to whlicb my bon. friend refera, of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read- c~ourse, is a very pleasing one : that ls in
Ing of Bill (169) An Act to amend the Yu- the way -of departlag from the nominative
kýon Act.
council that formeriy governed tbe Yukon
He said: As time wore on, greater privi- Territory te that of an elective assembly;
leges in the administration of the Yukon but It must be remembered that even in
country bave naturaily been demanded by
te early days of the Northwest Territories.
the people, and this Bill now before us, wben there was less opportuaity for the
proposes te make a number of changes: machinery of gevernment te work more
among others, the council will be ail eiec- smoothiy than in the Yukon Terrltories,
tive. At present, as bon, gentlemen knotw, tbere -was a lieutenant governor appoInted,
one-haif of them are appointed. :Then and bie w-as vested with ail the functions
the commissioner Ia council may prescribe of n lieutenant governor under the constituthe qualifications. At present there are tien, even at n time whien therè was not
none. The life of the council 15sextended an elective couacil, when the councl was
now for tbree years instead ef two, as nt entirely nominative. This Bill, however,
present. Imitating tbe provincial constitu- dees net propose te incerporate into tbe
tion te soine exteat, when a mnoney grant government of the Yukon Territory a repreIs te be voted by councl, It bas te be sentative ot the soverelgu known as the
recommended by the administrator, the lieutenant governor, but a commissioner la
commIssioner. Thien there Is a provision conncl vested 'with ai tbe powers. se tar
made for the auditlag of the acceunts.*
as I can observe, and se far as the statute
Why
'Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I should like te can give, ef a lieutenant governer.
obtain some Information fromn my lion. there should be an absence of the provifriend as to what bas led tbe goverament te sion te whlch I bave alluded, 1 cannet unadopt wbat 1 might terni a bybrid or expP.- derstand nor appreciate. It seems te me
rimental systeni of governmeat for the Yu- that If tbe people of tbe Yukon Territory
kon, particulariy ln view of the fact tiat are entled te an elective systemn of govwe bave upon our statute-book or witbin erament, If they are entitled te have the
elect
our constitution tbe miost complete systein nominative systein wiped out and
who wilI meet In
their representatives
ef machlnery for tbe government of proI counicil, there Is ne reason why the machivinces tbat ea very weii be devised.
wouid point out to my hon. friend tbe nery of goverament whleh we bad la tbe
rather strange anomaiy of givlng repre- early days provlded fer the Northwest TerIn the
sentative goverument to thîs territory with- ritories, and whilb to-day ebtains
wbole of the Dominion of Canada, witb
out adopting tbe samne machlnery whlcb
It the exception ef the Yukon Territory, and
obtains In the rest of the provinces.
net obmlbt be peinted eut thrat the Bill wbicb the unerganized districts, sbould
is very careful to tain tbere. Tbere is a strange anemaifly
we are now considering
woul"d
elude, so te speak, the appolntment of .9 albout this Bill te w1ilch 1
wbIcb direct my hon. frlend*s attention, and
lieutenant governer and a cabinet
of the elected
would be respeasibie to an elective House. that is, it requires the whioie
members te constîtute the council. They
Wby the power of a comniasioner in cotînassembcil should remain, and wby that commis- apparentiy sit as a legisiative
iy, and they aiso sit la the capacity
sioner should be vested witb ail the powers
Mrby
a provincial cabinet.
of a lieutenant governor wlthout being re- practicaiiy et
tbat sbould be se I am unaware. We very
garded as a lieutenant governor. and, In
whicb thie
fact, without being appoiated as a leute- weli know the struggles threugh
oid provinces ef Canada passed before there
nant governor, I cannot very weli understand. I apprehend the object that the was a cabinet responsibie te the elective
goverament had In view Ia the pre- House, and it seenis to me thiat the present
paratIon of this Bill was such a ceunil macbinery is golng te result la a clash be
YUKON ACT AMENDMENT

BILL.

78
REVISED EDITION

1234

SENATE

1234
SENATE
tweeu the commissioner and the commis- fallen off, and therefore the Bill, lu my
sioner ln council. The commissioner has judgment, is givlng them lncreased reprefull authorlty to dissolve the House ut any sentation, gradually extending to thern ail
tirne. Let us assume for the moment that' the features of responsible goverument; but
the commissioner Is regarded as the repre- to go any further would really malce the
Less than 10,000 people
seutative of the federai goverument, as be thing ridiculous.
will scattered over a thousaud miles of terrltory
undoubtediy Is, and the federal House
vote certain supplies for tbe adrnnstratioa -to say that they sbaIl bave a sirnilar govof the governrnent lu the Yukon Terrltory, erumentand the elective council sittlug wlth the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEEFD-Wlthout deslring
commlssioner lu council should flot be able ta lnterrupt my hon. friend, I would asic
to agree with the commissioner as to the wherein it fails short of any ef the
expenditure of those supplies, what wouid broader princîples of representative goverube tbe resuit ? Tbe resuit will be th-it ment. The assernbly is elective and bas
there ls no body such as a cabinet respon- a right to sit wlth the commissioner
sible to the assembly itself, because the in council and vote supplies. They have
members who are elected ta represent the a right ta sit -wlth the commissioner lni counentire territory wfll naturally maintain cil and vote indernnity ta themselves, and
whatever poli.cy they may decide upon, even lu this way, I subrnlt, the machine-y is pracagainst the commissioner. The commis- tically as broad, so far as administerlng
sioner la then vested with authority ta at the more Important principles of governonce dissolve the assernbly, and ta bring ment as that we have lu the other proon another election. This, 1 contend, is a vinces.
-If tise hon. gentleman will point
hybrid system of goverunent, ls experi- out wherein it la differentmental, la a serious departure from the
'Hon. Mr. SCOTT-For Instance we apweli establisbed form of responsîble govThat is one
point the Auditor General.
erunent which we bave lu the other parts
I think when we go Into comrnitthlng.
of the Dominion, and there Is no good reatee, my hion. friend will find ample proof
son whatever why the government shouid
that the power of the commissioner Is mucis
Introduce a system of this klnd. The peolieutenant
lu my judg- more limlted than that of the
ple of the Yukon Territory,
governor.
meut, are entitled to bave the same instiHou. Mr. P.ERLE Y-W ould It not be an
tutions of representative government, once
to them the rigbt of an elective advisable policy toannnex the Yuk-on Terriyou accord
assembIy that the other portions of the tory ta British CJolumbia?
Dominion enjoy. Can rny hon. friend give
,Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That would not be a
the Chamber any Information as ta why the bad iden. It will corne ta that sorne day.
goverument stopped short iu adoptIng the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I draw the attention
same Bystem of goverument whieh we have
of the hon, gentleman from Cnlgary ta the
lu the other provinces of Canada ?
fact that the question of quorum for the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-For the very good rea- couneil it settled by the Interpretation Act.
son that there is not really a permanent
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I did flot say
Peopopulation lu -the Yukon Territory.
pie corne and go. It wouid be rather a anything about that.
farce-perhaps that is too strong a wordThe motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
to invest: a cornmunlty of that kind wlth was rend the second time.
the powers given to a province. The popuTOWNSEND DIVORCE BILL.
lation of the whole territory is less than
10,000. Surely it would be maklng a toy
REPORT 0F COMMITTEE ÂDOPTED.
of a goverument if you were to give ail the
The order of the day bein.- called :
ceremonlal incident to constitutîflg a proConsideration of the tenth report of the
I
vince or cornmunity of that number.
Standin comrnittee- on divorce, ta whorn was
the population la referredgthe petition of Arthur James Townsamn told that lu Dawson
It bas end, together with evidence.
ouly ln the nelgbbourhood of 2,500.
Hlon. Mr. LOUGUHEED.

JUNE 23,1908

1285

JUNE 23, 1908

1235

Hon. Mfr. McMULLEN moved tliat the
report be adopted. He said: I presume
that the evidence haD been carefully looked
Lt
over by every member of the House.
was circulated somne days ago. Any one
wjh 0 bas read it must have corne to the
conclusion tbat tbe petitioner is justly Pntitled to relief. A more forgiving busbaud
I neyer beard of. That must be the conclusion of every one wbo has rend the evldence. HIe tried in every way he could to
have bis wtfe corne back to ber horne, bul:
failed.
Hon. Mfr. CLORAN rose to move in
amendment :
That the said report and Bill be amnded
by providing that the guilty party in said
divorce, to wit, the said Cora Leffler Townsend,
shali not bave the right te rernarry, and if
such party remarries, ehe shali be considered
a bigamist under the Criminal Code of Canada.
.He said: I most beartlly and coascientiously agree with tbe temporary chairman
of the committee, In wbat lie lias sald
about tbis case. If a man ever suif ered
from a woman's conduct Iltbe petitioner;
but I would wisb tbat an 014 father of
tbe country like tbe hon. senator from
Wellington bad nlot placed on my shoulders
the duty of protecting society. He says
tbat tbe busband la entltled to a divorce.
I arn witb hlm, but wbat does he say about
tbe prostitute wife? Why dld he nlot recommend ta tbis bonourable House and ta
parliarnent, that sbe sbould nlot have the
rigbt to rernarry ? I go tbe wbole road
witb bimi; but be stops sbort. Hle tells us
Ijiat tUis man is entitied to a divorce be-cause tbe wlfe became a noted public prostitute three weeks after ber marriage. My
ameudmeat is nlot against bis proposition,
but la ta prevent this woman from baing
tbe riglit te enter some respectable family
la Canada. I do nlot libend to make any
sermon, as my Dutcb friend fro.m the west
(Hon. '-%r. Kircbboffer), sald the otber day.
It is flot bonest for the parliamefit of Canada to grant tbe gulity party the right to
remarry and repeat ber wroagdoing. I know
tbere are several members of the Divorce
Committee wbo sbare my vlew on tbis
point. Under tbe circumstances, it would
be degrading parliameat to give the guilty
party the rigbt to remarry wltbln our bor7si

ders; or If sbe should remarry outside o!
our bordera, to recognize ber In Canada as
an boneat woman. If the bon. senators
o! this country tblnk tbat a common prostitute sbould »ave tbe riglit te remarry,
let tbem vote agaînat my ameadment. I.
flnd I have no seconder for my motion.
Tbe boa. senafor from Wolseley (Hon. Me.
Perley) and tbe boa. senator from Rotbesay
(Hon. Mr. Domvllle) are absent. If tbey
were present eltber one of tbem 'would bave
seconded tbe motion.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Ia order to relleve
the bon. gentleman of bis dlfficulty, I arn
willlng to second tbe amendment.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I rîse to a poitt
o! order. This resolution proposes to amend
the report o! the committee. I submlt tint
the report cannot be amended Ia this wny.
The motion sbould. be to amend the Bill.
and not tbe report. The comrnittee could*
only report on the evîdeace, and the report
cannot be amended beyond what tbe commlttee could bave reported upon.
The SPEAKER-I Intended to 4maw tbe
bon. gentleman's attention to the f act that
the amendniclt was îrregular, and sbould
be moved at tbe second readlng of the
Bill.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I give the ame notice, and I hope somebody will be able ta
second it by the time tbe Bill cornes before the House.
The motion ivas agreed to, and the report
was adopted on a division.
LAND TITLES ACT ASSURANCE FUND
BILL.
IN COMMITTEE.
The House resolved itself into a Committee of the Wbole on Bill (168) An Act to
autborize the paymeat to the provinces of
Saskatchewan and Alberta o! part of the
Assurance Fund under the Land Tities
Act' 1894.
(Ia tbe Comrnittee).
Hon. Mn. SCOTT-Tbis la very much
of a formai mensure. It ia to complete
the autonomy, practically, o! tbe two new
provinces, Alberta and Saskatebewan, Iaasmucb as they bave now an Act and have

SENATE

1236

SENATE

1236
iegislated.

This Bill is for the purpose of

transferring the nioney. As the rnoney was
received generally. before the two provinces
were called lato existence, there xnny be' a
question as to the proportitn wblch eacb
should receive, and therefore, provision Is
made that iu case dîfferences should arise,
the inatter may be settled by arbitration.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-HEow machi does
thîs fund amount ta ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Between $150,000 and
f160,000.

charged and that it be flxed for Tuesday
neit.
-Hon. Mr. DOUGHE'ED-What object bas
May I ask
the hion. gentleman lu view?
also of the leader of the House If lie lias
dlrected the attention of the government to
thîs Bill, and whetlxer the government ls
prepared to assume the responslillty of
passing It?

Hon. Mr. SOOT'T-I wrote the followiug
letter to M*r. Aylesworth:
Dear Mr. Aylesworth,--There is a Bill before
the Senate (PP), promotod by Senator CasHon. Mr. LOUGHEFED-Can my hou. grain sud supporte-d by Senator fléique and
friend say 1mw mucli the goverument lias athors, striking out the words ' property and
been called upon ta pay ont of this fund? assets' in the fifth ýline of section 138 of the
Railway Act, Chapter 37, Revised Statutes.
The argument used is that the words ' proHon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn not aware that
and assets' were iuadvertently added
sali- perty
:-ny lias been pald. Of course I speak
to ' rents and revenues.' as no explanation
ject ta correction.
can be lie obtained as to how the two words
came te ho inserted. The law clerk of the
Hon. Mr. BELCGOURT-I suppose the Railway Department who drafted the Bill ha*
no recollection of having insorted them in
trust is ta -be continued la tIe sane way?
the Bill of 1903. If 'property and assets' are
-Hon. Mr. SCOTT No, we .hand over the ta lie -made subject to all the items of working
defined in the interpretation
money ta thse two provinces and they give expenditure asser4onsly affect the interests of
clause it will
us securlty agalnst any dlaIms of that kind the hondholders, as instances can ho griven
where the amount would rua juta the hundreds
la tise future.
of thousands of dollars.
I inclose Yeu a memo. givîng the pointsHon. Mr. BELCOURT-But thse money Is
having boen asked by the Sonate ta obtain
ta be nsed for the saine purpose?
your viewe.
Yours truly,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tlie indemnity -is pro- The Hon. Â. B. Âylesworth,
vlided for ia clause 3 as folows:
Minister of Justice.

3. No part of the amount se agroed upon
or d.termined as payable ta either of the said
provinces shaîl be paid until undemnity, satisfactory ta the Governor in Council, lias been
given by the Lieutenant Gaveruor in Couneil
of that province ta the gaverament of Canada egainst any dlaim upon the said assurance
fund with respect ta transactions relating ta
lands now withiu. that province, and against
any costs, charges or expenses with respect
ta any such dlaim.
Thse lion. gentleman wiIl see that w-e are
compîetely indeînnified.

To this letter I
reply:

received

the fallowing

Ottawa, June 20, 1908.
Dear Mr. Scott,-I arn duly in receipt of
your letter of the l5th instant referring ta
the Bill (PP), now beforo the Senato, ta stril.,
ont the words 'property and assets' in the
5th line of section 188 of the Railway Act,
chapter 37 Revised Statutes, and yen state
that you have been asked by the Senate te
obtain my viows in the matter.
I thiak the question whether these wards
should or should icat remain in the statute
is entirely one of policy, and, therefore, one
Han. Mr. YOtTNý,G from the committee re- upon which I arn not competent ta advise parlisaient, except te the extent ta which as a
ported the Bill withxont amendment.
member of the House of Comnians, I miglit
venture ta express in the Hlouse aay opinion
RAILWAY ACT AMENDM'BNT BILL.
I miglit entertain.
I arn quite unablo ta offer any suggestion as
COMMITTEE STAGE POSTPONED.
ta what may have been inteaded by parli.ament
when those words were inserted in the section
The order of tise day being called:
in question iu 1903. I should think it prob
Hanse again in committee of the Whole on able they were repeated in the proviso of the
(Bull PP) An Act ta amend the Railway Act section bocause they appeared iu the onumneras regards the preferential charge created by atian of the property of the company which
the issue or socurities.-(Hou. Mr. Casgrain.) might ho made the eubject of the ninctgage
-Hon. Mr. POWE1R (in tise absence of Hon. deed. logal effect of the presenoe, in the provisa
The
Mr. Casgraln) moyed that the order lie dis- of these words is, of course, as you state, that

Hom. Mr SCOTT.

JUNE 23.1908

1237

JUNE 23. 1908

1237

the Penalties mentioned in the clause, as weli
as the working expeuditure of the. railway
are made a charge upon ail of the mortgaged
property, prier to the mortgage encumbrance.
Whether or no parliament in 1903 appreciated
and intended to produce this eflect I arn
unable to say.
I remain,
Yours faithfully,
A. B. AYLESWORTH.
The Hlonourable R. W. Scott,
Secretary of State.
The memorandum attached to the correspondence la as follows:
RE MORTGAGE ON RAILWÂYS.
By section 94 of the. Railway Act, 18W. the.
uiortgage deed was security upon the whole of
the. property, assets, rents and revenues of the.
company present or -future, or bath s deecriber in the said deed, but such rents and
revenues shall b. subject in the firat instance
Wothe payment of any penalty imposed and
snunexed to the paymeut of the. wonkiug expenditure of the railway.
By section 112 of the Act of 1,903, providing
for the creation of mortgages which xnay
embrace the whoie of the. property, assets,
reuts and revenues of the company, preselut
or future or both as described therein, but
sucli property, assets, reuts and revenues shall
be subject to the payment of anyr penalty and
te the payment of the. wonkiug expenditure of
the railway.
It is alleged that the words .'property and
assets' were inserted by mistake, as it does
net appear that auy reference was made to
the. clause in either the. Senate or House of
Commons. It is cousidered that the includiug
of 'property and assets' weakeus the value
of the mertgage very serîlously.
The motion was agreed to.

word, figure, or other means whatsoever of
indicating. or of purporting te indicate, quaiity, quantity, or weight of gold, or of silver,
or of any alloy of gold or of silver, or quality
of gold or silver plate.
Hon. Mr~. SCOTT-This is the interpretation clause.
I move that the l5th hune be
amended by struking out the word 'quality'
and inserting 'kind.'
,Hon. Mr. GIBSON-' Khnd' might describe Australlan, United States or Cauadhan
Cold, but it might be of any quaiity. Yen
would have te described where the gold
came frein.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We eau put lu both
werds.
Hou. Mr. GIBSON-That weuld be better,
because quality is the essence cf the -Bill.
I sbould be serry te see the. word quallty
erased «frein the Bill.
The clause was ameaded and adopted.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I want te change the
word 'lmported,' substitutiug -fer it the
words 'brought iu.'
The. expression is
larger.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Any eue mhght bring
lu a gold article without payiug duty; tuis
would be eucouragiug smuggllng.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-But the t&ct is luteuded te apply te dealers.
Hou. Mr. GIBSON-Then 1V
,seems -te me
SALE AND 3IARKING OF GOLD, SIL- we could net briug lu the goods without
VER AND PLATED WAýRE BILL.
Importing thein.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHIEED-This la restrlcted
IN COMMITTEE.
The Heuse reselved iute a Committee of te goods imported inte Canada before the
the Wliele on Bill (AAÀ) An Act respectlng passage of thia Act.
-the sale and marking of manufactures of
Hou. Mr. GIBSON-That may b. se, but
gold and silver, and geld and silver plated we had better be very careful that this is
ware.
net made use cf after the passiug ef the
(In the Committeeo)
Act.
It weuld be better Vo use the exHeu. '.%r. LOUGHE D-Are the prepesed pression imperted or breught Into the counameudments of iny hon. friend, the leader try.
of the Heuse, ameudmeuts to the draft; Bill
Heu. Mr. SOOTT-I have ne objection te
or te the Act ou the statute-book ?
add the word imperted.
Heu. Mr. KERR-I think the expression
Heu. Mr. SCOTT-The amendinents that
1 propose are those that are circulated and brougbt in la better. This clause says that
are te the Bill tliat we are now cousider- the Act shail net appiy te any article
brought laVe Canada before the passage o!
ing.
the A&ct.
Ou the third clause, subclause (b),
Hou. Mr. GIBSON-As the Act will net
(b) ' mark ' includes any mark, sign, device,
iniprint, stamp, braud, label, ticket, letter, come luto force until next October, IV would

1238

SENATE

1238

SENATE

ailow people to bring goods into the coun- stemis, or to such other like articles as by
regulation made by the Governor in Council
try to a great extent.
under the authority of this Act are exempted
The clause was amended and adopted.
from the application thereof.
Hon. Mr. F ERGUSON-A llst of proposed
Hon. Mr. KERR-Why are there differamendmenth bas been distrlbuted.
M1y ent articles mentioned in this section and
first impression was that it was Intended in the prior section?
to show tbe difference between the Bill as
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-One section appiies ro
read the second tirne and the Act on the
gold and the other to silver.
statute-book.
I was ln hopes that this
Hon. Mr. KERR-Why are there sm
llst wouid have heiped us to arrive at an
understandlng of the difference hetween the thlngs mentioned ln one as applying to
Bill and the Act.
Now we are losing slght silver are not mentioned lu the other as
of ail changes whlch thls Bill makes froni applying to gold?
the law as it stands.
Our attention Is
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There are technic-il
altogether carried away to a string of matters ln that.
amendments and the draft. That la about
Hon. Mr. KERR-I fancy there must be
what it ls.
-some design ha It. Why shouId they not
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It la impossible to meet both be ln the one section ?
Some persofi
every particular case. Ail I can say li; ln the trade alone can tell us
about that.
that the changes are comparatlvely few. However, I want to guard myself
about
The Important clause we have to consîder It, because I do not understand It. Onglenla the ninth. If hon. gentlemen wlll read aliy the one section covered the
exemption.
the correspondiag clause lu the draft and
Hon. Mn. SCOTT-You wiII Elnd the arln the old Bill, they wlll flnd that there la
flot any serious difference. It ta only mak- ticles are very much more numerous ln
lng ht clearer. You must recollect thce these sections than. they were origlually.
The clause was adopted.
were some hundreds of gentlemen who had
vlews on this subject, and It bas bein
On clause 9,
tound exceedlngly difficult to reconcile theni
Mar.king.
ail.
9. It shall not be lawful for a dealer to make
or sell, or to import or attempt to import into
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The old Bill on Canada, aay article composed either in whole
the atatute-books and the new Bill n.ay or in part of gold or silver,* or of any alloy
or of silver,
not differ very much; but the formn ls turn- of gold in sections 13 except the articles mentioaed
and 14 of this Act, if to
ed upside down, and you cannot makre any sncob article there is applied any mark other
comparisons. Now we have thlrty or forty than<a) trade marks registered in accordance
amendments proposed ln commlttee.
The with the Trade Mark and Design Act;
<b) marks truly and correctly iadicating, in
only assurance we can have Is that the
the manner requîred by this Act, the quality
people la the trade have been properly arnd of the gold or silver, or alloy of
gold or of ailfalrly consulted, and if that bas been done, ver, in the article;
-(ç) numerais intended to indicate pattera,
we bave a right to take it on trust. That
such nunierals not being incorporated
ha,- if all the interests have been failiy any mark indicating the quality of the with
gold
heard and are reasonably satisfied. If that or silver or alloy of gold or of silver of which
the article is composed;
bas been doue, ail right. if flot, I must
(d) the flame or initiais of a dealer, which
BaY we have been going very much lu the hast mentioned mark may be applied only if
the article bears also a registered trade mark
dark.
in accordance with the Trade Mark and DeThe clause w-as adopted.
sign Act.
2. The provisions of subsection one of this
section shahl not apply, as respects such hallOn clause 7,
mark or other governmeat mark, to any artThis Act shall not apply to such parts of icle of gold, or
or of any
articles, manufactured of silver or any alloy gold or of silver, of silver, is applied- aloy of
to which
<a) any hall-mark iawfully applied accordadaptation to the use of
of iver, for example,
the trae as require
springs, winding bars, ing to the laws
the UJnited
sleeves, crown cores, joint pins, screws, rivets, Great Britain and ofIreland; or Kingdom of
dust bands, movement, rings, brooch p:n'
(b) any
iadicating
of the
joints, catches, scarf pin stemis, and hatpin gold or of mark silver, or ofthe quality of gold
the
the alloy
Hon. Mr. GIBSON.

JUNE 23. 1908

1239

JUNE 23. 1908

1239

or silver, and applied by the government of
any foreign cenutry;
if iwith respect to such article ail the other
provisions of this Act are complied wîth.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The amendments laid
on the table will now be considered. This
la really the Important clause. The titie
of It wilI be 'Gold and 6llver ' Instead of
'Markling.'

Hon. Mr. GIBSOIN-Why net have go'd
and sîlver under the first head of * Marklng ?7' The whole thlng ls connectedl witb
the rnarklng entlrely.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-" Silver"1 ls mentioned ln the subsection ln 9. 'Marklng' was.
struck out designedly ln order te make It
more clear and less misleading.

The amendrnent was adopted.
Hon. Mr. F'ERGUSON-It conformq to
the Act on the statute-book ID that reaHon. Mr. SCOTT-Clause 9 is struck out
pect.
of the Bill before us down te hune 29, and
the ameudments which have been prlnted
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
are substltuted. It reads more clearly lu
Hon. Mr. POWER-If niy hon. friend
'the way the amendments are frarned.
[
wlll look, he -will see that clause 9 applies
meve the adoptien of the first amendment.
te both gold and silver. Then the next
Hon. Mr. KERR-The principle of the
clause and 'the one follorwing, apply only
to gold. The 12th clause apples only to Bill Is ernbod.led ln tbis clause, and, for
silver; and the amendment is a desirable one, 1 desire te pretest against the whole
measure. It seems te me that it le 'the
one, I think.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-With ail due respect most drastic of protective legisiatien ever
te my hon. friend, he will notice the word lntroduced In Uic parliarnent of Canada. It
«Silver' is net touched at ail, just the word seerna to me that It le an absolutely new
If this Bihl Is
1Marklng.' Then on page 3 we have the departure ln legislatien.
Word 'Gold.'
As it deals wlth geld and passed, It ls abselutely prohibitive of the
silver ln section 9, why nlot mark It so, Importation cf certain things whlch are
prescribed and corne wlthin, the four
and then corne Bpeclflcally to the gold tu
walls of thîs Act; and it Is net like the
section 10 and define what the quallty of
the gold shall be ? You descrIbe In detail systern known as the national pollcy, whlch
the marks te lie put on the varions articles. provides for a preference ln sucli a way
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-' Marklng ' Is too large that It afferds a measure of protection by
the Imposition of a higlier tariff, stili permlword.
mlttlng the Importa tion of goods ln coinHon. Mr. GIBSON-You are deallng wlth petltien wIi the home manufacture, but nt
the marklng, and the very fact ef the word ruch a higlier price that II: gives the advau1 Marking' would of ltself be of sufficlent tage te the home rnanufactured article.
Importance to direct the attention of the
The CHAIRMAN-The principle of thc
dealer te where the marklng takes effect;
Bill can hardly be discussed. at this stage.
If you strike out the word 'Marking ' lie
Hon. Mr. KERR-I arn discussing this
miglit go ail through the Bill.
clause, and I thlnk in doing se I have a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-But clause 9 refers
riglit te discuss the whele Bill.
I thînk
teoether inatters besides the mnrking. The parliament
sheuld pause befere it adopts
narnes and InitiaIs are referred te. It was
any such principle.
It sheuld have a betatter a geed deal ef consideration that I ter
reason fer it than lias been adduced hy
thought the headlng 1Geld and Silver'
anythlng submitted te parliarnent at this
weuld be better.
time.
Why sheuld the trade ln this busiHlon. Mr. POWER-The headlngs do net ness be hianded ever exclusively te those
affect the nieaning of the cliauses; and whe choose te manufacture ln CJanada, lnclauses. Il and 12 of the Bill deal 'with stead of there belng a freedorn of trade te
markling just as mucli as clause 9; but il any extent whatever, even under a protecdeals -with geld, and 12 *wth silver. The tive tariff er etherwise?
I knew of ne
clause we are now censidering deals with reasen why we sheuld adept sucli a prial>eth.
ciple as that. .I have heard of none lu

1240

SENATE

1240
SENATE
support of thîs Bill, either when the matter liged to bave a hall-mark on their wares,
was discussed before, or to-day, and 1 but It Is a standard wbich la known and
wouid like to know If there ja some rea- recognlzed.
It is understood the hallson for It.
It is said that the trade are mark stands for Qualty definitely, and,
a unit on it. Hait a dozen manufacturers therefore, hall-marked gooda are appreciatin this country, hait a dozen men who are ed by the purchasîng public; but there la
making a fortune out of the manufacture no prohibition againat the importation of
of jeweilery, are going to shut out articles ariything. In Engiand poor people and rich
whicli corne in competition by reason of people ail alike can buy a poor article, or an
their belng cheaper articles of trade, be- imitation article If they choose to buy lt;
cause they are manufactured elsewhere, or but this Bill wll not permit It, because It
because they are flot manufactured by tbem. wIll not be manufactured In this country or
As far as I can understand this Bi, If imported, and unless It la manufactured
they choose to manufacture a cheap article witb the particular marks which la designattbey cannot seil It without a certain desig- ed here, bow can it be brougbt la to the
native mark. Under these circumstances, country? I cal] the attention of the leader
I think the government ought to consîder of the Ilouse to the tact that this is a very
and re-consider whether they are golng the drastic measure and one which gooe furtber
wbo]e wny, as tbis M'lll be doing, by closing than any Bill we bave ever had lntroduced
tbe market agninst wares of foreigu manu- la parliament.
facture.
Of course If a cheap article suicl
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn afraid my hon.
as Is spoken of bas no mark on It at ail, il
friend bas flot given much thought or atcau be lmported lunto Canada. This Bil1 does
flot prohibît that; but If It bas any mark tention to this Bill, or be would flot apeak
This Bihl la the
i
whatever on It, other than those which are la the manner be does.
It
prescribed here, it caillot be imported into defence of bonesty :ind fair dealing.
la la the lnteresta of the people of Canada
Canada. I say that is a monstrous prohibition.
It is an Interference with trade. and equaliy la the interesta of the trade.
It Is a tact which is flot understood .by tue Âny one can brlng la Jeweliery of any description. no matter whether the gold la
great Canadian public.
Do they understand this is a blow struck at the Importa- merely on the surface, provided there la no
nttempt to deceive by placing a mark on It
tion or dealing in cheap articles?
Why
sbouid flot cheap jewellery be sold, If people to indicate it la a bigher cîass article than
know what tbey are buylng, and there is it realiy la. The Bill la demanded not alone
no fraud about It?
Why should It not be by the -manufacturers of Canada, but by
imported and soid ia competition, no mat- the trade generaily.
ter what marks there are on it, If they are
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-Were they conflot misleading as to quality?
-If tbey are sulted?
mlsleading as to quaiity, the law to-day
Hon. Mr. 6C0TT-I may -go bnck to
reaches the case, because It would be a
what took place here two years ago. We
fraud.
Under these circumatances, I say,
had a coxnmittee of the Seuate sitting on
I arn opposed entirely to the Bill. I think
this Bll about six or eight weeks, and had
that we are maklng a grent mistake to
evidence f rom ail parts of 'Canada, deencourage any such close éorporation as
mnnding the Bill for the reason that there
this.
It is true the English hall-mark is
was no protection for the honeat buyer or
referred to in the Bill, and there they gracihioneat manufacturer; that this country was
ously permît goods marked with the Eugbeing inundated with sham jeweilery froïa
lish bail-mark to be brought Into Canada.
the United States, particularly, and to-day
Let me say they have no prohibition in
-and I say this with full knowiedge of the
England againat the importation of any
statement I ama making-you can buy ln
articles ns they have here. They have no
the United States frora jewellers who have
such retroactive legislation as this Bill. On
a good standing la New York and other
the contrary, the hall-mark is flot a com- cities, an article of gold or silver, which
puisory mark. iManufacturers are flot ob- they will warrant to hast 15 or 20 years,
Hon. Mr. KERR.

JUNE 23. 1908
knowlng that the gold or the silver wlll be
worn off by ordinary usage witbia five
StilI tbey are qulte prepared to
years.
guarantee the article believinig that It would
sell, but the man 'who buys it Is deceived.
Hon. Mr. KERR-Does
Code nlot cover that case?~

the

Criminal

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is better to have it
ln this law. You can, under this Bill, buýy
Jewellery from Swltzerland, where it is
cheap, or the United States or any other
provided the manufacturer puts
country,
no mark whatever on it.
Hon. Mfr. KERRt-The same as any otber
article.
Hon. Mfr. SOOTT-But If you place a
mark on the article, it must he an bonest
Surely 'my bon. friend. must feel
mark.
that it Is not the true policy for any government, having the interest of the people
at *eart, to enaet a law that will permit
deception and f raud? If a retail merchant
in Canada chooses to buy flim-flam jewellery,
he can. buy It, but be cannot import lt If
It bas any mark lndicatlng that It bas a
It Ia
value higber than its real wortb.
simply a provision in tbe direction of bonNow, as to the parties who
est deallng.
ask for this legisiation, and the reason
tbey ask for lt, 1 bappen to pick up the
Montreal 'Witness' of yesterday, and 1 read
an article on this Bill dealng with Inferior
jewellery brougbt Into Canada from the
The article rends as folUnited ýStates.
lows:
In this aspect the matter is simply one of'
protection, so far as it would prevent; the
British nine-carat article from passing as gold
in this country. 0f recent years. the cheap
jewellery manufacturers of Âttleboro and
other New England districts have driven out
te a very large extent the British product of
every degree. Thus the jewellery imported
into Canada from Britain in 1904 only amounted to $67,017, in 1905 to $47,966, and in .1906 ta
$85,758, compared with $383,386 and $429,4%1
imported i» the several years from the United
States.
That was Inferior jewellery sold under
false marks.
Hon. '-%r. KERII-Does the bon, gentleman not know that there la more cheap
jewellery made ln Birmingham, England,
tilan there la ln aay other place ln the
world?

14

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I bave flot looked them
up, but I presume the statistica are taken
from the Trade and Navigation Returus,
showing the large amount of cheap stuir
palmed oft on the people of Canada,. that
will flot wear: that eltber bas no mark or
bears a fraudulent mark, because the evidence was undoubted that It was a common practice ln the United States to sel!
an article marked and guaranteed to last
for 15 or 20 years, wben ln reallty It would
Hou. gentlemen wlthin
not last for five.
the sound of my vole who were on that
committee, wlll remember what the people
ln the trade sald that the statement wouid
be made, 'This chain was guaranteed te
last 10 years, and It bas only been used
five years, and now see the colour of it.'
There is the furtber fact that our country
is 'being undated wltb flashy jewellery, of
no value, from the UJnited States.
Hon. 5fr. McSWEEjNEY-What about tbe
inundation from Great Britain?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There is nlot onefourtb of the amount f rom Great Britain.
There Is the Canadian manufacturer, there
t
Is the Canadian Importer, and the re ail
merchant who selis to the public, and apart
from the names I have before me, we bad
numerous petitions on the former occasion
when the Bill was before this House. In
the country stores the sale la nlot conined
to cheap jewellery. These stores keep rings
1 have
and trinkets of goid and silver.
numerous letters here beginning ln Februnry last. There is one f rom a retail manu-.
facturing jeweller in Montreal.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I would point out to
the hon. Secretary of iState that these gentlemen who bave given bim their assent to
the Bill bave neyer been consulted with regard to the amendments which have been
proposed, because the letter I bave is as
late as the 4th June, wben tbey had re-ceived the Gold and Silver Marking Bill as inThe Bill as lntroduced in the Senate.
troduced is not in accordance witb the understanding arrived at between us and the
rest of the manufacturera, the understandlng being that nine carat hall-marked goods
should be admitted, and se on. This Bill
lntroduced by the Secretary of -State recelved Uts .first reading on May 20tb, second

1242

SENATE
SENATE

1242
reading May 22nd, and within a month, we
are presented with a couple of dozen amendments to the Bill, whlch was agreed upon
by the trade. What have they to say about
these amendments?
'Have they been consulted?
Has an opportunlty been given
to the trade to say whether these amendments are acceptable to, themn or flot, or
was the Bill drafted by somebody la the
House, who may be a good lawyer or good
draftsman, but who probably kn9ws notbing about the trade?
There should be
some finality about the law.
The men
who came here and exhiblted inferior
articles certainly dld make an lmpressica
upon the committee at that time, but they
found that the committee had really been
misinformed wlth regaîrd to the unanlmlty
of the trade.
I remember very well that
some protests were off ered by others who
were opposed to the Bill, and I took as
strong a ground as my hon. friend the
Secretary of State, belleving as I did ftreu
the circumstances ln connection wlth the
Bill, from the Information given to us, that
It -was not only acceptable to the manufacturer, but acceptable to the retaller and to
the trade of Canada generally, and, on these
grounds, the Bill was passed, and It was
discovered then that It was simply a blow
to stop the Importation of English made
goods of 9 carats. As my bon. friend from
Toronto points out, if a man wants to Import a silk. dress -at $20 a yard and ýbrings
It la from England, -whose business Is It?
If we want to bring gold from the United
States of 10 carats, whose business is it, so
long as we are not paying too muchi? My
remarks the other day may have been a
little premature, because the Bill was not
really la committee, but the fact Is that
the contest occurred between the advocates
of the nune and the advocates of the ten
carats standards, and It looks as If
it were a concession to the people of Canada to be allowed by the manufacturers of
Toronto to import *Enghish hall-marked
goods of 9 carats; that the people of Oauada
were being lmposed upon; that they should
buy 10 carat hall-mark-no, 1 'will iqualify
that-O carat gold flot marked at ail, -but
brought from the United States.
I want
to be clear ou tîxat subject.
I am speaking from my place in this -House, and on
Hion. Mr. GIBSON-,.

my responsibilty as a member of this
Hlouse, that the bogey that was raised
up before this committee, as to the difference between 9 and 10 carat *gold was flot
worthy of our consideration.
Barring the
restriction put upon the importation of Euglsh made goods, the differeuce is s0 slight
that the question of quality is almost infinitesimal. Ia the English trade, It fs flot
the manufacturer who marks the goods. It
is Goldsmlth's Hall, where every uianufacture of gold or silver Is sent, and it has
to be up to or above the standard of the
requirements of the English trade or It -wll
flot receive the hall-mark.; more than that,
if It Is flot up to the standard It Is confiscated by the government. Consequently,
I say that 9 carat goods sent up la an unfintshed state to, Goldsmlth's Hall la Great
Britain as to be fully 9 carats. oehey bhave
to allow for the solder, so that 9 carat hallmarked goods are equal to 9j carats. But
the point I want to brlng to the attention
of the House la this bogey between the 9
and 10 carat gold.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Is that flot cnceded?
Hon. Mr. GIBSON -3y hon. frlend asks
why should the restriction be put upon anybody Importlng goods so long as they do
what Is doue ln Great Britain?
The point
is this: the difference between 9 and 10
carat gold la 2 cents a penuyweight when
the cost of solder, or the difference between
pure gold 9 and 10 carat Is 4 cents a pennyweight, and we were told a great concesSion was made by these people ln Toronto
when -we were allowed the opportunlty of
bringing ln Engllsh made good&
I gay
clause 9 should stand, because It is a clause
the people both In the wholesale and retail
trades have agreed to.
Have they recommended that these amendments be brouglit
down to this committee-outside of a few
people la Toronto?
The ameadmeats are
imposing conditions on the trade that the
trade knows' uothing about.
I think this
Bill should flot pass with an ameudment of
such a radical character.
Will the lion.
gentleman tell the committee now that ail
these nmendments he bas submitted are
agreeable to the jewellery trade of Canada,
because we should not attempt wlthout con-

JITNE 23, 1908

1243

JUKE 23, 1908

1243

sulting the people of Canada, to pass these
amendmenfs to the Bill which was presented to the.Senate, on May 20, and pnssed
its second reading May 22nd, and now on
the =3rd June, in committee, we are asked
to reverse the whole thing.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I thlnk my hon.
f riend's observations are exfremely unfair;
It whhl not do to say misleading, although
If anybody
that la the naturai sequence.
took auy trouble f0 meet the vlews of the
frade, I did, and I can refer to Innumer-able letters from the trade. I do not know
of anybody dissenflng.
I have letters up
to the 22nd June approvlng of fthe Bill.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I asked fthe hon.
Secretary of State about the amendmenfs.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We have not carried
a single amendment. I agreed to one or
two changes of words. We have not really
got to any ameadment thaf I am aware of.
I hohd now the draft ptepared by the commitfee who met ln Toronto, or wherever
they had meetings. At ail events, they
met 'wifh fthe concurrence of the trade generally. They made compromises.
They
could not agree on fthe 9 and 10 carats, and
they said: 'We wll leave It to yourselves.'
I was In favour of fihe 10 carats, and I
fhink the *majority of those who took the
hest vlew were willing as I was quite
wulling, ln deference to my hon. frleud's
Bill, and ln view of the feeling ln Hamilton, to set solde the 10 carat standard and
accept -the 9 carat. Why refer to that
now ? When they sent forward this draft,
they sald : 1We lea 've It t0 the goverument
to sny whether It shahl he nine or ten;
therefore, we wIll nlot insert any paragraph
advocafing our choice, because we are divided on that, and we wlsh you to put the
draft in proper phraseology. We do nlot
send It to be adopted word for word.' The
draft Is simply suggestions of a body of
men in the frade, who couhd not be supposed to frame an Act of parliament, and
who sent this forward as a guide, and It
has been followed as closely as it Is possible to folow It. On reference tô clause
8, lt whhh be found fhat If lo practically
fthe same as the draft except fixe language
is differenfhy represenfed. It Is rather an
involved question, and it is therefore d,.qh-

rable to select the most simple language,
the most easlly understood, and the least
lhable to be mlslnterpreted. The only tLing
we have added to the draft prepared by
this committee, Is a paragraph statlng that
no article of gold shall be marked whare
it is less than 9 carats.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I should. like te
ask what led to the departure from the
Bill we decided upon three years ago ? WVc
then had ail the contending factions before
the committee, as my hon. friend will remember. I thlnk it was the Committee on
Banklng and Commerce, and In that manner we were able to weighi the merits of
the different controversies, and we framed
the Bi-1 as if appears on the Revlsed Statues. I have been a littie curious f0 know
what led to the abandoument of the provisions of that Bill, and the adoption of Ihie
proposed amendments now under consideration ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-One was, that there
was a dIfference, of opinion as between 9
and 10 carats, and *my hon. frlend wll
recoUlect the year after the hon. senator
from Lincoln introduced a Bill establlshing
the 9 carats. Apart f rom that there were
ne material changes. I have a copy of the
Acf here as it was passed. I have read
clause 9 ln the draft and you can ail see
that It conforms wlth that ln the BIiI. The
difference ls merely- ln phraseblogy. I wil
read If now as It appeared the other day :
One Is affirmative and the other Is negative.
Nothing could be simpler than clause 9 as
if stands now. Can my hon. friend point
out where there Is any objection to clause
9 ? It la quite unfair to oppose the clause
until some paragraph is reached where there
is a departure from the undersfanding that
was arrived af. The clause sets forth wbat
marks there shahl be on the goods. If it
has no mark at ail, fthe article Is free to
come ln,
IXon. Mr. GIBSON-Who la to be the
Judge of the marks, and who are to be
empowered to make the marks? I pointed
out how it was doue ln England. Now that
we have In Canada a mint of our own,
would It not be just as well that the gohd
and silver marklng ln Canada should be
made a part and parcel of our systemn

1244

SENATE

SENATE
1244
Hon. Mr. KERR-I wlll quote the chi1j.e
bere? Not ouly the trade but the people
of Canada will tben know exactly wbat la full
It would protect tb.ý
tbey are getting.
9. It shall not be lawful for a-dealer to mnake
people frein dishonest dealers who slmply or seli, or to import or attempt to import into
in
put on tbelr own marks. If tbe manu fac- Canada; any article cornposedl either any whole
alloy
or in. part of gold or o! silver, or of
turer were allowed to put on bis Initiais of gold or of silver, except thse articles mensections 13 and 14 of this Act, if to
they mîglit be anybody's, and It woiild tioned in
article there is applied any mark other
perbaps take years to find ont who the sucb
thanmaker was. But once the article receives
(a) trade marks registered in accordance
Act;
the unqualified stamp of the governinent, with the Trade Mark and Designindicating, in
<b) marks truly and correctly
everybody will be bound to accept it as the manner required by this Act, thse quality
of the gold or silver, or alloy o! gold or of
showing the true assay.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do flot profess to
know anytbing about the. trade; but I bave
gone over wlth as mucli care as I cou Id
the amended clause 9, and compared It
wltb clause 9 as It appears in the Bill before the conimittee, and I cannot see that
there is any dîfference in meaning between
the two. The meanings of Vie two clauses
are identical. lunderstand that Vie new
clause 9 is a clause which Vie law clerk
drafted as, ln his Judgment, expresslng better tbe intention of parliament than the original clause 9 as it appears la Vie Bill.
Under thse circumstances, I do flot eee any
objection to adoptlng the first subclau,3d
of clause P. I shouid like to ask the bon.
gentleman from Toronto where lie finds
autbority for the statement lie made that
tie effect of Vis Bill, if it becaine laïw,
would lie to prevent Vie importation of
goods from'England? I sbould 'be very
sorry to vote for any mensure wblch 1
thouglit was calculated to prevent the Importation of goods, and I sha. lie thankful
to the bon, gentleman If lie will shiow me
what portion of this Bill deals witb Vie importation o! goods f rom England?
Hon. Mr. KERR-While I spoke of Eîg.
]and, I miglat extend It to a great maay
other counltries. This clause provides that
if a dealer should import any article composed ln whole or in part o! gold or of
silvèr, and to sucli article there is applied
any mark oVier than Vie four meutioned
ln the clause, lie violates Vie Act. If there
la any other mark on the article Vian Viose
wýbicb are defined, in Vie clause, It shalh
not be brought ln. Is flot that what tha
£lause provides ?
Hon. Mr. POWER-Yes.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON.

silver, in the article;
(c) numerals intended te indicate pattern,

sucis numerals not being incorporated witb
any mark indicating the quality o! the gold
or silver or alloy of gold or of sîlver o! whicii
the article is composed;
,(d) thse name or initiais of a. dealer, which
last mentioned mark may lie applied only if
the article bears aiso a registered trade mark
in accordance with the Trade Mark àind Design Act.

So you see Vie foreiga manufacturer cau
only put bis trade mark on If lie has a
registered trade mark la Vis country. But
forelgu manufacturera cannot regîstar under oui Trade Marks and Designs Act, and
they are therefore shut out. You buy a
watch la Geneva; Viere is no goverameat
trade mark la Switzerland, but a reputable
maker who turas out a first-elass article,
put bis own name and add-ress on it and
describes Vie number o! jewels la Vie works.
Sucli a watch would be shut out under this
clause. Those watch ýcases could flot be
lmported any longer because they bave on
tbem marks otber than the four permitted
under this clause. if Viey have no mark
or desiguation at ail, tliey may be brought
ln.
Hon. Mr. LOUGEED-A,ýre
works of the watch excepted.

flot

the

Hon. Mr. KERR-The parts of tise watcii
need not be up to thse standard as to quality,
but If they are enclosed lu a case properly
So thse cheap
marked Viey are admitted.
John watches manufactured in some countries miglit.bo lmported, wisile the watcbes
made, by reputable makers ln Switzerland
and other countries couid not be imported
Into Canada because they bear marks other
than Viose designated la tbis clause.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is not my bon.
friend'mistaken in sayiug that this extends

JUNE 9,3, 1908

.TUNE
to the works of a watch?
Are flot the
works excepted?
Hon. Mr. KERR-Yes, the works are excepted.
What I say Is the works of a
watch miglit be a very inferior article, but
If they are imported ln 'n watch such as
the clause calls for, you would admit au
inferior watch simply because it bas a good
covering while a good watcb with really
good works, If the case bears the
namne and address of a reputabie maker,
could flot be Imported because it lias marks
other Vian those provided for ln this clause
of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. LOGGJOHEED-As I understand,
dealers do flot import watches ln their entirety, but import the works from one manufacturer and the case fromn another.
Hon. Mr. KERR-They Import both
ways. These gentlemen in Toronto use the
American Watch Case Company's cover on
the works of a good watch.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The cases are made
ln Toronto?
Hon. Mr. KERR-Yes. Tliey oldh
trade marks and designs of their owa. That
is not what I arn spea-king of; I arn speaking of Imported watch cases.
The best
watch cases which had other marks than
those set forth la this clause would be excluded by this Bill, and that Is Vie wbole
objeet of tbe Bill.
If a man were to attempt to do what the bon. leader of this
House says wIth reference to frauds, lie
could be put la jail under our criminal
law, and that is Vie best protection we bave
against fraud or Imposition.
WVe do flot
need further legisiation for that purpose,
and this Bill is flot designed for that purpose.
It is lntended to shut out competition by a prolilbitory clause, and that is
what I say is odious to English law and
objectionable to Canadian law.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The lion, gentleman
cannot point that out ln this Bill.
Hon. Mr. KEJUI-What is the objeet of
the Bill?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The simple afiswer is
tis: If an article is marked lit aIl It must
be an honest mark.
Hon. Mr. KFERR-You cannot import
anyvthing-marked under 9 carats. You need

1245

1245
23, 1908
niot mark Vie number of carats nit aIl; you
can put some other designation on It. You
can say it is plated, or good plate or cheap
plate; but you cannot say that it is hallmnarked goods witbout certain definite
marks wbich must be on Vie article if you
are to imnport it into Canada. That Is the
whole object of the trade, who are so united
on this legislation.
Wbat other object can
there be?
This Bill affects every country
merchant who selîs jewellery, and every
customner wbo buys cheap jewellery, and Vie
passage of this legislation would prevent
people fromn buying such goods ln the future. No sucb principle is applied to any
other trade.
There are various qualities
of sllk manufactured, selliag at different
prices; but the difference ln qualitv ls ziot
regnlated by law.
The sanie remark
applies to every- article of Importe i
goode. The hion. leader of Vie Ho use
spoke about the disparity in trade !md
'why Vie United States trade la cbeaip
jiewellery went up wbile the English trade
went down.
It is because the United
States manufacturers tura out such a superlor article that It bas rua out Vie Englislh
trade.
Hon. Mr. &JOTT-Fraudulent articles.
Hon. Mfr. KERR-Tbey are flot fraudalent ait aIl. An article, because it happens
to be cbeap, or an imitation, is flot necessarily a fraud.
A fraud. is ln the representation made ait the time of sale. and that
is what our present law covers.
I venture
to submlt that the position I have taken
agaiast Vie Bill wlll be found to be the
riglit one. I urged It before. I said that I saw
no reason for Vie Bill except to close Vis
country practîcally against competition. It
will enable these gentlemnen to manufacture
any article, no matter lzow inferior, and
put it on the market because thiey can put
their reglstered mark, on ItL
There need
be aotbing to indicate the quality.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon. gentieniaîî
lias not made the case clear to âne yet.
Withla the hast few minutes I bave taken
the 'Act passed three years ago, and have
compared It with his Bill. and I fail to
discover aay materlal differeace in the
meaning of the two except this, Viat the
Act provides that It shahl jiot be lawfal

12,46

SENATE

SENATE
1246
te make, seli, er Import late Canada aay turing centres, 'would find it airnost iunarticle net lu accordance with the Trade possible to use a speciai trade mari, for
Marks and Designs Act. Pnragraph (c) ef the Canadian trade, and the object of this
section 8 of the Gold and Silver Marking Bill is te keep British gpods out of Canada.
Act is identical with paragraph (b) ef the If the -bon. Secretary of State wlll refer
ameadment befere us, and then this ameud- to tbe clause deaing witb gold, he wiii
ment centains paragraph (c) whlch appa- find lnnliue 26 the follewing: ' Or including,
rently gives a littie more liberty te bring the words gold, solid gold, pure geld, United
lu geods. It alews goods wltb numerals States Assay.' There Is no reference to
Intended te ludicate the pattern te corne Great Britain at ail. If the watcbes are
lu; and <d) allews geods with the naine made la the United States and have a mari.
1 lndicating. the United States assay, tt#ýy
or Initiais of the dealer te corne lu.
fail te see that the clause now befere the are ail right; but there is no such regulacommittee Iuterferes with the importing 0f tion appiying to Great Britaîn. Great Briforeigu geods aur more than section. 8 tain is net lu It ut ail. The wNhole trend
of the Act dees. I was under the Impres- of this Bill is to further the interests of
sien that the Heuse bad passed that Act muufacturers lu the clty of Toronto as
aimest unanimeusiy, the eniy question be- opposed to the interests of the people of
lug as te the quality of the goid; and ne Canada. It la nidiculous to tell people who
eue new ceutends for anything more are bonest ln their own country and prothan 9 carat standard geld. That dees duce superier articles lu gold and silver.
corne la under this Bill. First we made It that If they put the name of their firm or
10 carats aud then It w as altered to 9 any trade mark by wblcli they are known
carats, se that really, as far as I can un- in thelr own country on their goeds, and
derstand the clause befere the cemmîttea, that trade mark does net correspond with
It does net make any change la the existiag one ln Canada, their goeds can be selzed.
it is keeplng- out geeds produced ln the
law.
mother land and allowing United States
Heu. Mr. KERR-This is net a privat, manufacturers te register tbeir trade imark.s
Bill, and sbeuld net be passed as a prîvate here and adopt a United States lnstead et
Bill lu the interest ef trade. It is a Bill a British standard.
Who ever dreamed
fer the protection et tbe public, and 1 have that such a Bill would be lntroduced lu the
net beard the public express any gratifica- Canadian Senate setting up the United
tien over the Bill; on the contrary th'ay States assay as the standard for gold, when
wanted its operatien suspended fer twe we bave the Briti sh standard wvhich we
years.
have been fightiag for. I arn tbankful
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-At the time the ori- that the hou. Secretary of State bas conginal Bill was befere the cemmittee, eue ef sented te give us tbe 9 carat standard,
the difficumtles that arose wlth respect te whereby we can bring lu goods frem the
the marking of goods was this :It was inother land which bad been purpesely exsbown by those epposed te the Bill that if cluded before for the benefit of 'imperters
a mark. ef any klnd denoted the quallty ef United States watch cases, and fer the
of the geods, unless they bad a mark in benefit ef Mr. McNaught and P. W. Ellis
Canada correspending with that, they wvould and other favoured traders lu Torento.
have te secure a mark here for the trade Bihl Is net deslgned fer the protection ef
ef Canada. If any eue dared te put bis the people of Canada, but for the pronaine or trade mark on bis goods aud that tection aitogether of a few people whe are
mark did net correspond with tbe trade engaged ln the industry.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I realiy cannet unmark, lu vogue lu Canada, and geeds ceuid
Dlot be imperted lute the country unless derstand the lune of my heu. friend's argutbey bad lu addition te the fereign trade ment, because he supported Ibis Bill ia the
mark a mark eerrespouding witb the mark first instance and passed. a Bill through
recegnized lu Canada. Tbe merchauts lu thîs Heuse baving the very clause that
Canada, Birmiugham and other mnanufue- hie Iluds fauit witb now. This cla use is
Hou. Mr. POWER,

JUNE 23, 1908

1247

1247
23, 1908
Act was put on the statute-book. Tha hon.
senator frorn Hlarilton introduced a Bill
before the Act had corne Into oparation,
ameuding It
That Bill passad through this
Hou. Mr. GIBSON-I hope. my hon. House audý went to tha other House and,
f rlend is flot going to put on my shoulders finaliy, an arrangement was made by which
the clause wbich appears In the original the Act which had aiready been passed by
Bill.
I lad nothing to do with the 'Bill. both Houses should be suspeuded for some
Ail I contended for was to allow -Britishi tima until ail the parties couid accommogoods to corne lu. I 'waa not awaxe thali date themselves to tha new order of things.
there was sudh stupIdity on our part as to Lt Io n grent pity that the Act was flot alever allow the hast clause to pass, establish- lowed to go into operation, then. Âftar it
Ing a United States standard ovar the Bri- had beau a littie -while ln operation, we
tish standard, and I intend when we corne would have found whera the friction was.
to, that clause of the Bill to propose that Instead of that, the operation was postponed and the goveramneut In the enrly part of
the Word 'British' be inscrted.
this session further postponed the Act until,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Surelv my hon. friend uext year, lu order thnt those who are takbas flot rend the clause?
ing the two sides on this question couid gat
together and meet the goverument here.
Hou. Mr. GIBSON-I have.
They met and the rasuit ls the Bill before
Hon. Mr. iERGUSON-It la difficuht for
US.
Wheu I saw thus string of further
us wbo have not followed the Bill closeiy
amaudments put before us, 1 gave up In
to know our position with regard to It. The
daspair any further atternpt to compare
hon. senator from Toronto has heen opposed
the Bill wltl the A&ct. I wanted to
to any legisiation from the first on this sulfiud out what the changes really are.
Ject.
I flnd mysaîf puzzlad by a long string
Hon. Mr. KERR-On tus lina.
of amaudments, snd it is hard sit-Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-This la the third tIng ln this Housa wlth amendrnts you
session wa have lad tha matter up, and I have neyer saen befora, to flt thema i and
In passing
fInd my hon. fnicud has been conslstantiy fiud what the affect would be.
opposed to legislation with rafèenca to this thiis 'Bill, we shouid get us nearly as we
subjeet. I find now that it la not a matter can to whut ls right. I believa from wlat
of detail with hlm, but that he ls againat I have heard and know to some extent, that
the Act ail the time.
A mistake was made thara is no business existing to-day lu Cantwo years ago when the Act' was passed ada lu which thera la a grenter amount of
and ail the parties appeared -before the money taken out of the pockets of -the peocornmittee and wera heard In not allowing pie without giving proper value, than la
the act to go into operation. I have at- the matter of shoddy jewelery, and when
tended a great rnany committees of thus that ls the case, we should not allow
House, and was neyer present at any, where quibhles to stand in the way of our getting
the deputations from both sides cornmanded as good au Act as we can, and if it does
greater respect ou account of the intelligent not cover the ground, we should go on imand lucid way lu w-bich they put their argu- proving until we get something which 'will
ments before us.
As a resuit of that dis- be certain to proteet our people froma swindI thiuk It Is conceded
cussion, which was not eoafined to one hars and robbers.
meeting-I know thare were more tsan one tint the very hast men lu the trade lu CanThe honest, legitior two-fiuuhly a Bihl was agreed upon and ada favour the Bill.
went through thus House with apparently mata traders favour the Inw, but I arn
hittie opposition.
My hon. friend -was op- afraid-I do not say the hou, gentleman
posad to it, and wlien he is opposad to a from Toronto is rapresentiug that ciass In
Bill I canuot say that the opposition ls very the Housa-the most o! the opposition ls
littia, because he is so persistent he wili coming frorn tie ,shoddy trade people, wio
make It appear as If it was very grat. The are making money by the-sale of ciaap
JIJNE
copied from the original Act. What does
the hou. gentleman men by finding fault
with the clause wbich ha hirnself introducad
and supported lu this House ?

1248

1248
SENATE

jewellery. I feel like supporting the hoit.
Secretary of State.
11e bas taken great
care and pains on the subject.
1 amn quite
sure that he will help the House to pass a
good law.

gold on an article, you have no redress If
it is only 8 carats, because you cannot tell
who it is. But you do know if you have a
chain, British hall-marked 10 or 15 or 18
carat,- that It Is genuine.
Under the proHon. '.%r. GIBSON-I should like to say sent condition there is no such provision,
to my hon. friend, with regard to the shoddy and aIl these shoddy people want to do is
men, that I do flot know one in Canada, but to import the goods Into, Canada witbout a
1 do say that I amn as closely In toucb wlth mark upon themn, and you have no recourse.
the jewellery trade In Canada as any man in
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-From the hon.
this House, and I bave consulted the people
gentleman's remarks, one would infer that
f rom the first tirne the Bill ever.carne before
this House, and I arn safe lu saying that we have a large British trade and a small
every retail jeweller iii the Dominion was one frorn other countries. The hon. Secreagalnst the proposition first presented to tary of State rend the returns, which I prethe House.
They ail felt that an Imposi- sume are the trade returns, showing that
tion was being placed on the retail trade, whiie the importations frorn the United
that would prevent themi froui buylng Bri- States have in some recent years gone over
tish goods. -I do uot care wbat the stan- $400,000, that the British importations are
dard Is.
Wbat is good enough for Great In tbe fonties and fifties, and £0 on.
Bnitain as a standard should be good enHon. Mr. GIBSON-Where was that stateough for Canada, and with respect to the ment publlshed?
shodIdy people, ail I can say is that
these"
people need not put any mark on their
Hon. 11r. SOOTT-Iast night's ' Witness.'
jewellery at ail, and ln that way they cau
Hon. Mr. FERGUSO.N-My hion. friend
boodwink the people of Canada.
The
whoie subterfuge Is this: that If any person read the figures of the House. They conoutslde of the Dominion of Canada at- form wlth the generai impression I have
temps to put any mark on gold or shlver that bad for a long tirne-I arn not saying that
will establish Its respectabillty In their own Âmerican goods are aiways inferior-by r'o
country, these goods can be confiscated Ixere. means. We know that as good things corne
That Is flot an Imputation that the goods from the United States as corne front Great
are bad.
I do flot thlnk my hon." friead Bnitain or any other country; but in this
represents the shoddy people in Toronto or particular trade It confirrns with the
anywhere else.
I tblnk he la speaking for generai Impression I have had, that
the country as a whole. 1 arn bound to say the low class of American goods that
that the bon. Secretary of State has given bave been corning in-Is w-bat this
a great deal of tbought to the measure, per- Bill will affect-lt is very plausible to
haps more than any otiier hon. gentleman speak ab-out British goods for we are ail
In the House; but 1 do say the gentlemen more favourable to al trade in British goods.
wlth whom he bas corne more closely la Lt is, 'tbenefore, a plausible thing, and
touch bave beeni iea whio manufacture the somethiag which la iuclined to draw us,
goods aud not those who baudie them.
I w-hen bon, gentlemen say tbey are advocatarn speaking for tliose w-ho manufacture ing -the interest of British trade; but I arn
and likiewise those wlho imnport, and 1 arn afraid it is altogether the other way.
My
speaking for those w-ho are not able to lin- hon. friend referned to Ryrie Brothers.
port. and are obliged to buy from the Im- They are perbaps the largest ixnporters ino
porter, and they feel that unless they are Canada to-day.
They import frorn ahl
ailowed to buy anl article of British make countries, and If their adbesion la given to
of 9 carat gold, they have no faitb-and this Bill, It Is the adhesion of very large
I say it advisedly-ln Canadian goods mark- and respectable importera.
I have heard
ed 10 carat. because they have no che-ck opi P. W. Ellis & Company referred to. They
them, and the check Is important.
If any- represent the largest manufacturers ln Canbody should put, 1W.G.' 10 carat or 12 earat ada.
Hon. Mr. PERGUSON.

JUNE 23. 1908

1249

Hlon. Mr. KFIERR-Nejtlier of those firms article, articles manufactured of gold, if
are importers of cbeap goods.
Ryrie's fin- they bore no mark, at aIl. Thbe door la flot
port diamonds and jewelry.
closed. If It bears *a mark purporting to
Hlon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Tbey are large Indicate the quallty of the gold or sîlver,
Importera, and they cater to the market. then the mark should be a true mark. acLike ail good dealers they do that; but I cordlng to section 9 of the Bill. This i
bave no dotibt from w.hat 1 know of tbem, the impression I have received from readthey would rather do a good business -where lng the Bill, altbough I have followed the
their customers and they themsclves would argument of the bon. miembers from Toroomake a profit, rather than a business where to and Lincoln. However, the hon. Secrethey would iunke a profit and their custom- tary of State mlght see bis way to ask thst
ers wouid be fieeced. If there is a busi- that the committee rise, report progres
ness being carried on where it cannot be and ask leave to ait again, because It la
done witbout the trader being dishonest as Important to make sure that the Bill la flot
well as those with wbom he is competlng, opened to the serious objection which bias
then woe sbould certain]y bave a law to put been urged against It.
a stop to it.
I do flot know tany subject
Hlon. Mr. DOMVILLEF-There bas been a
on whichi there is greater necesslty for legis- good deai of feeling over this debat«t.
I
lation.
I understood the Bill three years would rather watt and allow tbe Secretary
ago, but just at tis moment, owîng to ail of State to wlthdraw the Bill and see how
the amendments presented, I feel I have to the crop turas ont, and that would decide
take matters on trust, but I amn in favour whether we should bave gold watch cases,
of the measure.
filled cases or wasbed goods. I have had
~Hou. Mr. BEIQU-I have flot had the some little matters brougbt before me by
advantage of attending the sittings of the our dealers, and I stili have an open mind,
committee two years ago, and my atten- but I think It would be very much better
tion bas been calied to this question for for the committee to rise, report progreas,
the*-first time very recentiy. Therefore I and ask leave to ait again when we return
need not say I speak with a great deal of in October or November. Our people are
diffidence. If the ground taken by the hon. thlnklng more a:bout harbours, and are not
gentlemen from Toronto and Lincoln la bothering about Jewellery or gold watcbes.
correct, xve should certainiy hesitate beThe subclause was adopted.
fore passing this Bill.* However, I. must
The clause as ameuded was adopted.
say on mr first reading of the measure
that I cannot see that It is open to the
On clause 10,
objection whjch bas been raised. One
10. It shahl not; be lawful for a deaier to
make or to seli, or to import or attempt ta
must bear in mmnd that the word 'markc'
import into Canada, any article purporting
is defined in the third section of the Bill, to be wholiy or partialiy composed
of gold or
and according to the definition whIch ls to of any alioy of goid, if the article when made
or soid has applied thereto any mark indibe found thiere, a mark includes any mark,
cating or purporting or
indicate
sigu, elevice. Imprint, stamp, brand, label, the gold in the article to intended tothan nine
be of less
carats in fineness, or consisting of or inciudticket, letter, wvord, figure, or other means
words gold, solid gold, pure gold,
whitsoever of indicatiug or of purporting ipg the States assay, or other
United
words purportto indicate quality. quantity or welgbt of ing to describe the gold or aiioy of which the
goid or of silver or of any alloy of gold article is composed.
or of silver, or qualiti' of gold or silver i Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Bill aliows -,he
plate.
Thierefore, wbene,ýer t4e word hall-mark of Great Britain, and ailows the
*mark ' is used iu the Bill, It la limited to hall-mark of any other country establishedl
'mark' iii the sense meutioued ln subsec. as a standard, and to say we would ailow
tion 3 of the Bill.
If you bear that In articles to corne lu miarked gold would
mind. it seemas to me that under this Bill certainly be mlsleading. It would aimpiy
It wouid be open to îmnport or to manufac- be encouraging a fraud If we permitted
ture in Canada any silver goods or gold gooda bearlng tbe word 'United States As79
flEVISED

EDITION

1250

1250

'SENATE
SENATE

say'1 to corne In. This clause ls exartly
word for word with the clause we approved
of two years ago, which was passed by
the House of Commons. It was flot controverted when my hon. friend amended
the Act a year ago, and therefore it would
be inconsistent to attack this clause unless there was some reason for It. It is
sImply to prevent a fraud being practised
on au Innocent person. Sbould flot there
be Borne penalty attached to a man wh-i
marked an article as gold ? Nine carats
Is the lowest standard. 1 have given ivay
on that, and a very large number of -aen
lu the trade have given way ln their vlews
ln regard to 10 carat I have letters under
my baud whlch regret that we are adopting
the 9 carat, but for peace and barmony's
sake, and because It was advocated so
strongiy by my hon. friend, and bv tlho
gentlemen lie represented, who have sigaeI thîls paper, and who are willing to také
any standard, Levi Bros., of Hamilton,
the large dealers whose Interests my hon.
f riend was supposed to advocate a couple
of years ago. He supports it 110w. Here
Is a list of retail dealers, flot only the retail dealers, but the retal jewellers. I
tbink the only protest I got was from Levi
Bros., as I mentioned the other day.
1
asked Mr. Roden to see those gentiemeu
and try to corne to some compromise or
arrangement and they *wrote me that they
did so, and we heard no protest since. It
surprises me to hear the opposition offered
to this Bill, after aIl the effort to coud.liste every possible lnterest.
Hon. Mr. GIB SON-My hon. friend wants
to leave the Impression on the -House that 1
was acting la the interest of Levi Bros. I
was flot acting la their interest, but In the
interest 0f the people of Canada.
1 was
acting on tbe principle that British standards were good enough for Canada.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We
gentleman's statement.

accept the hon.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-WVould the hon. gentleman allow an ameadment ln line 35?
Why should we exclude the assay of the
United States?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-You Mil the Bill if you
permit that.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. mr. GIBSON-Is flot the British
bail-mark aIl righit?
Hon. Mr. iSCOTT-W e admit that.
We
are flot excluding anythlng, but there is no
standard of the United States assay.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-We made other
changes la the Bill.Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Not any changes that
have flot been approved of by the trade.
Hon. Mr. GIB.SO-N-Is the United States
assay to be excluded or lncluded?
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Mlddlesex)-By inserting
those words you would exclude tbe British
goods.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Section 9 ls very plain.
Any country that chooses to take the responsibllity of establlshing a standard, -we
wlll accept It.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Under clause 10 the
.9 carat bas to have the assay of the United
States on it.
Hou. Mr. iSCOTT-Ob, no.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON--Clause 10 says:
Or consisting of or including the word&
gold, solid gold, pure gold, United States
assay, &c.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That means nothiog.
The articles bearing those words are not to,
be admitted, because they mean uothing.
I move that the words ' Import or attenipt
to import'1 la hune 31 be struck, out, and
word 'bring' inserted.
Hon. Mr. POWER-We are told that it
shah flot be law-ful for a dealer to make or
seil or briug luto Canada.
Supposing the
dealer does flot briug It la?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The dealer is fined.
You couid bring it la if you liked.
lion. Mr. POWER-But if the party does
flot actually bring the article in, ha is flot
hiable under this clause.
The ameadment was adopted.
It being six o'clock, the Chairman left the
Chair.

After Recess.
The committee resumed.
On clause 18,
18. The Governor la Council may. f row time
to time, make such regulations as to him seem
xlecessary-

JUNE 93, 1908

1251

JUNE ~8, 1908
(a) to "ecure the efficient administration
and enforcement of this Âct, including the
imposition of penalties, not exceeding fifty
dollars, upon any dealer contravening any
such regulation, to be recovarable on summary. conviction;
(b> for the appointment, powers and duties
of officers employed in such administration
and enforcement;
<(c>
generally for the purposes of this Act.
Hon. Mr. POWEll-I thlnk there Is some
question about the wlsdom of this exactment In paragraph <a) of the clause which
we have just passed In which we provlded
for any infliction of a penalty of $100 on nny
dealer who violates thîs Act. Then we provide by the clause under consideration that
the Governor in Council may Impose fines
up to $50. 1 think that la ratber an excessive power.

125t
corporation, soclety or firm, belng a manufacturer of, or a wholesale or retail seller of, or deaier lIn gold or slver jewellery,

The suliclause (a) ras adopted, an&
clause 18 was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. KERR-When does the hou.
leader propose to put the Act Into force?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In October.
Hon. Mr. KlERR-As the law stands, the
exlstlng Act ras flot to corene m
force
untilHon. Mr. SCOTT-Next session.

Hon. Mr. KDRR-Some time nfter next
session.
1 understand the trade bave been
deai-ing on the basis of this time lIn givixig
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It would only be ex- their foreiga orders.
ercised in case of a fraud.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, they want till
Hon. Mr. POWEll-It la ail very
el October. I wanted to make uit January, but
whlle the present government la In power. they said October,
but another government may corne In-ýHon. Mr. KERR-A large Importer told
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It la onily la casa a me that they had sent heavy orders, relj7dealer ls gullty of a fraud.
ing on the understnndlng that the law was
HEon. Mr. GIBSON-But suppose the not to corne labo force, until the first of May.
Under those circumatancea, orders givex bemark was put on by the manufacturer ?
fore thnt time should be protected.
We
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-You may not be able have suspended the operation of the Gold
to rencli hlm.
nd Silver Marking Act uxtil a certain date,
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I have been lnform- and we should not anticipate that date.
ed by a gentleman connected wlth the trade,
Hon. Mfr. BOSTOCK-I want to propose
sInce six o'clock, that a manufacturer may to the hon, leader of the Flouse that when
make an article at the request of the dealer, we go labo commlttee on this Bill to-mormarklng it to represent a certain standard, row, he should consider whether lie cannot
and the maxn buylng It understands tho- change the word ' includes' lin the second
rouglily that It Is not up to thle standard subsectlon of section 3, where it says,
and pays for it accordingly; but the denier 'Mark Includes any mnark,' and so on.
sella It to the public, who buy unw.ittingly.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--I tliink flot, because
You cax corne back at the deaier but flot
lt: limita the menning o! it there. I prefer
at the manufacturer.
leavlig It as It la.
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-You can corne back
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-If you say it
at hlm If lie la in the country.
means nny mark it is plain, but If you any
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-But If lie la out of It Includes any mark lt is not clear.
the country ?
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Tbere may lie some
Hon. Mr, SCOTT-You can punish the device that Is not specified bere.
deaier If bie knows of the frnud. It is only
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-I hope the hon. Sec-lui case he knoivs of the frand that he Ia
retary of State wnu see his wny between
liable.
no-w and to-morrow, to ndopt the suggesHon. Mr. POWER-In the Interpretation tion. Wben I spoke on the Bill this aiterclause, we define deaier as lany person. -noon, my'attention had xot been called to-

12591

1252

SENATE

tbe fact that the word ' includes'1 was used taiued iii tie article would be entirely exingte-ad of ' means,' whicbi makes all the cluded by this clause.
By usiug this wording, the
difference.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-No. because It is limeffect of the Bill Is to close the door entire- ited entîrely to something purportlng to luly to any other malrk than those that are dicate the quallty, the quantlty or Vie
The welght of gold or silver or of nny alloy of
mentioned, altbough lndiff erent.
marks would be properly defined if the gold or silver or of gold or silver plate.
word ' means'1 were used Instead of the Lt la llmited entlrely to Viat and therefore
'word 'Include,' as purporting to Indicate It ouglit to be wlde, because Viere maT bc
If we close the door some other device tbat ls omltted.
quantity, qualty, &c.
to any mark, however indifferent it may be,
Hlon. Mr. KERR-It mighit be put like
then we may excinde without any reason a
grent deal of merchandise wblch otberwlse this
'Mark means any mark, aigu device,' Axc.,
Then these cheap
should bie admitted.
goods wliich are manufactured la otlier and includes any other means whatsoever.'
Hon. Mr. SÇOTT-Where the clauses bave
markets could not bie imported liere, because
they would bear a mark which would bie In- mun the gauntiet of so many profesalonal
different, wblch would liave no reference to meu and so maxîr men lu the trade, and
It seerns to nme they bave agreed on something, and It zan
the quality of the goods.
that this point sbould be considered sert- do no biarm, I think w-e sbould accept it.
ously.
Lt la bard to fiud exception to It now.
Hon. Mr. LOIJGI-EED-I slould be incllnied to place an entirely coutrary meaning to what my hon. -friend from De SalaIf the word
berry bas placed upon it.
'means' were substltuted In lieu of the
word ' incîndes,' It would restrict the Interpretation to the particular classification
mientloned, whereas 'the word 'Includes '
certainly bas a very much broader meaning,
and would permit of other marks.

Hon. Mr. KERR-WIII Vie hon. minhster
allow subsection (b) of clause 3 to stand?7

Hon. Mr. SCO'T-Devices uot mentioned
thiere.

CO-OPERATION BILL.

Hou. Mr. SCOTT-No, I Vilnk Viere 'a
no use discussing wbat we will flot agree
on.
Hou. -Mr. POIRIER, from the commlttce,
reported tbat tbey liad made some progress
witb the Bill, and asked leave to sit aga«-I
to-morrow.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ÂDOPTED.
H-on. Mr. GIBSON moved concurrence iu
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Marks flot mentioned Iu paragrapb (b) of section 3. The tbe report of -the Standing Committee on
word 'iieanLs' would bie restrictive, whereus Baukinig and Commerce on Bill (5) AUî
the word 'includes' lai very mucli more Act respectiag co-operation.
compreliensive.
Hou. '.%r. POWER-I doubt Vie wisdomi
Hon. '.%r. BEIQUE-Yes, that la wbat 1 o! our iutroducing the practice of referring
say. It is too comprehieasive. It la be- rnatters foir the decision of Vie Minister
cause the word ' includes' lias the eff ect of Justice. We bave provision in our rules
of preventing the use of any mark, cveii for referenice to tbe judges of the Supreme
If that mark bas not reference ut ail to Court, but no provision for reference to
the quality of the goods and the quantity tbe \Miuister of Justice. I Vhilk It Is very
ot gold or silver, no matter how indifferent proper that the imemibers of the governit may be. 0f course, the case o! a w-atchl la meut in this House sbould take the opiexcepted, but any other kînd of jewellery nion of their colleague the Minister of
which inav bear indifferent marks for eh- Justice with respect to Vie constitutioualjects wbicb are altogether indifferent to ity or any otber quality of a Bill before
the trade, but haviug no refereuce at ail tbe House. but I do ilot tbiuk that it la
to the quality of the gold or to the -ilver, right for the Senate to forinally ask the
or the quantity o! the gold or silver con- 1 opiniion of tbe Minister of Justice witb resHoni. Mr'. BEIQUE.

JUNE 23, 1908
pect to a Bil whleh Is before us. I have
neyer known that done before that 1 eau
recall, and I tbink it is a bad precedent
to establsh. It just cornes to dits: If the
government were flot ln favour of thxe
Bill It would flot pass the House, but thxe
responslbllty for the measure should rest
'with the House, and we should make up
our own minds about It.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I would *add to
these few remarks, that If a member were
to rise in his House and ask an opinion
on a point of law from the governu.ent
that that question would be ruled out vf
order immediately, and the goverament
ivould eay that they hiad no riglit to give
an opinion here-that we could eitber take
the measure or the policy as they chnse
to give it and take the consequences of It.
I do flot tiink the motion should carry.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-AIthough 1 moved that resolution, I musticonfess that I feeIlin accord, as a matter of
principie, with the 'doctrine laid down by
the bon. senior member from Halifax Prd
under ordinary circumstances I sbould be
tnclined to support the proposition that he
bas made. I do not know 'wbetber tbhê
bon. gentleman Is a member of the coinmittee, but lie knows there was a great
difference of opinion as to the riglit of
the Dominion partiamient to deal with the
prin-cipte involved in the Bill. Tbey had
opposition to the Bill on the constltutional
ground from representatives of Ontario,
Quebec and Saskatchewan, and by tetegram from British Columbia. It te truc.
we had a member of the governent ci.
the committee and It was broadly stated
that the opinion of the Minister of Justice
was la opposition to the constitutionatity
of this parliarnent deallng wtth a matter
that was cliîred to lie exclusively
within the jurisdiction of the provinces. I bave no recoltection of the Secretary of State havtng given an opinion
on behalf of the goverament on tlxis
question. On the contrary, we were leu
to suppose that they must bave acqulesced
to a grent extent In the opposition glvei)
to the Bilt, from the fact that tlxe Secretary of State Intimated a desire to ame'id
thxe Bill by bringlng it in a round-about-

1253

way within that clause whtch wouid de-.
clare it for the general advantage of Canada. There were many members of the'
comrnlttee, myseif among the number, who
would vote for the principie of the Bilt if
it te..withtn the power and autborlty of this
parliament to deal with it; but holding very
strong vlews on provincial riglits and opposition to the continuai interference wlth
matters whlch should be exclustvely within
the jurIsdiction of the local legislature.;%. a
motion wae made to get an aixthoritatire
opinion from the Minister of Justice on
this question If he feit lnclined to givP It,
so as to enable those wbo object to Inter.
fereuce wlth matters pertainlng to thxe
provinces, to decîde whether they" shouid
support the Bill. 1 arn desirous of votlng
for the principle of the Bilt, but affer
bearlng the precedents quoted by the iawyers who addreseed us on this question,
and more partlcularly the representative
of th 'e province of Quebee, I have grave
doulits as to the propriety of passing tb;s
Bilt here. The report of the committee,
I admit, Is a departure f rom the
uspial course, and would have béen avolded
If the representative of the governrnent ou
the committee lad stated potntedly nrid
distinctly that the opinion of the Mlntster
of Justice, who is the advlser of hlis colteagues on ait constltutonxl questions, foi'oured our dealng with It. 1 should like
very mudli before -casting my vote on thilq
Bill to have the opinion of the member -)f
the goverament whoee particular duty It
le to Instruct parliarnent upon questions of
this kind.
SHon. Mr. LANDRY-Is dis a goverament Bill?
Hon. M~r. FERGUSON-It was madcý a
governrnent Bill.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I raise a question
ef order ; there le no provision ln o:ir
rotes for a reference to the Minister of
Justice.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The House can carry
the motion if they please; lt le for the
Minister of Justice to Say whether lie shahl
answer ItL
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Whuie ouir rules
make provision for a reference to the Sup-

1254

1254

SENATE
SENATE

reme Court of Canada, there la no obligation piaced on the Supreme Court, under its
constitution, that they shahl respond to any
Sncb demand made upon it, and, furthermore, I understand the Suprerne Court has
practlcaliy derideti the Idea of he ing in .any
sense conipeileti to answer questions suAimltted to theni by this parliament.
It
may ibe salti that thie iaw officers of the
(.rown are for thie assistance of parRalment, and partlcularly la a case of
this kind, where one fanda a number of the
provinces seriously objeetiug to tiiis parliament undertaking to pass on a question of
this kind.
Where there is such a difference of opinion as to the constitutionality
or thie Bill, It Is flot unreasonable that they
shonid Aie nsked to advlse us as to what
Our constitutional powers are.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-I did not 'have
thie advantage of being present in the dommittee when tbis subject w-as under discussion, and did not hear thie reasons andi
arguments given by the representatives of
thie different provinces; but It seerns strange
to me tat there couid be much dou'bt as
to thie constltutionallty of this measure or
our having a right to, deal witb lt as a
matter of ti'ade and commerce.
Where
that power la given to the federai parhiament, it wouid aimost seem there couid be
no difference of opinion upon It.
I take
lt tAie objection from tAie provinces As that
they do not like charters got f rom tlitis pariment w-bea tbey eau be got througb the
Joint Stock <Jompanles, Acts of the provinces, and thie tact ha they are belug stripped of sorne fees whicb they otherwise
would get. 1 arn not sure that the objection as corne in tbat way, but I reaiiy canflot see any object to, be gaineti by seeking
the Opinion of tbe MinAster of Justice, Aiecause tAis Bill was made a goverurnint
mensure, no doulit ou his advice, anti after
it w-as so approved of by thie government
and made a govemument Bill, andi tbe Minster of Justice had given bis sanction to
1't, It w-ould look lîke a great slilit ou the
Minister of Justice to ask irn If he was
in earnest in w-bat he bad done.
Hou. 'Mr. LOUGHEED-The bon. senator
frorn Marshfieid overiooks thus veryimportant tact, tbat tbe BilA was iutroduced in
-the House of Commons by Mr. Monk, a
MRon. Mr. LOTJGHIEED.

private member, and the governrnent in Its
anxiety to get ail the credit possible throughi
die Introduction of a Bill uppealing to the
labouring classes of the Dominion, took
the Bill under its wing andi under the
auspices of the present Minister of Labour;
but I thuk it la flot disclosing secrets when
I say that the opinion was prevaient ia thie
cornmittee that whle the goverument assumeti the responslbility of the Bill, there
was a" strlking divergence of opinion
am-ongst the members of thie goverinent
whetber they hati a riglbt to do so.
Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If the hon.
senator from Halifax insista on his point
of order he sbould flot discuss the merits
of the BilA but thie question raiseti. We
had better have that decideti first. I canflot possibiy see how it becomes a point
of order to ask the opinion of the Minister
of Justice, If thie Senate thinks proper to
do s0. It As not a question as to, whether
the miles guide us In these matters or flot ;
there is notblng againat It In the rules, and
there being no provision for It, I can see
no valid objection to thie iSenate asking
an opinion from anybody.
TAie SPEAKER-Do I understand lhe
bon. senator from Halifax to persist lu his
point of order?
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think we had better bave it settled. We have our own law
cierk and when such questions come Up,
we are supposed to look to hlm for advice.
It la not contempiated ln our rui.es or practice that we shahl go outaide and ask the
opinion of one of tbe law officers of thie
Crown. Thie -House wouid not be bound to,
take thie opinion of thie Minîster of Justice
even If It were given. We are opening the
door to a very bad practice. If this House,
w-hen a difficuit question cornes up, la to
refer that question to the Minister of Justice, tbe independeuce of thie House la to
a very considerabie extent sacrificeti. We
are here to make Up our mintis about things.
The Minister of Justice bas quite enough
to do without undertaking to do tbese thilngs
for us ; w-e ought to be able to make up
our 0w-n mînds.
Thie SPEAKER-Tbere is, perbaps, a
question w-hidi shouid lie discussed thut

JTTNE 23,1908

1255

JUNE 23, 1908

1255

troubles me somewhat ln reading the report, and whicb would, perhaps, need to
be dlscussed before the point of order is
raised. Lt la the form of the report. Lt
says :
The Sonate, Committee Boom No. 8,
Thursday, June 18, 1908.
The Standing Committee on Banking and
Commerce, to whom was referred the Bill
(No. 5 from the House of Commone) jntituled:
Au Act respecting co-operation,' have in
obedience to the ordor of reference of March
24 last, examined the said Bill, and now boa
leave ta report as follows:
In view of doubte which exist as ta the constitutional right of the parliament of Canada
ta pass Bill (No. 5) intitulod: 'An Act rompecting Co-operatioli,' and of the opposition
offered by the goveraments of Ontario, Quebea,
Saskatchewan and British Columbia to the
passing of the said Bili, this committee deems
it advisabie that the Sonate, before proceeding
with the f urther eonsideration of the said Bill,
should refer the said Bill ta the Minister of

give hie
Justice, with a request that he wifl the proopinion as ta the exclusive riglit of subject
the
vincial legislatures ta deal with
thereof.
Ail of which je respoctfully submitted.
WM. GIBSON,
Acting Chairman.
This report seems to'be a final report
f rom the committee wbich delivered itself
of the Bill, and places it before the Senate
advislng the Senate to get the opinion of
the Minister of Justice. if this report le
adopted, the committee wili no longer be
seized witb the Bill. Lt will be 'with the
Senate and would need-I say with soine
diffidence-to be referred again to that
committee for their decision. I wonder if
the committee ltself would not have asked
for the opinion on the Bill before returnlng
It to the House and dlscbarging Its mandate.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-As chairinan of the
commlttee, I may Bay that the feeling of
the committee was that wbile we were
quite 'dli aware it '«as possible to refer
the Bill to the judges of the Supreme Court
for their decision, there was such anxiety
to have it become law this year that the
%uggeston arose that the speediest way to
iget an opinion wbicb would be acceptable,
at aIl events, to the committee at the tîme
when tbis resolution was passed, wns to
irefer it to the Minieter of Justice and get
this opinion as to the constitutionality of
'the Bill. That was tbought to be the quickest way to obtain the object wbich tbe
committee had lu view.

Lt was not done for any other purpose than
to try to facilitate the passage of tbe Bill.
1 have no doubt, mnny bon, gentlemen who
are flot members of this committee must be
aware tbat this Bill bas received a great
deal of attention at the bande of the several
provinces, and special protests '«are sent, at
all events froin the provinces of Quebec and
Ontario, as '«elI as being authorized by the
provinces of Saskatchewan and British GoWe have on many occasions b.d
lumbia.
opposition from the representatives of a province, but ever since I have bad a seat
eitber la this end of the House or in the
other, I have neyer seen a Bill wbicb a11 the
provinces, so to speak, were s0 much opposed to not on 'account of the Tees involved,
but on the constitutional ground that It '«as
an interference '«itb the riglits of the province, and the committee came to the conclusion in tbis teport to refer it to tbe MinLt is in the bands of theliter of Justice.
Senate, and not ln tbe bimds of tbe coniWe bave delivered our judgment
mittee.
Senate, for the Senate to deal witb,
to the
and speaking for thie committee, I think
the speediest way would be to get the opinion of the Minister of Justice, and 4lf those
wbo are in favour of the passage of this ceoperative Act really desire to see the Bill
go tbrougb, I do not tbink they sbould raise
any objection to lts being referred in order
that tbe question of constitutionality might
be speedily settied.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-If we adopt the report, I sbould lke to ask the chairman
'«bat effect hI would bave on tbe Bill?
Take
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-None .at ail.
supposititious case: supposing the Minisa
ter of Justice says: ' It is legal,' we shahl
If he says it Is illegal,
proceed '«itb It.
it will be for the committee to say '«bat
action it shahl take. No one can speak for
In any event, the Bill '«11
the committee.
have to be sent back to the comniittee be
fore it can be final]y disposed of.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I see nothiug ln -the
adoption of the report that is goiug- to br.ing
the report of the committee to the Minister
Lt merely says that it '«ill
of Justice.
take the opinion of the Minister of Justice.
There Is no order or direction gîiven by this
committee to the Mînister of Justiee for an

1256

SENATE

SENATE
1256
opinion, and it does seem to me that it ls the cornmittee to ask the opinion, that it
a quiet way of strauglinzg the Bill, and it is should corne from the Senate ' and we ylelda quiet way of putting the responsi'b!Ility of ed to that suggestion. That is really the
strangling the Bill upon the Minister of history of the resolution, otherwise lt would
Justice, instead of the Committee on Bank-- flot bie here.
As I understand the polng and Commerce and this House assum- sition of the Bill It ras this :the commitIng the responslbility. The adoption of this tee considered the provisions 0f the Bill
report virtually destroys or quietiy strangles for some time, and the question of ti
the Bill, and wbo is responsible for the constitutionalty of the measure ras th'e
strangulation?
It Is the Committee on main point discussed. during the whole o!
Banklng and Commerce and this House. that sltting. Then when this resolution %-as
That being so, we do flot assume the re- moved, the commlttee rose, leaving the
sponslbllty of throwing the Bll ont. We Bill precisely In the position It was, ind
throw the responsibiiity upon the Minister If the Minister o! Justice gives an opinion
of Justice.
Is that right, fair or prudent? it goes to tuie Senate, not to the commlttee,
He may give bis opinion upon it, but we and it wil be for the Senate to refer it
have no means wbereby to revise the Bill to
the commlttee to consider the question
this session.
It is vIrtuaiiy reported -upon, as to whetber tbey rould report for or
and must go0 over until anotber session. agalast the Bill. That ls really the way
While I amn in no way In sympatby w1th tue question
stands. I lstened to the reathe Bill, I tbink It is bardly fair or riglit
sonlng o! the hon. senator !rom Marsbtieid,
tlat the Min ister of Justice ehould have
and if tbis government were conducted upon
thrust on him a responsibllity wbich the
the principles that have governed other concommlttee and tbis House ought 'to assume.
stitutional governments in the past, bis
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tle position rould be quitepoint raised by the Hon. Speaker, to îny
Tbe SPEAKER-I sbould like to ask
mmnd, ls a very pointed one, and one that
the hon. senator, if hie is not going beyond
should be disposed of irst.
I understand
his position to be this: on read.ing the re- the point of order ?
port be comes to the conclusion that the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEIJLYes,
comxnittee bas dlvested itseif of further I ras, but 1 wil take another occasion to
power to deal witb the question.
Such is discuss this point.
flot the fact.
The committee left the Bill
Hon. lir. BEIQU-I
t'ink there is
in abeyance until this opinion -could be obtained, because it ras passed without any something la the point of order ralsed by
particular objection, and the Bill stands in the bion, gentleman from Halifax. This
the position of havlng been deait with to a report does not seem to me to be within
certain extent by the committee w.bo post- tbe reference to the committee. The reponed further -consideraýtion of it until cer- ference ras made for d'e purpose o! baving
the committee examine this Bill and decide
tain information could be obtained.
as to rhetber this formn should -be mainThe SPEAKER-Allow me to draw at- tained or amended. Tbat niay be very matention to the wording of the report:
terial to the question o! constitutionality
This committee deems it advisable that the o! the Bill, and instead of doing that the
Senate, before proceeding with the further committee go entireir out of the reference
consideration of said Bill, should refer the and v'olunteer a mere advîce to the
Senate.
consideration. and so on.
Suppose that this report is adopted, -wbere
Hon. Sir MACkENZIE BOWELL-r-Yes.
.does it stand, and where do ne stand?
The original draft o! that report ras not
We accept the report that the committee
coucbed In that language. The original draft tbinks
it advisable for the Senate to ask
was for the commi.ttee to assume the resthat opinion. It seems to me it is not a
ponsibility o! asking the opinion of the
proper report on the part of the committee.
Minister o! Justice; but upon sbowing it
to the law clerk I ras overruled. He sald
Hou. '-%r. GIBSON-I should like to cal]
1I do not think it would be proper for my bon. friend's attention to d'e fact that
Hon. Mr. WILSON.

JUNE 23, 1908
that is not a fair statement. The report is
already lu accordance with the direction
given by Uic committee. He asks the question why should not some member of the
committec go to Uic Minister of Justice?
There was no sncb direction given to any
member of thc committee. It was given
to the comilttee to report to the. Senate,
asking in an officiai way an officiai opinion
from thec Minister of Justice.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The hon. gentleman
is confusing my statement. I did not suggest that tbe report is not made accordlng
to the decision of thc commIttee; but I
say it was not witbin the province of the
committee to -make a report of that kind.
It migbt have been 'witbin Its province ta
go cither ta tbe Supreme Court or to the
Minister of Justice or the clcrk of the
Senate for the purpose of euligbtenlng
Its conscience, and ask wvhether a Bill
lu such aud sucb form» wonhd be witbln
the powers of this parihament; and lu reporting upon Uic Bill it wonld be 'witbin
its province to say : 'The committee bas
come to Uic conclusion to report thc Bill
ln sncb snd sncb form, or suggests to
amend'it lu sncb a way. As a question
of constitutiouality bas been raised and
the Bill, the committce suggests tliat an
opinion be obtahned. But lu this report the
committee does not do anytbing of Uic kind.
It is a refusai to fulfil the mandate given,
practically saying: 'Before we carry out
tbe mandate whicb the -Senate bave given,
we ask tbat sncb and sncb a tbing be donc.'
It seems to me tbat is not the proper way.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-In my opinion, the
point of order was very propcriy raiscd.
The procednre lu certanly novel lu thia
House, and it Is to my mind absoiutely
subversive of our practice.
The Senate
gives Instructions or orders to the committee, but I neyer before saw a committce
giving orders or Instructions to thc Senste. It Is shmphy rcversing the order of
tbings. I therefore, without ampiifying my
Ideas any furtber, thiuk thc point pf order"
was very properly taken.
This proces
will lead to an absolutely novel procedure,
aud a novel way of dealug bétween the
Senate and Its committees, reversing It In
favour of the committees and placing the

15
1257

Senate ln a position to accept, as It were,
Instructions or orders from tbe committee.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
nonsense.?

BOWELL.-Ob,

Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-As a member of
the committee, I desire to say that I do flot
remeniber of any mea.sures that came before parliainent la my parliamentMr life
that received greater care or consideration
at the bands of the committee than thîs
mensure bas received. Out of respect for
those wbo appeared there on behaif of the
provinces, and urged that It was ultra
vires of the powcrs of this parliament to
pass, that it wouid infringe upon legisiation already lu existence Iu the provinces
that we were trampling virtnally upon their
riglits. There were representatives there
froin Quebec and Ontario and the provinces
tiiat have been mentioned by the'hou. gentlemnan from Belleville. In view of ail these
conditions, 'the committee came to the concluuion almost unanimously-there were
only two or tbree dissenters-that in view
0f the strong contention and strong representations made on behaif of the provinces
witb regard to this bank. we should ask
the opinion of tbe 'Minister of Justice as to
wbether it was witliin the competency of
this parliameat to pass the mensure or not.
The couimittee baving given a very great
deal of time aud consideration, day after
day. to this mneasure, It wonld »be a matter
of common courtesy to thein to carry ont
the decision arrived at. WINtb regard to referriug the matter to the Minister of Justice, why sbould we be deprIved of the right
of submitting a question of that kind for
his consideration? -Tbe . on. gentleman
f rom Halifax says there Is no precedent
for sncb a course. Weil, we are flot to be
guîded absolutely by precedent, wc are to
(Io whiat we believe is best lu the intereSs
of the country. and within the liues of the
powers conferred upon us. 1 tbiuk we are
discharging au Important duty lu taking
the course we did, and that we did quite
righit, notwithstanuding tbe contention of the
hon, gentlemnan from De Salaberry. In
view of the pointed challenge made on bebalf 0f the proýIinces that we hiad not the
right to legisiate lu regard to the matter,
we decided to submit It to the Minister of
.Justice, as to wlîether we were witblu our

1258

SENATE

1258

SENATE

Powers or flot la dealing wvith it. I think
it is but right to bave that question settied.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wniat was the point
0f order ?
The SPEAKER-Thie point of order raised by the hon. gentleman from Halifax
was that It was not within the power of
the Senate to refer a Bill to the Minister of
Justice, and 1 asked If there ivas flot a precedlng point of order to be raised ns to the
comruittee divesting itself totaliy of the Bill
when reporting on the Bill itself. That was
the point 1 lind raised.

committee took a proper course la asking
the Senate to submlt the matter before -the
Minister of Justice for his officiai opinion.
It was not a matter 'for a private opinion
at ail.
The Senate took the oniy course
open to It.
That opinion was unanimoiis.
We wan.ted'to have the opinion o'f the 'Minister of. Justice as to, whetber It was really
within the purview of this pnrliament or
not.
It was the bounden duty of the coinmittee to ask the Senate for their approval
iu sueh a course.

Hon. Mr. POWER-When I first raised
the objection, I dld It hastily, without baving -time to, consider It.
In fact, I had. not
consldered the inatter at ail.
On further
consideration, and particlilariy after lîstenlng to wbat bas been sald by the hon. gentiemain from De Salaberry, I am confirmed
in the opinion that the point of order Is
renlly well taken. Certain bon, gentlemen
have e'xpressed a great contempt for preceHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-If that be the case,
dents; but, after ail, that Is the British
the committee bas a perfect rigbt to keep
principie, that 'freedom broadens slowly
the'Bihl before this House and ask the opindown from precedent to, precedent.'
Ion of the Minister of Justice on another
question altogether.
Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-PreHon. Mr. BEIQUE. I cal! attention to cedients have to be made, or tbey would not
the fact that the commlttee is flot asking to exist.
be empowered to ask the opinion of the
Hon. 3Mr. POWEll-I think Cromwell
Mînister of Justice, but the committee suggests that it is advisable for the Senate to made a few; and we have to take them when
ask the opinion of the Minister of Justice. it is absolutely necessary. 1 notice that
Rules 115 and 116-I omitted to refer to
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think -ie reaiiy tbem-appiy
only to private Bis. Tbey do
have the Bill reported.
Let me eall at- flot refer to public Bis. There is no
provitention to the words, 'That the Senate sion anywhere
in our miles for the reference
should refer the said Bill to the Minister of
a public Bill to the opinion of any auof Justice.'
How could the committee re- thority outside the Senate. The object
that
fer it uniess the committee are handing It was desired to be
attnined might bave been
in to us to refer?
The suggestion that It attained in this way, if I may be allowed
to
be referred to tdie Minister of Justice, cer- make the suggestion.
One of the coltainly impiies that the Bill is reported to leagues of the
M.Ninister of Justice sat on
the House.
the committee, and that bon. gentleman
Hon. Mr. G.IBSON-Mvl hon. friend f roui miglit, without doing the thiug in a very
De Saiaberry says we might have obtaîned formai way, ascertain the opinion of bis colthis Information f rom the Minîster of Jus- league the Miiîister of Justice on this questice, without referring it to the Senate. It tion, without any reference fromn the cornwas too important a mnatter to do -that, and mittee, and I for one should neyer bave
1 do flot tbiuk it wvould be a fair thing- raised any doubt about that course, but I
I say that advisediy-for a gentleman ou contend that there is no precedent for a
either side of the House to get a private reference to an Individuai outside of the
opinion from the Minîster of Justice and Senate of a public Bill.
spring It upon the committee. 1 think the
I did not catch at first the lauguage of this
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I désire to eall attention to the fnct, as very properly stated by
the Speaker, that the report dues not report
the Bill1 nt ail, and If you refer to Bourinot
nt page 783, It is stated, and It is elementary, that It is the duty of every committee
to report a Bill. Here the commlttee wouid
remain seized of the Bill.

JUNE 23,1908

1259

JUNE 23, 1908

1259

report. It says the Bill shall be referred.
We cannot refer a Bill to anybody outside
of the House. We can refer a Bill to a
Comm ittee of the Whoie House or to a
select cammittee, but flot ta the Minister of
Justice, or ta any otber minister. It would
be coinpietely abrogating the functians of
a legisiative body. I feel quite satisfied
now that we shouid be vioiating a fundamental mile of parliament If we were ta refer this public Bill ta any officer, na matter wbo he may be, outside, for his opinion.
And there is tbis ather circumstance whicbi
ban, gentlemen da flot appear ta have considered ; tis is flot a Bill wbich originated
ln the Senate. It Is a Bill wbichi origlnated
ln the House af Gommons, l0f whicb the
Minister of Justice is a member. If he did
flot think tbat this Bill was constitutionai,
naturally he wauld have objected to It
there.
Hon. Mr. BOWELL-Tbe bon. gentleman
la trencbing on ground tbat may bring out
other facts. I was departing from the question of arder, and the Speaker cailed my attention to the fact, and I at once admItted
that be was rlgbt.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I was giving reasons
wby the reference shauld not be made. It
shows wbat an improper thIng It 1s, atter
the Bill came from the House of Communs
that we should send it back ta a member of
that House for his opinion upon ItL
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I agree with tbe
bon. Senator tram Halfax ln tbe main,
that a reference of the Bill to the Minister
ut Justice would be Irregular. I cen
bardiy reconcile It witb pariiamentary practice seeing tbat ibis ls a government Bill
and the Minister of Justice 1s a member of
the other House la whicb it originated. He
must have already passed upon It officiaily;
otherwise it would not be.bere. But I suppose It wouid 'not be more meaningless ta
refer the Bill ta the Minister ut Justice
tihan ta say that this House would consider
It this day six manths. Eltber course wauid
lt. If we act on tbe recommendation ta
kLi1
refer the Biii ta the Minîster of Justice,
we are no longer seized witb It. He may
report ta us any way he likes, but I do flot
think we cauid take up the Bihl again.
Whiie I do not thnk it is strictly out of

arder, it ls not a proper way ta treat the
Bill. I would therefore mave as an amendment that tbe report of the cammittee be
nat agreed. ta but thatHon. Mr. BOWELL-The point ot order
must be decided before an amendment cau
be made.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I sbould like ta.
point ont what I deferentialiy cali the
the failaciaus reasaning of tbe hon. Senator
from Halifax. Tbe supremacy of the Senate over ail Its committees cannot be questioned for a moment. I need not recail ta
my han. friend the action of tbe Senate
on former occasions ln referring Important
matters ta an Investigatlng committee, appainting cauncU, going mast extensively luta the Investigation of matters wbicb arase
incidentaily ont of the cansideration of thase
subjecta by a committee. I need not refer,
falaciaus reasaning of the han. Senatolr
for instance, ta the Baie des Cbaleurs
question, ta the aiieged purchase of
a Senatorship, questions arising out of
a committee incidentaiiy. Tbis report
is simpiy a recommendatIon by a committee that It sbould refer tbis matter
ta tbe Minister of Justice beo re furtber
Wili any hon. gentleman
consideration.
seriously contend tbat this Senate bas not
the authority ta refer the mattor ta the Minlstor of Justice ? Thore la no law ta compel the Minister of Justice ta give bis opinion, but it is an entiroiy dlff erent proposition ta say that the Sonate cannot refer It
ta the Ministor of Justice or any ather caunsel for the purpuses of gettlng Information.
Hon. Mr. POWER-We couid refer a'
question but not a Bill ,and tbat is what
the committeo recammend.
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-The han, gentleman is quibbiing on tha-t, because tbe ianguage of tbe repart ls that the Bill be referred with a requost for the opinion of tbe
Minister of Justice as ta tbe right of this
How couid It be
parliament ta leg-isiate.
referrod to the M-inister of Justice without
Conflning
putting tbe Bili ln bis bands.
myself strictly witbin tbe four corners ot
tbe question, I say the point of arder which
il-as been raised questions the power of the
Senate ta refer any matter ta tbe Minister

1260

SENATE

of Justice or any other person for an opinion.
I may be permitted to state that lu
the committee, when the Secretary of State
Iutimated that it was impossible fer the
Minister of Justice to be conversant witb
ail matters which came before the committee, he left lu the mmnd of the commlttee
a doubt that t-bis matter ever came before
In regard to what
t-be MinIster of Justice.
thbe bon. member from Marshfild bas said,
1 eau say witb ail slncerity t-bat It was flot
the objeet 0f the mommittee to kili the Bill,
but quite t-be contrar, and 1 say advIsedly
If t-bis Bill is t-o become law It eau only be
by satlsfying the Iuqulrlng mind of 'the
I
committee as to its constitutionaity.
cau say this further and say it advlsediy
t-bat those wbo haàve recoxnmended t-bis
course have doue so with a view t-o t-be
The doubt can only
passage of the Bill.
be cieared by an expression of opinion from
the Minister of Justice as to t-be coustitutionality of the measure.
Hou. Mr. POIRIFER-Wbat wilI be t-be
position of the Senate when the Bill Is referred t-o a body outslde not only of the
To my mind if
Senate but of parliament?
we refer the Bill t-o the Minister of Justice,
or to the Rupreme Court, we dispossess ourselves of the Bill. Supposing thbe Minister
of Justice should not deem It proper to give
The
an answ-er, where sJiail we stand?
Bill Is practicalUy out of our bauds; we have
to watt until we get bis reply.
Therefore,
the suggestion made by tbe commit-tee that
we should refer t-be -Bill instead of a certain Question «rLýlug out of the Bill, is lu
my opinion, incorrect and absolutely -witbBy doing what is sugout a precedeut.
gested. t-o us, we direct thbe committee, but
it is the flrst time I1have known a commitThe
tee to direct t-be Senate wbat to do.
moment t-be Bill Is put before the minister
for an opinioin. it is practically, for the tUr.ne
beiug. out of our bauds, and we cannot
logically proceed upon It before we have
the auswer of the Minister of Justice or of
the Supreme Court.
Therefore, for these
two reasons. first that it is an absoiutely
novel procedure, and eïecondly because I
consider it an action - derogatory to the
dignlty of the Senate-I t-hlnk the point
raised by the hon. senator froni Haifax is
*weil taken.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWFdLL-If
t-bat discussion is relevant t-o t-be point oit
o'rder, I should hike to answer my hon.
friend lu direct opposition- t-o the opinion
he has expressed about t-be commIitee
divesting itself of t-be Bil.
The question,
as I underst-and thbe hou. senator froin Hallfax, is t-bis: is It a proper thlug for a conimittee t-o pass a resolution askiu.g the opinIon of t-be MInist-er of Justice to guide
t-hem?
If they have no power t-o do that,
it may be out of order, but flot wthout.
Hou. Mr. KERR-Tbls la a public Bill,
and t-be rules wltb reference t-o seudlug
private Bis t-o a commit-tee do not, therefore, apply. There ls no rule of t-be House
prov.ldlng for a reference of a public Bill
t-o a committee. WbIeu It is doue, it is a
way of get-ting Information; but at-ter It
cornes back by auy proceas It la stil] open
to go Into Comumittee of the Whole, and,
therefore, It would be permissable eitber
to deal wlth it or get an opinion, or get auy
Information ln Committee of the Wbole
Tbat
t-bat migbit be deemed adviable.
being so, and the Senate havIug remitted
the muatter for a special pu'pose-because
after ail It la a reference at Jarge to that
committ-ee--the commit-tee says ln effect:
'Before we advise you we suggest that you
should get the opinion of semebody.' That
migbt be the opinion of a court, or of some
persou they thougbt could give t-be Iniformation, eit-her by way of advice or otherwise, before t-bey'deal with t-be Bill, and It
would be quite open for us uow t-o go into
a Committee of the Whole and defer further
consideration of t-bis mat-ter until t-be opinion
of t-be Minister of Justice could ibe obtained.
The committee to wbom the Bill was referred bas not reported It back to thbe House.
They have not divested theiuselves of thbe
inquiry. We may direct t-hem to continue
their inqulry; but in the absence of it
we can get the opinion of the M.Ninister of
Justice.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-A few days ago,
when a similar question came before the
House, I raised a point of order aud it
was ruled agalnst. Wlxat wvas t-be point?
A committee bad made a report. A motion
wvas made for its adoption, and I objected
because thbe commit-tee bad not t-be power
t-o ninke such a report. The ruliug of the

JUNE 23,1908

1261

JUNE 23. 1908

1261

chair was that my point of order was *not
weil taken. Thîis is a similar case. The
coa>mittee sent iback the Bill with Its report.
Hon. 31r. KERR-To wbat case does the
bon, gentleman refer?
Bon. Mr. L.ANDRY-The Shuswap and
Thompson River BIil The comnittee returns the Bill or does flot returu IL. If It is
flot returned, It Is ln the bands of the coinmIttee; If it Is returned, the House bas It.
We have a report on the Bill at ail events,
and that report suggests that 'before proceeding wltb t-he furtber consideration of
the measure the opinion of the Minister of
Jûstice should be obtained. WVe are flot
oblged to do wbat tie commîttee aske. We
may say we shal flot refer it to the Minister of Justice but to a conittee of the
whole Bouse and deal witb it ourselves. If
w-e find that w-e have not the rlght to go
to the Minister of Justice, we can take that
course.

the Bill is flot before Vie House, It is in
the coinmittee: but, altbough remaining
with tbe comnaittee, Vie Bill is still under
consideration. If a conittee sbould decide to caîl. witnesQes to obtein furtber Information, tbey may make a speclal report
asklng permission to do so, and tiey can
make a report askig permission to employ
a shortband w-rlter. Tbcy may recommend
gettiag the opinion of the Minister of Justice, as they bave d,)ne. I do flot see that
there is anythinig out of order ln that. ~'%e
are not bouind -b* the opinion of Vie MInIster of Justice, we may act upon it, or niay
refuse to do so.
Hon. Mfr. POWVER-Perbiaps bis honon'r
the Speaker would Ilke to have a littie
tume f0 consider the question. It is a matter of Importance, and I w-ould suggest that
the further consideration of the Bil! be
postponed until to-aaorrow.
Hon. Mfr. GIBSOIN-I bave no objection
to a postponement.

Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-The dilemma is tbis:
The SPEAKER-I should prefer to ha-ee
elther the commlttee ls seized of the Bill, a little
time f0 consider the question.
or the Bill is before the House. If it is, as
Hon. Mfr. GIBSON moved Vint the or'1 2r
w-e dlaim, before the committee, it is flot
before the House. How, tieu, can the of tie day be discbarged and that It be
placed on the orders for to-morrow.
Bouse deal Nvith Vie Bull ?
The motion w-as agreed to.
Hon. '-%r. LAXDRY-If Vie Bill Is not
before the HouseISSUE 0F DOMINION NOTES, CONHon. Mfr. M-NcMULE'N-Order.
FIRMATION BILL.
Hon. 1r.- LANDRY-I -have a perfect
SECOND READING.
right to speak.
Hon. 3fr. SCOTT moved the second readHon. Mr. McM-IULLEX-The boa. gentle- ing of tbe Bill (159) An Act respecting a cerman bas already addressed tie House on tain issue of Dominion notes. He snidlion, gentlemen are aw-are Vint towards Vie
this question, and hie cannot speak twice.
,Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I w-as speakling end of iast year, whlen the depression .first
occurred, tbere w-ns a dearthi of nione7 in
w-vheu I w-ns interrupted by the hon. gentlethe Northwest, and it w-as represented to
man frota De Saiaberry, and lu accordiance
w-vith Vie rules of the House I sat down the governnaent tbat un!ess tbe banks w-ere
supplied w-ith fuiids, a large proportion of
unitil hie biaU put hi$ question.
tbe crop could not be nioved. It requirecl
The SPEAKER-E-en If the hon. nien- action at once, and the governinent declded
ber had risen a second time, lie was proceed- f0 do w-bat tbe law does not nuthorize tbemn
ing w-lth bis speech wlhen lie was interrupt- to do. Thiey did not, bowever, jeopardize
ed by the lion. senator froua De Salaberry, tbe financial position of the country ln any
w-ho asked a question.
w-ny, but tbey accepted from tbe banka
seeurity for advânces tbat had not been reHon. Mfr. MM
LE Hesat down.
cognized In the statutes. The effect w-as
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I sat 40wn la coqrn- to relieve the condition very mnaterially,
pliance w-ith the rule of tbe HBouse. If and tbat is the ouly justification for It.

1262

S E -- A TE
\

1262

SENATE

This is an Act to indemnif v the government for the action taken. The largest suni
of money ont at any one time was between
five* and six million dollars.

the statement whicb la disclosed by the
Orders in Council passed, that it was not
until December, practically, that any snb.
stantini advance had been made by the gnvHon. Mr. GIBSON-Which of the banks erfiment to relleve the financial stringency.
Consequentiy, parliament was la session
ha1 it ?
without nny knowledge of this extraordinHlon. Mr. SCOTT-Several banks. 1 ama ary step having been taken by the governnlot ln a position to nàme the banks, and I ment. Furthermore, It was not until some
believe the banks themeelves do nlot wlsb months after the meeting of parliament
to be pnrticularized.
that Information was given out that the
Hon. Mr. McMILLEN-Has it been paid goverfiment had sanctioned this Issue of
ten million dollars without any gold reback ?i
serve to support It. I need nlot point out to
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
tlis chamber, that If the financiai condiHon. Mr. LOUJGHEED-I cnn assure the tion of the Dominion Is to remain uniHouse that I have no desire to occupy time palred, If our credit Is to remain as It waq
discussing this matter, but before the prin- ln the markets of Europe ten or fifteau
ciple of the Bill is assented to by the Mouse years ago, It Is Imperative that the statuI should like to explain the position which 1 tory provisions with reference to the gold
take upon this very Important subject. reserve of the Dominion being unimpaired
Hlere is a matter affecting the entire finan- should be carrled ont with the greatest
ces of the Dominion, ln which the Finance strIctness. 1 can very easiiy fancy a erlsis
Minister, who Is speciaily charged witb of this kInd occurrlng, and the governmeut
the administration of the public moneys, regarding it as absolnteiy necessary ihat
bas wilfully violated the statutes, and tlial relief should be given for the purpose of
violation, ln tnrn, bas been sanctioned by carrying the country through a financbQjt
an Order in Council. A question arises is stringency sncb as occurred last year. But
this defensible ln any contingency or crises 1 contend that nothing will warrant a dein the commercial affairs of the Dominion;, liberate violation of an Act of Parliament.
shahI any circumstance warrant the Fin- such as we have ln cap. 27 of the Revised
ance Minister ln disturbing for one mo- Statutes, knoxvn as the Dominion Notes
ment the integrity of what Is regarded as Act, without the express sanction of parliathe fundamental basis of our financial con- ment and It is certainly mysterious, to
ditions tbroughout the Dominion, nameiy, my mmnd, when parliament was practically
the gold reserve? In the first place, whIle meeting, and was nware of the difficult!es
I do not for a moment, under present con- which obtained with reference to the .reditions, question the desirability of the movai of the wheat crop ln the Northwést,
government havIngê come to the assistance that the sanction of parliament was not ohof the farming communlty ln the west, tained. It was not that the governmeont
apprehended for one moment that the paryet I do question the action of the Finane
MinIster sanctloned by the government liament of Canada would refuse to give is
directly, vioiating the - statute nt a time sanction to the Issue of ten million of.
when it was possibie--not only possible, Dominion notes without a goid reserve,
but qulte feasibie-to obtain the sanction because parliament must have -been aware
of parliament to this violation of the sta- tnat the opposition as weli as supporters
tute. W'e find an Order in Council passed of the government wouid have been anxioua
on the 12th day of November, sanctionIng te relieve the stringency whieh then existed.
advances up to ten million of dollars of rherefore, It Is incomprehensible to my
Dominion notes, notwithstanding the fact -nind why, under those peculiar conditions.
that there was no gold reserve as agninst at a time when parliament was called,
that particular Issue. Parliament at that ix'hen it was possible to consuit the repgrtirne had l)een onii~d ta meet nn th~ 9,~th I
of November. The facts further warrTant jsolutely necessary thitt this Act should have
1lion. Mfr. SCOTT.

JITNE 23, 1908

1263

23, 1908

1263

JUNE
been over-ri-dden, that the representatives
of the people were flot called upon to sanction this very grave departure from parliamentary procedure.
Hon. Mr.'DOMVILLE-But It redounds
to the credit of the governrnent.

Hon. Mr. LOrJGHEFED-Tbe next consideration naturally 15, were the conditions
whlch arose at thet tirne of sucb a serions
character as to warrant the action wbieb
tbe governmeat had taken wltbout cç>naultlng parliament. 1 amnfot taking the position that tbe governrent did not net wlsely ln coming to, tbe assistance of the farinlug cornmunlty of the west ; but I take
this position, and 1 BaY it is one worthy
of consideration, that If It la known to the
financial markets of Europe that a finance
niinister, upon practically bis own judgmnent can set at naugbt the deliberate action of parliament ln havlng placed upon
the etatute-book snch a provision as tbis
to wbicb I bave referred, than the fimandiai
credit of this Dominion must necessarily
stand impaired for ail time to corne.
Tbe
juagment of th-e Finance Mlnister, be be
wbo he may, be be Liberal or Conservative,
I care not whorn he may be, he lu but
falible. The judgment of the Finance IMinIster upon -a question of thls kind Io of necessity no better, nor wll It carry more
weight tban the judgment of any otber
individual wbo rnny be acqualnted with
the financial conditions of the country at
any particular tirne, and It was neyer lnteuded, the governinent ltself wIll not for
one moment urge tbat It was ever con-'
ternplated by this Act that the action of
"the il'inance Minister, even the action of
the Finance Minister supported by the action of the governent itself, could deliberately set nt naugbt the solern provisIons of tbis statute wltb reference to unIrnpairment of the gold reserve. Tberefore,
au attempt to establish a precedent
tbat a Finance Mýinister upon bis own
IndivIdual judgment can conclude that
thc commercial conditions or fimandiai conditions of the country at any trn'e represented by the stringeflcy wblcb tiien obtalned, was sncb as to warrant the settlng
asIde of tbose provisions witbout the sanction of parliament, can receive no support
nt the bands of any represenrtative of the

people who may be interested ln supporting the fimandiai credit of this Dominion.
It Is a dangerous precedent. Wbiie lt may
bave been commendabie on the part of the
government to bave corne to the assistance
of tbeHon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Banks.
lIou. Mr. LOUGHEF 1D-Not of tbe banks,
but o! tbe wbeat-growers of -tbe west.
Now, as to the banks, bon. gentlemen
must flot overlook tbe fact tbat this
order In council made provision tbat
tbis rnoney migbt be advanced to the
banks on -a graduated scale of intereat,
frorn seven per cent down to five per cent;
and altbougb lt I. represented tbat at that
particular time the banks absoluteiy refused to, make provision for the removal
of the wbeat crop, yet bon, gentlemen must
not overlook the tact tbat the banks refused to taite one dollar of this advance
at the rates of lnterest wbicb were stipulated ln the order ln councîl. Would tlis
warrant the conclusion that there was such
a financial stringency as to justlfy tbe action o! the goiFernmeat la deliberately setting silde the statute and issulng ten million of notes witbout bavlag a gold reserve
to support It, as provided by statutes ? No
institutions witbin this Dominion were so
interested La tbe limandiai stringency o! tbat
time belng relieved as the banks, and yet
so IndîlTerent were tbe ban.ks to tbe condition wbich tben obtalned, tbat tbere was,
not a solitary bank witbin tbe Dominion of
Canada that intimated Its willlngness to
take advantage of tbe provisions of the
advance and to pay the ascending scale from
five per cent to seven per cent for tbe use
of 'the money. It was mot until tbe governrnent reduced the rate, o! interest to,
four per cent tat tbey were able to do
business witb the banks. Tberefore, la tiais
fact we bave the very best evideace tbat
eau be fortbcorning that the stringency n-as
not of sucb a character as to, warrant the
extraordinary action of tbe goverament la
setting solde the provisions of the statute:
It n-as only when tbe rate of lnterest n-as
reduced to four per cent that the banks
took advantage of the offer wbicb n-as
made.
There la another consideration wbicb
naturally presents ltself to one's mmnd la

1264

SENATE
1264

coasldering this fact, and that is under action of the governimeflt; wie, lu fact I
that the goverument
tlxe Act, the goveramnent was problbited froin regard it as meritorlous
at tbe particular
making Ibis Issue, but there was a provisioni sliouid have made inquiry
of tlie It did, into the condition of affairs in
by whlch the goverament under section 63
shown a very
the Dominion Notes Act could bave made the Northwest, -and, have
proper aflxiety as It dld, for thxe inoveinent
this Issue, and at the saine lime have negocan justify
tiated, ai lan for the purpose of maintaining of the wbeat crop, yet nothing
any act that would Impair the credit of tbis
the goid reserve. Dld the governument utMinister or liv
tenxpt 10 do that? What- therefore, is the Dominion by the Finance
goverument on the fallible judgment of one
inference whielh must necessarily lie drawn
the judgfbom the fact that thxe goverament did xiot man, in deliberately setting aside
crystaiaval itseif of the provision of the statute niîent qf pariainent, wbtcb has been
of t-redit to the extent llzed ln tbis Act, and wvhicb provides that
and negotiate a line
lie -in
of the Issue wlch It iniglit, of Êve million under no circumstances shall there
issue of Dominion notes, except there be a1
Slmiply
and some edd hundred thousand?
under
this, that the financial credit of the Do- gold reserve to support il, and only
of snch one condition could such an extraordinary
mainion at the tume must have been
made defensible,
a character tlhat it could ixot negotiate a step be Justlfied and lie
imnely by caliing a special meeting of parloan to the extent of the issue for the purthe stapose of supporting the reserve, as provided liamient to sanction the violation of
Under these circunistaiCeS, 1 havc
la section 6; yet at the saine tUnie. we have tiite.
quaiify the acthe Finance M'Ninister of tis Dominion made these observations to,
principle of the Bill, au.l
boastlng of a surplus of not Iess than aine- tion I take on the
condemnlng the governwent
teen millions belng forced ho go to the banks lu no sense of
facilof securing on account of Its desire and anxiety 10
of the Dominion for the purpose
itate tbe movement of the crop la the Northithe inecessary assistance. Hon. gentlemen
lime of the stringency.
miust not overlook the fact that under the west at the
Dominion Notes Act If there bad been a surHon. Mr. DOMVILLE-M1y hon. friend
plus « f nineteen million, or If there had lins opened Up a large question of banking.
been a sur-plus of five million, aIl tlie gov- 1 do not know wby it sbouid bie openied up)
erament was called upon to do was 10, place -lot oniy the question of bankîng. -but a
Ibis In the reserves and make an Issue question on the whole position of affairs ln
accordingiy; but so belpless was the govern- -Canada. Admittlng lie is perfectly riglht
nient la its financial condition at that parti- that fixe government shonld flot have issued
cular tlme, tbat il was absolutely destitute, tiiose notes without a gold reserve and the
al)parently, of the necessary reserve 10 sup)- sanction of parliamfeat, would you have
port the issue which it haid Illegalis muade ah stopped to await the openiflg of parliaineiit?
that lime. I have no other observations to
lion. Mr. LOUGHEE-D-PaIhiaIaneU t '%vils
inake on Ibis subject except to say- that 1
no In session when the advance was nmade.
cannot understand for one moment w-hy
explanation bas been given as yet, and I
H-on. Mr. DOMVILLE,-BUt ten days
have carefully followed the debate wvhich mlighit have paralyzed the wbole position.
lias taken place iu the House of Commnons The country wvas luan troublesomne state. If
uipon the subject as to wby, notwithistaiid- you go to the bottoiui of it, althiouglh the
lug the fact that parliamient hiad not only banks did not take advantage of the offer,
been called 10 mneet on Novemiber 29, but a the goverament threw its umbrit over theni.
f urther important consideration tbat the Its credit was extended over theni. There
greater part of Ibis issue was not 1mmde itatil wvas no doulit the banks were in a very tighit
the monîli of December, whien parliamient place. Would any oue foi one moment find
-%vas In session, no Intimation wiiatever '%vis fanît with the governaielt taking the action
given 10 parliament of the fact. nor w'vas
tbey did ln regard to that question? We ail
parliament asked to sanction the extraor- admit the banks are not able to move the
dinary steps wbich liad been taken by tue
and they were tiot
Finance Minister and sanctioned by order crops in the Northwest,
1 do not question the then froni insufficiency of bauking capital.
Whiie
ini council.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED.

JUNE 23,1908
JUNE 23. 1908
The government wisely stepped ln and assisted them. The banks haed put their money
Into building-socleties. There were 37 millions invested in bank buildings, and they
are stîli puttlng them up. It will be a very
-grave question whether parliament ever lntended tliat the money of« the banks should
We
be put Into buildings ln this way.
mlgbt show that out of 650 million dollars
on deposit ln the banks, there ls only 630
millions left. Whiere la the balance? They
liad flot as mucb money lent some few
months ago as they held on deposit. They
had their capital and the use of their cir-culation. The circulation Is dqual to their
deposit, If tbey choose to use It. My hon.
frlend mlght question whether they have the
rlght to circulation, that the government
should make ai the circulation, and whether
the profit on the circulation should not accrue to the goverument, and If there Is no
profit, whether the banksý could Issue the
notes. The governaient took the responsibillty of giving elastlclty to the banks at a critical moment. We ail know that the banks
had issued orders to do nothing but take ln
deposits.
1 was out to the west niyself,
and the bank. orders tiiere were to lend
nothing but to borrow ai the money they
could, and prudently they let It out ln New
York-no doubt about that. It was ln the
There are
interests of the shareholders.
two parties to the banking. One is the man
lending the money and the other ls the*publie. Parliament gives power tQ the banks
To get
to earn ail the money they can.
notes prlnted off, and get 5 or 6 or 7 per
cent on the Issue of thiem. We have ail consented to it. Therefore, we cannot find any
fanit with that. On this occasion the banks
found they were crowded. They liad Ioaned
their money in New York. The shareholders
The bauks
were gettlng large dividends.
were earning 'froin 18 to 22 per cent per annum on boans ln New York. They could
flot earn that here. They haed used thieir
credit to the fullest extent. No doubt their
If they hiad
management was excellent.
taken the moùey fromn the east and put it
ln the west, the east would starve. If they
cannot get the money to move the crop,
what were tliey to do? Tlhey were between
The goveruthe devil and the deep sea.
nient stepped ln to save the credit of the
go

1265
1265

country. Lt ls between them and the banka.
When the question is threshed out under
the Banklng Act, It muet be decided whether
it le prudent to rlsk the credit of the country to save «the credît of the banks. As to
the gold, reserve, that la absolute bunco,
and to-morrow if there was a cail on the
banks, or upon the goverument, where is
the gold reserve for 60 or 70 millions of
bank notes? Practlcally there la noue. Lt
is a myth. Whlle the credit of the goverfiment is good, whlle the goverument i able
by the recelpts and expenditures'to retain
an equllibrlum, they use the country favourabiy, and the country's credit stands A-i.
I do flot think the goverument deserve any
censure for atepplng ln on this occasion.
Thieir action saved the credit of the banks.
It was a moat critical position at that time.
You remember the Bank of Glasgow went
up. Some of the strongest men of England
fLuancially also, went up because their credît
The goverament may be
waa lmpalred.
right and may be wrong, but I do think they
were perfectly justified ln coming to the
rescue of the hanks; ln recuing the banks
they were resculng the country by putting
trade lu a good position.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I ain rather surprlsed at the hon. leader of the opposition,
coming from the west, criticising the action
of the government last October.
Hon. M1r. LOUGHEED-I decidediy'object to my hon. friend misrepresenting the
position I took. I took some pains and repeated myseif, to prevent any misconstruction being placed on my remarks. I said
it was meritorlous on behaif of the government to come to the relief of the west, but
I attacked thtem on a different ground.
Hon. 1fr. WÂTSON-Tlhe hon. gentleman
did state that there was no necessity for
goverument coming to the relief of the
banka and I want to try to make that position clear. I happened to bie one of the
gentleman who knew of the position of
affaire ln the Northwest, and knew that the
grain dealers had practlcally quit buyingthe wheat ln the latter part of October,
when there was only about four weeks of
navigation for the shipment of that wheat.
I came to Ottawa with Hon. Mr. Young,
knowing the circumsathees, and laid the

REVISED EDITIOeq

1266

1266
SENATE

matter before the Minister of Finance. At
that tirne the presldents of the banks were
stating through the press that there was
sufficient money to move the crop. The circumstances were such as the western people
had neyer experienced before last October,
when there was a profit on export wheat
of ten and one-balf cents a bushel, whiie
any grain dealer is satified to export at a
cent a bushel, and at this Urne money couid
flot be got to, export the wheat. That was tbe
position of affaire during last season. It
was more particularly feit last season, because there was a good deal of damaged
grain, sornewhere about 25,000,000 busheis
damaged whicb was only good for feed.
There was a market in Ontario for
this clasa of wheat at 80 or 90 cents a
bushel, and a dollar In the British mnarket,
and yet it could not be exported. Duriag
the money strIngency of last year, the
bankers kept their rnoney In their vauits in
case there should be a run on the banks, and
they were flot ailowing it to be paid out
for wheat. Grain buyers in the west, reputed to, be worth from one and a balf
to, two million, were not ailowed a credit
of more than Afty per cent of credit
allowed on previous years. They couid
not move over half the wheat moved
the year previously. Cousequently, about
half the grain dealers had ceased buying wheat, ciosed their elevators. and
the farmers could not find a mnarket for
their grain at any price. Navigation would
close Iu about four weeks. The situation
was desperate, and the Minister of Finance
came to the relief of the west to, the extent
of agreeing to advance through the banks to
the grain dealers, ten million dollars, and
1 say If there was any act which was coinmendable on tbe part of a government, even
stretching the constitution, tbe advancing
of this money under the circumstauces was
justified. Two days after the announcement
was made by the Finance Minister tbat the
government was coming to the relief of the
ban.ks to the extent of ten million, wheat
went Up from eight to ten cents a bushel.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-When was such
an announcement made ? 1 say positively
.
he made no such announcement.
.Hon. Mr. WATSON-He gave an Interview of the press, and two days after the
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

announcexuent was made by the Finance
Minister, wheat went up seven and eight
cents a busliel on the markets of Winnipeg.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-What was the
aunouncernent ?
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-That the government was coming to the relief of the banks
ro the extent of ten million.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-Did the Finance
Minister announce that It was the intention
to Issue Dominion notes, Irredeemabie, as
they practically were ?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The announcement
was that tue governrnent were comIug to
the relief of the situation to the extent of
teli million dollars, by adv'ancing tbrongb
the banks.
Hon. *Mr. FERGUSUN-Dld It Include
the information that the notes were issiie
witbout a gold reserve-that the currency
,%vas practicaily Irredeernable ?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I amn not dealing
with the details, but the Finance Minister
did state that they were coming to the relief of the situation by providing ten millions to, be used for the purpose of band«Ling the grain cropa of the west through
the banks, and .1 say within two days after
the announcernent was made--and it was
so, admitted by the Grain Growers' A&ssociation when In Ottawa a few days ago-the
elevators were opened and wheat went up
seven and eight cents a bushel, and the
class of wbeat that would not be sbipped
out at all-which -was considered practically worthless--reallzed 70 and 80 cents
per bushel, and that wheat would not be
worth ten cents to-day, If it had not been
shipped. A great portion of that wheat
found ready market In Ontario for feeding
stock. That wbeat would bave been wortljless by the time navigation opened In the
spring. That was the situation. The gorerument came to the relief, and I arn not
saylng that they did not violate the Banking Act lu doing It, but I say the government feit strong enough to corne to the relief of the situation. I have no hesitation
In saying-and It will be borne out by the
grain-growers of the west-that that action
of the Finance Minister In coming to the
relief of the situation was worth f rom
twenty to twenty-five millions of dollars to
the farmers of Manitoba, Alberta aud Sas-

JUNE 23, 1908

1267

JUNE 23, 1908
1267
katcbewan, because the moment tbey made mouey being advanced. The whole arrangethat announcement there was ten mil- ment was practlcally made tbrougb the
lion dollars -relief given, and the de- Bank o! Montreal. These banks did flot
poslt:,rs were confident the situation tiake the money, but t-hey got the benedft of
was ail rigbt, and the banks realizlng. that that aunouncement, aud the .banks loosened
matters were ail rlgbt, released a lot of up their vauîts for the purpose of facilitnoney they had ln their vainîts whicb was tnting the movement of tbe wheat. The
I do flot moment Mr. Fielding made tbe announceheld la reserve ln case of a r.
tblnk the man la wise ln bis conclnsqow.q ment ths! the goverument were coming to
.wbo tells me that the government were flot the relief-aud I say there is no one act
3ustllied ln taklng the action tbey did. doue by the present goverfiment that bas
Were the government not justified under been of more benefit to the farmers of the
the circumstances? WVns the Finance Minis- Nort!bwest-and 1 bave no doubt the stateter flot justified? It la said that the banks ment will be borne out by the grain growwould not take the money at the Interest ers, 1! ls worth 20 to 25 million dolcalled for, and the leader or the opposition lars to the fermers of Manitoba and the
says that the best evidence tbat the banks west. I thlnk It is a justification of any
dld not need the money* was the fact that act of the goverament in stretching their
tbey dld flot avail tbemselves of it What power s0 -far as the Bankiug Act is conwas the situation The Minister of Finance cerned, and the goverument wbo feit
wanted to assure hlmself that tbey money stroug enougb to grapple wltb a situation
was properly applied, and wanted the sucb as we bad ast fail, la to be comnBank-ers' Association to appoint a commit- mended, not only by the farmers of tbe
tee to aliot the money to the banks who Northwest, but by every manufacturer and
were making advauces to the grain dealers. eVery wholesale dealer. If that wbeat had
Thýe Bankern' Association would flot ap- been ail good wheat and could have been
Point a commlttee for the purpose of aliot- tield over till this sprlng, tilI money eased
tlug the money, and the Mlnister of Finance up, It would have been a different proappointed a commlttee blmself, composed position; but the representations made to
of Mr. Clouston, of the Bank of Montreal, the goverument were made tbrougb tbe
aud Ex-Deputy Minister of Finance -Court- Grain Growers' Association aud the grain
ney, aud 1 forget the other, to aliot that growers o! tIfé west, that tbere were 25
money to the banks for the purpose of million bushels damaged. Wheat wblhi
facllltatlng the export of the wheat. The would bave then reaÉlized sixty to seventy
largest grain bank is the Dominion -Bank- .cents a bushel, if kept tili to-day would flot
'Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Where does the be wortb ten cents. It could not bave been
hon, gentleman get tbat Information? The stored. The resuit of this commendable
Minister of Finance bas refused to give the action of the goverament lu rellevlng the
Information wblch the bon, -gentleman bas situation was probably the meaus of prenow furnis-ied, namely as to the particular venting many people golng into insolvency
banks to wbicbi the advances had been ln the 'west-I wlll flot saY the east--almade. la bo speaking on behaîf of the tbough tbey are ail interested Ju the financial standing of the people of tbe wsest
government?
wben, as I told the House ln my opening
Hon. iMr. WATSON-No, 1 arn speaklng
remarks, tbe grain dealers' credit last seaof my own knowledge of the trade o! the
son was llmited to ftty per cent of their
west. The Dominion Bank is the larges!
credit the year before. Wbeat was a dollar
grain deaiing bank. The banka refused
a bushel Instead 0f seventy cents the year
to take the money at the rate of six oir
before, and the banks Instructed their custoseven Per cent, but I know that these very
that they were flot to exceed tbeir
the ac- mers
same ihanks that could flot handie custo- lineo f credit, wblcb was never done -before.
counts for the grain, advised their
mers ùo go to the Bank o! Montreal to get Tbey bave sometimes exceeded their JImIt
tbe money, and the resuit 'was the grain three or four or five or six bundred thontrade got the benefit in tbe west o!f that sand dollars, but las! year tbey did not;
soi

1268

SENATE

SENATE
1268
reacb their limit, and they did flot have Onie- late ln the year. We figure ou navigation
third of the capital at their disposai to closing about November 15.
handie the crop. But it was flot as bad
Hon. .%r. FERGUSON-Does the lion.
as lt was ln the United States. We know
gentleman say that navigation was open last
very well that in the United States people
year unutîl December 15?
slmpiy could flot get money f rom the ibanks.
Hon. Mfr. WÂTSON-I thiak ivheat ivas
Men w1th deposits of from ten to twenty
thousand dollars la the banks could not shipped by the lakes up to about the iniddle
get $200 to pay expenses. They had to of December last year, but the insurauce on
print their own money, andl they had. a sys- tue lakes runs out about the milddle of -Notem of passing letters of credit around vemiber and vessels bave to carry grain at
through their customers. We were not in their own risk after that date. The governsuch bad shape la Canada, :but the banks, ment were Justlfied lu advancing the ioney.
for fear they should get into that position, It bas been repald. The goverument were
heid the money ln their vaults until the satisfied withi the securlty. The banks were
goverument Inspired confidence by stating solvent and the government asked for sixc or
th-at they were comlng to the relief of tie seven per cent on the advance as a guarasituation and then the bauks knew they were tee, I suppose, that tbe money would not lie
ail right, and the depositors feit that tlue beld longer than was necessary. There is
banks were perfectly safe; and the (banls no better security than wheat, and the refeit justlficd. lu usiing part of the xnoney suit of the action of tbe goverument iras
wbich they held lu reserve for the purpose that everything turned out ail riglit. I
0f handling the crops.
As I said -before, think the goverument are justified la
whlle the government ivere only willing to asking for an ameudment to the Bankc
adv.ance six million dollars tlirouglh the Act to Increase the circulation when
Bank of Montreal, 1 am satisfied it meant necessary for the purpose of moving
twenty or t-weuty-iive million of dollars the wheat crop of tbe west. This year we
loosened Up to get out the wheat of the hiave a -prospect that there will be at least
Northwest, and the consequence was that 100,000,000 bushels of whent for export.
the farmers were enabled to seli wheat That being the case, the governament ls rifflt
wbloh would have been practically value- la miaking provision for some elasticity, ý-O
less ta the spring. My hou. friends say far as the bauks are concerued, lu advancthat the governmnent shiould have waited ing moniey to bandie tbe crop and they are
until the matter was veutilated lu parlia- to be congratulated on their foresîght in
ment;' but by that time the navigation seeking to miake provision for a contiugency
would bave been closed. aud it would have sucli as arose last October. If tiiere is auY
been impossible to get ont the wheat. It one aet of the goverument wvhichi should
ivas represented to the goverameut that it commend ltself not oaiy to the people ý)f
was Important to have that mnouey avail- the Northwest, but to the whole population
able -before the close Of navigation ln order of Canada, It ls tbe action taken last fail
to enable the people of the west to dispose la relleving the situation lu the 'Northwest.
0f wheat whlch was only fit for feed, and
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-I wish to correct sonie
thea the government acted.
observations made by the hou. leader of the
Hon. Mr. F&ýRGUSON.\-Whlen did navi- opposition. First, 1 may say It iras not on1
gation close at the head of Lak-e Superior the individuial responsibiiity of the Financne
Miniister thiat action was taken. It iras on
last year?
the responsibilty of hlmself and his thirteen
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Navigation iras open eoileagues wiho feit the necessltY of lmuniediate action and there was no violation Of
Inst year inter than usual.
the Act, iractically speaking.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-How late?
Hlou. Mr. LOUGHEED-What about genHon. Mr. WATSON-I think navigation erally speaking?
closed about December 15, but w-e have no
Hion. Mr. SCOTT-There were ten milguarantee that navigation will be opea so lions of Dominion notes lying la the vault
Hon. Mr. WATSON

126a
16

JI-NE 23, 1908
When the banks were askied to furnisb gold
they could not. They were asked if they
could furnish anythlng equivalent to gold.
After some consideration and an examination of the securities held by them, the
Finance Minlster was satisfied, and the
banks handed over to the government securMies qulte as good as gold, so that practlcaily there was no violation of the Act;
but even If there had been a violation of
the Act, we would have (been recreant to
our duty If we had flot taken the responsibilNo fourteen members of the privy
Ity.
council would be worthy of occupying that
position If they were not prepared on any
occasion, under similar conditions, to do just
as they did then.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Did my hon.
friend know when this issue began that it
n'as nmade?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--Certainiy I. did.
-Hon. '-%r. FERGUSON-I amn glad to have
ascertained that point to start with. The
speech of the hon. sentor froin Portage la
Prairie is aitogether wlde of the mark. He
toid us that the money advanced by the
government was wortli twenty-five millions
to the people of the Northwest and the
wlieat would have been only worth about
one-third of what It was sold for if it .had
been held, over until the spring.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I

the Senate, the whoie thing was in fuir
biast, and the Hon. Secretar o! State was
sitting beside bis colleague the Mlnister of
Trade and Commerce and heard bis speech,
whicli I amn about to, quote to the House.
The question of lssulng Dominion notes on
a. freer basis ln regard to reservefor the question of lssulng theni wlthout
any *reserve at ail was not ln anybody's
nind-was dlscussed, and'the Right Hon.
Minister of Trade and Commerce made use
of these words :
You can, if you choose, possibly-but I do
aiot thiak it would be at ail a wise thingrelieve the goverament from the necessity of
holding dollar for dollar of the legal tenders
which they hand to the banks. I do not think
it would be a politie thing. I do not think
that bankers of. the best standing in this coinnuunity would advise that it should. be done.
Let my hon. friend remember this-that is

practicaill

the only goid reserve existing in

Canada. The amount of specie alone held by
the banks is quite insignificant in comparison

u-ith their liabilities. AIl they hold is specie
and legai tenders. These legal tenders they
have a rigit tu clraw. from the gover.nment at

an hour's notice, and it would be highly im-

politie for us te let that reserve b. depleted.

We should retein a much stronger resprve for
this purpose than twenty or twenty-tive per
cent. I arn ini favour of retaining our reserve as w. have always had it, and that is

dollar for dollar alter w. have made reasonable provision for our circulation.

Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-He n-as study-

ing. the minds of the people.

said It would be

Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-I doubt If even
for sucli à good purpose as that, the RIght
HIon. Minister of Trade and Commerce
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That Is only makshould have made a statement ln this,
ing It stronger. But that lias notbng to do

worth practically nothing.

with the question before -us. The question
is wbether the government were Justifled ln
breaklng the iaw, not ouly that but wlbether
tliey were justified lu breaking the law and
denylng that they wcre doing it in tlue very
respect ln whIcli the breacli took, place? On
the 2nd of December iast %-e discussed the
address lu this House and the bon. Minister
of Trade and Commerce made a speech in
which lie dealt with this question of the
reserve held by the governuient for 'Dominion notes. Hon. gentlemen w-i notice that
this order ln counicil was dated the 12th of
November, and the Issue of ilotes began on
the 2Oth o! November and continued up to
sme time ln January, s0 that on the 2nd o!
D)ecember when this debate took place in

House which was absolutely incorrect. I
mnight say untrue. because that Io the only
la uguage wlxich can be used in reference to
;t..He
wns then asked bY Hon. Mr. Longlieed:

Hon Mr. LOTJGHEED-I have it from an
authoritative source that the reserve is
twenty-five per cent on the circulation up tu
tltirty millions, and after thirty millions, it
is dollar for dollar.
Hon. Sir RICHIARD CARTWRIGEHT-That
is right. We are tal>king of rather dîfierent
things. I was referring te the question as to
whether it was not politic te diminish the
gold reserve of forty-four or forty-five -millions.
or whatever it might b. UOw in the hands of
the goverament. My impression is that having regard te the fact that that is held. by us
in place of having had it remain in the banks,
it u'ould not be wise for us greatly to diminîsh it.

1270

SENATE
1270

A few days before that the Toronto
'Globe' bad stated that a measure was to
.be introduced early la the session, reducing
tbe amount of reserve to be beld, and at
this point, I interrogated the M,%inister of
Trade and Commerce as follows:
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Then the statement
made by the Toronto 'Globe' two or three
days ago, that it was the intention of the
goverament to introduce a measure reducing
the amount of the reserve to lie held, was flot
made with authority.
Ron. Sir RICHARD CARTWRTGHT-No
statement of that kind has been made with
authority.
Here was a most explicît and empbatic
denial tbat the government thougbt of dolng sucli a tbiug, made la this House on
the 2nd of December while this operation
of circulating notes without reserve was
ln full bast at the saine moment. The
only inference 1 can draw from that is that
neither the Rlght Hon. Minister of Trade
and Commerce nor the Hon. Secretary of
State knew what was golng on.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I knew quite well
'whnt was going on.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If the bon. gentleman knew ail about it wby, out of respect for himself and bis colleagues, did he
ailow such au erroneous statement as that
wbich I bave quoted to be made witbout
contradicting It ? I took the more charitable conclusion that neitiier of the ministers knew anytbing about It, and that the
,Finance Minîster w-as doing li bebiad their
backs, and that tbey were makiag this
statenient lu the House lu perfect ignorance of what was going on. There can be
no otber conclusion than tbat, unless the
,riglit honourable gentleman was deliberatley misleading the Huse. MNy hon. friend
lauglis at that.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe hou. gentleman
wiii find that an order ln couacil wns passed on the l2th November. Does lie suppose that Sir Richard Cartwright and myself were flot cognizant of that?
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON-I w-as trying to
put a charitable construction on this mat,ter, but my bon. friend rather puts liiself
In the position as a member of the goverument, of sitting lu this bouse and bearIng
bis colleague makiîîg a stateinent tbat was
absolutely incorrect.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

lion. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot know If I
was present; ail I can say Is I knew wbat
was going on. I urged Mr. Fielding myself, because I tbougbt it was an occasion
wben %ve ougbt to take some risk. It bad
my cordial approval and, under sîmilar
conditions, I would do the same thing
again.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I arn pleased that
the hon. gentleman takes the. inatter more
seriously and tliinks now that be was flot
ln the House at the time and dld flot hear
the statement that was made by the Riglit
Hon. Minister of Trade and Commerce.
Hlowever, that it was made ls evident fromn
the report in tne debates, and that the statement was flot true Is as clear as anytbing
can posbly be. Therefore, the goverument is in the position of doing this thilig
in violation of the iaw and flot only keepiug quite, but sayiug what was untrue
about It.
The SPEAKER-The bon. gentleman bas
no lght to use that expression.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We bave a pi'fect riglit to crîticise the government.
The SPEÂKER-Yes, but flot to say tîtat
a member of the House makes an untrue
vnateinent.
;Hon. '-%r. FERGUSON-I was speaking
of the government: I said the goverument
made a statement whicb was flot true.
The SPEAKER-The hon. gentleiai*s
remarks applled to the Rigbt Hon. Minister
of Trade and Commerce.
Hon. 31r. FERGUSON--Of course I hiad
to base my statement somiewbere, and having started with that, and brouglit it home
to the government, I amn perfectly right
in criticising the goverameat as freely
as I please and accusing them of a great
inany things If I choose to do so; but I arn
iiot at equal liberty to niake accusations
against a member of the House lD bis mdJividual capacity as a member.
Hon. Mr . BEIQUE-Wns the Riglit Hon.
Minîster of Trade and Commerce dealing
with a.question of emiergency wben lie mnade
that speech or w-as lie dealing with the general poli cy of the government?
Hon. M1r. FERGUSON-He was deali
with an emergency.

JUNE 23, 1908
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If it la necessary
to rend the whole debate 1 will do It. The
hon. senator from Calgary had spoken of
the financial strlngency, and indcicated that
a freer Issue of Dominion notes and a diminuation of the reserve was ln bis opinion
necessary ln consequence of the state of the
country at that time, and that brougbt up
the quebtion of the emergency; and yet the
Rtight Hon. !3kMinister of Trade and Commerce combatted the idea and said it would
be a bad thing to do and that the goverument
had no- Intention of doing It. When 1 told
hlm that thxe Toronto 'Globe' had stated
It wouid be doue early ln the session, the
right hou. gentleman said the statement was
made without any autbority whatever.
Now we know from the data supplied lu
tis Bill that. the order ln couneil biad been
passed on* November 12, and the Issue of
notes commenced on November 20 and was
going on until January, while the statement ln the House by Sir ]Richard
Cartwright was made on December 2.
Therefore, when the statement was made,
the Issue was lu full blast, and the
right hon. minister must have known al
about it, or was ignorant of it. If lie
dld know It, his colleagues had kept this
Information back and allowed hlm to make
an Incorrect statenient to the House; If lie
did know about It, of course the matter will
corne home more directly and personaily to
himiself. I should be sorry to believe that
rny rigbt hon. friend would deliberately
niake an untrue statement, knowing It to be
sucb, but the only conclusion at 'wbicb we
can arrive la that, when he mxade tbe
statement the Finance Minister had concenled froni hlm and my hon. friend the
Secretary of State wbat be was doing.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My hon. friend
was possibly flot lu bis place and did flot
bear the contradiction that was made. My
hon. friend froni Portage la Prairie took a
long tume and wandered away beyond the
It goes without saying
Issue altogether.
that ten million dollars, even If It was stolen
or If It flew froni above, or even If It came
froux below, if put ln circulation would help
the whoie country. It would be a very easy

1271

matter, If we took this cheap way of doing
it, to give every body plenty of money ail
the year round, but what does It mean? It
means that the government ls issuing what
la termed rag money, and It la stili worse If
done without the sanction of the law. There
may have been a pinch ln some directions
tat fall. Borne of the banka may have been
short of money with whlch to suppiy their
customers, and, on the whole, there may
have been less funds available last faîl then
there have been ln other years when times
were better. 1 am wuhling to admit ail that,
but If I bad known this was comlng up tonight 1 could have turned up the statement
of one of the best bankers ln Canada made
just about that time-I refer to Mr. Byron
E. Walker, of the Canadian Bank o! Conimerce--who assured the people that the
bairks were ln a -position to, furnish ail the
money necessary to move the crops o! the
country.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Why did they flot;
do it?
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I care flot what Mr.
Byron B. Walker said. I know that Mr.
Walker's customers did flot have 50 per
cent o! the money they required to move the
grain.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIREý-Why flot; discuss this whien the Righit Hon. Minister of
Trade and Commerce. la in bis placeI
Hon. Mr. FERGTJSON-I feel a little uncomfortable to have this discussion at such
a late hour, but If 1 am let alone I eau get
through what I have to say and that is ail
1 wnnt ln the matter. I was polnting out
what Mr. Byron E. WaIker -had said. There
may have been a pinch with some o! the
banka ; some o! theni may have apread their
wings too ranch, and were not able to supThere
p1y their customers with money.
may bave been a shortage, but the position
1 take ls this; If the govermnent were
attending to their duty and were fit
for the position they oceupy, they should
have seen that stomm coming and prepared for It without vlolating the law.
Parliament would have been convened
by the l2th of November If they had done
what they promised to do ; but the opening
of parliament was delayed and we did not

1272

SENATE
SEXATE

1272
meet until the 28th of November. It n'as
only elght days before the opening of the
session that Vis issue begp. Would. it flot
have been an easy thing to have called parliament two weeks earller and obtalned
some relaxation "0f the Ian' wlth regard to
the Issue of Dominion notes?
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-If parliament bad
been called twvo weeks enrler would the
hon. gentleman and his collengues have consented to the course the goverrament feit
abliged to take? The bon. gentlemen would
have obstructed until the lakes froze Up.

through the press and to the Finance Minance Minister that they had ample money
to supffly the grain dealers of the west.
[f that statement ns muade and parliament
bad miet, the bon, gentleman would have
contented himself by saylng that the bauks
did not need that imoney. The fact is,
wben the government did advance the
money wheat rose ln price eight cents a
bushel.

Hon. Mr. FE.GUSON-That lias no reIevancy to wbat 1 have been saying.
SHon. 3fr. -WATSON-Thè bauks stated
Hon. Mfr. FERGU-SON--Tbe hon, gentle- that tliey had ample money to inove the
man from Calgary, without knowing n-bat crop.
the governiment were doing illegally, sug.
Hon. Mfr. FER43USON-Tlîeu wthy n'as.
gested that there should lie a freer this done?
circulation and a diminution of cash
Hon. -%Ir. WATSOX-Because the goveriureserve. If the goverament bad called parliament a littie eariier they could have sub- ment were put in possession of information
mitted the measure which would Dot per- that the statenient ivas not correct.
laps have been altogetiier of this natureHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Then It was mere
that Is an absolute issue of notes without bluff on
the part of the bank -presidents,
a gold reserve, but assistance could have when they clalrned that they lad
sufficient
been given to the banks w-ith the sanction money to bandie the crop
of the country.
0f parliament, and whicil need not have
Hon. '-%r. WAT8ON-I could. quite a.pcreated any pahic or diflculty in the countrY. I suppose the pieu. is set up that had preclate a l>ank president stating that they
the goverament let the people know what bad ample money, but as a -matter of fact,
they were dolng there -would have been a they dld flot have the money, iand they liad
-Panlc or somethlng- lke that. I amn scarcely not the money to handle the wbeat.
disposed to dispute thnt stateinent. If it
Hon. Mr. FE RGUSON-I want to point
became known ail over the world that sucli to some dates. M-%y
hon. friend evidently
'was the condition 0f our financlaI affairs very qulckly understood the point of my
that the government liad to lay violent lnqulry, when I asked hlm wheu did the
bands on ten million dollars, and Issue notes navigation close last fall on Lake Superlor.
practically Irredeemable because they had He put It as late as the l5th December. We
flot reserve of gold against them-it would may, bef ore Vis debate closes, have accurate
have serlously damaged the country, and Information as to when the navigation
damaged It ail the more when It becamne stopped. 1 arn under the impression that it
known that It n'as done secretly.
closed earller.
Hon. Mfr. &COTT-It w-as liot done secretHon. Mfr. WATSON-AlI
the greater
ly, and securities as good as gold were necesslty for getting the money.
taken for the advance.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If xno whent went
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-\-It n-as not only out after the 2Othi November, there n-as no
done secretly, but it n'as denied iby a meni- necessity for the advance.
ber of the government n-ile it n-as beiug
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-After the Informadoue.
tion n'as git-en that the money was to be
Hon. -%r. W»'ATSON-Rig-ht up to the advanced, n-lent went up eight cents a
time--in fact nfter the time the announce- bushel.
ment n'as made by the M-%inister of Finance.
Hon, Mr. FERGUSON-And entirely due
every bank president in Canada n'as statiag- to this annfouncement
belng made ?
Hon.

Mr. FERGUSON.

JUNE 23,1908

1273

I27~
JUNE 23. 1908
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I believe s0.
it w-as the latter part of October. I taok
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-It wouid be diffi- a memorandUM of the date when I camne
cuit for my hon. friend to prove tbat, but ta Ottawa, and w-hile 1 w-as here Mfr.
he must have Borne regard for these dates. Fielding made the annauncement and tvû
The first Issue did flot take place until the days atter tbat announcement, w'heat w-eut
2Oth November. 1 amn qulte certain I amn Up 7 or 8 cents a'bushel.
speaking wlthin bounds wben I' say the
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I.obody lias dismovement ot the crop w'as practically over puted that an increase of circulation ot
at that date. The wieat bad to be rnoved tnat kind would be beneficiai ta
the mnarket.
troin western points, but lt does flot
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-But the bainks
reach Lake Superior In a day or two days ;
ioosened up before tbey gat the Dominion
It takes many days to get
down that tar.
It bas, I presume, to be paid for whien It is notes.
bougbt from the tarmers.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-My ban. friend
Hou. Mr. WATSON-I have stated that cannat be carnered upan dates, be,,ause
the moment the announcement was made, w-heu Ire finds one date daes not suit bini,
the banks loasened Up the money they bad be wll try ta get back ta another. My
hn their vauits and advanced funds to mave hon. triend endeavours ta get away %vheiltbe wheat. Tbey dld not wait for the Issue ever be finds a date seeius to tell agalist
of Dominion notes butbis contention. There w-as no necessity
Hon. Mr. FERtGUSON-What proportanu for the hon.- gentlemans argument that
of the crop w-as handied after that state- the money w-as beneficial ta the w-est,
ment on the 20th November? What pros- and that it w-as beneficial ta the east as
pect w-as there af moving tbe crop down w-eh. A large amount of money such as
over the lakes and seliing it after that data9 that going into circulation 'cauid nat help
havlng a good effeet but If it were known
Hon. Mr. WATSON-It w-as October, not ln financial circies at homne and abroud,
November.
especiaiiy abroad, that such a drastle
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-"I w-i rend fron thing as this w-as being done, It might pertbls Bill ln arder that w-e mnay get at baps do as much barm, or more barni, than
the circulation wauid do good. I tbink
the tacts:
ln*view of the, stringency of last fail and
Whereas, for the purposes set forth in an
Order in Council of the -l2th Noveznber. 1907, of the very drastic action of the goverfiand an amending Order in Council of the 26th ment that we have great reason ta thank
Novembeir, .1907, copies of which, with related Providence that same great tinancial disasdocuments, have been laid before Parliament,
and pursuant ta the said orders, the Minister ter did not avertake the gol-erument, heof Finance between the 20th November, 1907 cause If tais action of the gao-ernment came
and the third day of January, 1908 from time ta be w-ideiy known,
it cauid not bave auyta time issued and made advances of Dominion notes ta the arnount of $5,315,000 the great- thing short of that effect. I arn not finding
est; amount of any snch notes at any time fouit w-ith the gavernment ln caming to,
issued and outstanding being $5,Mi5,000, and
the relief of the country and hielping out
80 on.
the movement of the crop of the country.
I want just simpiy to get at the dates,
That is everytbing ta us ; but 1 do say
and I want rny hon. friend tram Portage
that the government shauid bave seen this
la Prairie ta observe the point I desire ta
make ln connection witb that, and It ls trouble coming-and my lion friend ls adly
tbis : that tbe payxnent for the wheat wouid making a strong argument against bi.ns<elf
bave ta be made to the tarmers on deiivery. w-heu lie tried ta put the difficuity aw.y
1 suppose that is generaliy the course out back ln October. If that w-ere the case,
there. On the 20th November, this moncy w-hy did not the gaverument caîl parliament together earlier and deal ivith thR
began to be issued.
financial situation at an earlier date ? It
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Tbe banks started may be tbey w-ili say : -'If you cali parliata loasen up on the mouey the moment Mr. ment enrlier w-e w-ouid have ta make stateFielding made the announcement. I th'uik inents that wouid have caused a fluanciaF

1274

1274

SENATE

panlc, or something like tiiat. I do not
think Vils would have caused anything like
a panic If Vie aid was given la a legitimate and reasonable way, and that way
would have been to increase Vie amount
of Dominion notes that can be lssued on
a deposît of 25 cents on the dollar. Hon.
gentlemen will remember that we have
two provisions with regard to Vie laq3ue
of Dominion notes, and the gold reservc
being field for tham. Up to thlrty millions
dollars, the Issue can ha made wlth 25,
per cent of gold la reserva. From 30 million upwards there is to be dollar for dollar. Had the goverumaent called parllament together, and lncreased the amotint
that might be Issued ou 25 cents to the
dollar, to 8 or 10 million dollars, It wouid
have accomplished the whole purpose, and
It would not bave strained the finanelal
reputation of the country, and would îlot
have led to a violation of the law%. Thev
mlght have made it easier than Vint to tha
banks, but It should have been on soine
basis of a gold reserve, and It should -iot
have been done ln violation of the law.
My contention Is that the government
should have called parlliment earlier and
laid the whole mnatter befora parliament,
and they could have found relief for the
situation.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-1Might
1 ask tha hon. Secretary of State why it
took six or seven months for parliament
to ask for an Act of Indemnitîcation for an
Illeg-al nct coniitted six mnonths agpo?
.Under ordinary circumstances, where an
Illegal act had beau committed, parliament
Is usually asked f0 ludeuinif y the goverament wvhlch coînmitted that act as soon as
In this case, parlinparliament mneats.
ment remains lu session for some six or
seven miontbs. It uiay -ba a inatter of
laughter te my.hon. friand who bas been
calling 'question' for soiue time, and seemas
te ha very much exercised ovar the debate
whichi lias talien placeHon. Mr. DEILBYSILIRE-At the suaplicity of some of the suggestions-that
la what I ain laughing at.

nient, but I decline to discuss thiat question with film, and I merely want to point
out what I thlnk the hon, gentleman froiu
Portage la Prairie was aftenipting to do.
lie very*dexterouely evaded the point urged
by the bon. gentleman from C.algary. lie
devoted hlmself entirely to a defence of the
goverilment under the clrcumistances that
exlsted at the time. 3INy hion. frieud f roui
Calgary neyer questioued that in ail the
rcmarks hae made. The point hae toolc was
sinîply that the government, under the circurnstauces, should bave inforined parliamient at Vie eariest possible moment. The
point taken by Vie bon. gentleman from
Calgary was that baving under the circumistances issued these Dominion notes in order
te corne to the relief of tha grain buyers, or

the farmers,

mast

as you please under the

circumatances, should bave reported the
fact at once to parliament, and asked for
I question
an Act of Indemnîfication.
very muchi If ever a similar precedet-and
we have beau dealing a good deal wlth precedents to-nîglt-can be produced to show
that any member of the Exchequer lu England would ever commît an act of tbat
klnd withjout calling parliament togetlier
or announcing to parliamniet at tie vers'
moment it.met, wbat had been done. We
know la readlng the history of our own
country that whieu extraordinary circunistances hiavlng arisen ln which it was absolutely necesaary to have money to prosecute a war, or any other Incident that made
it absolutely necessary to have money, parliament was called together lmmediately, or
if auy step bad to be taken la order to ohtain money for any case of eiergency.
parliament was informed of the fact the
moment that it met. liera we have acts
wlîlch are admitted to have bean performed
lllegally, because we have a Bll before
us to Indemnify Vie government for havluig
committed au fillegal ict: b)ut .izrlianilellt
was flot infornîed of Vie fact ; on tha coutrary, the evidence that bas been produced
to-niglit shows that they kept It secret from
parliamnent for a long time, and now they
ara asklng for an Act of Indemnificatioll.
That is the position taken by my hon.
friand lu front of me. Ha did flot argua
I the question mY hon, friand f rom Portage
Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWVELL-If
My bon. friand
were to accept mny hou, friand as an 'au- la Prairie put forward.
fromi Portage la Prairie made an admirthority upon finit, I -would accemt biis stateIlon. Mr. FERGUSON.

JUNE 23, 1908

1275

1275
JUNE 23. 1908
able election speech-a spiendid one-but that. At the saine turne, there shouid be a
hie was performinig the kLct of, a Don legai means of doing it, wbich sbouid be foiQuixote. He was purnnelling at a wind- lowed under ail circumstances.
That is,
miii hie could not reacb. To my mind 1 unless the government is to assume the
.wouid not like to attrîbute a motive to the responsibhlity of so grave an act without the
bon. gentleman.
consent of parliament which miglit iead,
under sme circuinstances, to dîsastrous reHon. '.%r. WATSON-You cannot.
suits. I ar n ot at ai surprised at the diverBon. Sir MACKENZIE B>WEL.-.But gence of opinion between the ministers. I
If bie wanted to fix upon the hon. gentleman do flot know that there la any hon, gentlefroin Calgary and those o! the opposition man ln this Blouse who iknows better'than
who find fault witb the manner ln whIch the hon, gentlemen who have been here for
this la doue, an opposition to the act o! the years, that we have had men la the position
government wben tbey carne to the relief of the Secretary of State who have repentof tbe farmers or the grain buyers ln the ediy told the Bouse, when asked for Informwest, tiat Is wbat nîy hou. f riend bas done. ation, that It couid not be then furnished
He is just foiiowing in tbe footsteps o! the and asked for deiay; that tbey knew nothing
members that support« the governinent. at ail about It. I have cailed attention over
Tbey evade entireiy tbe question at Issue and over again to the 'fact that the prInciple
as to tbe modeiln whicbi it was done, and upon wbicb this government bas been carand tbe impropriety with whicb It was done. ried ou*to a great extent-is by adminîsterMy hon. friead froin Marsbfield has called ing by heads of departinents, witliout any
attention to the speecb of tbe Mfnister of consultation whatever wlth their coileagues,
Trade and Commerce. I was not at ail sur- and the evîdence that we have of that over
prised to bear the utterances of the hon. and over again has been the fact that Imgentleman upon tbat question at tbat time. portant measures affecting tbe interests of
I kaew notbing o! wbat had been done, ex- this country, affectlng tbe trade and
cept what was rurnored lu reference to the commerce of this country, bave 'been
advancement o! this nioney; but i beard brougbt before us and the ministers have
Sir Richard Cartwrigbit in 1874, wben the told us they L-new notbiug at ail about IL.
thermometer was 15 or 20 beiow zero, witb
Hon. 'Mr. GIBSOiN-,Ny bon. friend froin
bis f ur coat on, enunciate the saine principie
Marsbrfeid, wbo seems to have been the parat an election meeting, and wben I replied,
ticular critie wlth regard to the mode adand polnted out-aiboughi It migint be considered presumption on my part-that witbi opted by the goverament to relieve the
financlal pressure ln the west, laid great
regard to the issue of Dominion nlotes it was
necessarv to lboid dollar for dollar for every stress on tbe fact that the goverunient
note after the tliirty million bad been sbouid have cailed parIlament together for
issued. To this proposition I took excep- the purpose of making a cali upon the reserve, required for the tewporary loan. He
tion.
spenks o.f making goid as lie wouid turu
I think the credit o! the country Is sncb out pig-iron or isomethlug
*eise. Where
thiat under sucli circuiustances as thiese, tbe wouid my -bon. friend get tehe goid? Wouid
govcrniuent sliould take power, s0 as not not the governimient bave to purchase the
to, have to violate tbe iaw, to issue ten or goid, and would flot tlie credit of the countwenty million without a goid reserve. It try bave to stand behixîid the goid the
migbit not suit the tbeoreticai finance men ln country bougbt for the purpose of turniuig
Europe. Tbey mnight say it w'as not safe, lt lnto coin? But the goverfiment did 1101
but the opinion I bave of tbe credit of this require to do tliat. The governîneunt did a
country and tbe abiiity of the Dominion to sensible thing, and that is the trouble. The
meet any eînergency o! tbat kind, that a success of tbe action of tbe Finance M.Ninisiaw shouid stand upon the statute-book by ter and the mode they took of deaiing witb
wbicbh the g-overiimient should ho enabied to an Important question nt a turne wvhen the
issue any amount necessary, and I conimend credit of Canada stood ln jeopardy and'
any .-Overnmuent th.tt bias the courage to do when tbe trade o! our country was stand-

1276

SENATE

ing stili Is malng our frîends ln the op- the other side of the House is that the govposition augry. The government did flot ernment sensibly carried out the mensure

ask the bauks to advnnce the xnoney and
put up a gold reserve; but the government
gave the banks their Dominion *money,
whichi et al tîmes stands with the banks
as a gold reserve, so far as the bank is concerned, and the Bank of 'Montreal was the
medium through which these five or six
million dollars wfts sent out. Now, wbere
was the constitutlonai right that the bon.
gentleman from MarshÉield spoke about.
He would have called parlament together
to do what? To create more gold, to .build
up a gold reserve for five or six million
dollars to, meet tbis wonderfui expenditure.
Tiie fact of the matter Is this: that -from
the hion, gentleman wlio leads the opposition dowu to. my hon. friend from Prince
Ed-wnrd Island, every one of them la angry
at the success of this move by the goverllment, and that is the only excuse they
have for declaring the government went the
wrong way about It. Suppose they dld?
It was the right way so far as the needs
of the country were conoerned? Parliament had flot met, and as the bjon. gentleman from Portage la Prairie lias explained,
lt was getting near the close of navigation.
Desperate diseases require immediate cures,
and somethues, perhaps, desperate cures,
and lu th15 case it was n matter of des-

of relief. I agree with the hon, gentleman
from Portage la Prairie, that if there is
one thnig that redounds to the credit of the
Dominion government to-day, it was thîs
act of theirs, which flot only saved the
reputation of Canada but saved the Northwest from muin, and I contend. that when
they commit an act of this kind, aithough
not within the law, yet witbin their power,,
the people of Canada, wbose representatives we are, wilI absolve the government and forgive them for the acts they
have done, so far as this part of the administration of the affaira of the country
is concerned, I am sure that the government la to, be commended for taking the advice of the people who, perhapa, 'were more
directly interested than the p)eople from the
east, and acting with the promptitude they
did, saving the situation, saving the reputation of Canada, and saving a large suma of
money to, our people who are more directly
connected with the growing territories of
the Northwest and Manitoba.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
passed through its ifnal stages under the
suspension of the rules.
BILL£ INTRODUCED.
Bill (160) Anl Act to amend

the Bankr

peration. It n'as a case ns to whether the Act.-(Hon. 31r. Scott.)
grain crop of the Northwcst n'as to be le! t
Bill (161) An Act respecting the Court ôf
lu the country and carried over for another Appeal of British Columbia.-(Hon. Mr.
year, tlmt the banka would have bad to Scott.)
provide the money and maitain the debts
The Senate adjourned until three o*cidck
which were contracted hy the grain growers
to-morrow.
or move the crop, and the government very
n-iseiy and s-ery properly called a meeting

of the bankers and aaid:

'As a medium,

THE SENATE.

the Bank of M.%ontreal wihl provide anv
OTTAWVA, Wednesday, June 24, 190S.
money necessary ut) to texi million dollars,
and vou will get Dominion nmoney lu secuThe SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree
rlty for the moiiey you lend out.' And o*clock.
after ail, as my hbon. friend from Portage
Prayers and routine proceedings.
la Prairie says, the whole amount thnt
tley required n'as only bctween five and
BILLS INTRODUOED.
six imillion dollars, showing that confidence
Bill (FFF) An Act respecting a certain
had been restored to the country; that the
M'
Wm. B. Smith.-(Hon.
of
patent
particuiar fact that tle government were
that they Power.)
going to stand beiînd the crop,
Bill (GGG) An Act for the relief of Ar.
would see that the cr0p of the country n'as
thur James Townsend.-(H-on. Mr. Canmpmoved, the credit of Canada n'as sustained,
bell.)
and the only regret of hon, gentlemen on
Hon. Mr. GIBSON.

JUNE 24, 1908
INLAND FISHERIES.
INQTJIRY.
Hon. Mr. COSTIGÂN rose to:
Draw the attention of the governrnent to the
advisabiiity of obtann information regarding the inland fis=eis which would be of
great value to the Fisheries Department, and
to inquire what powers the International
Commission on Fisheries will have, and what
ciass of subjects may be considered by iLP
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answer to the bon.
gentleman's question la as follows :
The International Commission to be nppointed under the treaty recentîr entered
into wlth the United States for the unification of fisbery regulations ln waters coutiguous to the International Boundary Line,
will necessarily deal wlth information, researches and recommendations for the establishmnent of provident regulations for the
conservation and protection of the fisherles
there.
The Mlnister of Marine and Fishierles Is
at present considering a Commission of
Inquiry Into lnland fieheries.
Hon. Mr. COSTIGAN-I should like to
make a few remarks upon the notice of
motion. My object ln rnoving for thie Information wae because I feel a very deep
Intereet ln the fisheries, especially la the
Inland fisheries of thie country. I arn quite
satlsfled that the deep-sea fieberies are fui ly
appreciated by ouxe Canadlans. Thiere Is
no question about their Importance ln the
mind of any of? the public men of thie;
country, I think; but 1 am o? opinion that
our lnland fieheries have so far been undervalued. I attach a great deal of Importance to the protection, developmenf,
and to an Intelligent administration of that
branch of that big department. I amn findlng no fault with the Department of Marine and Fisberies, but I must cal] the attention o? bon. gentlemen to the fact that
that department le not one of fislheries
alone; It la also a department of marine.
And when we consider the great work that
has been carried on by that departrnent inteiy wlth regard to the Improvement o? navigation, the establishment o? ligbte, the construction of harbours, piers and breakwaters, nnd other Improvernents required to
secure the saety of navigation in the rivers
and lattes of thie country, we cau ses that

1277

with these heavy duties lrnposed on that
department, it rnay be tbey have ifot had
sufficient time to, devote ail the attention
they would like to give to the subject of
tisheries, and especlally the inland <fisheries.
I had hoped lu the early part of the session,
when the hon. .senator froin Middlesex put
a notice on the paper asking for the appolntrnent of a number of committees, that
one of tbern would be ernpowered to deal
with the question of fisheries ln the wny of
obtainin« Information.
It is no rellection
on the work of the departrnent, I care flot
how 'well adinistered IL may be, If a cornrnlttee le appointed just as the Agricuitural
CornrIttee of the House of Comnos bas
been nppointed, to collect information. That
eormlittee has obtalned Information of great
value to the Minister of Ag-riculture though
having no control over the department and
the action of the minister. The inforw ation that the committee bas obtained cau be
utltzed as far as the minieter thinks advisable ln the public lnterest.
I should like
to, mention a f ew points that would be -cE
Interest to the departrnent, and on whlch
they should have information, and I do not
know of any way of getting information
more economical than througb a parliamentary committee.
For Instance, we have
deveioped fisb hatcheries ail over the couiitry.
The department distributes youug
fish to restock. certain. waters whicb are bccoming depleted.
There ouglit to be Iu.
formation ln the banda of the departinent
as to, what lakes and rivers are most suitable for restocklng, and what kind of fish
arebest adapted to particular waters. This
can ouiy be obtained. by Information frorn
outside.
There are, of course, scientific
men lu the department; there is Prof.
Prince, a good ottlcer, wbo gives attention
to ail these subjects; but Prof. Prince canilot go ail over the country to geL this lntormation.
-It mlght be got more easily
by a comrnittee, and the department could
utilize whatever portion of that Information
they conelder valuabie ln the public lnterest.
Lt is not only a question of puttlng young
fish ln a lake to restock it; the departrnent
before going to that expense ouglit to know
what the food supply le ln that lakte, and
wbetber It le suitable for the varlety of fish
tliey are putting there.
There le another

SENATE

1278

According go down the river at a certain season arnd
question also, which cornes UP.
tbe fisheries laws, provision is -made that return if tbey can. The sait water fish
to
the rivers and lakes shall not be obstructed ascend the river as eariy as they eau ln
In such a way by the erection of dams as the spring at different seasons to spawn
We have dams ail] lu the fresh water. The Ilsh In those lakes
ho destroy fiali life.
over thls country Ia wblch there are no fish -I arn apenking now of Algonquin Pari,-ways, and that Is unfortunate so far as the give evidence of the effeet o! the dam.
I have The fish have no difficulty In going down
iulaud fiaheries are concerued.
visited Algonquin Park. Who- over the dam, but when they go down
several tirnes
ever seiected that location as a park could they neyer corne back, and to-day you
not have made a better selection ou the con- wiii find the lakes lu the Algonquin Park
tinent of America for the purpose to whichi are becorning very rapIdiy depleted of the
it Is devoted. It takes lu ail the head wat- trout and fine fish whicb used to freqient
ers o! dIfferent streams In that whole sec- those waters. That ls one of the effectq
tion of country, and is preserved as a breed- of being too easy. If the lumbermen have
if taken the timber out of Onat country.
Ing ground for animal and fiali life.
proper protection had been given there, al there Is no good reason wby the dams
the rivera fiowing frorn that part would be- should be rnaintained-at ieast soiue o!)
corne stocked with fish aud the adjacent them should be doue away with, aud 1
ways con Id
I arn not sure that the tbink Iu rost of them .fish
woods with game.
regulations to proteet garne and fish, ln that be put In at very saal expense. I amn
part o! the country bave been as strictly very glad to have the answer given by the
euforced as they ahould bave been. I arn leader o! the goverument here to the quesunder the Impression that Up to a very tion with regard to the International Fisaa
receut period, aud even up to the present eries Commission. As I understand it, tliey
time, in certain localities, the sympathy of will bave power to make reciprocal regulaIn couse- tions with regard to fIsheries on Internathe publie Is with the poacher.
quence, violators of the law are often ai- tional waters. The River St. John Is an
That shows that the international river. At Grand Falls, where
lowed to go free.
question is not thoroughly uuderstood by it Is an International river, there is un
I arn glad to see there Impedirnent to navigation, and to the asthe geneçal publie.
la evidence every day corning before us, cending of the fish above that. The fais
tant throughout the couutry greater im- are 75 or 80 fee.t perpendicular. No listi
portance is attached to our iuiaud fisherles can ascend that. Some years ago, I tried
It Is neceasary that the to start negotiations with the Arnericau
than beretofore.
growth o! that feeling should continue un- authorities, to get just what would be covtii the people of Canada becorne satisfied ered by this International Commission. 1
to proteet faiied to make auy progress at that time.
duty
Ia their
it
that
their fiaheries, and malutain thern as But I eau see the Iuterest that Canadians
on1e of the greatest o! our national assets. feel, especially In New Brunswick, aud
In the Algonquin Park-, o! course. there the province of Quebec, and that the State
were large iurnberiug Industries carried of Maine would feel also In regard to tlîis
ou, and I believe - the lumber lias beeti question. The River St. John drains -a
1retty weli cut away; but the lumbermn
large portion of the State of Maine, and
lu order to carry on their operations and a very considerable portion of the proget the lumber out, had to dam the rivers vince o! New Brunswick. The bead waters
and streams. That was ail right, ut the are ail I may say, In the province of QueThese bec, lu the State of Maine, sud partlally
tirne, but aee the effects of it.
lakes were damrned, raislug the level 10 In New Brunswick. The main river ltself
On the
and 12 feet higher than the normal heigbt. ls largely Iu New Brunswick.
of Maine aide, there is the Fish
flooding the land and killing the trees State
wherever the water overflowed. 'No fish River, the Alagaah river aud other tributanles that I might narne, having extenway was provlded. The fresh water ti
are different frorn the sait water fiali. They sive chains of lakea and fine apawniug
Hlon. Mr. COSTIGÂN.

JUNE 24, 1908
grounds for ail kinds of fish. Take th-q abundant as
tbey ever were before.
The.
Province of Quebec, the. Madawaska iiver Lunenburg bankers
are now out for their
empties into the St. John at Edmunsecond cargo, having
ston, and eleven miles above that la thp first cargo averagiug corne ln wlth their
froni 1,000 to 1,500o
Interprovinclal line and there lsaun Im- barrels.
*The spring mackerel la moat
mense Chain of lakes, the Madawaska abundant
on the Coast of Càpe Breton. So
branch, the Toladi, the Cabano, the Squa- much so,
that ail the barrela and puncheons
tic and others, and ail having Immense and cvery
receptacle that was to be got
lakes, teeming with fresh water fIs now; wcre
filled with fish, and afterwnrds people
but If the International Commission would had to sait
thcm la their boats and we have
agree to build a fish way at Grand Falls, other evIdence tiat
the deep sca fisheries
a very simple and inexpensive process, are as abundant
as ever. One good .ting
they might bring many varleties of sait bas been done,
or la belng donc every year.
water fish dlean up Into the lakes, because Our own
cruisers -are kecplng tic United
the same dlfficulty that -applies to the States fisiermen
outside the. tiree-mile
dams now applies to Grand Falls. Salmion lumit.
Thc great drawback to thc auccesa
fry were put ln above Grand 1Fails, but of our
shore fisicries la tic dog fisb, and
that was the. last w. heard of thein. When that curse
Is continuing froni ycar to ycar,
they grew a littIe they got down to thc and 1 thlnk
thut the. method Introduced by
sait water. They can getdown but tiiey the. Dèpartment
of Marine aud Fîsherles to
neyer get bagk above Grand Falls.
If destroy thc dog fIai Is a decldcd fallure.
there were a fish way, the flah would ai- Thcy migbt as well
try to bail out tic
ways go back to where tbey were spawned. Atlantic witli a buckct
as to try to, destroy
I have conflned myseif prlnclpally to a the. great achools of
dog âfsh thst freqiient
few points ln connection wlth what I cou- thc Cost of Nova Scotia
and Cape Breton,
aider to be a very interestlng subjcct, the. particularly. Cape Bretot.
In tic first
Inland fisheries, and I hope that a few of place, a large amount of
money is spent
thie hon. members better acqualntfd wtt upon machlnery to couvert
the dog fishi
the deep sea fisherles would say a few into a fertîlizer.
Tii. situation so far la
words on thc admitted Importance of that tiat that product
would have to ibe carried
subject. One or two hon. members who to market
by steamners and then by rail,
lntenided to speak upon tuis question rre and that la too expensive
for the farmers
absent. I belive some hou. members who to do.
The dog fiali swim very fast, and
are present will take part ln-thue debate. they may bc here to-day
and pcnhaes 300
I should like to see the Marine and flh
miles away next day from the place where
cries Department take hold of the quer- those fertilizer factories
are erected.
For
tion. I suppose it la too late lu the pue- Instance, the fisli may be
along the coat
sent sessiofi, to have a committee appoint- of Bay 'St. Lawrence aud
Cape North while
cd, but if the, department would send some t'hose factories are ut the Straît
of Canso.
one to travel through the country before So that I do not tiink the method
tlxey are
putting young fisb into any lake or streani, tryiug to destroy tic do- câsh
witii will
to report back to the department thc ever have any good effeet, furtxer
tha the
food ifi that streaxu, the kind of ilsh expeaditure of so mucli money
will b. of
that would thrive ini such waters, they benefit to the. people thut
are employed nt
would be acting more inteliigently than by it. Tie method of destroying thc
dog fis
putting tbem ln huphazard as they are should be, when thc lobster
fuctories are
doing now.
doue Canning lobsters, and the season la
Hon. -3r. ROSS (Halif.ix)-I was not over to give tic factories or the. fishermi n
aware that this subject was comiag up; about the factories a certain prIce for everýy
therefore 1 did not make any particular bundred or tiiousaud dog fish they brlng
preparations for It. I desire to say a word asiiore.
If It cxteaded ail over the cost lt
or two with regard to the deep sca fisheries. inigiit b., ln time, tic means of rcduclnig
From the returns that we arc receiving thus tuis plague; but I tiiink
that thc hlstory of
.Year, we find the deep sea fisheries are as this plague will b.
tliat tic dog âaix wll

1280

SENATE

1280

SENATE

Hiou. Mr. RLOSS (Middiesex)-I arn 'lot
go away perhaps in a year or: two, as tbey
Fish an expert in the matter of the fisheries,
have done before, to other regions.
ither Iniand or deep sea. but I feel that
foiiow the food, and If they do flot find the e
be hon. member who put this motion on
food as plentiful on tlic coast of Cape Bre- t ha paper bas brougbt before the House a
ton as It is on the coasts of Norway and
ery Important subject. I regard the fishEugland and Scotlaud, they wili go over vries of Canada on a line wltb the otiwr
A word- aboute ative resources wbich require careful
tbere to get better food.
There are 14 rivera k'I upervision. We began a discussion some
the river flaberies.
tbe county 1 uscd to represent, on which. weeks ago on the subject of pulp wood,
saimon asceud, and descend, every year,0 >ne of our naturai resources, whicb it la
and it la known by every fisherman thut thet eit here ln this parliament, and ln -the
galmon wiil go to Its own river, and will i egisiatures of the provinces, require sonie
flot change golng to its; qwn river froni year ort of protection, If flot protection ln the
It wli aiways ascend and de- ense of iooking after lts lnterest ln the
to year.
mceud the sanie river. The goverument ap- way of tarif., at least ln some formn in
points guardians, or at least the represeilta- xbicb It may be preserved and perhaps
tives of those counties nie the list of conserved for the benefit of future generaguardians for ticose different rivers. These :ious. A. movement bas been made lu that
In
guardians beioug to the districts la wbicb direction tu the province of Ontario.
they are appoiuted, and supposing they find tact the movenient was begun some years
a -man, womau or cblld catchiug a 'Ish ln ago. It coinmenced 'with tbe pine timiber,
tbe close season tbey are not golng to sec and that movement Is spreading to other
them punilbed. They do not want to have provinces and la receing the attention of
any biad feeling in the .nielghbourbood; tiiere- some of the best men lu Canada and the
fore 1 tbink the protection of the eaimon United States, so far as puip wood'is con.
of the river shonld be put in the banda of cerned. The fisheries question is somewbft
strangers wbo wouid uuderstand their busi- ou a par with the puip wood question. It
ness and wouid have no sympathy witb the is plain tbat our inland fisberies niay be so
1 do flot think the present method depieted by want of management and 'propeople.
preserviug the saînion going up ani per protection, tbat ln a few years they
of
down the river is at ail eff ective or success- wiii be practically valueiess, and 1 do not
fui. You catch the sainion on the sea coast tbink tbis House couid better occuPy U9~
of Novea Scatia at certain seasons. That tinle than by devoting its niost ser-ious conla a 'legitimate business, but whien they sideration to the preservation of our inlatfd
corne up the river to spau, to catch theut fisheries. The value of our fislieries as a
then is to deqtroy these stî-earns as dishing national asset is bardly appreciated out1 hacve uothing te say about Flic side of parliament, If it is really fully p
grounds.
But preciated inside of parliament. Ini the inst
Ijepartmieut of -Marine and Fishieries.
1 thlnk there should be, a dejartmeiit for report of tbe Minister of Fisheries that 1
tisberles independent of the 'Marine De- have been able to put my hands on, a
l have oftcnl taiiced flali wltli couple of years oid, I find that the value
partment.
soine of tbe officers of that departmnent, and of our fisheries arnouuted to $29,479,0J00,
found that, to speal, noderately, they wcre and to some of the provinces they mitst
very theoretical in titeir ideas, that they be of great moment.
For instance. the
neyer biat aur practical experience, and that value of fisherles of British Columbia that
wbat tbey knew of the filheries tbey Iiad vear was $9,8W0,000. To a srnnil provn< c.
Iiu every departmnent so far as population is concerned, tbat i-leariied fromn books.
The value of
of life, experience Is m-orth a great deai. reaiiy a very large sum.
It la the exi)erienced miner who discovers the fisberies of Nova Scotia that year was
Quewbere the g-oid lies in the country, and lt $,13259,000, New Brunswick $4,847,000,
bec $2,000,000, Ontario, mostiy iniand, $1,.
who woui
ls the cxperienced fisherincu
about $1,make the best reg-ulations for the protecti-,.e 708,000, Prince Edward Island
Saskatchiewanl, far iniaud, $1,-~
000,000, and
of the fishieries.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax).

JUNE 24, 1908

1281

1281
JTJNE 24. 1908
811,000. Now. la money that represents a soine joint action whêreby the neighbouring
large amount-more than the produce of states 'wouid co-operate wlth us and pass
our gold mines, la fact more than the pro- regulations like ours as to the close seaWe have falled ln that, [but, bapduce of ail our mines put together. Then son.
I land that ln 1895 82,870 fishermen were pily, our ambassador at Wasbington lias
la been more successful than we have been,
empioyed In the Canadian fisherles.
the lobster Industry alone, there was a and we have before us an arrangement
capital of $1,426,000 Invested, and there for the appointment of an International
were 723 canneries distributed ln Nova commission. In Ontario we could oniy
Scotia, New Brunswick, Prince Edward negotiate with IndivIdual states. Michigan
Island and Quebec, empioying over 11,0<1 mlght be qutte prepared to enter Inte
persons. I wiil not trouble the House witia friendly relations with us and agree upon
figures ; they speak quickly and very a close season, but Ohio. or Penusylvania
strongly. Eigbty-two thousand of our po- or New York migbt not and our efforts
pulation wlth the familles dependent on were, therefore, rendered nugatory, and we
them may represent nearly haîf a million bave failed up to the present. Wheu this
people; $29,000,000 income to Canada fron> International Commission goes lnto operafisheries represents the. maintenance of a tion, and agrees upon regulations whereby
great mýany persons, and represents a largc similar ruies as to the close season shali
industry. If to that we ndd -the training prevail la ail International waters, I thInk:
which those engaged ln the fisheries have the difficulty wili be, to a certain extent.
for naval pursuits, should we ever orgun- overcome.
Ize a (3anadian navy-and that may not be
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is not
mo far distant after all-we can see the the regulation of the fisheries ln the United
great Importance of the industry to us am S'tates eonfined to each State ?
a young nation. The great struggie made
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-It la. That
by France at the Treaty of Paris ln 17Mi.
what I was pointing out that we
was to preserve tbe Island of St. Pierre la
bad to negotiate with the different States.
and Miquelon, la order to have a tralinng
-Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWFILL-Wlil
school for the navy. France inslsted on
having control over those Islands f rom that the gentlemen who are negotiating thls
The British navy is, to some treaty have power to interfere wlth the conday to now.
extent, recruited from the fishermen of stitutional rIghts of the different states?
Newfoundland, and our'people are, to sone We know 'wbat we experienced ln connecextent, supplled with food from the same tion with the Washington' treaty; our people
quarter. The subJect bas a wlde sweep were to have tbe use of canais ln the neighand deserves our serions attention. As bouring states, but that was refused -by the
far as our ln.laad flsherles are concerned, State of New York.
The
we labour under two dIfficulties.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-That clause
first la that the control over thos Ilsherleq of the Washington treaty was rather loosely
la a dlvided one. In the province of On- framed.
Ail the United States were retarlo, we have been subjected to the great quired to do under the Washington treaty
annoyance that no matter what regulations was to use their kindly Influence with the
m!ght be made for the presarvatlon of our State of New York to allow us tbe same
flsh In the western lakes, on the boundary privileges on the canais of that state as
line we were frustrated ln our efforts by we conceded to the United States ln Canathe regulations on the United States aide. dian waters.
The close season and tbe spawning season
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE, BOWELL--Oould
werc different or the two aides. At Dethey have gene further?
troit, our fiafrermen were not allowed to
flsh at a time when United States fishertuin
Hon. Mr. BOSS (Middlesex)-I thlnk not.
were flshing up to the boundary lune. Va- Whether tbey used their friendly efforts or
I am not advised oflirious efforts have been made by the depart- not I cannot Bay.
ment of th~e Ontario goverament to secure cially, but I rend somewhere ln the dis-

mast

81
RSVISED

EDITXON

1282

SENATE

cussion of this question that this treaty
witil the United States wouid carry power
to the central governiment to make the
regulations -for wbIch this commission is
proposed to be appointed, and that It
supersedes the Individuai Powers of the
States--that the Individual powers of the
states tire ln abeyance, subject to this
treaty. Whetber that Is the case, the hon.
Secretary of State can teli us later on; but
that Is the conclusion 1 came to from readlng the debate, and I lhope it is so.
Hon. Mr. POIIIIER-That m.ay have to
be settled by a reference to the -Supreme
Court of the United States.
lion. Mr. ROSS (Middiesex)-I am not
able to say wbetber the United States could
make a treaty withi Canada which wouli
supersedes for the time being the. rights of
the Individual states lu the' natter; but if
they cannot do that theu 1 do not know
what great use the commission wlll serve.
It wlll be then merely for the states to accept ln a frIendly way whatever regulations
the commissions may agrec to, and perhaps
lIt is a aubject at ail events
tbey would.
for an amicable settiement, if it may not
lead to a legai settlement of what 1 consider a great grievance so far as Ontario
Lake of the Woods bas been
Is concerned.
compietely fished out, not by Canadians but
by United States fIshermen. The white fish
is gettlng very scarce in our upper inkes.
Superior, Huron, and even the lower lakes
have supplled us wltb the best white fish
in the world, but they are getting scarcer,
being fIshed out by contractors from the
The Ilsb migrate from one
United States.
side of the iake to the other, and tbough
we May guard our fish on our side
they are caught on -the United States
aide and are used lu the United States
cities as food. Another difficulty we
have had la -the division of authority
between the provincial and the Dominion goveruments in the matter of the
fisheries.
By a decîsion some ten years
ago, the Privy Council found that the provinces had oniy a divided autbority wltii
We own the fish if we
the Dominion.
can catch them, we own the property and
the stream, but the regulation of the close
seabon and the machinery and materlaI and
IMpiements by whIeb Êsh may be captured,
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middilesex).

are ail under the controi of the Dominion
governiment, so that except lu waters purely
inland and over wbich the Dominion bas no
controi -wbatever, we have been unabie to
make such arrangements for the protection
of our fisheries ln International waters as
We could make
would be of service to us.
reguiations, for Instance, on Lake Nipigon
and lakes ln the neighbourbood of Algonquin Park beeause tbey are entireiy under
our control.
Hon. 'Mr. POIRIER--Could you lu Hudson Bay?
Hon. Mr. ROSS <Middlesex)-lu that case,
Ontario might bave to make an agreement
with Quebec. We bave been endeavouring
The Iland tshto .protect our fisherles.
eries are of the greatest Importance ln theý
The ýtate of Maine deway of revenue.
rives a large revenue from sportsmen.
Thiat is one vlew of the question tbat ought
to engage the attention of this -House. 1
have sometimes thought that It wouid be
advisable to amend the British North iAmerica Act so that eitber the provinces or the
Dominion sbould bave individual control
over the flsherles. A dlvided authorlty is
It leads to Irritation someinconvenient.
times, and leads to confusion and multiplies
Thiere is another matter germane
officers.
to this, that Is lu the distribution of spawn
f rom the hatcheries of the Dominion government; our iniand lakes should be stocked.
I know many iniand waters o! Ontario thiat
are fished out, and yet ýI do not know If
provision bas been made for restocking
those waters. Tbere Is wtere the resources
There is
of a province might be served.
no doubt the waters of Ontario are capable
of sustalinng the most valuable ifish ln the
worid, and yet the provisions for restocking
I notice tbat th,
them are Insufficient.
suppiied 63.000l,000
Sandwichi hatcbery
young fry for distribution lu the province
0f tbese 4,000,000 were distriof Ontario.
'bat is the use
buted ln Lake Huron.
of stocklng Lake Huron If the United States
fishermen may fisb It out at their sweet
wlll? The same remarie applied to the ditribution of spawn ln Buriington Bay, and
the Thames, the Sydenham and thbe Detroit rivers. Then the Newcastle batcbery
suppiied spawn for Lake Consecon, Charleston lake, and a number of other lakes.

1283

JUNE 24, igos
JUNE
Th'ese are very important features of our
fIshlng industry, and while I rejoice that
this treaty bas been framed and hope that
It will have a.pretty wide sweep, 1 would
em.phasize the Importance of the subject
mentioned ln the motion recelving attention.
It affects nlot only the food but the sports
of our people.
Ail these subjects arise out
of tbe consideration of the fisheries, and toa
much attention cannot be given to the subjeet by the department and the government.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER moved that the debate be adjourned until to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to.
THE QUEBEC BRIDGE.
MOTION POSTPONED.
Hon. Mr. LA.NDRY inquired :
1. The government, in 1903, having concluded with the Quebec Bridge and Railway Company, a îfnancial arrangement in which one
of the obligations of the contract was the immediate subscription of additional shares to
the amount of $200,000, who are the parties
that subscribed the additional amount F
2. How many shares have been mubscribed
by or allotted to each shareholder?
3. Did the company afterwards devote the
amount which it so obtained to pay for works
chargeable to capital, or bas it not rather
employed almost the whole of that sum, ta
wit: $188,7,21, in payment of the discount at
which securities of the company had been isoued, the builder of the piers of the bridge
having consented to extinguish a claim of
$283,279 which he had against the company by
taking debentures of the saîd company to the
amount of $472.000. that is to say, at a discount of 40 per cent P
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I have no answer Io
any of the hon. gentleman's questions today. I do my part la calllag attention ta
the necessity of answering them; It li the
best I can do.-

1283
24. 1908
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon. senator kuows
I arn absolutely powerless to chooee a day.
I cannot contrai the department.
Ail I
can do le ta press for an answer, and I do
press and make every reasonable exertion.
I sent the other day a copy of thue hou.
gentleman's remarks to the departmnelit
and sbowed tbem ta Mr'. Fielding, and
sent a copy of tbem ta MNr. Ross, I eau
do no more.
DELAYED RETURNS.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I bave been wa!tlng for returns that I asked for on the
29th of January. They would nlot takp
more than two or tbree bours ta put togetber.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-What are they?
Hon.*Mr. LÂNDRY-I bave given notice
about themn to-day, se tbat the hon, gentleman will not be taken by surprise. We
are told to-day that the department is doIng nothing nt ail. They cannot affard ta
bring down a return. There la correspon.
dence between the Departinent of Militia
nnd Colonel Dens, one of the uililtary
men of Toronto, on aceount of a dismîssal.
a tbing that would nlot take an hour ta
prepare.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wiil press for au
nnswer and try to get It for to-morrow.
The bon, gentleman asked yesterday ln
reference ta the French editian of the Civil
Service Commlsion's report.
I have an'
answer to-day from the Bureau ln whlcb
tbey say that they have received five forma
or 80 pages of the translation. The report
makes 275 pages, so they have recelvéd
leas than one-third of the translation.
I
Hou. '-%r. LANI)RY-1 thought thiere was find that ln the other Chamber a qu4stion
was asked as to the translation of the evia telegram sent last week.
dence, and Mr. Bergeron announced that
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-So I was advlsed.
It had been translated long aga and the
Hon. Mr.- LÂNDRY-And there haq been fault was witb the Bureau. On inqulry,
I find that the first and second signatures
no answer ta that telegram ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have not received were sent down on the 12tb of June, and
the third on the 22nd of June; that up to
any.
this day only 26 forma, or 416 pages out
The SPEAKER-The motion stands ta of a total of 1,288 'pages have been re
wbat day ?
celved.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Would tbe bon. gentleman choase a day ?

IHon. Mr. LANDRY-Wbere

Jfault

lie ?

does

the

1284

S E NVA T E

SENATE
1284
Hon. Mr. S1ýCOTT-W'ith fthe transiators. quiring into ftle affairs cf tbe Marine and
My hon. friend did
I'isheries Departmient.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wbere ?
not seemn te have any Information yesterHon. Mr. SCOTT-1 presulue iii the day, and I gave hlm te undenstand 1 wouid
House of Gommons. I do nlot know how to the subject to-day. An Item appears lu
that wouid be. They say wilen asked the the Toronto 'Mal and Empire' of the 2Oth
cause of ftle deiay tilat fthe fauit is with instant. wbicil reads as foiiows:
thle Bureau. Mr. Bergeron made thle stateThe remarks of Mr. Justice Cassels at the
ment that three Nveeks ago ail tile tranisla- close of yesterday's proceedings in the Marine
iniquiry have caused considerabie discussion
tion lad been imuale.
in the lobblies to-day. The judge intimated

heard a word
had
Apnil 17
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbat is not a de- that sincegovernaientheabout nt
pnovidiag him an
fromn the
niai.
Exchequer Court work so
assistant in the

that the won-k of that court wouid nof be refarded. The Bill to amend the Excilequer
Court Acf was assenfed to on Tuesday, but it
did now appears if is not broad enough to enable
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-They say fbey
net receive it but filey do net say tila, the judge fo absent himself from the court, as
be wouid be obliged to do in the event of an
tbe translation bas not been made.
caniy nesumption of the Marine Deparfment
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There is tile fact, that inquiry. Mr. Justice Cassels asked was a proWhat
fthe franslators bave sent down three parts, vision f0 enable the registrar, Mr. Audette, f0
in
making 416 pages out of a total of 1.288 act as de puty judge and hear caseswas his abmereiy
sence. What parliament enacted

Hon. Mr. SCOTI-It is a deniai.

pages.

te enable the registrar to acf as judge in
not enabie
provision 'which
until chambers, a with the regular will
The taquinies were ailowed te stand
business of the
him to deal
Tuesday neit.
court.
The first point that strikes one la reading
A PROPOSED ADJOURNMENT.
fuis is tilat file judge says he had ne IntiHon. Mr. ROBERTSON inoved :
He bad net
mation from file governmnent.
That when the Senate adjourns to-morrowi heard a word froM file governmeat since
thaf it stand adjourned unfil Wednesday, the 11th . April, oven two monfils.
When
July 8 prox, at three o'clock in the afternoon.
niy bon. frlead preseated fthe Bill fe the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-On former occasions lieuse on fthe 4til of June, providiag as if
wbea adjournmeats of tbis kind were was tilought for the appolntmnent cf an ad
proposed, it was pointed ont filat thfpre was hoc judge f0 fake up fthe court -wonk of
very littie for tile Senate -te do. 1 tind .Judge Casseis wbo wouid be attending te
on fthe order paper to-day and to-miorrow tbe iaquiry la the Marine and Fisheries
there are no iess tban thirteen goverlnmeur Department, 1 polnted ouf te MY bon.
Bllis, and I question wbefber It wouid be' friend filat 1 did acf thiank file provision in
quife proper for the Senate te rise lu view file Blill was broad encugil te admif of the
of thle facf tilaf there are a baker's dezen appointment of an ad hoc jUdge, whiie bie
cf Bis on file paper for the consideration wouid be away la file performance of bis
cf fuuis Cilamber. - 1 trust ftle lion, gentle- duties ln hlding ftle investigation. There
man wiii nlot press bis motion, because 1 wvas a provision ln tile Bill, ne doubt clear
sioleud be obliged te oppose if.
and compiete, by whilm the registrar couid
ollowed perfrn file chamber werk; but I caiied
Affer discussion, the motion was -.
muy hon. friend's attention te file inadequacy
to stand for to-morrew.
file provisions fer canrying on the work
of file court. He infermed tile !Bouse that
file Bill had been refenred te Judge Cassels,
and that lie had-

0f

THIE .MARINE AND FISHIERIES INVEISTIGATION.
Hon. Mn. FERGUSON-Before thle orders
of thle day are called, I want to refer te a
maffen f0 whicil I caiied the attention of
thle hon. Secretary of State yesterday with
reference to the meetings of the commission
over wbicb Judge Cassels is presidiug. inHlon. Mr. LANDRY.

Hon. Mr. SCOTPT-No,
sels.

net Judge

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes,
gentleman said Judge Casseis.

file

Cas-

hon.

JUNE 24. 1908

1285

1285
JUNE 24~ 1908
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Is the investigation
Hon. Mr. 8COToe-That is a mistake. 1
of a department and of the management of
aaid the MinIster of Justice.
a department a"judicial dutyF
the opinion cf
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tliat
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-Yes, the hon. both Judge Cassels and theieMinister cf Jusgentleman said botb.
tice.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Then I arn mIsreportI presume the Minister et Justice must
ed.
bave Intormed my hon. frlend or lie would
I
Hon. Mr. FFIRGUSON-My hon. friend not bave gene on using these words.
It: Is found can undermtand now that lie had no comsaid it over and over again.
tbree or four times ln the report, and I munication witb Judge Caseele.
remembered It distinctly wben my hon.
Hon. Mr. 'SCOTT-No, I neyer epoke to
friend was referring to It yesterday.
hlm ince hie came te Ottawa.
Hon. Mr. 8COTT-I must have been
Hon. .Mr. FERGUSON.ý-At any rate, we
thinking of something else.
were told it was the opinion of botb Judge
The
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I asked whether Cassels and the MInister of Justice.
the judge bad refused to take any re- debate proceeds:
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It may be made te,
muneration, and I asked that question because virtue bad been mnade of the tact coverbeit, but 1 doubt if snob an investigation
regarded as a judicial duty.
can
that the judge declined te receive any
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Other gentlemen thought
My hon. it vas not wide. pnough, and I lield the Bill
emolument for bis services.
ever until 1 bail an opportunity of consulting
friend je aware that a judge cannot accept the Minieter cf Justice about it.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-AIl thie arises from
any emolument for any service. I spoke as
the vicious principle of tlie goverament apfollows:
pointing judges for vork of this kind. The
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I asked the question wliole country vas open te tliem te make apbecause virtue lias been made vitli regard to, pointments; it vas quite eayte liave liad
* the judge declining to receive any emeluinent that investigation condUatedy a iayman.
for hie services. My lion. friend le probabiy either by the commiesioners vlio had done a
avare that a judge cannot acoept any emolu- certain amount of vork in connectien vith it,
ment for any service of the kind. Under the or if tliere vas no confidence in tliem, by smre
Exchequer Court Act it ie previded in section one else lasides a judge. This appointment
6 that the judge of the court shall not heid is made unde te Inquiry Act and I have a
any other office of emolument, either under serions doubt as te vhether the vord judiciai
the government of Canada or under the gov- appiem te muni an investigation.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If the judge himseif and
ernment of any province of Canada. Therefore it vas no particular menit on the part the Minister of Justice thinli the language
of the government or the judge, because lie sufficient we need net have any ecruples about
ie precluded nder the Excliequer Court Act it.
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON-We have knovn
from taking any emolument. Now there ie
another point; subclause 2, 'HRas other judi. sunli people te make mista-kes before.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Minister of Justice
ciai duties whicli make it impossible for him
to hear without due delay any cause or mat- prides himself on the cars vith which lie
ter.' I presilme is the one that is iutended t,) drafts a Bill, and lie le satisfied.
cover thie point.
It may be the Bill ie al rigbt, but the
That was the clause that was supposed judge says it bas been found, net to be
te, give the power to appoint an ad hoc broad enough te admit of an appeintment
judge, whule the Judge was investigatlng the sncb as would warrant hie duty in
The debate pro- the court as a judge by au ad hoc
Marine and Fisheries.
ceeds:
judge whiie there Is provision, as we
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
ail know, te, admit of the registrar
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Will that meet the performing the Cliamber work. What bas
case of the appointmient of Judge Cassels to
inquire into the administration of the De- occurred under thie le, that this very Impartmnent of Marine and Fisheries P
portant inquiry upon whicb the public mmnd
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--So Ibelieve. That ie the
opinion of Judge Cassele himself. The clause bas been very wideiy meved, was referred
vas drawn after correspondence between him to a judge wbe had other very irnportekit
and the Minieter cf Justice. -It occurred to functione to perforrn, and it appeared
me that the clause vas not broad enougli. and
1 wrote the Minister of Justice a note on the that this Judge made It a condition that
mubject and afterwards called on him and dis- hie would only accept on consideration
oussed the matter, and hie said At vas vide that his judicial work ln the EzcheqiI1ýt
enougli.

1286

SENATE

SENATE
1286
Court should be carried ou. The goveru- and I think even thoughi a littie tîme should
ment lntroduced a Bill on the subjeet, aDd he lost, the governent should not besîtate
thiey got It througb parliament and had It about gettlug that mïatter remedied, r30
assented to, and the judge says : 'I h avi that the Inqulry should go on.
flot heard anythlng from the government
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In view of the statesince the 17th April, and the Act passed
monts mnade f0 me by the Minister of Jusla flot sufficient, and, therefore, 1 wil
have to adjourn the marine lnqulrv f111 tice this mornîng, I hesitate to belleve the
the 2nd of September ln order that mny report ln the paliers that Judgo Casseis
1
duties to the Exchequer Court, which 1 made the statement attributod to hlm.
regard as my first duty, shial be carried' have neyer spoken to Judge Cassels sinco
on. The effect of this, whatever the %cauc,, hie came t0 Ottawa. In reference f0 tbe
rnay be, is that an important inqulry la point that my bon. friend referred to, about
laid over until September. Whatever tbe holding over the Bill, I arn quito Éware
cause, my hon. frlend cannot fail to un- that ho did. The first person who spoke
derstand that the public will be very liable to me on the subject was the hion. sonator
to find some explanation. It may not be fromn De Salaherry.
the rlgbt one, but there [s an explanation
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Not ln this
that very many people in the country will
House.
be uncharitable enough to put upon it.
and that la that the government does not
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He came over and
want to have this Inquiry prosecuted at asked -me to hold It, and then my bon.
present; that they want to put It off as frlend frorn Marshfield spoke and urged 't
long as possible, and that they are, there- too.
fore, flot wlling to appoint an ad hoc judge
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I spoko ln (lie
in order that there may be an excuse for
delay. Another view would be that the Act House on ItL
does flot cover It. Ilowever, that wouid reHon. Mr. SCOTT-Both hon. gentamen
fleet upon the -Minlater of Justice. 1 do flot urged that It sbould bo postponed. I catiknow, but If that la the helief, the House ed on the Minister of Justice this morning
bas a rlght to know It. It notlced when I and told hlm the question that was goloir
cailed attention to this matter yesterday to be proposed f0, me, and I sald : ' Do you
and referred to, the point I had ralsed, my consider this Bill sufficiontly wiçle to aphon. friend very adroitIy gave credit to point an ad hoc judge ?' and be said:«
the hon. gentleman from De Salaberry for 'Certalnly, I do, there la no doubt about
ralslng the point.
It nt ail.' ' Weil,' I sald, ' bas one been
appolated V He rephied : ' We are walting
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
for Judge Cassels f0 brlng up the question,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If my hon. friend and then he referred to the Act. Affer
la willing to shoulder ail my misdeeds upoli settlng forth the grounds upon whlh au
the bon. gentleman from De Salaberry, and ad hoc judgo rnay be nppointed, the elauise
that hon. gentleman la wilng to shouider reads as foilows:
them, I will not be dlsinclined to let hlm
The Goveriior in Council may, upon the
share any glory I shahl receive, but I Ilo Nritten application of the judge setting out
not feel like having the credit transferred such impedirnent, appoint any other person
having the qualifications hereinbefore
to any one, if there la any credit In ItL It tioned, to act as judge pro hoc vice in menrelamay bo that 1 arn ail wrong from beglnnln.g tion to any stich cause or matter.
to end; but if thîs is not the case,
And the Mîfnister of Justice said 'Mr.
the expianatlon I have trled to find, andl Justice Cassels bas neyer wrltten a Uino on
whlch Judge Cassels says la the expiana- the subject at any timo.' I give the hon.
tion, thiat the Act which we passed after gentleman the statontent as I got ItL Tho
lt bad been so thoroughly submItted to the Act la clear that before any action eau
Mînister of Justice, Is not ample to admit be takon, written. application fromn the
of the appointaient, we shouid know It, judge la neeessary.
I said :'Have you
H:orn. Mr. FERGUSON.

1287
JUNE n 1908
JUNE 24. 1908
1287
Hon. *Sir RICHARD CART1WRIGfTand hc
had any written application?'
Ail I eau say le that I consider it a 'grass
said 1 Noue.'
waste and abuse of the time of this 'House
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Havlng gone to
for hon, gentlemen ta be .bringing Up uewsthe trouble or getting legîslation, was it
paper reports wbich they are nat prepared
flot the duty of the ministerThe hon. gentleman là
ta vouch for.
Hon. Sir RICHARD -CARTWRGHT- bringing Up a report which he bas no posShouid flot the bon. gentleman find out sible foundation for. He bas fia knawledge
This that Judge Cassels made auy such statewhether the report Is reliable?
bringlng; up newspaper reports without ment.
He bas nothlug but n mere newsknowing anything about them is an ab- paper report.
Sncb waste of the tîme of
the House at this stage of the session ls
Hon. Mr. FiERGUSON-I think it is per- discreditable.
Since it lias been brought
tectiy proper.
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-There le na rule
up, let us have the matter uuderstood. My of the Huse or of parlianhent such as the
hon. trlend seems ta thiuk tbat the Minister hon, gentleman refers ta.
of Justice bas nothiug to do ùntii the judge
Han. Sir RI-CHAýRD CARTWRIGHTWas it flot a barmakes this appIiçation.
this I did nat say there was a ruIe.
gain with the judge when he undertook
Thbe ;SPEAKER-There le uothing before
work tliat an ad hoc judge was to be supplied, lu order tbat Judge Casseis might the Chair.
That
give bis attention to this inqulry?
Hon. Mr. POWER-I tbink prabably the
was tlie condition announced ln parliament bon, gentleman bas overlooked the fact that
about whicb there can be fia doubt what- Judge Cassels closed his wark in the Exever, and It wouid be the duty of the goy- choquer Court some time ago, and that
eranent to see the judge, or send for hlm, there is natblng at ail ta prevent hlm from
and get hlm ta do it, but the judge pute going on and dealing wltb this Investigation
hinseif on record and says the Act la flot now; but Judge Cassels bas preferred ta
wide enougb.
take bis holldays.
Hon. Sir RICHARD OAT RGT
Hon. Mr. FE.R*USON-No, he bas been
Wben did the judge say that?
1holding Excbequer Court since.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I have read the
Hon. -Mr. POWER-He bas been holding
report ta the House.
bis holidays. I do flot find any fault with
I slmply state
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- Judge Cassele for that.
that tact, but, under the circumestances, the
0f a uewepaper correspondent.
government could flot be expected ta apHan. Mr. PERGUSON-Yes.
point an ad hoc judge when Judge Cassels
Hon. Sir'RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- le flot engaged In court.
I say the ban, gentleman is wastîng the
time of the House by referrlng ta any sucb CONSTRUCTION 0F DRY DOCKS BILL.
trash.
SECOND READING.
SHan. Mr. FERGUSON-My bon. frleud
Hou. Mr. SCOTT maved the second readI am not wastlng lng of Bill (119) An Act ta encourage the
need flot lecture me.
the time of the Hanse. '.It le a most Im- construction of dry docks.
He said: It bas been the policy of Canportant subjeet, and be need flot try ta lecture me because I know my rigbts lu this ada for many years ta give a subsidy ta
House as well as the bon, gentleman, and dry docks, wherever there le an opportunlty
I have a perfect right ta bring this matter of baving tbem erected, and subsidies were
1 find the
up, and either Judge Cassels le wrong as from time ta time offered.
he le reported-and be bas given no con- earliest subsidy was lu 1882, a subsidy flot
tradiction of lt-a-ýr the Mlnister of Justice exceeding 2 per cent of the cast of the work
daes flot want ta have this Investigation during 20 years ta the time of completion,
l)rovided the subsldy shall not exceed $10,proceed.

SENATE

1288
1288

SENATE
an unwise pollcy assisting aIl kinds of
Industries which, from time to time, May
make demands upon tbe government for
their parental care and assistance. Now, If
this policy would conduce to tbe development of this particular class of lndustry,
sureiy one la Justlfied ln tbe conclusion that
the building.0f dry-docks would bave assumed a very mucb larger proportion tban
it bas up to tbe present time. So far as 1
amn aware, we bave only a couple of drydocks or graving docks ln Canada, one ln
Colllngwood and one ln Halifax, and I think
there la one projected ln Vancouver', but
perbaps my bon. friend cau Inform me?

That was Increased from time to
000.
This Bill proposes to
time Up to $20,000.
Tbe last
increase the subsldy to $45,000.
So far, tbe subsiIncrease was to $30,000.
dies have not seemed to attract any one
1
to take Up the building of dry docks.
asked thxe Finance Department to gîve me
tbe Information, and tbe only gravlng docks
tbat bave recelved subsIdies are the Hal
gravlng dock wbich bas received $190,000
ln tbe last tour years, aud tbe Collingwood
dry dock -wblcb bas recelved $50,000. The
ouly feature about this la tbat it gives consideraible Increase and it protides for an
Increase also wbere tbe preseut exlsting
docks are eularged, because our boats are
becoming very mucb larger than tbey were
2.5 years ago, and lt becomes necessary, If
those docks are to be of any, value, that
tbey should Increase their dimensions.
These are the prlncleal features of tbe
There îa the feature that If at any
Bill.
time the dock la ont of repaIr the subsidy
stays, and under thls Bill tbe governmept
can at that time take possession and carry
on tbe work as tbey think proper.

Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlese4l-One at Victoria and one at Kingston.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The one at Victoria bas
neyer received any subsidy.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHE.ED-To wbat extent
bas construction preceeded tbere ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I really could not teli
tbe bon. gentleman.
very rnncb
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I
doubt wbetber this pollcy bas ever induc±d
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In looking over
this Bill, aud lu giving smme littie attev- people to enter upon an industry of tis
tion to wbat my bon. friend bas just ob- kind. I notice in tbis Blill that it is proserved witb refereuce to the subsidte,; posed to pay tbree per cent upon the co.qt
wbicb, from time to time, bave been not of the work, and lt la not conducive. ln my
ouly given by tbe. government, but advex- judgment, to a business undertaklng that
tised practically to the public to be tbe goverument of tbis country sbould say
given by the government, it strikes to the public :'1We sbaîl practically pay
me that tbe policy pursued ln the past the interest upon ail the capital wbicb yon
and embodied not only in the old ,Act may put into an enterprise of that kind.'
but ln tbe present Bill, is not one calculatecl If it la applicable to dry-docks, why sbould
to assist in tbe development of tbis verv it flot be applicable to tbe varions bt1siimportant industry. It seems also to ine nesses wbicb are represented ln tbis Cbnmthat we are nursing to an unusual exteut ber by many bon, gentlemen wbo bave enitbe idea amongst industrial enterprises, t1bat tered upon commercial nndertakings quite
tbe government must for ail tîme exer- as Important to the interests of Canada i's
cisc a kind of parental solicitude tbrougbl tbis particular enterprise ? I am not, bo'wsnbsidizing them and otberwise assistln'g, ever, sufficiently famillar witb our shipping
tbema by fluanclal subventions. I do not Interests to say as to wbetber or flot tbir,
it
profess to be sufficiently famîliar wltb tbe subsidy is absolutely necessary ;but
any seems to me tbat because a generation or
shipping interests of Canada to give
pronounced opinion as to wbetber It ls two generations ago a pollcy was adopted
desirable that an Industry of this klnd and placed upon our statute-book, that notsbould be subsidized; but it does seem to witbstandlng the rapld development wbicb
me, speaking generally, tbat -tbe develop- bas taken place la tbls country, we -nnst
ment of Canada of late years bas bee.a continue to support that pollcy for all tIrrp
sncb as to warrant the conclusion that if to tbe extent of paying ont very large subwe are to become an industrial country, It Is sidies sucb as are provided for in this Bill.
Fon. Mr. SCOTT.

JUNE 24. 1908

1289

herefore, Intervenes and enters inta an
Under section 9 of Vis BUi, I find a Most t]
bligation for twenty years continuouliy,
extravagant provision. It provIdes that Vie o otwthstanding the fact that dock may
goverimelit, notwlthstandiflg the fact oif xi be operated, ta pay the 3 per cent. This,
LOt
Its having pald Vis subsidy of Viree per ni think, is a very unwlse palicy.
It ls
Vie I
cent upon the cost of the dock, may Ia
aarked parentalflm to such an extent as
event of the dock nat being operated, en- a be Injurions, In îny judgment, ta the
ter upon and take possession of the dock,t Ieveiopmeflt of that proper business Incarry ont ail Vie necessary irnprovemfent5s ctinct which shouid characterîze ail underno matter what Vie expenditure may be ; 8:akings.
that that expenditure may be paid out of t
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answer ta it ai
the consolldated revenue, and then after
Our vesand self- is his: It has been a necessity.
the business becomes succesaful
government may then hand sels have ta go abroad wben they require
supporting, the
to other
Vie dock back ta the original owners with- to be docked. They require to go
belng made for the re- ports, and witb ail the ofiers that we have
ont any provision
been able to
payment and 1 would point Viat out ta my bitherto made, we have liot
provision being succeed ln tnducing -parties to put their
bon. frlend-wiout any
It Is not a
made for the repayment of Vie moneys ad- money into this business.
No one denies that dry
Opera- profitable venture.
*Vte
vanced by Vie govern'meiit In.
Our vesvalue.
tien of Vie dock, and In the carrylag out docks are of very great
very very nunlerous, and
of the repairs, as well as the varions im- sels are becomuIng
I would say ta my hon. from tie to time tbey require to be overprovements.
The absence of dry docks In diffriend Viat, under the aid Act, Vis prov!- hauled.
was nlot ta be ferent parts of the country becomes a very
sien, s0 far as I amn aware,
interests.
found. If it had provided Viat Vie Gaver- serious matter to the shipping
the dock In Vie whole 26 years,,»we have oniy paid
nor ln Councîl shonld not band
those
back until ail the advances had been repaid out $230,000, although we have had
on the statute-book ail the
with Vie current rate af Interest, I could offers standing
We have to Increase the offers if
very well appreciate Vie ntilitY Viereof; but time.
parties ta iiivest
ta say the government may make very we are going to Induce
suchi a dock, and their money lu dry docks.
large expenditure upon
may band It back wilhaut the owaers beHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wouid the hion.
Ing compelied ta recoup Vie governmeflt gentleman not consîder that the sbipping
for those payrnonts, seexus to nme ta he interests of Canada are sufficientir large
Another proposition I finit to formn a dry dock compafir te carry out
indefensibie.
whicb was not ln the aid Act is Vils: the an undertakIlig of this kind.
government undertakes for twenty years,
at
Hon. Mr. .McSWEENEY-For the
not'withstanding the fact that Vie do-ck
ten years they have been trying to Induce
may not be operated to pay the three per
capitalists to enter Into the matter and
cent upon Vie original expenditul'e.
build a dry dock, but sO far they have not
into it, atnd I
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-If It is lu proper order. been able to get any capital
net know, even with this Bill that they
do
Hou. Mr. LOUGHIEED-NO, tliat à.is ' an will induce any company to go itt It.
~
~ *-*l ~ *a,.4n* i
- ~~
Hon. Mr. FERGU-SON-We must certhis: it wfts pointed out upon the Introducdry docks, but what is the
tion of the Billinl the Commons that It was talnly have
the
undertakiiig Of that essential departure in tils BUi from
difficuit to finance an
one? If my hon. friend made the exkind uniess there was some provision for aid
It.
the goverflfleft to contlnuously pay practi- planation I mlssed
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-We have Increased the
cally the interest upon the bonds. That Is
e$500
rm$,0
Financiers aon
reaily 'what it amounts to.
o$500
nlot go Into an undertaklflg unlessaon rn 3,0
wauld
Hon. Sir MÂICKENZIE BOWELTe-Oh,ý
they bad some guarantee tliat the lnterest
wouid be reguiarly paid. The goverament, no.

1290

SENATE

1290

SENATE

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was $30,000 before,
and now the subsldy can run Up to $45,000.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It was impossible
to, get the dry docks into operation without
the increased money?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hou. 'Mr. FERGUSON-We
need the dry docks.

certainly

Hon. Sir MIACKENZIE BOWELL-When
the hon, gentleman gave the Ègures as to
the amount expended, did that Include the
lnterest upon the dry docks that were bult
by the government?
Hon. Mr. SOOTT--Ob, no.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIDLL-Tbe
dry dock ln Kingston was bulit by the government, and the Esquimauit dry dock was
buiilt jointly by the Britishi goverument and
the Canadian government.
If my recoliection serves me right, the Canadian goverument contributed at that Urne $W000O
towards the construction of the dock. I amn
quite sure that la the case.
The Point
Lévis dock Is a Dominion dock, flot bult
by a Company.
Could the hon, gentleman
tell us whether any return bas ever been
-made of the earuings of tbe Esquimault
dock, the Kingston dock and the Point
Lévis dock?
I arn not per se ln favour of
government ownership as It is understood
by some people; dry docks it seems to me
are of sufficient Importance to the trade and
commerce of this country to justify the construction of them ln various parts of the
Dominion in order to assist the repairing of
vessels at our seabourds.
1 think the first
-dry dock to wbich we gave any aid at ail
-was the Esquimauit dry dock, and that was
prlncipaily ln aid of the construction of a
-dock which coId be utiiized for repaîrs to
men of war of the British government,
that were in that harbour and on the cost.
Previous to the constructioa of that dry
.dock, If nly recoilection serves me right,
vesseis had to go down to San Francisco for
repairs.
I arn speaking now subjeet to correction.
Then It was advocated that there
shouid be a dry dock at Point L&ais. That
was constructed by the goverunent. The
next was a smali one at Kingston. I fiad
that the subsidy la Increased and provision
made to guarantee the interest ou the cost
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

of construction wvhieh is Iiiimited to the extent of $15,000 per aunum. At 3 per cent
that menus a capital of hiaif a million.
I
suppose It wouid take that amount to construct a dock to answer the purposes of
the Increased size of ships tiiat visit our
shores.
I cannot but think that when we
place on the statute-book a iaw providing
for subsidizing Interests of this kind, It
wiii be mucb better that the goverament
should owu the, docks, and If tbere is any
return from the works It should-beiong to
the government that furnishes the money
for construction.
So far as dry docks are
concerned, I amn In favour of governmeut
ownership.
This Is a matter that in years
past was cousidered as an important questioa to be deait with by the governrnent la
aid of the shipping interests of the country.
My own view la that the dry dock nt Hallfax should be bulIt and owned by the goverument. There should aiso be a dry dock
for the growing 8hipping interest at the
port of St. John. The governent gave a
subsidy In aid of the Halifax dock, but
they have flot yet granted any subsidy for
a dry dock ln St. John.
Whether this proposed increase of subsldy Is to meet that
case I do not know.
Perhaps the goverument couid tell us whether it is a sop for
St. John at the next election.
Representatives of St. John have from year to year
asked for an increase of subsidy to enable
them to construct a dock whicbi the hon.
gentleman from Moncton tells us they cannot find. sufficient private capital to build.
Montreai ls a port of sufficient importaice
to justify the construction of a dry dock
there.
I arn under the Impression that the
construction of a dry dock bas been coinmenced at the eastern ead of Lake Ontario,
aud that lt la to recelve goverument aid.
The construction of dry docks is to my
mind of growing Importance.
Our marine
iuterests are sufficîentiy large to warrant
the adoption of a broad aud generous
poiicy; but I do not believe ln building these
dry docks lu the manner proposed now, by
private parties out of government money,
and If there la any profit to be derived
from thein the private parties *get IL.
If
dry docks are to be built eîther by direct
subsidies or by guaranteeing the Interest
on tue cost of coustruction, the country

JU'NE 24, 1908
JUNE
This Bill provides for
sbould, own tbem.
the construction of suchi works wltbout
maklug any provision for the repayrnent of
the rnoney; should they be cornrercially
successful iu the future, the profits viil belong to the parties who own the property
though constructed by public rnoney. If
we are to bulld these docks without any
provision for repayaient of the money the
principle milt be foiiowed ad libitumn, and
every industry would be bonused by the
That is paternai governrnent.
governuent.
That prineiffle is being- carried altogether
too far by the Doiuuuioni goveruinent partlcularly lu this and lu othier cases.
We
are driftiug rapidly luto the position of a
generous parent to ail tiiese places that require public mney to establish Iudustries
out of which thiey aud not the country are
to derive the benefits and profits. These
are rny own views iu counection wlth these
gl-eat enterprises, and the sooner -the governaient adopt the principle of reiping the
benellt frorn tbe construction of these works,
or cease the paternal systeai wllch bias
been characterizlng the governrnent of late,
the better It wili be lu the interests of the
country.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I arn entlrely opposed to governent ownership of public
works of this klnd, and public accommodation of any kind unless It is Impossible to
get them by any other rneans. Governaient
ownershlp Is an expensîve rnethoil of. provldlng and operatlng Institutions lîke dry
docks or railways or auythiug else. -Wbeu
the governaient corne to be the owners of a
dry dock, tbe nuaiber of hauds required to
manage the work wlill be double the uuinber that would be employed If it were
owned -by a coaipauy, just as bas been tbe
case with the Intercoloniial Railway. Under both parties, the Intercoloulal Railway
bas been unquestionabir a sink bole luto
whicb a great deal of the public mouey bas
been thrown.
As a mIle. it bis been
overloaded witb officials; far more thaùi on
any other Une la Canada proportionate to
the business doue.
The experieuce bas
been the sane with evemy other public
work owned by the goverurneut. The goverrnent cannot possibly operate dry docks,
raiiroads or anytblug of the kind as cheapîr
and as weil as they eau be operated by a

1291

I ~91

24. 1908
companr.
I endorse the policy that bas
been adopted bi- the govemnueut.
Dry
docks are a necessity, aud if tbe goverameut can get thern coustructed by offering
assistance such. as is outiined lu this Bill,
it la a better metbod of gettiug theai and
will ln the end lead to less loas tban If the
governrnent were to construet thern and
psy a staff of officiais to look after tbem.
I believe ln keeping out of goverument
ownersbip just as long as ve caui ail sucb
works. I entlrely endorse the policy adopted by the governmeut and thiuk It is the
right one If we eau get the accommodation
required.
Hon Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
government la quite safe If the bon. gentleman approves the policy.
The motion w-as agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
POST OFFICE ACT AINENDMENT BIL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTTr roved the second read
Iag of Bill (162) An Act to amend the Post
Office Act.
He said : The principal feature of tbçm
Bill la extending tbe one cent systemn to
cities and towns where drop letters are
dellvered by carriers. At present tbe rate
is two cents. It ls proposed to make the
one cent rate for drop letters unive'4a1,
wbhether tbey are delivered by carriers 0r
not. Tbe next clause provides that a
superIntendent rnay be appointed In the
Post Office Departrnent, after he hss served
fixe years. This reduces the terni by five
years. The next clause maires provision
for the appointaient of a fIuanclal superîntendent.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wbo perforais
that duty now?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not tbilik there
la one ; It is a new office.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-But tbere rnnst
be some Inspection of tbe accounts ?
Hon. 1Mr. SCOTT-Yes, there rnust bo,
but, as I understand it there is no official
wbo la known as a financial superintendent.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe practice la that the minister or the

1292

SEN-ATE

deputy minister sends an inspector On Oc- ion Metcaife or Elgin street about the time
casions ; but there is nobody who bas beuen 1wben the officiais are entering or leaving
specially charged xvitb the particular.duties the departinent and seeing tbem like bees
emerging f rom *a hive couid readily j.udge
bere referred to.
ln the
there
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is there not awbat an army of officiais numberis is conand that the
Insectin
peridica mae ?departmnent,
Increasing so tbat a haif-dozen
adetinuaiiy
peridicl inpecion
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- financil experts xviii be necessary very
Not periodical, but as required. They find soon.
from the enormous Inerease of -business
Hon. Mr. POWER-I wisb to express my
gratification tbat tbe government bave seen
pointed for the purpose.
fit to place tbe first clause lu this Bill. A
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tiis good many years ago, drop letters lu cities
Ir, the creation of a new office, as I un- were distributed by tbe carriers for one
cent, and I do not think tbat any action of
derstand It ?
parliament at the instance of the departHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- men with respect to postal matter was more
Yes.
unpopular tban the abolition of the one cent
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There rate on drop letters. Tbe department lost
are a >number of post office lnspector.- revenue. People who wished to send notbroughout the Dominion who visit the tices about a city did not care to pay two
different offices, flot. periodlcaiiy, but as cents. Tbey found it cheaper to send the
their services are required. If any cou!- letters aronnd by messengers. Now the ditplaints be made of the management o! an ference is being stricken ont and the public
office, an Inspector is sent there to make F will be very mucb gratified. to find that we
report. If hie tinds the finances of auiy bave gone back to the old postal rate of one
office lu an unsatisfactory condition bie re- cent on drop letters.
ports -the fact and the departinent takeý
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If we
action. If I understand. the duties of tbis make It free It will be stili more popular.
officiai tbat ls to be appointed, they wiil
Tbe motion was agreed to, Bill was read
be to examine the finaneial condition of the second time.
post offices wlthin lis jurisdiction. Is the
financial superintendent to be stationçed GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED BONDS
0F GRAND TRUNK PACIFIC RAILhere to examine the different accounts. or
WAY BILL.
Is bie to visit the different post offices ? If
bis duties be to visit the different offices.
SECOND READING.
It would be impossible for one man to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readtravel throughout the whole Dominion. I ing of Bill (171) 'An Act respecting the Govpresume It Is the creation of a new officer erament Guaranteed Bonds of the Grand
at Ottawa, whose duty wiIl be to attend to Trunk Pacific Raiiway Company.' He said:
the financiai state of the departnient. Is Hon. gentlemen are awnre that the Grand
that what is Intended ?
Trunk Pacific are pusbing their ]!ne with
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-I have no special iii- very great vigour, partlculariy in the xvest,
formation on that point. I presume bh, and are employing a very large nuimber of
bon, gentleman Is quite right, because men, and from time to time they are short
Bll is to aithere ls only one appolntmnent. The bon.' of cash. Tbe object of this
bonds to be sold in angentleman knows very weii that the post 10w, practically, the
ticipation, and the money deposited witb
aIl the time, and 'of cours-e tbe government, to be released from time to
Is expanding
time as the work proceeds, the government
It requires additionai officiais.
hein- allowed a margin up to one million
dollars tbat they may from time to time
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL -I
quite understand how the post Office busi- advance to tbe company as their necessities
ness Is expanding. Any one, wbo staiàds 1require. The object of the Bill Is of course
Hom. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

JUNE 24. 1908

1293

bande of tbe goverument, or If they are only
to relieve the Grand Trunk Pacifie from any
ie piedged for a part the samne princîple aPfinancial trouble so long as the money
piies--the proceeds, to the amount advanced
perfectly saf e. The money wlll only be reare placed. to the credit of the receiver genleased on the certificates of tEe engineer
eral and released only on certificates from
wbo guarantees that the work bas .Deen perthe engifleer wbo f rom time to time Issues
formed.
certîficates as to the progress of the work
Hou. Mr. LOUGHIEED-Is nlot my bou. and the amount to wiceh the comnpany are
friend slightly lu error ln saylng that the entitled.
object of the Bill is to permit tbe company
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thien
to seli those bonds?
the goverilment, as 1 understand it, je te
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
advane~the money and -the bonds are to
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If I read the be pledged to cover tbe advance?
Bill correctly. It Is to permit tbem to pledge 1
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It nuthorizes advances
the bonds. They already bave the power
proto pledge up to one million dollars on work lu
to seli, but tbey have no authority
being the resuit of bonde either sold
and If they pledge the bonds and the bonds grees,
If tbere
ito the bands of tbe or pledged with any Institution. dollars, a
ebould agaîn retur
a bond Issue of two million
company, then, according to the autbority of is
o! a million may be pledged on tbe
the English courts. the bonds are regarded quarter
h
h edro
n sepandb
as baving been issued, and tbey cannot bns
consldthe bonds is
to be the ob- opposition pledging bonds. [t basnlot
selI tbem. I understand tbat
been held
a sale of the
ject.ered
ln an Engllsb court that wben bonds are
afterwards
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, that is the object. piedged tbat way, tbey cannot
allows bonds to be sold.to
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What Informa- be used. This
the pledgee. The pledgee gives
tioii can the bon. 'gentleman furnlsb the others than
gets bis advances.
to tbe stepe tbat bave been up tbe bond wben he
chamber as
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thefl
or
taken by the company for elther eelling
seil the bonds
pledglng these bonds? As 1 understaud, they niay be perniitted to
before tbey are entitled to them, an'd the
an Issue o! bonds was placed on tbe iflarHas tbere flot been
ket. HRas my hon. friend any information money ie advanced.
difficulty lu the -Grand Trunk Pacifie
seime
on tbat subject?
money lu the Englishi
Mr. SCOTT-I shall endeavour to seouring sufficient
Hon.
market of late at the rate of Interest guarget it from the Finance Departnlent.
and bas not an
OUGHED-A I crrec lnanteed iby the government,
Hou.Mr.
made 'by the Grand Trunk
cre lu application been
Iod
Hoyn. Mr.t LUG HEED-A
for a guarantee o! an increased lusaln tha wbeden thes biond s areeiter Pacific
tereet upon the bonds wblch tbey bave sold
e eoie
sold ore glegeteaon
the Englisb market? I amn speaklng now
with be gverumlitin
on autbority lu wbicb tbe rigbt bon. MinRon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Commerce bas very littie
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-So tbat the letter ister of Trade and
whnt I bave read lu the newsof credit wbicb may be given by tbe gov- faltb-upoii
financial reports which bave
ernmeiit up to one million dollars le pro- papere, and
If
in the 'London 'Journal!'
tected by 'the fund wbich is lodged to the appeared
Mînister and the tbere Is a dificulty lu securlng sufficient
joint credit of the Finance
money to enable thein to prosecute thie
receiver general?
at thie rate tbcy deem it necessary to
SCTT-es.work
Hon.lýi.
have tbey not found It necessary to
Hon. Mr.
COTTYes.proceed,
lnHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLý-If thie aek tbe government te guarantee an
Tbat May
It Muet be for creased Interest en tbe bonds?
bonds are to be pledged,
not be correct, but the government declinsomne purpose?
adopted tbis plan
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbey are pledged for Ing to do that, may bave
sold in ordeg to come to their aid. Is there not
advances. They are elthier absolutely
statement?
and tbe wbole of thie money goes ito tRie some trutb in this

1294

JUNE 24. 1908

JUXE 24. 1908
1294
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn quite unable to to the fact that the penalty is largely inIt has -been a fixed sum of $50.
answer the question, because I have flot creased.
The reason for this Is there are Under this Bil It can 'be as 10-w as ;$25
seen lt.
times when the rate of interest moves up and as.high as $500, dependlng upon the
It bas varied ln the last six circumstances.
and down.
It is desirable at a
months particularly.
On clause 7,
trne when the rate of Interest is 10w, per7. Section 319 of the raid Act is amended by.
baps tbree or three and one-quarter per
adding thereto the following paragraph:
cent, to avoid oneself of the opportunity
,(c) 'culîs ' shall include fruit that is either
to pledge the bonds for a certain amount very srnall for the variety, or immature, or
so as to expose
which
ln order to ýmake provision for three or four the skin ofbeneath, is broken is so injured by
or that
the tissue
It would neyer be safe insects, fungi. abnorrnal growths, or other
mnonths atiead.
where tbey have ten thousaud men to pay causes, as to render it unmerchantable.
and a large expenditure, to rely on getting
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We have been
the cash for the bonds fromn time to tlme going back on this question of fruit lnas tbey really need the money, because the sp)ection, and flot only Inspection but legismarket changes so mucli. This ls to allow lation wlth regard to fruit.
I think jIhere
It does flot really affect has been no year In the fruit trade of Cana littie elasticlty.
the question very rnuch.
ada when such unsatiefactory results have
1 have been
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill occurred as In the hast year.
reading from Urne to, Urne the reports of
was read the second time.
the officers of the Departrnents of AgriculINSPECTION AND SALE ACT AMF>ND- ture and Trade and Commerce, and I find
MENT BILL.
that many unfavourable reports of our fruit
have corne from the other slde. It is true-IN COMMITTEE.
I know it Is ln the case of Eastern Canada
The House resolved Itself lnto a Corn- -that the fruit of hast year althougli a
rnittee of the Whole on Bill (148) An Act fairly good crop, was srnall.
to arnend the Inspection and Sale Act.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was so ln Ontario
(In the Co>rmittee.)
also.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This Bill slrnply proHon. Mr. FERGUSON-There lias been
vides the changes that a year's experience
has shown to be necessary.
I suppose sornething in our legislation that lias acwhen another year cornes round there wlll centuated the trouble with regard to apples
probably be other changes made. There Is this year, ia addition to the fact tlînt the
one feature a-bout It, the Inspection was a fruit was generally small. The tendeîîcy
little more close than It was, and the penal- among shippers and growers of apples is,
ties are a good deal hlgher than they -were. that tbey think the best apples they have
These are the principal features of the Bill. should be rnarked at the highest grade,
even though they are very mucli smnaller
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is the hon, gen- than the normal size of apples in the average
tleman of the opinion that the governent year, and on that account there is a tenwill enforce this inspection Act after al dency to attach a No. 1 rnarking to what
these arnendrnents?
is really only a number two apple-that Is
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know-they in years when the fruit ls arnali. Two years
ago, a very fatal mistake was made in the
ought to.
The first mistake had been rnade
Act.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This Act cornes
years before that, but two years ago it was
betore the House every session.
Itl s an
made worse by descrlbing mediumn sized apold friend.
It seems to, me we do little
pies as No. 1 quallty. Last year the new
else than arnend the Inspection Act, and it
Act went into force, which only called for
is practically a dead letter.
a mnediumn sized apple as a No. 1. The largHon. Mr. ShOT-I hope they are nîak- est apples were to go into ,fancy ' and the
I cali attention mediumn as No. 1. Consequently, where the
ing it better every time..
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JUNE 24, 1908

1295

JUNE 24, 1908
packers may have complied with the law
and flied their barrels wlth mnedium sized
apples. ahl the law called for, they were met
on the other side wlth a charge of fraud,
becs use the apples were marked No. 1
wben tbey should bave been rnarked No. 2.
Aur one familiar with the subject kuows
that the No. 1 apple, under tbe Inspection
Act. is really a No. 2 apple. The faucy la
renlly the No. 1 and the No. 1 should be
calleti No. 2. No. 1 shouia mean the very
best apple that Canada can produce, because that is what the buyers are looking
for when they find No. 1 on the package,
and wlien No. 1 Is applied to an apple that
sbould be No. 2 our trade is lInjured very
much. Taking that lu counection wlth the
fact that our apples last year. did flot
grow as large as usual, ivç got a
very bad black eye on the other side
with regard to our fruit. 'Mauy circumetances consplred against the fruit
trade of Canada last year. Erroneous
reports were issued as to the bulk of the
crop. It was believed lu the early part of
the season that Canada and the United
States-had a very short supply of fruit, and
prices were very bigh lu the first part of
the season. I believe it led people to pack
fruit that under ordinary circunisto.uces
would bave gone to the swlne. The result
bas been that shippers have sent to British
mnarkets more than the.ordinary amount of
Inferior fruit, and the present gradiug of
apples bas encouraged this and as a cousequence our trade bas got a bad set back.
There bas flot been a year since 1896-and
I do not thlnk. it was so bad then as it was
lat year-when the returus ail through
were so uusatîsfactory to the shipper and
the grower.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Some hundreda of
tbousands of barrels were thrown out Iu
Chicago. Tbey could not be sold.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-I bave put nxy
vlew ou record several times, 'but the minIster doea flot tadke It. I think he should
atart with markiug the best app les u-e eau
produce as No. 1 nnd do away withi the provisiou wbich allows ten per cent et wormy
or scabby apples to be put lu a No. 1 barrel. The states of Oregon and Washington
bave a good reputation, and tbey have no

1295
fruit Act at aIl. The apples are ail
sent to market ln boxes of a regulation
size, and on eacb box there Is a statement
of the number of tiers and that discloses
the aize of the apple. For Instance, If they
ean fi11 a box wlth. four tiers. lt Is a
very large apple. If there are Sfve tiers it
is a medium apple ; If there are six tiers it
means very small fruit and as I say tbey
have au excellent reputation for their fruit
ou the otber aide.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 9.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This clause iecreases
the penalties for violating the sections of
the Act re9pecting marklng.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I amn glad to see tbat
the penalties for dlshonesty are inereased.
1 took the liberty the otber day to refer to
the f aet that drunkenneas was not the great
vice of Canada. and that If the gentleman
wba are pursulng those wbo occasioually
take a glass of liquor were to devote their
efforts to teaching people who are dolng.
business to act boueatly, tbelr euergy would
ha better bestowed. I arn glad to see that
the government are lookIng after the dislioneat meu-trying to make thein honest.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-It wvill take more
than an Act of parliament to mike theni
honest.
The clause was adopted.
lion. Mr. PO.WER-I tblnk there was a
great deal lu wbat tbe bon. gentleman froin
Marsbfield said with respect to the change
which bad been made ln tbe description of
the apples. I do flot know anything particularly about the business, but occaalonally
I get a barrel of apples, and I tblnk It ls
rather a pity that this grade of 1fancy'
should have been Introduced, because wlben
a man buys a barrel of No. 1 apples be
expeets a really good apple, and I suppose
the average buyer ln this country or iu
the old country, la .probably not aware that
tbls fancy grade bas been recentîr lntroduced. I arn aorry the hon. gentleman
froni Marshfield did not move ln ameudment
to the Stb clause tbat 'No. 1 quallty unleas
such fruit lucludes no culîs, and zonslst4
of 'well known specîmeus of.one varlery,

1296

SENAÙ

SENATE
1296
sound and of mediuni'-l tb.ink the hon. partmeut that they had no direct. connecgentleman suggested normai instead of nttq- tion witb the Department of the Interior
at ail; that tbey bougbit their ,property endium.
tlrely ln the open market from persoas
Hon. MJr. FERGUSON-You cannot (do wbo heid mlning interests, and that they
that, unless you do away wlth the grade have practlcaiiy acquired a very large por1fancy'1 and 1 think It wouid be weii to tion of the .territory.
strike out that provision.
bought
Hou. Mr. McSWEENEY-They
Hou. Mr. 1SCOTT-I will cail the attenlout the Treadgold dlaim.
tion of the niinister to ît.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I bave in niy hand a
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY, from the comumittee, reported the Bill witbout anieud- reference to their holding, wbich wiii give
Tbo-y bave
the Information asked for.
ment.
dlaims on the Bonanza creek, Eldorado
YUKON PLACER IIINING ACT AM-\ENI)- creek, Hunker creek, Bear creek and triMENT BILL.
butanles and tbey bave acquired about 950)
large exThe House resoived itsclf Into CommittAe dlaims. They have Incurred a
Whoie on Bill (150) Au Act to amend penditure ln tbe Introduction of xnacbincry.
of the
and tbe Introduction of water for the parthe Yukon Placer Mining Act.
poses of working the dlaims. They bave
(In the Oomumitt'ee.>
introduced a new style of dredge, costîng
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-This Bill is made np a large sum of money, whlcb does an enorof details, the resuit, of course, of a year's mous amount of work. They are operatlng
erperlence, like the Bill we bave just dredges, at Bonanza, at Hunker and at
been considering. Placer mlning bas from Clalm 37. During next season tbey will
time to time come up, tbe object belug operates tour dredges on Bonanza creek,
to avail tbemselves of the changes that and three on Hunker creek, representing
the past season bas sbown were actusliy an -enormous expenditure.
The mode of
necessary. Wben th,> Bill was up for a operating Is that they take tbe moss and
second reading, I was asked by the hon. stuif off one year, and after twelve months'
leader of the opposition to state wbat cou- exiposure, the ground becomes sof t enough
nection the Guggenheims had with thec for the operation of thLs marvellous dredge.
Yukon. Tbey are lucorporated under the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is tbe
name of the Yukon Gold Company, and
hold tbeir properties under that name, and hon, gentleman speaking of matenlal takea
I noticed by a statement ini one of tbe from the bottom of the creek ?
financlal papers to-day, that tbey are rehave four
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbey
ported to bave iuvested seven million dol- dredges worklng there.
lars ln the Yukon.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-TbEe
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-I was told it
bon. gentleman said four on Bonanza and'
'was ten millions,
Stbree on Hunker ?
Hon. '.%I. SCOTT-I saw it stated tbat
Hion. Mr. SCOTT-Four aitogether on the
tbey bad invested $2,000,00 altogether,
bas
ln tbe Yukon. Tbey lnvested different creeks, but the department
flot altogether
hnd no direct deaiings witb tbem.
la mines la tbe United States, and lD the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLý-TlIe
'Yukon it Is said their Investments amounts
materiai to whicb the bon. gentleman refers,
to seven million.
be from the excavation,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED -That Is ln a I suppose must
flot only from the bottom of the creek, buit
mining sense.
from the excavations from the drlfting.
The principal
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. -Mr. SCOTT-.My bon. friend knows
point on wbicb 1 was asked to procure tria good deal morc about it than 1 do. He
formation was how tbey came to acquIre
have.
the property. I was informed by the de- bias been there. and I neyer
Hon. Mr. POWER.

JUNE 24, 1908
Hon. Sic 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-1
have had the good fortune of beiag on bath
creeks ta which the hon, gentleman refers,
and I noticed the manner ln wbich tbey
-worked them, and that is the reason I askIa the interpretation clause, 1 notice
ed.
You say 'Creek
that you exempt rivera.
includes ail natural w'ater courses, whetber
usually containing water or not, but flot to
Include streanis which may be cansidered
That woiild prevent the lnterprerivera.?
tation clause applying ta, the principal rivers
What is the
running fromi the mountains.
Is it because this
reason for doiug that?
large aud wealthy compaur are utilizing
the waters fram the rivers?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I asked a question of
the departmieut whether auy changea bere
had reference to the working of the Guggenheims, and they said, 'No, no cannecIt was wholhy indepention whatever.'
dent o! their oi)erations.
Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWIELL-Tbe
reason I asked the question was that I
noticed la one o! the reports fromn that section of the country, that tbey were about
canalling or laying large water pipes from
a num-ber of streams la the Yukon, the
Kiondyke river far instance, running down
from the Caribou district la British Columbia, and I thought proba.bly the exemption
of the rivers mlgbt be ta protect them lu
the utilization o! the waters of the river
and prevent other people fromn uslng ItL
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-'No, it is just makiag
a definition between a large body and a
smail 'body o! wnter.

1297

The clause wvas adopted.
On clause 5,
5. Section 7 of the said Act is amended by
adding thereto the following subsections:
2. In case a: caveat is filed against any dlaim.
such caveat shall lapse Linless before the expiration of one month fromn the receipt thereof by the mining recorder proper proceedings
in a court of competent juriadiction have been
taken ta establish the caveator's title ta the
interests speci-fied in the caveat.
3. À caveat is anyr instrument claiming any
interest whatever in the dlaim with reference
to which it is filed, but does not; include any
instrument creatiflg any sale, mortgage or
other disposition of the property.
-Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Under section 7
of the Act how long Is a caveat good for?
HEas my hon. friend any information as ta
taking proceedings under a caveat?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The cavent appareatly will lapse, unless proceedings are
taken ln thirty days.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Section 7 says the
mine recorder abail 'record ail documents,
and so on. The caveat would naturally be
fIled, as well as the other documents.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But it Is a wellknown Instrument, and the legal effect of It
would be ta prevent any disposition being
made of the property against which it is
filed. The question la my mind is whether
thirty days Io sufficielit. Under most lien
laws, where a lien is fIled, a longer period
is given than thirty days. It Is usually
ninety day.
Hon Mr. POWER-The season is long, la
this part of the country.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But la the Yukon
Territory, where considerable distances obtain between the different offices, the question is whether thirty days would be suffidient notice.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I will miake some lnquiry.

On clause 4,
4. Section 4 of the raid Act is amended by
striking out the words 'in Council ' in the
first Une thereof.
la the
Hon. Mr. LOUGH-EED-W'hat
ldea of empowering the commisaloner ta
do this, instead o! requirîng it ta be doue
The clause was adopted.
la councl as hitherto?
CoinHon. Mr. MeMULLEN for the comuiittee
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Before it was a
Council, and now it appears ta reported that they had made some progres
missioner ln
1 could flot tell yau with the Bill, and asked heave ta sit agaîn.
be the commissioner.
explanatian I have before
The
the reason.
THIRD READING.
me Is that the change was suggested ta preBill (168) An Act ta authorize the payment
vent dehays ln making desirable changes ln
ta the provinces of Saskatchewan and Ahthe boundaries of the district.
]REVIBED

EDMTON

1298

SENATE

1298

SENATE

berta of part of the Assurance Fund under and called their particular attention to It,
the Land Tities Act, 1594.-(Hon. Mfr. Scott.) and niarked the column in the paper, so
that tbey would understand the strictures
The Senate adjourned till three o'clock towbich I did flot constder were any too
morrWW.
strong.

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA, Thursday, June 25, 1908.
The SPEAKER took tbe Chair nt Three
o dlock.
Prayers and routine proceediags.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is that ail the satisfaction I arn golng to get out of It?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I notice that Mr. Parent In bis examination before the committee of the House of Conimons, gave au expianation of part of the matter. I suppose
the bon. gentleman saw that ?

INQUIRIES.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I amn speaking of
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Has the hion, minNo. 2 question.
Ister answers to the thrèe inquiries I have
on the Order Paper to-day?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-That relates to the
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I have not auy an- $200,000.
swers. 1 asked for tbern but recelved none.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Not at ail. No. 2
They are preparing sorne of thern.
asks for a statement indIcatlng the amount
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No answers at ail? spent on the Deschambauît wharf. It was
When
ordered on the 4th of February.
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-No.
shall I get it ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tben they will stand
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-They told me tbey
until to-morrow.
had wired for it. 1 do not know wby It
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I will bave no chance
bas not corne.
to get the answers for to-morrow.
Hon. Mfr. LANt>RY-When did tbey
Hon. 1fr. LANDRY-Why should I not
wire ?
have an answer to-rnorrow to mý second
question, wbich rends as follows:
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Probabiy a week ago,
When does the government think it will be I was told they had wlred.
able to lay on the table of this House the following documents, the production of which
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-No answer to No. 3?
was ordered during the present session, at the
dates mentioned:
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-No, I bave no answer.
(a) The statement indicating the amounts
spent on the Deschambault wharf-February
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Tbis information is
4?
'(b) The correspondence exchanged between ai In the possession of the governrnent, and
the Department of Militia and Lieutenant
Colonel Davidson re the iatter's dismissal and they could give me the answers If they
the promotion of Sir Henry Pellatt to the wanted to.
rank of Colonel-February lt
(c) The details asked for on the subject cf
The inquiries were ai]owed to stand until
the additional subscription of $200,000 to the
capital stock of the Quebec Bridge and Rail- Thursday next.
way Conipany-January 29.
.(d) The statement showing what was the
THIRD READING.
daiiy pay of the soldiers of the company No.
2 of the Ottawa Field Battery in 1865 and 1866
Bill (148) Au Act to amend the Inspec-March 17.
If there is a reason I wili postpone niy tion and Sale Act-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
motion.
INSPECTION 0F GRAIN ACT AMENDHon. Mr. SCOTT-I bave already exMENT BILL.
plained that I have doue everything a
IN COMMITTEE.
human being could do, and I have sent
The House resumed in Committee of the
the complmentary observations the hon.
gentleman made to the Finance Minister, Whole: consideration of Bill (CG-C) An
Hom. Mfr. MeMULLEN.

JUNE 25.1908

1299

JUNE 25, 1908

1299

Act to amend the Inspection and Sale Act
as regards Grain.
(In the Comrnittee.)
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I suggested. wheu
this Bill was before the cornmittee last
trne, to strIke out of clause 3 the words
that Is red ln celour.'

te move it, but at this Jate stage, I ceuld
net accept any amendmient of whilh notice
has net been given.

Honm Mr. PERLEY-Then we will flot
have a bushel ef red Fife wheat ln the
Nortbwest this year.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI cannot agree te any amendment of that
character..
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Thie definition of red
Fife wheat in thîs Bill will not change the
gradlng ln the slightest.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It ays it shall be
Inspected at Winnipeg or at a point within
the district.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-This Is the eld Act;
we are net maklng anything new ln this.

'Hon. Mr. PERLEY-The old 'Act was
wrong. «Do you mean te say the farmer
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- would have any right te have the grain ln1 amn sorry to say that I cannot agree spected after It left Winnipeg-?
to that. I have been conferring with the
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-He bas.
officers of the department, and they think
Hon. Mfr. PERLEY-This Bill says he
It vecessary te retain the verbiage as we
bas net.
have it.

Hon. Mr. DOUGL.AS-The hou. gentleman must knew that it la the privilege ef
any producer te have lils grain inspected
at Winnipeg; but supposing he bas his
grain at Winnipeg and wishes te seud It te
Ontario, and it gets off grade on the way
dewn, and he has te bave an inspection-

Hon. Mr. PERLEY-How does the hon.
'Hon. Mr. YOtJNG-He will have that nt
gentleman know ?
Fort William.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Because It has been
Hon. Mr. DOUGLÂ6-After It leaves
the practice te grade it that way.
Fort William, where wIll he have a reHon. Mr. DAVIS-lt will lewer the grade
inspection?7
This puts It eut of the power
of the wheat.
of any farmer te send grain beyond
.Hon. Mr. PERLEY-That will be the the lakes.
I thlnk this is au injustice to
effeet ef It.
the whele ef the western producers. The
Inspection sheuld be lef t at Winnipeg; but
Hon. Mr. YOUNGT-Not at all.
If he cheoses te forward the grain te OnHon. Mr. DAVIS-Well, you can take the
tarie, and occasion fer re-inspection arises,
responsibihity.
he should have the privîlege of sending it
Hon. Mr. PERLE Y-I have an amend- if he feels lt ls te his advantnge.
You
ment here te clause S. Under the clause ean, easily see why it. Is a. geod thing for
as lt stands la the Bill, the Inspection at the grain men at Winnipeg; It is destructive
Winnipeg or west of Winnipeg la te be ef the Interesta ef any Individual who has
final as betwee',i the western farmer and enterprise and wishes te send bis own grain
desler and the Winnipeg dealer. I want forward.
It abuts the door imuiiediately.
to change that se that the western «-rmer It says Inspection at W'iinulpeg shial be
If he wlshes te have his wheat furthér final, and we are prepared here te look at
examined shaîl have the privilege ef doing this matter entirely frem the etancipeint
no. What does the hon. minister say te and lnterest et men whe are engaged ln
that ?
dealing ln grain.
We should protect the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- Interesta of the producers of the grain, and
Dld the hon. member give notice of that? we must have perfect llberty to send It te
Hallfax or Liverpool or anywhere else If we
Hou. Mr. PERLEY-No, I did flot.
feel so disposed.
We have been strlving
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- te get a new railway constructed on such
0f course the hon, gentleman has a rlght easy grades'and curves that will enable

1300

S E -NAT E

1300

SENATE

10th day of August, 190-4, and ln 'Manitoba,
passing through the Winnipeg district.
Now they have added Alberta and Saskatchewan, wbichi made it necessary ta bring
it ln la" its present form; but under the present clause we have ai the oppartunity that
we had la the past for re-inspection, survey
and everythlng, to protect flot onhy the producer but the dealer, and you bave a finality
at Fort William for transactions outside o!
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-My hon. friend and the Inspection division, which is very lhnmyself are agreed on geuieral principles; portant to aIl concerned.
There bave been
but we are flot agreed on the understanl- no compaintsThis Is
Ing of 'what this clause means.
Hon. '.%r. DOUGLAS-Because Ibis bas
flot a ncw clause at ail. .It is a clause that
It hias flot yet
hias been in force for sonie ycars, and un- inot heen before the public.
der whlch there is re-inspection and survey become iaw, and the finality that is here
and everything else provided for by the spoken of-I know what I arn taîking about
But '%vbat my hon. fricnd -is agalnst the general intcrests Of the proInspection Act.
That Is my contention. and wby
advacates is that the inspection witbin the ducer.
Supposing thiat .1 shipManitoba inspection division shall fot he should It hie final?
It would bie ance of the nMost un- lied three or four carloads of grain, and it
final.
fartunate things, flot only for the dealer is inspected wlthin the Winnipeg district,
but the producer, If there was ulot a finality and I amn told by the phrascalogy of this
of Inspection somewhiere wlthIn easy reach. Bill before me, that the inspection shahi be
If the producer were ta send a car of wheat final between the farmer or dealer? I may
ta Ontario, and the final Inspection dld flot require a very different condition of thîngs.
end wltbln the Manitoba Inspection division, Suppasing I wisbed ta deal with soine genand the man ta wham it was sold ia On- tleman la Ontario, a muller or some one cisc
tario objected ta the quality, haw Incon- la the Dominion; I have flot thc privilege
venient it would be for the producer ta, go of goiag turtlher outside the district of
ahl the way down there or ta be represented Winnipeg, and occasion may arise that wvill
down there ta establlsh the quallty? This necessitate re-inspection, and 1 wish ta lireis the aid law word for word; there is noa serve to the publie la the west the l)rivilege
change ln it at ail.
of having re-inspectian, If neccssity arises
Han. Mr. DAVIS--What is the use of for the saine. So this word ' final ' as bietween the western farmer or dealer is, ta
putting It ln if It is not new?
my mmnd, a curtailng of the priviheg-es of
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Thierc are othier the whole produciag west.
clauses la that section which are new, and
ta make the section complete the Minister
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTof Trade and Commerce had it re-drafted, 1 would mast say ta my hon. frîends, in reand la this new draft hie included certain lily, that whhle I fuhhl' recagnize their rigbit
clauses that are flot cbaniged in the slight- ta hring forwvard any ameadment that they
est, and if My hon. friend wvlll turn ta the miay sec fit, they, I thlnk, will admit that
Inspection Act, page 26, lie wiII find the in a case of this kind, particularly where
very first clause, Na. 123, reads word for it hias ta, go before another' Chamber, it la
Word with the present Bill.
hardly fair to expect me or aniybody else
in charge of the Bill ta pronoutice authoritaHon. Mr. DAVIS-I do not sec the sense
tively on a thing which Is sprung upon us
Of Puttinlg it la agatin, if it is ln the aid -lct. at this stage.
If theclion. gentleman had
Han. Mr. YOUNG-The re-wording of it gIven notice of this ameadment, as bie bas
was necessary, because in the aid Act the donc wlth the other ameadment, I would
As it is,
wording was 'Ail grain pradnced in the hlave at any rate considcred ItL
Northwest Territories, as existing on the 1 aiti not ln a position ta say autboritatively
it to handie the grain cbeaply and expediti1 hope to see the day when we
ously.
shalh have direct dealing. between the producers ln the west and the buyers f romi
Liverpool or Manchester, or anywhere else
ln Great Britain, and If we feel disposedl
ta adopt sueh direct deallng, I want notblng in this Bill to curtail the liberty of approach ta the markets of Great Britain.

Hlon. Mr. DOUGLAS.

JUNE 25, 1908
yes or 110 about it, except thus far, that 1
believe it is very decidedir lu the Interests
of the producer that there should not be
room for dispute or litlgatiopi, but that the
Inepector*s decision should be final. Nine
times out of ten, for the sake of somne imaginary bard case, by allo-wing multiplication of these inspections, you are apt to do
the ,producer very great harm and Injustice,
far more iajury than you wouid do ln an
iaolated case, wbere hie may perliaps receive, or thinks lie bas received, sme emali
I do not want to speak too delnjury.
disively about a matter that I have not had
full tirne to consider, and this objection
or any o.bjection the hon. gentleman may
make, rnay be consIdered as I have said, In
another place; but I could not accept bis
amendment at this stage.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS--Does the minister not
think there ls a possibiliity tbat the government -wil Ia time extend their jurlsdlction
down to the seaboard, and that the time
will arrive when they wilI require to have
an Inspection outslde of the Manitoba district?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThen we are taking control over the other
elevators.
Hon. Mfr. DAVIS-We sbould have the
privilege of baving an Inspection further
on If we are willing to pay for It.
Hon. ,Ir. PERLEY-The next amendIt
ment la to subsection 4 of clause 9.
The
relates to grain specially bInned.
arndment I wish to put to that la that
grain may be specialiy blaned for any person la any terminal elevator by speciai
agreement; but shall be speclaliy binned If
found In bad condition on arrivai at sucb
Mbat does the bon.
terminai elevator.
member say to that.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThat ameument I bave had carefully considered, and I fiad that section 126 ef the
Revised Statutes forbids a selection of
different qualitles of the saine grain. Now
the special binning that my bon. 'friend
proposes wouid, It appears to me, frustrate
the latent of the Act. The grain If sent
forward after Inspection should grade thesaine. At this stage 1 cannot accept the
smendment.

IJ.

Hou. '-%r. PERLEY-Theu the fariner lias
no rights ut ail.
1 Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The hon. gentleman
means the grain dealer.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I mean the farmer
or anybody. The clause says that the
grain rnay be speciaily blnned. Do 1 understand the minister to say that lie will
nlot consent to my amendment ?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTNo, I amn sorry to say I cannot see my
way to accept Ji.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-The next amendment I propose la to add the follo'wlng to
subclause 7 of clause 9.
7. Ail grain marked by the inspection depertinent for cleaning. shaU be cleaaed as
ordered, and then inspected by the inspector
at such point and graded under the rules of
the Inspection Act, and then binned according to the grade.
What does the bon. minister say to that?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTÂs to that I made particular lnquiry, as,
of course, I was bound to do with any of
the arnendrnents. of whlch the bon. genîtlernan badl gîven notice, and the Information I bave la to thîs effect; that spparcntly
thîls would provîde for the cleanlng of eacli
Indivîdual car, which la nlot practieable.
The Inspecter la responsibIe if the elevator
ships out wheat not dlean enougli. aunl the
new Bill, as the bon. gentleman knows,
provides for bis baving much more control over the cleaners than lie lad before.
Hon. Mfr. DAVIS-I bave given notice
of the folIowing addition wliich I propose
to be made to section 137 of the Act.
Bleached wheat *containing wheat sligh'tly
bleached by weather conditions, and tough
e~nd elightly damp wheat that has been properly treated and fit for storiag, ail of which
in the discretion of the inspector has not been
injured for milling purposes, and that otherwise would have graded No. 1 bard or No. 1
northern. and weighing not lesPs than sixty
pounds to the bushel.
Ia givlng thîs notice, in some way the
latter part of it bas been omitteci. The following words sbould have appeared at the
end of the clause: 'Shall be put into a
proper grade at the discretion of the Iaspector.' I understand it was the Inte.ntion
of the minîster to create a new grade
called 'bleacled whleRt.' Now we are ut-.-

1302

SENATE
1302

der the Impression thiat while the wheatI
referred to in this section is in niany cases
as good as No. 1 aud No. 2 Northern, if
.you make a new grade and eall it ' bleachi«Id wheat,' you are establlshing au Inferior
-grade, and it wll be dealt with and bought
We
;as being lo-wer than No. 2 Nortbern.
that if the wheat bas the saine value
-thlnk
for milllng purposes as No. 2 Northern, It
should be put Jute that grade and we want
te leave It to tbe discretion of the inspector. If he ftnds It as good as No. 2 Northern wby should he classify It as 1bleached
wheat ?' The very name wlll lead people
to regard It as an Inferior quality of wbeat.
I know very well tbat tbefe Is In tbe west
among tbe grain men-and I arn speaking
fromn personal knowledge-an Idea that the
more lower grades the better for the grain
mnan. They cannot make very much money
out of the hlgher grades of wheat, for the
simple reason that the market Is quoted
at Fort William and there Is aot much profit; but when they get to the lower grades,
that lo where tbey make their money and
the more lower grades there are the better
for tbem. We ail bave confidence ln the
Inspecter, the farming communlty and the
grain dealers generally, tbrougbout the west,
and we want it lett to bis discretion.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Wbere would tbe bon.
gentleman put the amendment ?
Hou. Mr. DAVIS-Section 137 of the Act
deals wltb Manitoba spring wbeat. I would
lnsert It under any of tbe beadlngs la that
section. Tbe clause Is nlready lu this Bill,
and my proposition Is to add a few words
at the end of ItL
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Would my lion. frîend
explain to me how an Inspecter an tell
what grain migbt bave graded after It bas
been affiicted ? The hon, gentleman ls
apeaklng of lnjured grain; bow can an inspector tell lvhat that grain might have
graded before It was affiicted? I amn aslrlng for Information.
Hion. MAr. DAVIS-As I read the clause,
the description la tbere In the Bill as it
The lion, gent leman had ibetter
stands.
iLsk that of the minister.
Hlon. Mr. YOUNG-I suppose my hon.
friend will let me ask as 'miid a question
as that?
Hlon. MAr. DAVIS.

Hou. Mr. DAVIS-If the hon. gentleman
does nlot wisb to ask the minister, .1 will
Ia the discussion of tbis question
ask.
other day, the practical millers la this
the
House;- especlally the bon, gentleman from
Toronto (Hon. Mr. Campbell) expressed the
opinion that such grain was just as valuable for mllllng purposes as No. 2 Northern.
If so, why sbould it not go lnto. No. 2 Northern grade?
Hon. MAr. YOUNG-I should like to liîer
from my bon. frlend from Toronto.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-zt-I first suggested to
have It No. 2 Nortbern, but tbat was objected to, go I want to leave It to the InWe, representilig the farmiug inispector.
terest, are willIng to trust the Inspecter.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTDoes nlot the hon, gentleman thlnk on the
whole It is an advantage to bave a clause
Introduclng 1bleached wheat '?
Hon. MAr. DAVIS-I do not.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHITYou -would rather have It out altogether?
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Il do not mean that.
It Is ail rlght to have a clause as to, bleached wheat, because that draws the teeth of
If you
these gentlemen to some extent.
leave It out they would treat sucb grain
as they please and buy it at any price they
please, but this wiIl give It a standing of
somne kid. However, I dlaim It is a lower
standard than No. .2 Nortbern, whlle it bas
a 'ihlger value for mllling purposes than
No. 2 Nortbern, and 1 would leave It to the
inspecter to put It wbere It ougbt to go.
Hon. Mr. TALBOo-That Is right.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-If my hon. frlend's
amendment puts It In say, No. 2 Northern
wbeat lie will bave to change the percentage
of! these grades. When you disturb the
grades it Is Ilke a redistribution Bill-when
yeu dlsturb one constituency you bave to rearrange aIl the constituencies about It, and
In thîs Bill you cannot disturb oue of the
grades without disturbing ail of them.
-Hon. -Mr. DAVIS-Do people who buy
wbeat purchase on the usane of the grade
If my hon. friend was a
or on Its value?
milier buylng wheat, the namne of the grade
would not Influence hlm iu the price hie

JUNE 25, 1908

J1TNE 25, 1908
would pay; he would buy the wheat for its
miiling value.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The fact of the luspector calling it any one grade would not
ralse Its value.
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-It ls quite a common
thing lu the western provinces ln the fall
or the year, aften the grain bas been cut
and put ln stock, to have a snowstorxn,
and the grain is frequently bleached aften
The experience of the farmers is
that.
that the deaiers take advantage of that,
caîl It bleached grain and gîve only a aniail
pnîce for it, while they can fix it up for
their own purposes to give it greater value.
Hon. -Sir -RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe objeet of lntroduclng this particular
grade was to prevent advantage being taken
As 1 understand, my hon.
of the farmers.
friend from Prince Albert does flot quarre!
much with the definition given, but he
wants sorne funther words lnserted whiclh
do not appear ln the amendment. Where
does he want them lnaerted?
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-At the end of the
clause of whleh I bave given notice.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CA.RTWRIGHT1 do not know that that would affect the
matter veny much.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The'inspec ton would
bave the option to put bieached wheat lnto
one of the recognized grades.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARLTWRIGHTDoes It men that he would practicaily
oblîterate No. 1 Manitoba bleached wheat?
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The Bill already provides for bleached wheat.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTAs I understand, the hon. gentleman wants
to turn No. 1 Manitoba bleached wheat lnto
No. 1 or No. 2 Northern as the case rnay
be 7
Hon. Mr. DÂVIS-Yes.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIa not that practlcahiy obiitenating the
grade which It is proposed to create ?
Hou. Mn. DAVIS-lt might.
Hon. -Mn. 'TALBOT-It leaves it at the
discretion of the inspector.

1303

1303
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI will maite a compromise wlth my hon.
friend. I wlll let hlm put ln these words,
but I reserve to myseif the rlght to communicate with rny coileagues, and be guided by his opinion.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It la a very serlous
change to maire. It la Interfering with our
standard grades, which are recognlzed now
ail over the worid. If bieached wheat la
aliowed to go into the standard grades, it
wIll deteriorate thern, and the mnarket
value for the higher grades tbat we have
to-day wlll surely suifer. It is a very sernous step ln the interest of the producer
to penalize "the man who bas good grain
for the doubtful advantage of the mnan who
bas poorer grain, and I question whetber
such a step should be taken. For many years
we have had standard grades, the definition
of which ls fxed by law. The dealer knows
what he bas a right to expect year In and
yenn out under the exlstlng system, and
If you Invade and upset.that, I amn afraid
tbe effect may be fan neachlng, and. especiaiiy ln those high grades. When you go
down to the lower grades it la weli known
that fnom yean to year they differ I quaiity, but we prIde ourselves on preserving
the uniformity of oun higher grades every
year. I fean that this change will flot wonk
to the advantage of the producen, because,
ln the end, If you prejudîce a grade ln the
minds of the buylng public the grain dealer
wlll buy accondlngly and It la the producen
ln the end that will suifer. The present
Act la the outcome of years of expenience,
and I wonld be unfair to the House If I
did flot point out the danger of allowing
the bigher grades to be invaded. For yearu
we flxed standards for these varlous grades,
and It wau found to 'work to our dlsadvantage, because fnom year to year the
man on the othen aide of the Atlantic <lld
not know from one year to anothen what
' No. 1 Hard' wouid be. Then we adopted.
the zstem of defining the grades by law,
so tbat year ln and year out lie knows what
to expect. C0onsequently, business lo done
promptly ln these higlier grades, and I
wonld prefer the miniater's plan of making
thîs a speclal grade. The practical resuit of our grading la now that ail wheat,
whether bleached or otherwlse, la put i#

1304

SKINATE

1304

SENATE

its proper class, that is for milling purposes; because after ail the value of Our
different grades la iargely dependent on
their nîiliing quality.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-My hon. friend argues
that this is penalizing the farmers, but
be knows that any standard of grade we
rnay fix for grain bas that effect te a certain-extent There la a considerable quantity cf grain grown ln our country whicb
la a great deal hetter than No. 1 Hard.
No farmer gets any benefit froîn that.
He knows of cases where grain nîmoat
touches No. 1 Northern, but it Is throwa
into a lower grade and the farmer has te
accept ItL I eau quite uaderstand that certain people wanit to keep as many 10w
grades as possible. These.grades w-ll net
always be recognized. As conditions change
with change ef clirnate and soli and longer
cultivation, the time la. coming when we
will have te adopt otber grades. Âfter a
wbulle we will bave more wbeat that will
corne under this bleacbed condition than
we will have of Ne. 1 or No. 2 Northern,
but because we are gradually growing a
whlter and setter, though a heavier whent
lit
than we bave bitherte been growing.
la net blencbed, but it looks like IL. Ir
you have a wet harvest, two-thirds of your
The mincrop prebably will be bleached.
ister thiaka this clause should net be lnserted, but semnething- should lie doue ln
regard te It. I dlaim this la just as good
a value ns No. 1 Northern or No. 2 Northern, te go Into, that grade. If we came te
the conclusion that we sbeuld niaintain
No. I and Ne. 2 Northern as tbey are at
present, t'en we wiil bave to muke two
grades cf bleached wheat. We should have
If
No. 1 Bleacbed and No. 2 Bleached.
that were doue, It would make it a little
Hon. gentlemen have heard it
hetter.
stated w-bat bleacbied wheat would mean.
One-third cf the wbeat 'would Corne under
thîs clause, and two-d'irds cf it would
be tbrewn te the * wolves,' who stand round
and take advantage of these d'inga and
buy the wbeat at wbatever price they
piease. If tbe minister dees not see fit
te change it as I have suggested, then
change tbe pbraseelogy and make two
grades, cail It No. 1 Manitoba Bleached
and No. 2 Manitoba Bleacbed.
Ten

Mr~. TOIJNG.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-1f the hou. gentleman
mak.es two grades of bleacbed wheat, lie
wiil affect grade No. 3. No. 3 takes in
that grade. There la a lot ef our bleached
grain goes inte the ether grades. 'No. 1
Manitoba Hard shall contain 75 per cent
ef bard Red Fife wbeat' and the balance,
ao doubt, very frequently ls cf a bleacbed
character. Then, when be cornes to No. 1
Nortbern, be tinds that only 60 per cent
is requIred of bard red Fife wheat, and the
balance absorba sorne of the bleacheil
wbeat-forty per cent. Then coming to
No. 1 Nortbern, you only have to bave 45
per cent of bard red Fife, and 55 m-111 bi
of
cornposed ef some of the grades et te
bleacbed wheat, se that there ls alrendy
a home for the sligbtly bleacbed Nvbeat.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Very slightly bleacbed
wheat.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-If you 'want to overload the present grades by putting ln these
others, It wll flot be found te work very
weil. Wben the bon, gentleman says there
la one grade cf bleached wheat and the
rest la * thrown te the wolves,' lie forgets
that tbe Inspector la standing there te
grade the wheat coming In, and lie attends
vigllantly te aIl that, and grades it according to Its quality. Tbe Inspecter grades
class it
bleached wheat lnto whatever
should go. He bias the autbority to do
Se.
Hon. Mr. CÂMPBELL-1 think there is
We get.large
no aeed cf these words.
quantities of No. 2 and No. 3 Northern,
and there la ln those a large proportion of
bleacbed wheat. That is wbere a great
deal of the bleached wbeat goes-wbeat
thut is sligbtly bleached and properly treated. 0f course it deteriorates. Every Urne
we dampen it, it takes from the strength
of lt; but a great deal cf that goes lnto
Ne. 2 and No. 3 Northern. I do net tbink
the words rny hon. friend wishes to insert,
ire necessary at alI.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-My bon. friend bas
read this clause as proposed hy tbe minister, witbout tbe addition 1 put te ItL Does
the bon. gentleman, as a practicul man,
consider that bleached wheut lsasn good
as No. 2 Nortbern ?

JUNE 25, 1908

1305

1305
.TUNE 25, 1908
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-It depends alto- bleacbed Nvbeat as No. 1 2, or 3 Nortberii,
gether on the condition of the wbeat.
you practically wipe out No. i Manitoba
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-Mlgbt It bé as good bleached.
as No. 2 Northern ?
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL,-It mlgbt.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-It would bave tliat effect.

Hon. Mfr. TALBOT-I do flot cousider it
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-Then why wlll he
wipes it out.
It leaves It there and lets
flot put It ln 7
tbe inspector put It where lie likes.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-As long as it
Hon. -Mfr. DAVIS-If you make this No.
complies with the requiremeuts of No. 1
1 bleacbed wbeat, YOU wlll put it below
Nortbern, It wlll be graded ail rlgbt.
No. 2 Northern, and I dlaim if It bas the
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The hon, gentleman value of No. 2 Northern, It should go there.
does flot understand the point. In growlng
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTwbeat, a ýcertain amount of it may be a
little white, ard It will corne down to No. You admit It is more Ili the interest of thie
2. If you bave a field of wheat on whlch producer that this grade sbould be created,
the snow bas fallen, and bas afterwards than that It should be left as it is?
drled off. tbe grain has as niuch value
Hon. Mfr. DA-ýVIS-Yes, I tbiukz there
as It had before; but wbere are you going sbiould be two.grades.
If we bad -a grade
to put ft ? I claim that If it bas as rnuchi of say No. 2 Manitoba bleacb-ed, there
value as the No. 2 Northern, it sbould go would be less grain go to the 'aolves.
there-that la If the lnspector consîders It
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTas valuable.
My bon. frlend will see that we went pretty
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- far lu Introduclng No. 1 Manitoba bleacbed,
As 1 understand-and I do flot thlnk my and there would be serions objections to
hon. frlend denled that-after ail sald and multiplying grades fnrtber.
lu thils matdone, It bas flot qulte as mucb value if It ber, I do flot preteud to offer myself as au
authorlty. I arn obllged to stand first ou
bas been bleacbied.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-lt has just as inucli the defence given by the Royal Commisvalue, and It bas been proven thiat ln some sion, w-ho sat on the question and wbo devoted a great deal o! tirne to tbe cousideracases It bas more value.
tion of the subject, and next as to the zadHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- vice gîven by tbe officers who are experts.
Doctors dlsagrèe, and sometimes millers tbrougb wbose bands a great rnauy million
disagree.
bushels of grain pasa.
I have an open
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-Mucb of tliis wbeat mind on tbe subject.
I do not want to
Is bougbt as bleached, and some of it as pretend to compete witb my hon .friend's
rejected, and then It Is convertted Into teclinical k-noivledge; -but lie wlll see hlmfour, and that four 1s sold tbe same as if self that otber gentlemen wbo bave equal
teclinical knowledge differ withbihm verv
It were made of No. 1 or No. 2 Nortbern.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-lt does flot burt the materlally.
Hon. Mfr. DAVIS-Exactly, but I arn
grade at ail for rnllling purposes, if we
are wlllng to trust the Inspector. I do speaklng as a farmer, and I tbink my hon.
flot see wby the hon, gentleman opposed frlend is speaking as an elevator mau.
to tbe Bill, sbould flot trust the lnspector.
Hou. *Mr. YOUNG-I must object to my
Let lt go Ifito onle of the grades. I do not hon. frlend's Insinuations. To begin witb
want to be making new grades, If we he Is ont of order ln nalng use of any
can put It Into one of tbe existing grades. expression wblcb affects another bon. genHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGIHTThe dlfficulty la tbe one I pointed ont a
littIe whlle ago, tbat so far as I can see,
if you sbould give the grade of aIl the

tlemnan's nnderatanding.
I -want to make
it clear. tbat It matters not wbat you grade
wheat. no grain dealer la handicapped by It.
He buys wbeat according to what lie can

1306

SENATE
SENATE

1306
seil i .for, and you can call wheat what you
My hon. friend is altogether wrong
like.
when he thinks the dealers have the slightThey do flot care one
est laterest ln this.
Tbey slmply find out what the
straw.
-wheat is worth, and they buy It cheaper If
they can, ln order to make a profit on It.
You can call it what you like, so far as the
Do flot forget that.
dealers are concerned.
Tbey ean adjust themselves much quickHon. Mr. DAVIS-To the hlgh grade.

Iu
Hon. Mr. YOTJNG-To any grade.
the end, everytbing that you do which finpaire the value of the grain cornes riglit
back to the farmer who produces It, because the milier buys it at so much less.
You can caîl it anything you like, but you
do flot ralse It la value by calling it 'No. 1
If you think you can maire No. 2
¶Iard.
into No. 1 by cailing It so, you mfay do so;
but you wlll flot thereby ralse its value la
It Is a dangerthe markets of the world.
ous thing to do, when you are experimenting wlthout glving the producer one single
bit of advantage, because the grain dealer
can adJust himeelf to any grade you like
to establlsh.

on its merits, I agree with my hon. frlend.
That la the proposition lu the Bill.
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-It may grade more
than No. 2 Northera.
Hon. Mr. 'YOUNG-It may.
Hou. Mr. DAVIS-Bleached wheat wlI
be lower than No. 2 Northern.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-You sald lt would be
sold on its value, and If It is as good as No.
9, it wll be equal ln price to No. 2.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-These grades have a
standing, and the new grade bas uo standing.
Hon. 'Mr. YOUNG-Very good. My lion.
frlend helps me out. He admits the value
of n grade: that ls a reputation and a fixed
price, and that the dealers have a knowledge of It.
I admit lt may take soine
time to have the -ful1 value of this new
grade appreclated, but you have to deal
with that question every time you establish
a new grade of wheat.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Under the proposition
I have submltted, the Inspector la not
forced to put It.la No. 1 Northern or No. 2
Northern, but he eau put It la No. 3, or
lie eau Jeave It where it la; but If lt ls
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I amn sorry my bon.
sueh wheat that It should go lato those
friend la so dense.
grades, the Inspector should put it. there.
Some hon. MEMBERS-Order.
If the minister thinka it should not go la,
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I thought I tried to ail rlght.
make myseif clear.
I bave already sald
Hlon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTthat It dld flot matter w-bat you eail a Let the hon, gentleman leave the Bill as
grade that the people do not purchase it is. He wl observe the w-ords he Introwheat and do not miii It for the name of duced are flot ln bis original motions as
the grade, but for the value there la la It, prlnted, but I will have the mat-ter consland I sald that If this -wheat had as high a dered.
value, or a hlgher value than the 'wûeat
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I hope the hon. genyou cali for under the Act as No. 1 Northera, the miller would pay as much or more tlemian w-ill not press this Bill through to a
for It as for the 6o-called grade there, If it finish to-day, because I understand there
are some gentlemen w-ho are laterested ln
liad more value as a anhlllng wheat.
this legisiation on their way to Ottawa at
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-That argument would the present tie.
apply to, making a separate aad distinct
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTgrade.
Whatever mlllng value that grade
We have. had this measure before us a ver>'
lias, lt wli fiad Its level la the markets of
the world; but whea my hon. frlend pro- long time, and I must get It through thîs
Poses to scatter It amongst the standard stage. I w-lll flot take the third reading tîli
grades w-e have at present, I think bis to-morrow.
argument does flot apply.
If you leave it
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I understand Mr. Macto, one grade and Jet it be sold as It wHIl be, keazie, *the secretary of the Grain Growers'
Hon. Mr. YOUNG.

*TUNE 2-K 1908
Association, who probabiy knows as much
as the hon. gentleman from Killarney' ln
regard to these matters, Is on lits wny
down, representing the farmers.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThis Bill, besides the scrutlny It imndergoes bere, wili undergo a further scrutlny
ln the Commons, and there le no fear but
hie vlews wlll be fully ventllated there.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I think It wlll have
a great deal better chance of belng carrled there, where they have to go back to
the people for the election, than lu this.
Ghamber. I wll not withdraw my motion.
Let the commlttee vote It down.
The ainenument was declared loat.
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-I have given notice
that I will move that this Bill be amended
by striklng out section 7. A large portion of Alberta, and a consîderable part
of Saskatchewan la peculiariy adapted to
the growth of oats. We probably grow the
best oats lu the world. It ts qulte a common
thlng to bave over 100 bushels to the acre,
weighlng 45 to 52 pounds to the bushel.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-No, no.

1307
10

wheat men chiefly from Manitoba aud Saskatchewan. There are very- few farmers
ainong them. I beileve out of the 25
members of the Board there were Il farThe
mers, but noue of them oat men.
fàrmers lu the oats growiug districts would
rather place the mnatter lu the hands of
parlament and have a standard fixed here,
than to have It fixed by the Board at Winnipeg. That le why I move that thîs clause
bie striick out.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS--With regard to the
proposed amendment,- strlklug out the word
'oats, t we had quite a warmi discussion on
thîs question, and It occupled a long time,
and we hiad a eerlous lot of trouble wlth
the question in the othier House when thîs
fThe
matter was under discussion there.
people lu Alberta object to their oats being
I thînk the hon. gentleman f romn
graded.
North York will remnember It. At one time
the Alberta oats were ail condemned 'by the
Thiey were good, fine,
board lu Winnipeg.
plnmp oats, but tbere was a lIttie speck ln
them, and they threw them down into a
10w grade. I understand the mlnîster proposes to strike out that word, and I know
the feeling la that It should be left lu.

Hon. Mr. TALBOT-At the Columbian
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTExhibition In Chîcago, lu 1893, we took the Would that objection not be largely mollihlghest prlze for oats.
fled by the admission of a certain number
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Prince Edward of men on the Grain Board?
Isiand did not exhbît there.
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-The people there
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-At the Paris Ex- have more confidence lu pariament than
position, we again took the higbest prîze. ln the Grain Board.
It la sometîmes, unfortunately, the case
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I have no very strong
that we bave an early frost and that In- conviction one way or the other.
I hapjures the oats. Sbould the frost strike peu to be a member of the standard board,
the oats whlle they are lu the mllk stage, but I shouid 11k-e to point out that white
tbey are very greatly lnjured, and perhgps Alberta raises sonie very fine oats, the oat
the crop would not average more than 34 crop lu Manitoba is lucreasing very rapldly,
poun1 to the bushel; but Bhould the frost and that there too they ralse oats to a coneti;ke the outs Inter when they are at the siderable exteut, and ulso ln Saskatchewan,
dougli stage, they are not Injured much and that the question of the grading of oats
for stock-feedlng purposes, but lnjured for lu the Manitoba Inspection division is equmlling purposes or seed. The germn of the ally interestlng to those farmers who ralse
seed la lnjured. A black streak 'will ap- onts lu Manitoba as lb le to the farmers ln
The hlstory of the -Standard
pear ln It. and when convertedl Into rolled Alberta.
oiite', they are rejected by the mîllers. For Board, If bon. gentlemen wll remember, le
stock feedlng they are not lnJured at aIl. ts: that we fix by statute certain grades
Although I do not wish to find any fault of grain and define those grades, but when,
wltb the -Standard Board, they are for cîimatic reasons, somebhing occurs that
mnen who were selected because they were there la à consîderable, quantlty of grain

1308

SENATE

1308

SENATE

whicbi does nlot fit into those definitions, tbe
Standard Board Is calied together to make
samples of wbat la knewn as commercial
grades, and, strange to say, tbat while tbey
are competent to deal with ail kinds of
grain, wheat, barley, fiax and oats, by an
amendment wbicbi my bon. friend from
Prince Albert referred to, whlcb was made
to tbe Act a few years ago, oats were removed from the jurisdiction of the ýStanOn the face of It, it does flot
dard Board.
look very logical that if the board was coinpetent to deal witb more valuable grain,
tbey are nlot competent to deal witb the
oats and fi the commercial grades wben it
Is found necessary.
Hon. '-%r. TÀ'LBOT-Tbey are nlot oat
men.
Hon. 'Mr. YOUNG-Not ail of them. My
bion. friend forgets that practically the maJority of the board are farmers.
TÂLBOT-I bave heard it said
Hon. M3%r.
we bave two classes ef farmers, some farmers who farm the soli, and otbers wbo farm
the farmers.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-1 may ask tbe bon.
gentleman as a faveur to this House when
I corne to the naines ofthIe farmers wbe
The
tarin the farmers, to let me know.
government nppeinted tliese mnen because
they tbougbt they wvere representative and
active farmers. Soîne of the names are:
John McQueen, R. J. Phin, Chbarles Johnsten, James Riddell, D. W. McCualg, W. IL
F.
Motherwell, J. W. Scallion, WM. Sirrett,
Wm. Lothian, Peter Ferguson.
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-Tbey are ail wheat
growers.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-How about Motherwell?
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-iIe lives in a wheat
Being Minister of Agriculture, 1
country.
suppose be farms the farmers.

soine Intervening grades and lessened the
ivide gap there was between certain grades.
So keenly did they feel it, that they argued
for a long whIie that the proper way to do
would be te make the commercial *grades
and endeavour to get the Minister of Trade
and Commerce ln seme nnknown way to
sanction this, and allow these commercial
grades to stand. I was one of those wbo
could not see how tbe Minister of Trade
and Commerce could Interfere wben parliament bad sald dlstinctly that the standard
However it
board sbeuld deai with oats.
was moved by Mfr. McCuaig, president ot
the Manitoba Grain Growers' Association,
but I tbink even my bon. friend wilI admit
lie was a representative of the grain pro.
ducer, and it was seconded by Mfr. Watts.
Hon. Mfr. DAVIS-He may bave been one
of tbe fariners tbat tarmed the tarmers. I'
do flot know hlm.
Hon. '.%r. YOUNG-I do not know about
tbat.
I thInic my hon. friend can allow
that name to pass unchallenged, and grade
hlm as one of tbose representing the tariners' interests, and be feit It Imperative on
bis part to move tbe followlng resolutien:
Moved by Messrs. McCuaig and Watts:- That
under clause 72, section 2. a committee be
appointed which shail, if possible, select com-

mercial grades for weather damaged oats if
the committee -find, on reference to the Depar tment of Trade and Commerce, that it is
legal for the board te establish commercial
grades for oats; and in any case the committee are authorized te select any commercial
grades for grain other than are already established, if snob shall be found necessary,
and this cornmittee shail consist of the chairman. G. R. Crowe; W. Hl. Fairfield, of Lethbridge; Peter Ferguson, of Strassburg; D. W.
llcCuaig, of Portage la Prairie; James Riddeli, of llosebank; W. A. Black and S. Pink,
of Winnipeg.

Hon. Mfr. DAVIS--I think from tbe conversations I bave bad witb very nearly
every representatIve from Alberta, frein the
luinister down, ail want that to be struck
I do
out and leave the clause as lb was.
or anybody else
Hion. Mfr. YOUN«-The board has neot net care wliat Mfr. McCuaig
met for some years, but conditions made it thinks, I tbink tbe people of Alberta know
this wvlat Is best for them.

Important tbat the board should meet
year, and It was found by the board, upon
loeking into the situation, that a very large
margin of difference existed between certain grades of oats, aud If tbey had jurisdiction over oats tbey m-ould bave made

Hon. 1fr. YOUNG-If lb Is to appiy to
Alberta alone, certalnly give tbein wbat
they desire; but this Inspection Act Is to
govern the wbole Inspection division. wblch
incliu'Ie
M1anitoba. Saskatchewan and AI-

JTTIKE 25, 1908

1309

1309
JUNE 25. 1908
There is scarcely n
berta, and when I quote Mfr. McCuaig as the whent lu early.
moving the resolution, I want to Bay It farmer in the wheat growing section who
was flot Mr. McCuaig's Idea, because It was soirs oats expecting te make anything eut
Tbey merely expect te get eneugh
carried uuanimously by the Standard Board, of It
They sew it long
and tbey went further, because ln the dis- for their own feed.
cussion befere the Standard Board, tbey after the irbeat la put ln, and the result 15,
dld agree that the matter should be reter- la the faîl ef the year they have a very inred to the Minister ot Justice, to say that It ferler sample ef ents.
was clearly eut of their jurlsdiction to deal
Hon. Mfr. YOUNG-No.
with oats, and tht. following resolution was
Hon. Mfr. TAL.BOT-We la the province
moved:
I have
ef -Alberta can grow eats cbeaply.
Moved by- Messrs. Riddell and Lothian: That,
in case of the legal decision being adverse to been a tarmer there fer many years, and
this board having the right to select commer- have not grown a thouaand bushels et w-heat
cial grades of oats, then the Minister cf Trade in ail that time.
If I bave a very large
and Commerce be written by the chairman
and secretary, urging on behaif of the board crep ef enta, I want te sell sorne ef the
that the Inspection Âct b. amended te give grain, and send a car te Winnipeg fer exthis board the authority to establish commerIt welghs 45 or 50 pounds te tbe
ampile.
cial grades for oats.
Moved by Messrs. Watts and McLauzhlin. bushel, but It la ranked there ne better
That in the opinion of this board if the sub- than If it weighed 33 peunds to the busbel.
committee find they have power to select commercial grades cf oats, then it would b. irise The reason why we have to sell our oats
to cali such grades No. 1 and 2 feed eats.
se cbeap, la because the grain bas been luNew, I arn ging you the bistory of this Jured by the freat and It la net lit for makmatter as it eccurred befere the board s0 ing eatmeal or rolled eats; but for feed eats
You can either It -1a wertb tirice as mucb as the eats grown
recently as last t al.
I have ne feel- ln Manitoba.
strîke It out or put it ln.
ing la the matter, but 1 may say that If
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I disagree with the
the board had jurIsdictien ever cats last
bon, gentleman; ire ralse as good oats ln
fail, It would have meant thousands of dolManitoba as anywhere.
lars te the tarmers et the Northwest irbo
Hon. Mfr. TALBOT-The records cf tbe
raise oats.
varlous fairs at whkeh grain is exhlbited,
Heu. Mfr. DYAVIS--In our part of the show that Alberta cata have taken the
ceuntry, we never ask te have an Inspection bighest prizes on every occasion.
ef eats. We can alirsys sell oats 'without
.'Hen. Sir RIOHARD -CARTWtRIGHTan inspection. If the hon, gentleman can
arrange to have Manitoba oas Inspected I would call my bon. triend's attention te
and eats frem other provinces lef t eut, we the tact that ln clause 18 there are several
Would net
have ne objection,. The climatic conditions grades et oats previded fer.
Fer Instance No. 1
of Alberta are different, and the people et that meet hîs case?
that province de not want te have the stan- ujaaadian Western eats must welgh 42
dard there the same as the Manitoba stan- peunds te the bushel.
,dard.
Hon. M~r. TALBOT-They bave te be
The mîllers lîke te get our cats
Hon. 3fr. YOUNG-My hon. triend sug- sound.
gests that the farmers of the Nortbwest ahl rîght because they can -put tbem ln wltb
cannot selI any kind of grain unless it Is tbe buila they ean get from Manitoba and
selI them fer f eed.
Inspected.
Hon. Sir RICHARD OARTWP.IGHTýHon. Mfr. DAVIS--I did net say anything
I arn afrald I shah bhave te stick te the
of the kind.
clause, fer the present at least.
Hou. Mfr. TALBOT-Maniteba and a
:Hon. Mr. TAL.BOT-I would just remind
large part et Saskatchewan are a wheat
grewing ceuntry. Tbey devote theli whele the bon. mînister that on the board et 25
attention practically te growing irbeat. In memibers, Alberta la represented. by ealy
the apring of the year there la a rush te get tire mon, one from the southern part where

1310

SENATE

SENATE
1310
tbey ralse winter wheat and psy very littie tarlo to-day.
It Is a good sprlng wbeat,
attention to oats, and the other a milier but not bard Ilke Red Fife wbeat. It baq
from the Edmonton district, wbere tbey been suggested thnt we rnigbt modhfy it by
raise Borne oats.
puttlng. It 'red varleties o! bard spring
I suggest that No. 1 Nortbern
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARÎTWRIGHT- wbeat.'
Wiii the bou. member send me the names sbouid be struck out and No. 3 Nortbern
of those wbo desire this amendrnent, so Inserted instead; but If tbat Is too drastic
that bis views may be proper]y represented? I wouid suggest putting the word 'bard'
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-If you strike oats out betore the words 'spring wbeat.'
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-Even the bon. genof the Bill, wbat do you want witb the
tlemnan biusbes at tbe suggestion.
Standard Board at ail?
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-We ore satisfied to
]et parliament fix the grades according to
weigbt.
We do not want any Standard
Board to bother us at ail.
Hon. Mr. CA11PBELL moved that clause
16 be arnended by striking out ' No. 1
Nortbern,' and Inserting the.words 'No. 3
Nortberu.'
In submitting this proposition
the cormilttee will see that it refers to the
latter part of the clause.
As the Bill
stands now, It provides that red varieties
of wheat otber than Red Fife may be graded No. 1 Nortbern, or iower, ln the discretion of the inspector. The objection to that
is that No. 1 Nortbern and No. 2 Nortbern
are known ail over the world, and are described ln the Grain Act; No. 1 as contalning 75 per cent of bard Fife wheat and
No. 2 as containing 60 per cent had Fife
wbeat.
Here you propose to makze a grade
ln wbich there rnay be no bard Fife at ail,
and you leave It to the discretion of tbe lnspector to put It as No. 1 Northern. That
wIli bave the eff ect of making the price of
No. 1 and No. 2 Nortbern uncertain.
If I
buy No. 1 or No. 2 Northern now, I know
just w-hat I arn getting, and I buy it because
there is a certain proportion of hard Red
Fife wheat in It; but when you propose to
make a soft spring wheat No. 1 or No. 2
Nortbern, you place sncb an uncertaint-y on
tbose two grades that dealers wiii not k-now
what tbey are going to get, and I think it
wouid be a great mistake.
I propose. ln
tbe notice wbicb I bave given, tbat this
shouid flot be graded more tban No. 3
Nortbern.
That bas been pointed out as
possibiy going too low, and I wouid suggest, If tbe minister cannot see bis way to
rnaking It No. 3 Nortbern, that we rnigbt
deai with It in another way and make lt
No. 1 spring wheat as we bave it lu OnHon. Mr. TALBOT.

Hon. Mr. CAMPBBLL-It would then
read 'red varieties of bard spring wbeat
otber than Red Fife, &c. Tbere are varieties of wbeat wbIch I arn told are bybrld
wbeat. Tbey are not Red Fife but tbey
are a bard variety of wbeat and bave the
same qualities as are found in bard Red
Fife. If It was designated bard spring
wheat It wouid rernove the difficulty of including soft varleties of wheat.
Dealers
througbont the country wouid know then
Just wbat tbey were getting.

I therefore

move to amend tbat rnotion by Inserting the
word 'bard'
wbeat.'

bcfore

tbe

word

'spring

Hon. Mr. WATSON-I sbould like to ask
the rnover of this amendment If be is aware
of any varleties ef red wbeat tbat are sof t?
Hon. Mr. OA.MPRELL-Yes, I arn toid
there are ln the western part of the country. I do flot know tbe names of theni.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I do not think there
are anv varieties tbat wonid corne under
tbis terrn ' red varieties of bard spring
wheat.'
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Thien there can
be no objection to the arndment.
The committee divided on the amendment, wbichi was rejected, contents 3. noncontents 7.

Hon. 'Mr. DAVIS-I moi-e that:
Section 137 be amended by striking out the
last two lines under the beading of spring
wheat, wbere it refers to Manitoba scoured

wheat, and the following inserted:
Ail Manitoba dried and rejected wheat after
passing through- the terminal elevator and
being properly treated shahl be graded by the
inspector and put into its proper grade.
I think that ls a fair proposition.
The

Act says that scoured wbeat shall not be
graded higber than No. 3 Northern.
We

JLTNE 25,19o8
JITNE 25, 1908

1311
1311.

bave a certain amount of this rejected Our system has worked satisfactorlly, and
wheat, 1 amn happy to say nlot a large If tliis wheat is as valuable as my bon.
arnount.
It la a good wheat, but is some- frlend says, then the grade in which it
times smutty, and it la graded as rejected goes is raised ln value ln the estimation
or
wheat.
Wben tbat reaches Fort William, the miller; but to place It: In
any .othertbey have ail klnds of appliances there te grade than where It is
now would be a
treat this wbeat so that tbey can maire it mistake.
as tbOugb It bad neyer been touche wltb
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-My hon. friend bas
smut. No matter If that wbeat la No. 1
bard, it bas to go Into No. 3 Northern a very poor opinion of the Intelligence of
grade.
I bougbt grain one fail for a Win- tbe farmers of tbe west.
nipeg firm.
Tliere was a lot of thla reHon. Mr. YOUNG-I differ from my bon.
Jected wheat, and 1 sent a sample of it frlend; I tblnk the farmers of the west
and tliey sald It was first class.
When I know a great deal more than be and 1
asked what they would pay for It, they know together.
said 3 cents, whilh was about baif the
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Sometimes they know
price.
I asked If it was not worth more,
a good deal. My bon. friend said you can
and they said they wanted to make sometreat tbe wheat to make it as good as If
thing out of it.
After It la treated, such
there bad been no smut lu it, at aIl].
If'
wbeat eau be sold as No. 1 If it la of that
so, the grading should lie left to the option
quality.
Can anybody tell me wby, after
that grain is cIeaned, If the inspecter thinka of tbe Inspector. We are nlot saying that
It should go into No. 1 biard or No. 1 North- It should be graded No. I or any otber
ern, on what graund It should flot go there. grade; ail we ask is that if, ln the opinion
Wliy should the Inspector be forced to grade of the Inspector, It shouid be so graded be
It No. 3 Nortbern wben the quallty war- sbould bave tat discretlon.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-You are providing for
rants a higher gradlug.
re-Inspection.
HO". Mr. YOUNG-I arn very glad to
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Yes, for tais kind of
bear my bon. friend. preacb
a new
He bas been telling us taat the doctrine. wbeat. Supposing tlue law were as I prodealers
buy grain at a 10w price, and taen, after pose to make It, and tliere was a possifixing It up, sell It as belonging to a higher lity of a farmer having bis smutty wheat
grade. Now lie wants the fariner to have cleaned and getting it graded No. 1 at
It cleaned and graded so that be can get Fort William, does the lbon, gentleman
a larger profit. This wheat la sent to thu tblnk that any intelligent farmer would
elevator for treatment and It Is, lîke the oel It at haIt its value!~ Nu. hie would,
other wheat, graded on Its merits as it send It to tae elevator himself, and have
stands. It la sold accordingly. My bon. it treated and graded there. He would then
the inspector
friend could not argue with anybody who accept wbatever grading
bas had practical experlence tliat wheat tbougbt it merited. Whnt is objected to,.
whicb bas been smutty cau be trented by is, tbat uuder the present lawt tlue Inspecordinary brushing and made as good as tor cannot put it higlier tl.au No. 3. We
If It bad never been afflicted. That csn only want to bave Ille inspecter given discrebe done by washing, and taere le no such tien to grade it No. 1 Northern, If be thinks
treatment as washing that I know of lu It sbould be so gr.aded.
Our- western country. In sorne .2ountries
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I tbink the position.
tbey do treat It that waY, and thereby re- taken by my hon. friend from Prince AIduce to a mInimum the effeet of tbe arnut; bert la qulte reasonable, and the change
but If you place any elevator ln the posi- he proposes would benelit botb the producer
tion of baving wheat graded up after It and the buyer. I amrnflt sîtogether unfalias been already graded lu by an Inspector, mîliar wlta the wheat question. Moreover,
you destroy tae prînciples of aur Inspec. flot long ago 1 M'as at Port Arthur ani
tion Act and have a different systein for Fort Willilam and bad n long conversation
this partîcular dosa 0of grain. Up ta now, wltb the inspecter there, and 1 mîglit say

1312

112SENATE

in passing tbat lie feels we are eniactinz
too muany iaws fetteriug and confiiqhing hilm
to the extent of bis baving to ciassify no
less than sixty or seventy sorts of wbeat.
I see notbing reasonable in the propositioni
that smnutty wbeat or bieacbed grain should
be classlfied nt tbe start so that the ýclassification sbouid be final. Sucb wbeat la
susceptible of being improved and raised
to a better ciass. Progreas is a universai
law, and should apply to wbeat ns wel
as to men. If yeu make it a rigid rulê
that wbeat bowever cieaned and purified
shahl not be graded higber than No. 2,
then you work to tbe disadvantage botb
of the buyer and producer. Tbe buyer
can say: 'I1 cannot do any better with
your wheat, you must seli it to me at à.
10w price, because I cannot classlfy it
bigher than No. 3.' Let us give freedoin
to the inspecter. Tben the fariner can
say: 'Truc, my wbeat Is of Inferior quality; but when it ls la your banda you can,
by treatinent, make forty, fifty, slxty or
perbaps seventy per cent o! It No. 2 Hard.*
By giving tbat latitude, w-e w-i enable the
fariner to get more for bis wheat and the
buyer to possibly make a better profit out
of It. It bas been said tbat smutted wbeat
cannot be so lmproved as to be graded
to a biglier clasa. 1 think It can be done
by waabing. At present tbey bave not ail
tbe wasblng apparatus at Fort 'William or
I may sny tbat Port ArPort Arthur.
tbur bas the greatest grain elevator lu
tbe worhd. Wben I w-as there it liad no
less than six million bushels of whieat accurnulated. Let those ehevators bave proper apparatus for wasbing the wbeat and
they very likely wi If trade warrant It,
then everybody w-i benefit by givhng the
lnspector latitude; but If you leave the laxç
as it Is you w-i bave no apparatus for
wasbing the wbeat, and the business of
the producer, the buyer and tbe exporter
will be reduced to bandiing No. 3 w-beat,
wîthout the posslbhlîty of glvlng lt a. blgber
grade. Tbe resuit wouid be detrimental
to trade generaiiy. Altbougb I dld not
hîke to vote on the hast amendient not
belng sufficiently acqualnted w-ith the detala of it, on tbis question I shall decldedly
vote ln faveur of my bon'. friend's amendment.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER.

Hon. Mr. 1'OWER-Not knowing anything about tbe grain business, I naturally
besitated to say anytbing with respect to
this Bill; but the example of the hon. gentleman froin Acadie encourages mie, and
I venture to make a plunge. In the first
place I wlsb to get some Information.
Wbat do the words in the amenument, 'proper grade' mean? Do tbey mean the grade
whicb the wbent origlnally had?
Hou. Mr. DAVIS-lt meaus this; if it
had flot been smutty grain it would have
Whien the smut is regone No. 1 bard.
moved, If ln the opinion of the inspector
it Is as good as it would have been without
smut, hie sbiouhd grade lt accordingly.
Hou. Mr. WATSON-Does the hou. gentleman say that if it was No. 1 bard but
smutty and was properly treated, it could
be pliced ln No. 1 bard afterwards?
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-mn the discretion of
the Inspecter.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The bon, gentleman
I see bis Idea
bas answered my question.
is that after this wbeat bas been cleaned
it is to go back to lts original grade.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-No, it is to go to the
grade the Inspector thlnks it should have.
He Is to be tbe judge.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not think tbe
amendaient la worded so as to attain that
obJect. It mnys 'frite its proper grade.' Its
proper grade may -be one of tbree grades,
tbe grade te wblch It belonged before It
was damaged, Its grade as damaged, and
the grade to wblch It would belong after
belng cleaned. It strikes me that if a
fariner sends wbeat whicb bas been damaged by smut or otherwise to an elevator
and the wbeat Is cleaned there and bie stili
retains the ownersbip, then hie sbould be
entltled to bave tbat wbeat graded according to Its quality wben it cornes out of -the
ehevator.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-That is ail I arn askin-.
Hon. Mr. POWER-If
gentleman's Intention lie
end of bis amendmenit in
of saylng 'put Into its

that is the bon.
should alter the
this way; instead
proper grade,' hie

JU'NE 25, 1908
should say 1Into the grade to whIcb, after
being treated. it properly belongs.«
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I do not care, put It
any way at ail, so long as it meets the~
views my bon. friend expressed.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-As the law now
stands, ail smutty wbeat and scoured
wheat goes ln as No. 3 Nortbern. This
proposes to place It ln a blgber grade If
the Inspecter tbinks it sbould go there. I
do flot thlnk that la a good thiag, for the
reason that If It la smutty, It la utterly Impossible for any elevator et Port Arthur
to remove that smut. It la a wbeat moat
millers wlll not buy. We bave flot bougbt
eny smutty wbeat at aIl, because there la
a smeli from It that you caunot get rld of,
and It sbould flot go ln a hlgbher grade than
No. 3 'Nortbern.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Wbat kind of foeur do
you meke out of No. 3 Nortbern?
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-We make very
good foeur. We do flot make as mucb
foôur as «%ve out of No. 2 Nortbern.
do
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-But you p)ut smutty
wheat lni It?
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-No, and no one
wifl buY smuttY wbeat unless he bas
an apparatus to dlean lt ln the mIl. You
bave not those appliauces at Port Arthur
or Fort Williamn . uer bas any elevator la
tbe Nortbwest. It will bave to be dried
after being wasbed before going lnto a
the original grade. iniglhr it not corne out
botter than No. 3 Northern?
Hon. Mr. POWEVR-Supposing th2 wbeat
la of a very bigh grade, barrlng the smut,
and supposling it goes through the machine
and is cieaued, if it does flot corne out at
a higlier .-rade, miglit it flot corne ont better than -No. 3 Nortbern?
Hou. 'Mr. DAVIS-We kaow there la
smutty wbeat and it is used in making
flour. It is flot ground up for liogs.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Only
tbat bave wasbing machines.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Can
Fort William?

by milîs

it be doue at

Hon. 'Mr. CAMPBELL-No.
83
BEVISED

1313
31

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Tben wbat barm wiiI
this amendinent do? I want to get an
opportunity to do it If it can be done.
Sometbing bas been said about 'penalizing
the fermera. Say that Mr. Jones bas a
car of No. 1 extra bard 'wheat, wbeat that
would go tbat If it bail fot some amut
balls ln It. Mr. Brown bas No. 1 Northern, pretty good wheat-not; as good as
the other man. Then Mr. Robinson, wbo
bas a car that would be No. 2 Nortbern, If
It was flot for the smut. After it la ail
The
cleened, tbey get the same price.
man ir itb tbe good, wheat does flot get any
more than tbe man witb the poor wbeat.
If the Inspector thinka a wbeet sbould go
Into a certain grade, let hlm put it there.
We are employing Inspectera ail the time,
and If we bave not confidence ln the luen
we are employing as inspectors, we should
dismiss then and get others. Buit everybody ln the west bias confidence that the
Inspectera wiil do what la rigbt, and ail
we want on bebaîf of the people who produce the grain, is to gîte tbem the value
of It. We do flot want to have their grain
forced into No. 3 grade If tbey bave sometbing wbieb sbould go into à bigber grade.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI bave consulted several officers of long
experience, and altbougb they do not absoiutely deny that srnutty wheat ln exceptional cases may be made better than No.
3 Northern, tbe opinion bhey gave Nvas
that ln the vast majority of cases, it la obsolutely Impossible to turn smutty grain
I
into any grade above No. 3 Nortbern.
gîte that opinion for wbat it is worth.
Tbe advice I get la tbat the practicai working out of It is that*yon cannot turu grain,
once smutty, Into good grain, as a mile.
Hou. Mr. DAVIS-Wbat is the harm of
putting It ln?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTYou bave a high standard for No. 1 and
No. 2 Nortbern. If it ls knowa tbat grain
wbicb bias been smutty and bas undergoue
processes or bas been
transformation
scoured, is put into a stan*dard bitherto
establisbed, you may deterlomate tbe wboil'
standard.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-But there is notbing
to force the inspector to put it tbere.
EDITION

1314

SEIÎTATE
SENATE

1314
Hon. Sir RICHALRD CA.RTWRIGHTI can only say to my bon. friend, that the
advIce I got is that ht would be dangerous
to do It. They do flot say it la absolutely
impossible that some cases should occur.
Tbey say thut lu the vast majority of cases,
tbey; bave no possiblllty of turning smutty
grain Into better than No. 3 Northeru.

one grade; but I do flot tbink it is necessary to lower It two grades or three and
If LIe
take 8 cents a bushel off Lhe price.
inspector thinks It should go lu No. 3, let
iL go tiiere, but If bie thlnks hie can get it
Into No. 2 Northeru, and thereby save the
Wly
fariner $5 a car, let hlm do ItL
sbould lie force IL Into a lower grade und
have the dealers get It, and seIl ta the
I.
Hon. Ms.. :X>ÂVIS-I do flot cure.
markets of the world as No. 1 bard, 'when
know.somçethlng about it.
the farmer la paid for It as No. 3?
Hou. 'Mr. WÂTSON-I have flot only
Hon. -Mr. WATSON-Why la the Ion.
grown wheit but' I bave sold Wtand deait.
gentleman advocatlng a grade of 'wleat that
ln Wt and this provîdes that wbere 'wheat la
should flot be grown lu the west?
damp and simutty and properly treated, It
Hon. Mfr. DÂVIS--My hon. friend will
should be put lu Its proper grade. I fully
ugree wIth the Minister of Trade and tjom- neyer see the day when there will not be
merce that we should ]eave il wbere it la. some of iL. I bave Lreated seed wîeat as
I do flot cure wliat process wheat ls put well as possible, and took aIl the precuuthrough, If It ls damp and smutty It sbould Lions I could, and still I have smutty 'wbeat.
not be put ln a higlier grade than 3 You can neyer tell.
Northern. The oniy possible place to
-Hon. Mfr. YOUNG-I ugree -witb my bon.
treut it ut present la Port Arthur. It would friend tlat would likely 'le the result if lie
have to be pfit lu lins, and I do not thiuk treated IL.
It ls possible to remove the taînt from wheat
Hon. Mfr. WILSON-My bon. f riend la
tInt ls damp und smutty, and I beileve It
would 'be a great mistuke to put any por- uaL asking anythlng unreasonable. He i.
I
tion of wheut that lad been smutty aud figbtiug ln the Interests of tbe furmer.
taluted, and cured by any process, loto the can fully uuderstund that wbat lie ls askbigler grudes. Another feature of IL la, lng to bave Incorporated lu this Bill would
Nearly ahl hon. genthat iL would flot bu fuir to the man who benefit the farmers.
wants to grow. dean and sound wbeat and tlemen wbo have spoken have expressed a
does uot grow eny smutty wheat, to have doubt about LIe qualification of the lnspecbis wbeat, which ls flot smutty, lowered thy tors.
being put lu with wheat of a lower grade
Han. 1fr. WATSON-No.
that is smutty. That would lie a great
Hon. Mfr. YOUNG-NL\o.
mistake. We have experimental f*arms and
Hou. Mr. DÀVIS-Yes, you are right.
agriculturul colleges educating the farmers,
and iL is kuown that It is flot necessary for
Hon. Mfr. WILSO'N-They eay distinctly
auy farmer to grow saiut. If the seed la
this ought not to be doue, and ail my bon.
properly treated, it is flot necessary at ail.
frleud asks ls that It may lie left du the
I do flot th'lnk we sbould encourage people bauds of Lhe inspector Lo grade it.
Let
to get a hlgher price than they receive at
If the
him g-rade it as lie may thiaL- fit.
present for smutty wheat.
inspectors are flot qualified for their posiHon. Mr. DAVIS-lt bas been mentioned tion, tbey bave no business tbere, and sbould
that there la no scouring- plant ut Port lie removed.
Tbey have no 'right Vo interArthur.
I do flot know where my lbon. fere iu any *way witb the rigîts of the
Let
frieud got bis Information from, but I muy farming community lu auy section.
tell hlm tlat there is a very large scouring us udopt some method whereby the people
plant ut tbat place.
.'My hon. friend may of the Northwest will receive justice, and
know ahl about the milling business, but I bave LIe inspection of grain placed on a
say thut IL is possible to dlean smutty wbeat proper busis. I can uuderstand that If this
and maL-e it good.
If you bave 'No. 1 wbeat lu sent to Port Arthur and operated
hurd scoured you inigbt have to lower It upon, there, it will grade as a fairly good
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JUNE 25.1908

1315

1315
JUNE 25. 1908
quality of wheat, and my hon. frlend from tor could, at bis option, put wheat tainted
with samut into -the bigher grades, It would
Toronto says lie bas used it lu 'bis miii.
Injure thei 'r standard abroad. I thlnk. we
Hon. Mr. C.ÂMIPBIDLL-No, I do flot buy
should, maintain those higb grades. I thlnk
It at ail.
it would be'a great mistake to givé the lnHon. Mr. WILSON-The hon. gentleman spector power to put anythiug into a higlier
usesn smutty wheat, and hie claimed that at grade whlch might deterlorate the grades
Port Arthur they were unable to rernove lu the markets of the world. 1 believe
such Impurities from wheat yet what does the King elevator, known as the Hospital
hie say? I, In Toronto, cannot have srnutty at Port Arthur, la one of the best elevators
wheat treated, but I have used It-,
lu Canada to treat wbeat. It is not very
large for wasbing purposes, but they bave
Hon. Mr. CÂMPBEL'L-I said 1 did flot the appliances there. From my own exusne It.
perieute-and I have growu wheat sud
HEon. Mr. WrILSOiN-Do they flot want cleaned lt-I do flot beiteve, If wbeat bas
the fariner to get the value of the grain hie been smutty sud damp, and lu store for a
ralses?
The dealers corne down to the certain time, that It is possible to take out
Ontario miliers, where thiey have an op- the taint of smut. It appears to permeate
portuuity of passing 10w grade wheat the whole kernel of the grain, sud the
througli aud seliig It at a bigber grade. I flour will be tainted aud it wouid be a
shail endeavour as far as I can to see that great defeet If sucb w-beat should get into
justice la done to the farming comxnunIty a higlier grade.
of the Northwest.
Hon. Mfr. DOUGLAS-I have a fIrm conHon. Mr. POIRIER-A phrase ln the viction that smutty wheat ls diseased wbeat
hon. minister's answer struck me as -that it ià; injured by smut. The smut
strange. This sort of grain, hie sald, very Injures the kernel of the grain, so that I do.
seldom can be classed above No. 3; lmply- flot thlnk It is possible that any procesu_
lng that ln Borne cases it eau. (Now, wlth wouid ever restore it to the condition of'
the law as it is, lu sucli cases, tbe luspector No. l'bard. I arn satlsfied ou that point;*wouid be forblddeu to give that wheat Its but I asic the question, what bai; beenproper classification. Wby sbiould we there- doue with It lu the years that have gonefore put on our text-book a 15w whicli by? We bave a very stroug conviction
forces the Inspector, lu some cases, to cIas- that scoured wbeat bas been, ln the past,.
slfy. wheat lu a Iower grade than that to inixed with higlier grades, sud that thewhlch It Is enttled? We eltber have faltb dealers have got the benefi t sud flot thalu the lutegrlty sud techuical knowiedge of producer. I tbink it is a step ln advance,.
our Inspectors, or we have not. If we have to leave It to the judguieut of the inspecnot, let us change them. The Inspector to- tor, sud If lie Enuds that a quuntity of
day has by this enactmnent to classlfy as grain, that would be No. 2 Northeru, I do
No. 3, wheat whicb, as admitted by the bon. not see why we should distate to hlm and
minister, sometimes would be entltied to a say hie should put it lu No. 3. But the
hlgher classification. That ls not proper reason this is opposed so strougiy, Is that
ln my estimation.
it ls flot ln the Une of the luteresta of the
trade. That is the whole basis upon which
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I would Ilce to eail
the hon. gentiemau's attention to the fact the opposition la presented, sud I ami afraid
that we direct the Inspector ln our In- wben the bon. gentleman ln charge of this
spection Act. In the Act we provide that Bill tells us that the Information hie reNo. 1 Northern shall be a certain weilht. ceives leaxis lu a- certain direction, that
and shall coutain a certain proportion of lie bas been weii instructed froni the side
bard red Fife aud sound. We also direct of the trade rather than the aide of the
ln the Inspection Act that hie shall uot put producer.
lu smutty wheat lu the upper grades, and
Hon. Mfr. POIRIER-Hear, hear.
If this House were to Bar that the luspec831

1316

1316

SENATE
SENATE

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- W-est.
The fact la, the grain .tradte bas
The Information I got w-as flot froml the been a linge laiquity ail these years, and
trade.
w-e, as legisiators, require to look carefully
luto thia grain question. You wl not find
Hon. Mr. DOUGLÂS-We get Informamea gi-iug up other good business and gotion very largely rigbt bere fromi the trade,
lng into tbe grain trade If tbey did .not
from the beuches lu thls House. I.have
tbink there w-as a good deai more moaey lu
been raling whieat for the iast 25 or 26
it than la farmIug, and so tbey go to the
years, and know w-bat I arn talklug about.
great cities aud buy grain and maire great
I have hiad the bonour of drafting Buis
profits, and bulld towers on the corners of
whlch have gone on our statute-book, and
their bouses.
the country gives me credit for knowîng
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-And w-ear dîamond
somef.bing about wbeat; but iu this discussion I have been very muchi discou- rings.
raged, and I have said very littie, and
Hon. Mr. DOUGbAS-I bope the rigblt
perhaps have flot doue ail that I ought lion, gentlemlan w-ho represents the goveruto have doue. It seems to me that the ment, and w-ho is taking cure of the Bill lu
400 dealers at Winnipeg, Eind It is a good thîs House w-i have au ear for the probusiness to go luto the grain trade thera, ducers and those w-ho represent the proand they corne down like iodest meni and ducers as wel as the trade itself. I tbiuk
-say tbey are ouiy asking one pIer cent it bas not been to our benefit to bave ues
-profit lu their business. A gentleman w-ho of elevators bult by United States capital,
,bas good reason for making the statemeut, and have United States men buying the
:a gentleman w-ho occupied a very pro- grain aud bandling ItL I have knowu young
minent position ln Manitobu, w-bu Is .a farmers to be very much discouraged lu
large farmer to boot, said that If tbey selllng their grain and allowing it to be
were honest they would say they w-ere haudled at Winnipeg, losiug $160 on a single
looklng for a profit of 17 ceuts a bushel car, w-heu they were not allowed to have
I refer to
rather than oue cent for handiing the their grain go to Owen Sound.
They hud soid grain
a specifie Instance.
grain.
-He hud
to a miller la Owen Sound.
Hou. Mr. DAVIS-Ani buying automoagreed to take their inferior grain at a
biles aud diamond rings.
certain rate, 'but when It was ioaded. and
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-We have men froni the car w-eut to Port Artbur, the trade camie
Minneapolis, St. Paul and ail over the cou- in and said, 'Sncb Is the pressure of busitîneut aud they are doing wel ln the bu -i- ness with the -Canadian Pacifie R.ailway
ness, aud there are somne ln purliament w-ho thuat they caunot shlow their cars to go out
are dolng wel lu the business, and we bad of the country, and you must submnit to have
better look to somQ of the producers w-ho your grain uuloaded ut Port Arthur.
By
are here uow ou the benches and eau speak s0 doing, the arrangement witb the nîiller
fromn experlence l producing aud handiing at Ow'en Sound couid not bie curried out,
grain.
Scoured w-leut eau be doctored. aud s0 they iost, encli of therm $160 on their
We have a hospîtal for w-heat ut Port car.
I drew the attention of the Canadian
Arthur as It bas been called lu years past, Pacifie Railway to this fact, and 1 have !il
for slck grain, and it is not merely w-asb- iny desk a letter aaying that 'Mr. Peters, a
lng, but they add suiphur and lime and bigli officia i l the Canadian Pacifie Railbeauttfy it, and II: Is difficuit to tell it froml way, hiad nothiug whatever to do w-itli it.
No. 1 bard.
One dealer said to me, ' I thut the trade Itseif had taken the responsihave boughit seven or eigbt grades of grain biiity of saylng the cars couid not go forfrom a fariner, and I have onlv sent out ward, aud tbey handied them lu thieir own
three grades fromn the elevator,' that w-as w-ay, and through It the youug men lost
Now It requires $160 apiece.
*Now, I put officiais bere 0o1
on bis own confession.
gentlemen here to listen to the producer their guard, and pray them to give me somne
and those w-ho are seeking to advance the consideration because I know a littie about
interest of the bonest toiler la the North- ItHon. Mr. POIRIER.

JITNE 25. 1908

ll

Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-There la no need
to say more about it. I think the amendment here la a reasonable one. Wle have
confidence ln the inspector, who Is bere
on the floor of the House. We are willing
to leave lt ln bis hands, and I do flot see
why the minister sbould interfere iu thid
Hon. Mfr. DOUGLAS--The trade at Wincase.
n1peg inter-fered with the car.
Hon. Mfr. YOUNG-This Is a serious matHon. Mfr. WATSON-Was the car shipeer which the hon. gentleman bas bronglit
ped to Owen Sound?
up, and If I understand his case it is this.
Hon. Mfr. DOUGLAS-I cau give you
Hon. Mfr. DOUGLAS-lt is six o'clock.
the naines of those that interfered.
Hon. Mfr. YOUNG-If the hon. genitleHon. Mfr. WATSON-Does the hon. gen- man is here at eight o'clock, 1 desire to
tleman say that Mfr. Peters adniitted by ask him a question.
letter tliat somebody outside the company
Hon. Mfr. DOUGLAS-I wIll be liere.
could interfere with a car shipped froin
It being six o'clock, the Speaker left the
Manitoba or Saskatchewan te Owen Sound,
and that the Canadian Pacific Railway chair.
would not deliver It?
Aftet Recess.
Hon. Mfr. DOUGLAS-The trade InterThe commlttee resumed.
fered. The Canadian Pacific Itailway bad
iHon. 3fr. SCOTT-Sir Richard Çartwrighit
tbe blame laid upon thein by the tradte.
1 therefore
I called Mfr. Peters' attention to It and wlill fot be bere this eveuing.
move that the committee rise and report
he lnvestigated the whoie case.
progress sud ask leave to sit again to.morHon. Mfr. WÂTSON-Was the car shipped row.
to Owen Sound?
The motion wss agreed to.
Hon. -Mr. DOUGLAS-lIt was .biiled to
YUKON ACT A3MFENDMNENT BILL.
Owen Sound.
IN COMMITTEE.
Hon. Mfr. YOUNG-I do not understand
that statement.
The House resolved. itself lnto a CommitHon. 3fr. DOUGLAS-I do not wlsb to tee of the Whole on Bill (169) An Act to
give any further Information,. The bon. amend the Yuk-on Act.
>
(In the Committee.)
gentleman does not wisb to underatand.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-We discussed this Bill
it bas nlo bearing
Hon. Mfr. DAVIS-And
pretty thorougbly on the second readtng.- It
on the question.
is practicaliy bringing the administration of
Hon. Mfr. YOUNG-We are here for Inthe Yukon Into more modern metbods. -At
vestigation, and If such a thing as the
iSteps were
first It was very primitive.
bon. gentleman relates bas occurred, It le
taken then to elect part of the council; unwell that we should know.
der this Bill the whole of the council are
Hon. 3fr. DOUGLAS-lt did occur aud elected and the commissioner bas certain
bas been investigated, and 3fr. Peters' powers.
The lion. leader of the opposition
dictation li the matter was accordIng te thougbt we onght to have gone .turther and
my own mind. I said to the parties lu- made It a province, but the answer to that
terested: 'The Canadian Pacific Raiiway is this: There are less than elght or nine
neyer did anything of tbe kind, but the thousand people there, and ln Dawson only
trade did It at Winnipeg, aud tbey Rasumed a couple of thousand, perhaps flot as .many,
the position and afterwards they acknow- and therefore It would be premature to
iedged they had done wrong ?
give thein large powers, but they have reThe commIssioner
Hon. Mr. YOUNG--Thls la most extra- sponsible government.
represents the government aud the meinordinary.

Hon. 3fr. Wý%ATSON-Does the hon, gentleman mean to say that Mfr. Peters admitted that a car of wheat, being sbipped
froin some point in the west to Owen
Sound, that any person couid take possession of the car at Fort William?

1318

SENATE

1318

SENATE

bers of the council are elected.
Lt Is thE
evolution frorn governing from Ottawa and
nomlnating the council here.
The peoplE
eiect a couneil and can define their qualfications and the terni. The i)resent terni ls
two years; this Bill extends lt to three
years.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (.Niddlesex)-Is there ta
be an assembly as well as a council?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, tbey sit as one.
There la
an elective council.
On the 5th clause,

mast

5. The salary of the commissioner and cf
the administrator shall b. fixed by the Governor in Council and shall b. payable out of
the Consolidated Revenue Funid of Canada.
Hon. Mr. -SCOTT-Tiie present salary Is
$6,000, and $6,000 Is allowed for living expenses.
I presume as tiuae goes on the
expenses will be dimiunished.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE, fron, the committee, reported the Bill witb au amend.
ment wlch was cancurred In.
BANK ACT AMEND3IENT

BILL.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT uioved the second readlng of Bill (160) Au Act to amiend this
Bank Act.
He said :To avoid in future the criticlim whlch lias been exercised in reference
to Our advancing the money to thebNorthwest
iast fali, It la propased to empower d'e
banks between a certain day uamed in
October and the first of January, to advance to 15 per cent of thxeir capital.
The
pald-up capital of the banks is about ninety
million, and 15 per cent whhl amount to
about 15,000,000. The banks are aliowed
ta Issue notes to the extenit of the paid-up
capital af the stock subscribed. That Is
In the neighbourhood of ninety million at
preaent-between 90 and 100 million--a
lttie over ninety. Between the first 0f
October and d'e 21st of January the banks
may have out thia 15 per cent In excess of
d'e amount which they are at present
allowed to circulate.
During that time
d'ey are called upon ta pay a surn for the
use of d'e extra capital, and nlot exceeding
five per cent, which wlll be fIxed by the
Hou. Mr. SCOTT.

Governor ln Council. That ls d'e amaunt
they w[Il ibe ailowed ta Issue in excess of
d'e legai amount.
Hon. Mr. CÂMPBELL-It ls on the centbined paid-up capital and d'e reserve?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, I was nlot aware
of that. It wll probably bie more than
d'e sum I mentioned first. I thinli It was
stated ln the other Chamber it might run
Up ta more d'an $20,000,000. 1 amn not
sure what d'e reserve is.
Hon. '.%r. CAMPBELL-The paid-up capital Is about aeventy-five million.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The ninety
prabably includes the reserve.

miliion

Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-The reserve rtuns
up ta more d'an d'ut I think.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The amnount in exceas of d'e legal issue will bie 15 per cent,
between d'ose perlods. The clauses that
folio w make strict provision for a return
ta be made from time ta time of d'e umount
actually lssued. There Is a special clause
In the Bill relatlng ta the Bank of British
North America. Thut bank bolds Its charter, as bon, gentlemen know, from d'e iimperl purliament, and, therefore, it does
nlot strictiy came under the terms of aur
Bank Act. In the Bank Act, bion, gentlemen wIli probably recollect thut there are
clauses that except d'e Bank of Britishj
North America and make special provisions
consequent on their Act of Incorporation,
which ls somewhat dIfferent fromn the Bank
Act of Canada. The reuson the Bank of
British North Americu Is speciaily mentloned is d'at It does not foilow on exactiy
the same lines. The remainiug clauses are
simply precautionury clauses requiriug very
careful returns ta be made.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL,-The
Bank of British North America carry on
their aperutians under an Imperlal *Act, do
they net?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mr. FERGUTSON-This Bill is Intended, I presume, ta get over any such
difficuity as occurred hast fali.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.

JUN-E 25. 1908

1319

JUNE 25. 190S

1319

Hon. Mr. FFIDRGUISON-I remember quite
weil that the hon. member f rom St. John,
sme years ago, introduced an ameudment
to the Bank Act la which a similar provisTih e object was to give the
Ion occurred.
banks a right to issue notes to make their
circulation based upon their reserve duriug
certain months of the year. The Bankers'
Association were opposed to the Bill, and
It waa dropped, but I thought at the time
This BUi
it was a very .wlse provision.
goes further than that; It bases the excesa
of circulation upon the reserve and the capital combined, 15 per cent on both, and hon.
gentlemen wihi observe tat It 'will, lu the
case of some banks at least, give au lm\For Inmenlsely Iucreased circulation.
stance, the Bank of Nova Scotia lias a reserve of over five millions, and a capital
Fifteeu per cent on that
of three millions.
w-111 give an increased circulation o! one
million two hundred thousand dollars, and
other banks wlth stroug reserves wIil enjoy
the sme advantage.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-For a lîttie over thre
montas.
Hou. Mr. FElRGUSON--For exactly four
months. I do not find any fauit with that,
or wlth the principle of the Bill that
allows stable banks wlth large reserves to
get a iarger riglit to circulate. The Bill
Is not introducing. a weakness, because
It lies lu the Act as It la now. That is the
right of the bank to issue a circulation
equal to their unirnpaired paid up) capital
,without any luqulry by the governent as
to whether thiat capital is uuirnpaired or
not. This word ' uuimpaired' is, I thiuk,
iutroduced for the dirst time, and seerns to
imply that the goverurnent are going to take
precaSutions to luquire whether the capital
is lrnpaired or not. If that were doue, it
We have
would be an excellent tliug.
had some bank failures recently, the 'bauk
of St. Jean and the Bank of -St. Hyhciuthe
-and It turus out, al'thougbi they were
clairniung a rest account they lied noue. The
rest was gone and the capital was impaired, and yet up to the suspension of
those two banks, they could make lucreased
circulation If this Act were ln force. Of
course circulation ia protected lu another
way by our Bank Act but the Introduction
of the word 'un lmpaired' points to the

government taking some further action to
ascertaln whether an impairment has taken
If flot, .wby ehould this
place or not.
A bank wlll flot admit an
word be there.
The Sovimpairmeut until trouble occurs.
of
ereign Bank reduced Its capital.
course the reduction would at once take
effeet and the issue of notes, 1 presurne,
would be ln accordance wlth the reduced
capital, but we are now aliowlug the banks
to very greatly increase their circulation,
to which 1 do flot object, but 1 think as a
handrnald to this Bill we ought to take
meana to look iato the affairs of the banks
flot only for the purposes of thia Bill, but
for ail purposes, and find if their affairs
are being properiy conducted or not. Such
an Inquiry need not be a general investigation of the affairs of the banks. It would
flot be necessary, I Imagine, to go into an
examination of tbe branches and ail that;
but the exarnination of the various head
offices by *expert accountants independea.t
of the banks' own management altogether
would give a guarantee to the public -%vhich
There are
they do not possess atpresent.
oaly two banks lu Canada lu that position,
the Bank of Nova Scotia that brings ln
outslde accountants f rom Great Britain to
investigate its head office and audit Its
affairs, and the Bank of British North Arnerica that is sirnilarly inspected, because I
presurne that la, If flot the law, at ai
events the practice 0f'Great Britain. Reference has been made -by xny bon. friend
to the Bank of British North Amnerica. I
remember Investigatiug this akubject some
years ago, and found as the hou. member
from Hastings has remarked, that it is
based on an lmperial charter; but it does
seeni strange that this bank, whieh is undoubtedly a good and stable conceru, should
oniy be ailowed to have an increase of 10
Its circulation
per cent iu its circulation.
noiw is lirnlted. 1 suppose 10 per cent is lu
proportion to its present right to circulate.
Its circulation .is 75 per cent ot Ils pald
up capital, and the clause of this Bill deallug with the Bank of British North Arnerica:
gives it the right to circuiate ln excess of its
present Act to the extent of 10 per cent on
Its reserve sud paid up capital. This Bill
does not disclose this fact, and I amn not
sure wbere I could go to get the Informa-

1320

SENATE

1320

SENATE

bank for the preceding month, the nuniber
of notes in circulation, the securities, the
amount on deposit, and so forth. They
make that up ln tbls way : there are
branches here and there ahl over the country. These branches ail send to the head
office a statement of bow the affairs 0f
the hank stand at each particular branch,
and fromn ail those different returus the hiead
office wll summarize and make one returu
of the whole position of the bank.
Now,
there is nothing localzed. there.
It Is the
position of the whole bank, and 1 have
often thought that the Minister of Finance
should ist on having not only the general return made up by the head office,
but a copy of the returu sent in by each
brancli showing the state of affairs at
every particular branch furnished also with
the general statement, and theu. if the
Miaister of Finance suspected anything w-ai
wrong the inspector qconld go riglit to that
brandi and take up with them the return
they furnished, look over It and ascertalu
the state of affairs at that branch
at that tinie. They couid check every
branch at their leisure sud see Nvhetber the return furnished the head office
on the 30 of the month, and which
Hon. Mr. CAMPBEL-I see that the was trnnsmltted to the Finance Minister.
Bank of British North America bas a righit was a correct return. I thlnk that would
to issue 75 per cent of the paid-up capital, be a splendid check on the banks.
A
and tien for the excess above that tiey great many of our banks need Inspection,
are to deposit with the government bonds as the results have shown ln the last few
and securities whi are avallable for the monthis. The capital la very often Impurpose of the governinent ln case the paired, and there la no means of knowing
bank fala. In reference to the point made It unlesa we go to every particular brandi
about the governinent inspection, I think and inspect It the sanie day. They manithat would be a very difficuit matter to pulate the accounits s0 that It would be
do. It le a difficuit thlng, because, in order impossible to ascertain It; but If the plan
to make a tborough Inspection of a bank I suggeat were carried. out and tie state'wlth 75 or 80 branches every brauch should ment of the affairs o! each branch sent
be lnspected exactly the samne day, and It on the first day, and then when the head
would require a great many Inspectors to office summarized ail this and sent a copy
go over the banka.
Take the Bank of of the return of eacb branci to the MinMiontreal and the Bank of Commerce, with ister of Finance, he could examine Into it
over 150 branches, If it were not done thd at bis lelsure ?
samne day there might be manipulation 0f
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I thlnk that le
the accounts; but 1 have ofte'n thought a first rate suggestion; but when that sumthat a better plan would be to Insist oni mary cornes into the head office, why shouid
better returna. For Instance, every bankteinpndtautfotakplcten
lc bn
bas to furnish the Minîster of Finance teIdpnetadtnttk
with a declaration withîn the first fifteen
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Yes, the audit
days of the month of full returna of that could be done quite readlly. You can take
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

tion; but how, being a British bank operatlng ln Canada, does flot set aside a part of
Its reserve as a Canadian reserve? We cauflot posslbly leglalate for its business ln
Great Britain; we are only legislating for
Its Canadian business. Does lt -met aside of
Its reserve a part that le designated Canadlan reserve?
We could easlly deal withi
that, but Its general reserve as a bank
operating both In Great Britain and Canada
It would ha rather difficult for us to deal
wltb.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Under the Ban. -Act,
there are ouly certain clauses referring to
IL
It does flot corne generaily under ail
the clauses of the Bauking Act, showing
that wherever our banking Act is flot in
harmony witb the original charter, we exempt them.
It Is only those particular
clauses of the charter whichi are in harmony
wlth oûr Bank Act tbat are subject to the
Bank Act.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-This addition of
10 per cent to the right to cîrculate, wli
of course refer to the Canadian portion of
the reserve only. We could flot make It
go beyond that.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ob. no.

JUNE 25. 1908

1321

JUNE 25. 1908
that statement ln your band and go over
the documents and see If it is correct and
If there 15 anything wrong you can locate
It immediately.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That would be
the first step towards getting an Inspection
at the liead office.
Hon. -Mr. CAMPBEII,-Having the local
branches send In their accounts to the head
office, and then the liead office transinitting
a copy of that to the Finance MiNlnister, lie
'vouid be able to locate tbe dlfflculty.
Hon. Mr. BEIQU-I do not propose to
follow Up this discussion, because 1 think
It Is hardly open under the present Bill. 1
merely desîre to, call the attention of the
bon, gentleman from Marslrfield to the tact
that the word ' unlmpalred is flot n new
Lt is to bie found
word as used In tlis Bill.
ln the Banking Act, and If he refers to section 58 for Instance, lie will see any bank
la probiblted to pay dlvldends which would
hnve the effect of impairing the capital of
the banlk.
S0 that nothing can be lnferred
from the use of the word la this Bill as to
the Intention of the government or of parliament to adopt another mode of lnspectlng the banks. I understand that this question of Inspection of the banlis will corne
up on a general Bill for amendmnent of the
Banking Act, especially at the time, as was
announced in the other House, whien the
ten years expire, or it may lie taken up
next year by the government.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not profess to
know anything about banklng, but 1 liave
heard from gentlemen who do know something about it, something that leads me to
think that tlie plan suggested by the lion.
gentleman from York would hardly meet
tlie difficuity. 1 have understood that there
bas been, as a mile, no serious fault to flnd
with the Inspection of the branches of the
varions banks; but the difficuity lias been
that tlie headquarters are not Inspected.
Tlie Inspector of a bank does not Inspeet
He goes out sud lnthe headquarters.
I thouglit the bon.
spects tlie branches.
gentleman was going to say that he did not
thlnk any government Inspection of the bead
offices of the banks would be satlsfactory;
If lie had said tha9t 1 think he wouid have
The problem is to seenre sucli
been rigit

1321
of the
an Inspection of the liead offices
bapiks as shail let those ivho are dlrectiy
interested know whether a bank Is ln n
solvent condition or not, and as the lion.
gentleman from Marslifield, says, there are
two banks, the Bank of Nova Scotia and
the Bank of Britisli Northi America whlcli
liave sdopted this plan of liavîng an Indepenxdent outaide audit at their liesdquarters,
and It seems to me that wlien the Bank!ng
Act is Ïbelng amended there sliouid be some
provision ln it to compel ail the'banks to
adopt. that or smre system whici 'would
have the 11k-e effect. There should be a
searchlng and independent Inspection at the
head offices of the different tbsnks.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was resd the second time.
COURT 0F APPEAL OF? BRITISH COLU3IBIA BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading 0f Bill (165) An Âct mespectlng the
Court of Appeais of Britishi Columibia.
He ssld: There are juat two points about
this Bill, one 18 naming ln Britisli Columbia
a Court of Appeal Instead of the Supreme
Court as the ultImate court wheme a roter
lias been dlsfranchised for the commission
of sme act ln violation of the Election Act,
and then the salaries of the Judges have
The Chief Justice of- the
been lncressed.
Court of Appeals ln Britisli Columbia wIlI
meceive $8,000 lnstead of $7,000. The thmee
justices of the Court of Appeals will receive
87,000 instesd of $6,000, and the Justice of
the Superlor Court wiIl receive $7,000 Instead of $6,000.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
OHnl.,\ESE IMIMIGRATION -ACT.
COMMONS ÂMENDMENT CONCURRED IN.
Hon. Mr. SCOTTr moved concurrence in
the smendmeiits made by the ;House of
Commons to BIîl (00) Au Act to, amend tlie
Oýhinese Immigration Act.
He said: The fimat amendment ie; in paragrapli 5, strlklng out the word 1stildents
Lt was alleged
under 17 years of age.'
that considemable fmauds were pmactlsed ln
Britishi Columbla by men or grown up boys
comîng in as s3tudents and golng to school

1322

SENATE
SENATE

1322

for a certain number of montbs, and ln
that way avolding the payment of the $500
tax.
The object is to make more strict
provision to prevent such frauds.
1 move
that the amendment 'be concurred iu.
The amendment was concurred ln.

admission ? It is to be on tbe approval
of the minister.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe dhairman would,
of course, be aliowed to enter, and the papers would be sent on to Ottawa.
'Ia
fhe meantime lie would be aliowed to be
The next change was to leave out clause witbin Canada.
3 and substitute the foilowing therefor:
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-ÂII 1
Subsectiou 3 of section 7 la biereby re- bave f0 say Is, you wiil find the workiag
pealed, and the foliowlng substituted:
of tbat clause aItogether ImpracticabIe.
A student of Chinese origin who upon passing
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I. presume the whoie
into Canada lias substantiated hie statua as
such to the satisfaction of the controlier, sub- object of tbe Bill la to keep fhe Chinamea
ject to the approval of the minister, and who under restriction. The whole effort Is to
is the bearer of a certificats of identity or
other similar document issued by the govera- obstruct.
nment or recognized officiai of the government,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then
&c.
you would have to put hlm ln bond and
*Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWÇýELL-Tbiat place a guard over hlm until 'bis credentials
only provides for the student returning to would readli Ottawa, and lie would bave to
the country.
await the pleasure of tlie goverument here
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no. The money betore be wouid know wbetber lie would
may be deposited, and If lie bas been a have a right to be ln fhe country or net.
year la the university and stili continues,
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I do not underlie eau &et thse refund.
stand tlie fltth clause.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
la no age limit.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Apparentiy not.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-There
Is an addition to that clause la addition
to wbat my boa. friead rend :
Notwithatanding anything in this Act, and
subject to auch regulations as are made for
thse purpose of the Governor in Council, any
Chinese immigrant whose destination is a
place in Canada other than the part or place
at which lie enters Canada, may pass through
to thse destination and pay the tax therein
provided for, only on reaching has destination.
If lie lands ln British Columbia intended
for any other portion of the Dominion, be'
pays bis tax at the place nt wbich lie
arrives.
This clause provides that: 'A student
of Chinese origin who, upon flrst entering Canada bas substantlated bis status
as sucb to the satisfaction of the comptroller and subject f0 the appoval of the
Minister.' How Is that to be carried ont ?
If, under ibia clause a Chinese arrives ln
Victoria and lie satisfies the coniptroller that
lie bas compiied witb the termas of thîs
clause of the Act, bow la the mInIster fo be
approacbed to Issue regulations as to bis
IT-,

X..

nAVT0,

Hon. Mr. POWER -It provides fIat a
person wbe does a certain fbing is gullty
of an Indictable offence and tbe amendment
adds that lie shall be lhable to deporfation.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL,-Most of the -Clinamen enter Canada at Vancouver or Victoria, and Britishi Columbia gets hait the
tax. A great many of them flnd their way
to Ontario and we bave to take care or
tbem down bere.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbey generaliy look
after themselves.
Hon. Mr. CÂMPBELL-They corne to
our province, but British Columbia gets
the money.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before tbis ameadment waa proposed, the
capitation tax lad to be paid at the port
of entry, and consequently Britisli Columbia rece!ved ail the benefits from if. ThisBill makeq provision tlat If lie lands ln
Britisb -Columbia, but bis destination la
Ontario, the tax shall le paid at destination lnatead of at tbe port of entry.
I do
not see ny provision tbat Ontario Is to
get baîf the capitation fax under sncb circunmstances.

JUeE 25, 1908

1323

JU1~E 25, 1908

1323

Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK,-Tbfe Act In thé
Revised Statutes provIdes that hait the net
proceeds shall, at the end of every fiscal
year, *be paid to the province wherein It
was coilected.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The amendment now
under consideration meets the point raised
by the hon. senator from York. It strikes
out clause 4 of the BUI as we sent It dowis
to the Gommons, and It Is provided that
any Chinese whose destination la any part
of Canada other than the port at whiph
he entered, shahl pay the tax at the place of
destination, 20 that If bis destination is ln
Ontarlo, he pays the tax there and the province gets hait the amount.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I do "not thInk
the province of British Columibia need
worry about this. There wiil be a very
smail proportion of the Chinese that wiii
be sent through In the first Instance, and
therefore the tax wiii almost invarlabiy
go to British Columbia, to wblch I do not
object.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I couid understand
Chinamen getting rather tired of British
Columbia and whshing to change.
The motion was agreed to.
THE SENÂATE DEBATES.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE moved the adoption of
the 2nd report of the Standing -Comimittee
on Debates and Reporting.

Ing a speech four or five weeks old. I think
tbis is the rlght time to cail tbe attention
of 'the Chairman to the matter. We are
paying bétween $15,000 and $20,000 a year
for the reporting and publication of our
debates and I do not think that the House
la .gettlng value for the expenditure. The.
oniy, thing that goes from this :House that
la read la the snmmary made by the press
reporter. Practlcaliy the extended reports
are not read. The only way in whlch we
can secure any considerable reading of onr
reports la by havIng the Senate ' Debates '
combined with the Commons 'Hansard.'
That la the practice ln England; the 'Hansards'1 of the two Honses are bound together
in one pamphlet and dlstribnted. The same
practice prevails at Washington.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That ls weeks afterwards.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It may be days. 1
am not dIscusIng that particuhar aspect of
It aow. It la the same in ýAustralie; and
I do not see any reason why we could iiot
maire some arrangement sucb as they bave
ln those countries for the distribution o!
our reports with those of the Commons ln
the same pamphlet. The Commons reports
are distributed earlier on the day after the
debates take place than our reports are.
As I uaderstand it, the Interests o! the gentlemen who now report for the Senate
need not be sacriftced at aIl, and we conld
get our reports pnblished more promptly
and they would be read mnch more extensively than tbey are now. I may say, at
the present time, I do not tbink the reporta
of the Gommons debates are read very extensIveiy, but a time may come when tbey
wiii be more Iateresting readlng, and more
extensively circnlated, than they are now.
At any rate If we are to get anytblng lke
the value for wbat our reporting costs, I
see no other way of gettIng It than tbnt
.wbichi I have lndicated. We have tried
varions plans durlag the 30 years I have
been here and they have ail faiied. I think
it la worth while to try this hast suggestion,
and If that fails, then the wlser way wouid
be to abolish the ýSenate 1Hansard ' altogether.

Hon. Mr. rOWEll-I do flot rIse for the
purpose of opposing this report, but rather
for the purpose of Inquiring fromi the lion.
Chairman of the commIttee whether they
have under consideration any sehemne for
improving our system of dlstributing the
' Debates.' We spend a very considerable
sum of money for reporting the debates of
this Honse ln two languages and we get an
exceedlngly amali return. I do flot wishi to
be understood as fanding fanlt with the reporters, because the reports are not too bad
at ail, but we get really very.littie substantial retura'. During the present session the
revlsed reports have been anywhere f rom n
month to flve weeks behind. The interest
ln a debate, after a montb, bas gone. No
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-! agree with the
senator bas any special object la distribut- hon. senator from Halifax that the book

1324

SENATE

1324

SENATE

forni of our debates is no0 good as
a matter of current information. It
comes out tbree or four weeks after the
debate lias taken place, and does flot reach
the public at a Urne when the questions
are live ones; but 1 do not agree wltb
hlm, nevertbeless, that It is of no value.
I have lad occasion since I have been a
member of the Senate to go back over the
debates for Information on subjeets tbat
were debated before I became a member of
thîs House, and our Senate debates lu
bound form lu the library are useful books
of reference for ail public men lu the
country. Nearly every subjeet that bas
eugaged the attention of parliament since
confederation Is to be found lu our debates
ln mucb more conveulent form for reference than lu the more volumînous Comimous 'Hausard.' Therefore, wbile I quite
agree witli my bon. friend that the revised
edition being distributed too late to be
of value for current Information, I sbouid
be very sorry to, see it abolisbed. Tbere
bias been a decided Improvement lu gettilig
out the uurevlsed Issue this session. It
aPPears almost slmultaueously %vitb the
Gommons 'Hausard,' except wbeu we hold
nigbt slttlngs. When ive sit after recess,
a double staff of officiais would be -necessary to keep up wltb tbe work, and it is
oie reason why -we sbould not have uigiit
sittiugs. We sbould meet ah the -working
days of the week and there would be no
necesslty for ulgbt sessions.
However, that Is not thei question before
us. 1 amn a member of the Débates Coinmlttee, and I biad it in my mmnd that we
bad provlded for the distribution of thc unrcvised edîtion every morniug. I tbîuk
we shouid bave that. I am pcrfectiy satisfled, as a member of this House, wlth the
unrevlsed report. In the main It furnîshes
an exact account of wbat takes place, valuable for the press aud for members of the
other House, aud If dlstributed would bring
the Senate more iuto notice wvitb the press
and the public than at present It sbould
be sent to, members of the press sud of
the Hlouse of Couinons. I almost tbought
that was ngreed on last year. and 1 inteud
to brIng It before my colleogues ou the
committee this year, sud hope' that uext
session we wili have the unrevîsed edition
of the Senate distributed as early as tlie
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

unrevised edition or the Commons -Hansard ' and also furnisb it to the press
and members of the Gommons. It will
furnisil tbe basis of editorlal comment on
wbat is doue lu the Senate, for whicli there
is no basis now, because the wrlters for
the newspapers do flot see the reports of
o.ur debates until the subjects are too stale
to be of iany value es news.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlie
distribution 0f the revised edition bas been
generally laid on the table Immedlately
after the corrections were made, but the
uurevised reports, as a rule, during the present session, have been distributed early
next mornlug ùfter the debates. There eau
be uo objection taken to the delays ln that
respect. Wliether the revlsed edition is
circulated early enougli, 1 am not prepared
to, say, because 1 scldom look at It. 1 amn
very glad to know there are Uies when I
can 2gree wltli the lion. senator from Hallfax. If lie wlll move for the abolition of
the officiai reporting altogether I shaîl lie
very glad to second bis motion. It Is not
a new Idea wlth me. I voted against the
1Hausard'1 of the House of Gommons when
1 had the honour of baviug a seat there,
aud I thlnk It is mucli less useful here than
tbe 'Hausard ' of the other Cbamber. Its
only use, to, my mind, Is tbe reason asslgned
by the bon. senator from Marshfield; that
is as a book of reference as to, wbat lias
occurred lu the Senate. Occasloually tie
reports are referred to 'when it Is desîrable
to call attention to some debate or proiceedlngs la former years; but tbe action
of the Senate on any question can usuafly
be found in the Jouruals. The debates
are, to my mind, useful onîr as a book of
The question Is wbetlier the
reference.
reports are wortb the cost of produciuîg
thein.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I
sent wheu the motion was
adoption of the report, but I
from making au observation
to the satisfaction which the
from the services rendered
reporters.

was not premade for the
canuot refrain
witb reference
Senate has lad
by the preseut

Hon. Mr. POWER-They are the same reporters we have had.for over thirty years;
aud I amn not quarrelling wltb the reporters.

JUNE 25, 1908

1JI

Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-The discussion be increased la consideration of the vcry
sInce 1 bave entered tbe chamber bas been satlsfactory services they bave rendered,
Pomewhat wide of the mark, inasmuch as and more partlculariy la view of the extrathe subject of the report Is a recommenda- ordlnary length of the session, wbich I hope
tion to increase the compensation to the the leader of tbe House wIll not allow to be
reporters. in view, I presume, of the lengtb repeated on n subsequent occasion.
of the session. Ever since 1 have bad the
Hon. Mr. POWER. Tbe bon. gentleman
honour of occupying a seat In this chamber wbo leads the opposition was not present la
the idea of abolisbing H ansard' bas been the House wben I began my observations
dlscussed tram time to time. I bave neyer yet wltb respect to thîs report. I took care
been convinced of the utllity of 1Hansard ' to guard myseif from quarrelling wltb the
lu either House except It may bave been to report at ail. I simply used that as n Peg
keep bon. gentlemen la a consistent Ue of on wbIch to bang a few questions and repollcy or couduct wlb reference to tbe marks as to what the comimittee proposed
course they bave pursued on public affairs. to do la future sessions1.
I very much doubt even of the utllity of that.
Hou. Mr. ROSS (.Llddiesex)-I approve
because as we advance in years or knowcordîally of a 'Hansard ' for tbis House, as
ledge, tbe most natural thiug iii the world
is that we change our opinions of carlier 1 approved when I bad the honour of a
days, andi yet It bas always been a prolifie seat lu the H-ouse of Commions of n -Han1 bad the hionour,
subject of debate lu pariament tbiat somne sard'1 for thiat House.
hou. gentlemen a generation or two genera- 1 tbink, of being Chairmanl of the jHansard
tions ago bave occupied on public questions Comailttee of the House of Gommons for
positions from which they may bave deviat- the first flve or six years, or maybe more,
cd to saime exteut later. It seems to me under which It was organized, and 1 npthere is also a very large measure of disnp- prove of It for this reason, that lu the disthat may arise
pointed vanity sbown In tbe sentiments cussion of public questions
during the Interli or between sessions, or
which bon. gentlemen express ftraim tîme to
Intime on this partîcular subject. It requires auy time, the 1Hansard ' is a source of
formation that is invaluable to publie men.
a good deal of calm egotism on the part of
any, bon. gentleman to complain that *Han- Let mie gîve one instance, ratber a striksard' la not perused as a vloume of curreut ing one, and perbaps an exceptionS-i one,
interest by the publie to know whiat mem- but stîli useful by way of Illustration. We
We bave the Coufederation Debates la the lihbers in either House may have said.
must know very weli that 'Hansard' 18 prac- rary. Most public mca are la possession
tically a dead book so far as public interest of copies of the Confederation Debates for
is concerned. Outside of a matter of refer- tbeir owa use. I do not knowv any volume
ence as to the course pursued by members that gives a more comprebiensivé hlstory
of parlament fram tlme to time, I îni satis- of Canada, perbape, for tbirty or forty
lied that 'Hausard' Is neyer opened. In ad- years prior to confederation thani the dedition to that, it Is the most common tbiug bates contalned lu that luvaluable docufor hou. gentlemen to express tbemselves mient. Ia tbe saine w-ny, If we want ta
thoughitiessly on public eubjects notiwitb- know fully the trend of public opinion lu
standing ' Hansard,' and, for the purpose of England upon Sary question, Nve refer
being consistent, to adhere to the opinions to the 'Hansard' reports of the Britishi
thus expressed. 1 thînk the sentiments of House of Commons. I have had to refer
public men on public questions would be of to tbem several times this session iii
a very mucb -more advànced cbaritcter %vere connection witb saine matters 1 ras
' HansRrd'1 abollshed entlrely. The business looking up. We bave the press reports
of parlament would be more satiefactorlly proceedlngs of the House of Gommons.
and speedily despatelied. Notwlthstanding Tbey are bare. If you bave ample time,
these general observations. I very heartily and two or three prîvate secretaries, you
support the recommeudation of the commit- eau refer to the reports la the Englisb
tee that the compensation of the reporters pS-pers. I)ut they are clunisy and not avail-

1326

SENATE

1326

SENATE
tain extent, making history, sud embalniing
as it were the vlews of our best men, and
lu the future evolution of that hlstory sud
Uic future evolution of legisiation, Uic proceas by wbichi this stage sud that stage was
reached wiil be invaluable lu shaping tbe
istory of Uic country. I have had occaof the
s ion to refer to Uic past debates
Senate, nu to an outsider it Is moat gratlfying ou w-bat broad principles soine of
these subjecta werc discussed, and what a
mass of Information some o! Uic speeches
contain. That is Uic material out of w'bich
you make law. thc opinions of our leadiug
men, and ou tbat raw materlal law ls
fouuded and developed, aud ou that ground
w-e bave stroug reason for maintaining sud.
perpetuatlug the 'Hansard.'

able. You get the debates of the House
of Commons and of the House of Lords lui
any public llbrary, and there you have a
mine of Information which is luvaluable.
In the same way, wheu you want to refer
to a discussion on the tariff, or take that
long discussion we bad on the Remedial
Bill, or upon the Jesuits Estates Bill, these
are historical questions.
Wbere do you
get the Informatlon on these questions?
You caunot get it In the newspapers. If
you do you get it In party ue'wspapers,
maybe coloured. If you have the ' Hausard,'
you get the uncoloured untainted views
of the members of the House of Coinmons as they expreased them. If lt were
for nothing else but to give dignity to Canadian public men, or to give permanency
to their views on the different public questions, the 'Hansard' la worth a good deal.
Twenty or
We are a growlng nation.
thirty years atter this, our ",Hansard' wili
be a source from which the writers of Canadlan history wiii draw their supply. Take
an important debate Iu the history of Canada, whicb is almost a blank lu history at
this moment, the procesa on wblch our
constitution was evolved, the debate on the
Quebec resolutions, lu the couference of
tbirty-tbree members, held lu Quebec.
There Is a volume which no historian cau
fili.
I have tried to flnd fromn private
sources how that. debate was conducted
aud how the members arrived at their coucMusious. There la nothiug te show Uic
arguments pro and con by which their conclusions were reached. Fortuuately for the
people of the United States, there was a private report made by Madison of the motions
by which they reached thc conclusions of
1786, sud au important document it was,
and it Is refcrred to lu the congress of the
United States to indicate the basis on
whlcb the constitution was fouuded. These
reports are luvaluabie on -Important matters
whicb we have lu the Bis which founded
the west, lu thc Bis, whicb gave British
Columbia ber constitution, sud which gave
Prince Ed-ward Island her constitution,
a matter luto wçhich I amn looking now, lu
regard to wbiclb the newspaper reports are
meagre. If we bad had a 'HIansard' then as
fully as we bad lu 1875 we would have had
a mass of Information. We are, to a cerHon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex.)

1 arn very mucb plcased w-lb the reports
given lu this House of our debates. I do not
revîse my ow-n speeches. I inay look into
them sometlmes, but I arn really surprised
at the accuracy w-lth w-hich two men are
able to report from day to day the proceediugs sud the debates of this House, sud
I tbiuk we oughit to be abuudeutly satisfled
wlth their work from a reportorial standpoint. There la one part of the reporting o!
the bouse which la far !roma satisfactory to
me, and that la the summary made for the
public press. I do not kuow how to overcorne that. I feel as If the jourualiats of
tis country w-ere not sufficlently interested
lu the debates of this Senate to gîve as
large a place to them lu their reports as they
ought to. 0f course to make tbema valuable
they must be telegraphed, sud that la expensive. To make Uiem acceptable to their
readers, they must be fresh. Whether Uic
uewapapers w-i receive a larger 'report of
our proceedînga than they now receive aud
pay for It, as they would have te lu varions
w-ays, la a question I cannot auswer:. but
the -reports lu the dally papers are exceedingly meagre. Sometirnes very valuable debates arc almoat entirely overlooked. If
that difficulty.could be overcome by Uic expénditure of a larger sum of mouey then it
la for us to expeud it. The Senate la that
respect is not sufficieutly advertised. I do not
mena that ini a merceuary, but lu a public
sense. Every man who speaks lu the bouse
o! Commons to auy purpose la sure to be
reported by the papers, because there la a

JUNE 25, 1908

1327

corps of newspaper reportera and carres- ent volumes for that purpose. It would add
pondents ln -the gallery ; the papers know to the number of volumes, but tbey are no
they must meet the public demand ln mat- more expensive ln one form than another,
ters o! this klnd. There la not the same and I arn sure It wouid add to the value of
feeling In regard to the debates of the the debates'0f this House and of the House
Senate. Perhaps we do not take sufficient of Gommons ln the country.
Pains to cultivate that feeling, and If our
Hon. SIr MACKENZIE BOWELL,-The
Debates Comm lttee could find some way of
sending forth to the country a more ex- hon, gentleman has given unanswerabie
tensIve report of the proceedings of the reasons why the 1Debates'1 should be conSenate, or find sorne way of lnteresting the tinued, and that la because they embaimed
journals of the country more In the debates the opinions o! our publie men; but he ought
of the -Senate, It wouid add a good deal to to have added to that 'and then consigned
the usefulness o! the Upper House; It to the library and locked up forever.'
would establish more fuliy than lt lias now
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The hon. gentleman
done -the usefuinesa o! the Senate, and I
think the benefit to the puble would be from Middlesex bas given pretty strong reasons to rny mlnd ln favour o! the continuacorrespondlngly great. Without presuming
to occupy the time o! the House, let me say tion of the 'Hansard.' There Is, however,
that 1 hope any motion made for the aboli- a doubt ln my mind as to wbether the proceedings Ini committee should be continued.
tion o! the Senate debates will not prevail,
It is dealing wlth questions 'whlch would
and I hope the House will be reasonably
generous with our reporters, partlculariy appear ln the Journals maybe sufficientiy
when the work liso well done, and If this fuliY, nnd It le making the -Hansard'1 very
House bas the standing It ought to have, we bulky botb ln this House and ln the Hlouse
of Gommons, and If the ' Hansard' la flot
fihould feel that its reports are as wortliy o!
rend more thon it is, It la because It ls bepreservation as are the debates of the House
coming so volurninous. However, thîs la
of Gommons. Let me say something germane to the remarks of the hon. genteman not the question for our present considerafrose Halifax, and that Is that I tbink It tion. It bas been suggested by the hon.
would be well If the suggestion he made gentleman from Halifax that the debates
that the reports o! the Senate were pub- of the Senate should appear-with the deIlshed In the same pamphlet or In the same bates of the House of Gommons and he
binding as the reports of the House lias asked as to whether the Debates Comof Gommons couid be adopted. It wouid mittee intend to take any action ln that
be a great advantage ta us. I was direction. As Chairman of that commlttee
surprised to bear that our unrevised 'Han- I must say that I do not thInk àt Io
sard' la not distributed to members of within the province of the comrnlttee to
the House of Gommons as their reports are take any action until a motion bas been
to this House. That la a mistake. I think made ln this House for the purpose of
the Debates Committee should correct that eiiciting an opinion * n that direction.
at once, and the dally report should go to Otherwise, we would have to confer 'with
the House of Gommons as regularly as thpe the House of Gommons on the su.bject, and
reports 0f that House are received here, we shouid not do so without being authoand If the two could be bound or distrib'uted rized by this hon. House.
together, It would be an adrantage.
I
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middesex)-By joint
notlced In reading the debates o! the British
action.
House of Commons on turning over a few
leaves, I corne to the debates of the Hlouse
Hon. MNr. BEIQUE-The hon, gentleman
of Lords on the same subjects. You get from Halifax has expressed bis opinion as
the vlews of both the Gommons and the to the delay ln the Issuing of the bound
House of Lords with very little trouble on volume.
the sarne topic. If you were to do that nith
Hou. '.%r. POWER-The lssuing o! the
regard to the two branches of our parliament, yon would have to search two differ- revised forms.

1328

SENATE

SENATE
1328
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The lion. gentleman $21.15 per page, and lu the Senate the cost
wll notice there bas been a considerable per page was $9.68.
Improvement in that direction. At the coinHou. Mfr. ROSS-Dld thiat Include transmencement of the session we adopted the
system, obtaining lu the House of Commons lation. and printlug?
of bavllg only one revised edition, and it
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes, It Includes
bas enabled us to have the unrevised edition everything.
the very next day after the debate, and to
bave the revlsed edition a few days afterHon. Mr. FERGUJSON-Is that over a
wards. It wlll be found on referring to rermu of years ?
our files that we have the revised edition
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-No, for 1906. 1 bave
on our files for the tenth of the presenit
the figures for the terni. of years from 1893
month, whicb is flot very far behind. and I
to 1906 of the cost per page of the Senate
thlnk with somne further exertion on the
reports, but I bave flot the figures for the
part of the Prluting Bureau wc mig-Lit lie
ln the Rouse of CoinPossi1)ly compaurative period
very much nearer to the mark.
mous. The amnount pald. to the reporters
It mlght ýbe three or four days. ns it is in
per page la the Senate came to $5.61. Tbat
the House or Coinmons. In fact the Deis ontside of the translation and printing.
bates Committee bad the promise fromn Dr.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Is the bon. gentieDawson when the change was made that mil aware that there is more on a page of
Our proceediugs wouild be printed as fast the Conimons Hansard' than there Is on a
as those of the House of Couinons, and w-e p)age of the Senate ' Hansard' ?
are entitled to Insist upon that promise
Hon. *Mr. BEIQUE-Yes, 1 amn aware of
belng carried out. The report Is merely recommendlng that the sum of $S,000 be paîd that. and I have had the correction made
for comparison.
the reporters.
Hon. Mr. GIBSO)N-The hon, gentleman
states that this Is to include the cost of
rel)orting- the proceedings of tbe Committee
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It is the saine amn- on Banking and Commerce. There was su
ount as w-as paid last year. The sanie re- .,ccounit put la for reporting the proceedport %vas made and adopted last yenr. The ings on the Bis of Lading Bill as a separincrease last year was larger than it will ate accotait, and charged for, aud that was
be this year, ou accouint of the length of uot iuserted in the 'Hansard' account. I
the present session. and also because this ain quite aware that the reporting of the
year there were more reports of comimittees divorce committees la iinlcled iu the conthan last year. I have a statemeut showiug tract, but any extra reporting of the prothat according to the eonitract w-Ith the re- ceedings of the Banking and Commerce
porters, if they w-ere paid as per contract, Cornrnttee bas been paid for.
they would lie enititled to $6,26i7.50, but this
Hon. *Mr. BEIQUE-Yes, the reporters,
amount lacludes the reports of the Committee on Bankiung and Commerce and the Di- uutder their contract, would lie entitled to
vorce Committee. This $8.000 covers anv lie paid separately for reporting the Divorce
additional reporting tijat w-ill be required Cornînittee as weil as the Baukinig and
Commerce Comumittee, but under the report
for the reinhder of the session.
as now before this House, i-t Is recommendI ask mv ed iliat the $S,000 cover ail.
,Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-Mavq
hion. friend what the relative cost prl page
Hon. Mr. GIB9ON-Iuclnudiflg the separis between the Senate and Commons 'Hanate account thiey put lu ?
sard '?
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes, to cover the
Hou. Mr. BRIQUE-I have a statement
whole of the reportlng done and to lie doue
sbowing that lu 190l(, the total cost per page
for the report. translation and assistance. during the session.
Tuae motion w-as agreed to.
'nd printing lu the Cominons amounted to
Hon. Mr. POWER.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-How
an Increase is that?

muchi of

J1TNE 25. 1908

.z

CONSTRUCTION 0F DlRY DOCKS BILL. just happened that Halifax, like St. Johns,
Newfound-land, Io pushed out into the
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
ocean, and is ln the way of picking up lame
Thxe Honse resolved itself into Committee dueks. Â steamer breaks down on the
of fthe Whole on Bill (119) 'An Act f0 en- Atlantic, .and either St. "Johns, Newcourage thxe construction of Dry Docks.'
toundland, or Halifax, la very often the
moet convenieut port to make to. Even
(la the Committee.)
with the adrantages of Its situation and al
On clause a.
dock at Halifax has only wlthas an aid that, the dry
3. The. Governer in Concil rnay,
dock, autiiorize la a comparatlvely short Urne, begun to do
te the construction of aay dry
the psyment, out of any unappropriated money any very cousiderable business. There la
forming part of the consolidated revenue fund not any demand, s I understaud It-there
orf -e Ua of a subsidy not exceeding thre.
par cent par annum of the. cost of thie wonk, could b. no urgent demand for a dry dock
au ixed and determined lander subsection, 2 at any other point on the Atlantic cost or
of thiu section, to any incerporated compauy, even lu the Gulf of St Lawrence, except
ipiroved bv the. Governor lu Couxicil as havinog the. abilhty te perform the worh, whicii at Quebec, and there la a dry dock at
shah enter juto an agreement ivith His Ma- Quebec.
Beaides, for seversi years now
jestY te oonstruct aay such dry dock, with ail we bave badl this offer contalned ln the
necessary equipmnent;s, machinery aud plant,
for the reception and repairing of vessels: Act whioh this Bill proposes to amend, proProvided, however, that scob aid ghall not b. vldlug that thxe goverument would pay at
rntdunless fixe Governor ln Council ie
=aifld upen a report of tiie minister, bagad the rate of three per cent up to $30,000 a
ore to look at it, this
upon a report of the chief engineer of the. year. Wben ye
Department of Public Works, and such other really meanu that some gentlemen wll
evidence as ho deems neceseary, that snob dry
dock je needed in the publie intereet, snd ie, form «Lcompany, aud, practlcally, the govas p oposed, cf sufficient capacity te meet fixe erument will bulld the dock, because wbien
publc requirements whore snobi dry dock ie the government pays three per cent on the
te be located: Provjded aIse that snob eubsidy
shall net exoeed forty-ive thoneand dollars per Coet of thxe dock that cornes very near to
annum.
payiug thxe whole cot
2. The out on which the eubsidy shail b.
b. fixed and determned by
calculated shail
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There lu a limit.
thxe Governor jn Council, upon tixe recommenation of tii. miaieter, baeed upon a report of
Hon. Mr. POWER-Unless you can show
the chief engineer of the. Department of Public
Works, accompaaied by plane and specidlca- :that there le a very great necesslty for a
sucix cost
tiens of the proposed works, and
shall include any sum bona fide expended, or dock ln a giveu. port, why should the Govte b. expended, bythe company in the lYur- erament of Canada psy W1500 a year for
chas. cf a site for tixe dry dock;- and thxe the maintenance of a dock? - I do not see
amount of the subsidy shall b. eo fixed and
determined before the agreement for paymeat wby It should. If tihe psyment of $30,000
cf the mubsidy ie entered into.
a year, which bas been tendered for a great
Hon. Mr. POWEll-I sbonld like te make many years by the governmeut to any
an observation or 'two on this clause. There company that would build a dock wbere
are et tbe present time, I tbink, perbaps there la no dock now, wiil not induce a Comhaîf a dozen dry docks in Canada, and as a pany f0 bui'ld one, it shows there lu not any
rule, those dry docks are not properties demand for sncb a work-I meau the busithat pay very well. There is- a dry dock ness of tbe port does flot cail far a dock. In
at Halifax wbicb -%vas subsidized, I thluk, other places, these docks are built by comto one-third of the extent çrhicb this Bill paules without subsidies.
This measure
provîdes as to future dry docks. The Docornes almost te this, that the goverumeut
minion gorerument gave a subsldy of ten
shall spend a very large sum of money to
tbousand dollars a year, and the Britishx
a dock, perhaps tbree quarters of a
Admiralty and the city of Halifax eacb bulld
own the
year for a certain million, and tbe Company shahi
gave feu thoueaud a
doclu. That was the case wltb the bridge
leagtx of time. During the first 15 years
Home 20 yesrs ago.
or so of the existence of that dry dock it acrass tbe St. John river
Tbe country bult tbe bridge, and the cerndid a comparatively emaîl business. The
tbe goverument afterbusiness of a dry dock depends, of course, paay owned it and
wards, wbeu they came to move their own
very much on the location of the dock. It
84
REVISED EDITION

1330

SENATE

SENATE
2330
cars across that bridge whichb 'ad been bulit suffIient capacity for these larger vessels.
with the publie money, had to pay very This la intended, among other thinga, to
beavy toil, I thtnk $8 for each car that encourage the construction of docks to meet
went over the bridge. I have neyer ibelieved the necesailes of navigation. We ehould
in governinent ownership, but on* the other flot only endeavour to encourage sbipbuildhand, I do flot belleve in the goverument lng, but we ahould keep In our own country
paying for works and tbgn having these the repalrlng of our own vessels, so0 that
works owned by a company. If the busi- Canadian shippers would flot be dependent
ness of any place calle for a dry dock, tbat on United States ahipibuilders or United
dry dock ought to be bulIt with reasonable 'States dry, docks. I believe It ls'provlded
help from public authorities, but why now, or to*be provlded by the Customs Act
the Dominion alone-that le what It comes that a duty of 25 per cent la to hbe pald
to now-sbould pay for a dock which Io on the cost of repaire made to, our vessels
owned by a private company, 1 do flot un- In United States docks, when they return
to Canadian waters. That aiso would help
derstand.
to divert trade to our Canadien dry docks,
Roin. Mr, BEIQUE-The Bill lu hardly If they were sufficient for the purpose of
open to the criticism of the hon, gentleman. repairing theae vessels. We owe It to our
The bellp whlch may be granted by the gov- lnland ehipplng that we provide every faciernment le merely the interest for 20 years Ilty for repaira withln ourseives. The shipat 3 per cent on the outlay required for the building lndustry of Canada la falling off
construction of the dock. Lt la very differ- every year. If this would belli to Increase
ent from contributlng any portion of the or improve the industry, it la well worthy of
capital. Lt la merely the interest for a term consideratlon. We are committed to the
of years on the amount actuallY expended. hiit to the policy of subsIdies In Canada.
I understand thia la required because the In fact reference was made the other day
sbippIng Interest la flot of sucb magnitude to the extent to which paternalism la -carat places where dry docks may be requlred ried, but that la the pollcy of the'country.
as to, justify the expenditure of a large sum It la also the poiicy of Great Britain. We
of money by capitalists. Experience bas bave the British government subsidlzing
l)roved It, even with the law as It bas been the ' Moratania'1 and the ' Lucitania ' to the
on the statute book since 1882, when this extent of 24 per cent on the coat of their
lu Montreal construction to enable tbem to compete wltb
system was inaugurated.
there la need of a dry dock, but no capitalist the shlpping of other countries and hold the
lias been found read-y to advance the money supremacy of the. Atlantic. We have, as
required to buiid lt; therefore I think that the resuit, that she stilI owns the swLftest
this legisiation ls In the right direction.
vessels on the Atlantic. In a smaUl way,
Hon. '.%r. ROSS (Middlesex)-There la one let us maintain wiiatever ascendency we
dry dock at Collingwood on the upper lakes, have a right to maintaini on the lakes by
owned by a large ship building coînpany. providing for the repaira of our own shipIt la sufficlent to meet the requirements ping by our own people, and any reasonable
of tbe larger vessela on Lakes Huron and contribution to that end would be la bar>uperior. The dock was built some years mony wlth the poiicy of the goverament
ago, when vessels were of a anialler size, *and lu harmony with public opinion of the
and now it is not sufficiently large to ac- *Dominion or Canada.
commodate the larger vessels that .ply on
Hon. Mr. McSWEE'N.EY-In iSt. John,
lat la the resuit? M'heu any
the lakes.
large vessel la damaged, it has to be tak-en they have been trylng to get a dry dock,
to Detroit for repaira. That givea employ- and even with the subsidy of three per
ment to the Detroit shlpbullders, and the cent on a million dollars and a subsidy of
business which ought to remain in Canada
Lt re- $2,500 a year from the city of St. John and
la dlverted to the United Siates.
quirea a large auiount. seven or eiglit lin- $5,O from the puîovincial governineut as
dred thousaad dollars, to build a dock with well, tbey have been unable to enliat capilion Mr. POWER.

JUNE 25, 1908

1331

JUNE 25, 1908

1331

ta] for sncb an enterprîse, for there ls reahly
uo money ln It for any company.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 8.

8. Whenever it appears to the Goveruor in
Council that auy dock, constructed, or enu
larged and extended, under the provisions of
this Âct, is uot in repair aud workiug order,
the Governor iu Council may authorize aud
empower the minister to cause possession to
be takeu of the dock ou behaif of Ris Majesty
aud to expend out of any nnappropriated
money fo;rmiug part of the Consolidated
Revenne Fnd of Canada anfficient to put the
dock in a state of efficiency and repair.
Hlou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-By
the neit clause, after thîs thc goverument
tirc enipowercd to operate the works, eud
ln the lOth clause tbey take power to baud
thec dock back to the comnpany. Now, If
you assume any one of tbese docks for Uic
reasons lndlcated lu this clause -and spend
a very large amount of nioney lu repaira
and making It fit for use, I eau find ne
provision lu tie Bill wbcu you baud Uic
dock back to Uic company to ersett from
the conipany thc amont expcnded on Uic
repaira. la it Intcnded that the work may
be retuned wlthiout auy cousideratlon for
thc mouey cxpended lu operating and kecping It lu repaîr ?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-You could flot 18Y
down any arbitrary Iaw.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If we
are to judge froni the action of goverumeuta in the past, that presumption la an
erroneous one. The latter portion of the
9tb clause does flot affect the point I bave
raiscd. The earnings are to be expendcd
in the maintenance of the dock, eud If there
la anything over It goes towards the payment of Intercat ou the bonds lssued to
assiat ln the building of the dock.
Thei
point I raisedl was this, that lu case the
government took over the dock eud apent
a large amount of money over and above
the earnings, and then handed the work
back to the companY, there la no provision
lu this Bill to exact from the compauy the
amount cxpeuded by the goverument lu repalrlng the dock and the expenses over aud
above the receipta.

Hon. Mr. BDIQUE-The bon. member
is quite correct. 1 mercly drcw hia attention to the latter part of clause' 9 for the
purpose of showiug *that the policy of the
Bill la that the expeudIture made by the
goverumeut should ait be relmbursed out
of the toUls, aud that, therefore, thc working ont of clause 10 shonld be made according to that as far as possible, but It
Hon. Mr. S00TT-It Ils not actually
is bardly practîcable to adopt .a clause
ueeessary. 0f course It would be un tbe
which could apply to ail cases that maY
discretion ofthUi governmcnt.
It la Imarise.
possible te forccast wbat Une Uic geverunient wonld taike. They probably would
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
maire a charge ef se much per'cent on the would be -very easy to provîde that lu case
ainount wbicb bad been added. Tbcy wonld the goverumeut baud It over, Uic !ompauY
It wonld dePcnd alto- that assumes Uic respouslbiiity of taklng It
bold It as a lien.
getuier upon Uic conditions.
over shaîl pay the expeuses incurred by
Heu. Mr. BEIQUE-Under clause 9, tic goverument.
tlic governieut, aftcr haviug taken posHou. Mr. SCOTT-Tbey might flot be
session oftheli dry dock, apples, the caru- able to do so.
inga towards relmbnraiug the expenditure
Hon. Mr. CASGRIN-Thc bon. geutleThen conies
made by the goverument
clause 10 wbicb provîdes tbat the Geveruor man will sec tbat the advances are to be
lu Council may at any turne direct the rcpaid. Tbosc advances must be for mouey
rcdellvcry ef possession ef thec dock to expeuded lu repairs.
the compauy. It la expccted that Uic GovHou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI,-It
ernor lu Council would lu doing s0 proteet
in a reasouable measure any expeuditure goe further; If there la a suffichent suni
made wbich bad flot been repald lu the collected to pay the expenses, auythlng ln
excesa can be applicd to the paymeut of
meantime.
Hou. Sir .MACKENZIE BOWELL-That intereat on bonds. That doca not meet Uic
point I raise.
la a mere prcsutuptlon.
844

1332

SENATE

1332

SENATE

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-You couid flot lay
down an arbItrary principle, because you
are entlrely dependent upon the conditions.
There are the bondbolders to be considered; we-cannot very well confiscate their
Suppose the government were
property.
to take It over and say 1you have falied to
keep this dock open; we wvll takre posession of it,' on what ternis is it to be restored? If the company have the mens
to take It back and pay ail the arrears, It
would be handed over on those ternis and
conditions, but you cannot Iay down any
rule, because we might have to takre 50
We
cents on the dollar of the advances.
cannot anticipate wliat the conditions will
be; It would be absolu tely Impossible.

the government not only to compel the
company to submit a tariff, but to provide
that If the company make defanît to submit the tariff, then the government shaîl
be ln 'a position to make a tariff themselves.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Betore the dry dock
could be opened, there wouid have to be
a tariff.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-But If the coinpany did not finish it?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-With this amendment the government would tben have the
power to niake a tariff.
The clause was amended and adopted.

Hon. Mr. COX, from tlue comtnittee,
Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
mus beowlg
t mystpidtytha i rnreported the Bill with amenduients which
n.
were concurre
unabie to make myseif understood.
Hon.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I understand perfect- YUKON PLACER MINING ACT ÂMENDMENT BILL.
ly. The hon. gentleman says the government should hoid the dock until the adREPORTED FROM COMMITTEL.
vances are repaid.
The House resoived itself lnto committee
Hon. Sir. MACKENZIE BOWBljl-No. If of the Whoie on Bill (150) An Act to axnend
the business of the dock Is found sufficient the Yukon Placer Minlng Act.
to give a profit over and above the exHon. Mr. BEIQUE froni the committee
penses, and the company asks to have the reported the Bill without amendmnenit.
dock retransferred to theni, and the coinCO-OPER.4,TION BILL.
pany becomes owner of the dock again,
there is no provision in the Bill by which
REPORT 0F COMMITTEE ÂDOPTED.
the goverament shall require the coinHou. Mr. GIBSON moved the adoption of
pany to refund the moneys expended upon
the dock. That has nothlng whatever to the special report of the Standing commuittee
do with the Interest on the bonds or the on Banking and Commerce ou Bill (5) An
Act respecting co-ol)eration.
confiscation of property.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I propose to, discuss the question raised by the
On clause Il relating to tolîs and reguhon. gentleman fromn Halifax and some
lations,
others, as to the practice in Engiand in reHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I destre to submit f erring these questions or auy question to
a amaîl amendment to this clause. The judges and to the Solicitor Generai. It wiil
new clauses in the Bill give the right ot be remembered that the position taken iy
expropriation.
The tolls can be estab- some hon, gentlemen here was that we liad
hIshed only a9fter the coinpany has submitted stepped beyond our powers as a committee,
a tariff for the purpose. There niay be and that such action had neyer been beard
cases where the goverument woilld take of, and there were no precedents. I reinupossession of a dry dock before there was ber very well concurring in the remarks
any tariff submitted for approval. and, mnade by the hou. gentleman, that this l)1obtherefore, there would be no ïmachinery for ably was the fIrst occasion In Canada on
the goverument to levy tolls. 1, therefore, whicu a report of tliat character had been
propose to aniend the clause so as to enable made, but I intend to place upon record the
Ron. Sir MACKE'NZIE BOWELL.

ETNE 25, 1908

1333

1333
.TTJNE 25. 1908
House of Lords te consult wltb the Lords
action of the House of Lords and aiso the
procedure tbat bas taken place ln somewhat wben dlscusslng certain questions, bas talanalogois cases by the British Bouse of len into disuse, they sf111 attend when sumComnions. It will be seen by the prece- moned. A note af the botfom ef tbe page
dents I quote that the committee only asked refera f0 a speech made by Lord Lyndhuret
to do that wbicb bas been done ln the past upon this samne subject, la which be pointe
out very clearly wbat the Lords may do
ln the Imperlal Parliament.
upon sucb an occasion. He discusses thia
The SPEÂKER-I understand the hon.
question af seine lengfb upon a motion
gentleman froni Belleville bas asked to
tuoved by hlmselt to refer the question of
supplement bis remarks by a few quotations, ap4pointing lite peers. The question arome
and I suppose it is the pleasure of the House wben certain gentlemen were calied te the
to receive theux.
Hlouse as life peers, as being an infringeHon. Mr. FERGUSON-The decision of nment upon the old and esfablisbed usage of
tbe Chair would close out smre points tbe tue House of Lords, appolnted nef oniy for
bon, gentleman desires to bring up. I un- life, but' ia the ordinary way ef inaking
derstand His Honour the Speaker is ready them hereditary. He laid down the princito give a decision on the point of order.
pie very clearly that they had the full
The SPEAKER-The bon. gentleman sim- power f0 caîl f0 their aid eifber of the
ply desired to have recorded la the Debates Judges or the Attorney Generai or tbe Sol!citer General, net only to listea to the dea.couple of quotations.
bates, but t0 give advice upon the conHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe stitutionalify of the question which they
point of order, as I understand it, is that tbe were discussing. Referring to the Bill, be
committee bas exceeded its powers, and said:that If bad ao power or authority te pass
was provided that the judges
the resolution whicb was passed, asklnig the ofIn that Bill.ofif equity should attend for the
the court
Senate to obtain the opinion of tbe Mînister hearing of appeals la their hordships' bouse.
desirable
always thought that a
of Justice ; and it was aise stated by many He had Ia writs of errer fromn most courts of
the
objet.
hon. gentlemen that we were divesting our- coramon law, their iordships were assisted by
selves of that legisiatîve power whlch ls ail the judiciai sfrengfh of those courts.
veeted ln the Senate ln asking the opinion
Thas la, f0 decide a question of the
Qt others. It was aise stated that in deing constitutionality Of the course which biad
that, we are aibnegating our funçtions .by been taken and adopted by the minisfry of
ask-ing the opinion of others. What I want- tlîe day. I amn reading froni the Parhiaed to show was tbat similar cases bave oc- mentary Debates, third series, volume 117,
curred. la England. May, at page 19S of the The debate which 1 arn quoting now is on
Eleventh EdItion of bis work, says:
the 23rd June, 1851. He goes on to say :
*The assistants of the House of Lords are
In former tumes the judges were quesfioned
the judges, the attorneys and Solicitor Gener- bv theirlordships on points of equity as wel
ai, and such of the Privy Council as are called as on points oi law, and there wae reasen why
by writ from the Crown te attend.
it should be se, because four of the judges were
Tbat la to attend meetings of the House net judges on questions of law enly, but on
questions of equity aise.
The
of Lords wben they are la session.
Then again lie Baya:
extract continues:
He was quite sure the assistance of the
The judges as assistants of the lords held a
the
more important place in parliament; ia ancient; iearned judges cf the courts cf equify onwith
hearing cf appeals would be received
times then that which is now assigned te
them, having bad a voie of suffrage, as weli great eatisfaction by their lordshipsa nd by the
as a voice of advice. They were &lao occasion- counltry at large, and would inspire confidence
ally made joint committees with the lord's and in their hordships' decisions, both among
parliament-a practice which continued until suitors and the public.
the latter end of the reign of Queen Elizabeth.
Tbat la jusf the position that the BankTheir attendance was formerly enforced on
ing and Commerce Cornmittee desire te
ail occasions, but now they are summoned by
special order, wben their advice is required. Occupy. They desired te have the opinion
WVhile 'the
oid practîce of summninng of the Minister et Justice upon the constitionallfy ef the Act wllh we were then
tbeni f0 the House, and sittlng in the

1334

S E'-\ý-T E
A

1334

SENATE

considering, wich would justlfy thent In tmat was taken at the time very clearly
either supporting and passing the Act or tliat we were exceeding our powers. and
rejectlng It. He further says:
that we hiad flot the right te do that whichi
The Bill to which he had referred contained w-as recommended to the Seunte to do, I
a provison that certain persons should attend find also that May, at page 845 states:
their lordship,' house to hear appeals, that
.No local Bill is te be read a first time until
they should ho summoned and that in accordance with snch summons they should attend the examiner hias certilied compliance with
their lordships and give their advice and the Standing Orders, and ne such Bill eriginating in the Lords is to be read later than
assistance.
three days after such certificate.
Âgain hie says:
He says further:
The writ of summons was the samie in their
cease as in that of their lordships themselves,
'No local Bill brought fromt the Gemmons is
not only that their lordships were summoned te be read a second time until after the certito deliberate and determine-the others te 1 ficate of the examiner, nor after certain dates
deliberate and advise, and whenever the House I (generally in June) determined by an order
made an order on those parties, it w-as in- which is sessienally made. Bis affecting any
cumbent en them to attend the loeuse.
charity or educational foundation in England
ho read
second time
are
That is precisely what the comimittee or Ireland Haousenot te received aa -report from
has
until the
desîres ln titis case.
There are other the Attorney General.
points ln thls speech bearing upon the saine
It seemis te mie that is clear enougli as xi.
subject and equally as strong as those to. the practice liu England, even at the presexit
whlch I have ca]led attention, showing conday, upon certain Buis w-hicl are introclusIvely that in the House of Lords for
duced and ask-ed te be confirimed by the
,centuries back, and even up to the present
loeuse of Gommons. It niay- e said that
tie,
when they have intricate constituthis practice appies exclusiveiy to Bis
tional questions to decide, they hesitate Dot
affecting a charity or granting charity te
to apply flot only te, the law officers of the
Be that as it May, the
Orown, but to, the judges of the higher certain Institutions.
prîncîple is preelseir the sanie. We find
courts, and order sonie of thent to attend
that ln the Lords,.eveni nt the îpresent day.
the 'House of Lords to give advice upon
law officers of the îGrowu
these questions.
Then talking of the they surmen the
and even summon, when they think it necespowers of
this Heuse-because it was
te give
stated ln one case that the powers of the sary, the judges ef the highier courts
them advice upon questions afiecting the
Senate were questioned-lf you refer te a
debate ln the Hlouse of Commnons iu Eng- constitution of the country, and that ls laid
land ln 1857 on a question that was then dewn and justified very clenrly by Lord
before the Honse ln whichi the power of Lvndhurst lu mnoving the resolution te
parliamient was questioned as té thue course which I have referred. Then if w-e turu te
they were pursuing. Lord Johin Russelli n the authority whlch I bave just rend, we
discusslng this question quoted the opinion find that certain Buis in the lieuse of Comngîven by Chief Justice Fortescue, -whea the meons are flot now allowed to pass untîi
question was put to hlmn as to the power ef the report of the law officers ef the Crown
parlamtent to deai with any que~stion. His lbas been recelved. 1 have taken the trouble
te look Into thils matter te show cleariy
Lordship gave bis opinion:
that the commlttee bas net exceeded its
They ought not to answer that question, for powers ln asking-, nor infringed upon the
it hath not been used aferetime, that the jus.
tices shonld in any way determine the privi. rights ef the Senate or the memtbers of the
loges of this high court of parliament, for it Seniate by asklng the Senate te obtain the
is so high and mighty in its nature that it opinion of the law officers ef the Crown
may maire lau', -and that that is law it may
upoa the constitutlonality of the Bill that
make ne lau', etc.
In fact, absolute power to declare that was considered at that tinme. It bias been
charged against myseit, and 1 tbink against
that whIch is net law 15 law.
This is a
question of their privilege and the determi- the Uhaîrman, that thîs course was adopted
nation and knowiedge of their privileges by us for the purpose of kllling the 'Bill. I
belong to the Lords of parlianient and flot have every reason te believe and te know,
to the justices. Answering, the objection front the feeling that exlsted liu the coinHlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JUNE 25, 1908
mittee, that the Bill would have been rejected, and it bas been stated that I was
desirous, lu having this resolution passed
to obtain an opinion which would justify
the cominittee in recommendlng is passage
by this House. If the tMinister of Justice
should decide that it is uncoustitutional,
this House shouid be bound to accept that
opinion. I k-now from the smile on the
Speaker's face tbat 1 was treading on a
delicate gronnd whien I referred to the
committee, but I could not very well give
expression to the views that I had desired
to express w-ithout referriug to it as I did.
I wish It diqtinctly understoÔd-and 1 think
I speak for xny hion. friend who Is now on
my ieft (Flou. Mfr. Gibson) as well-that w-e
have no desire whatever to, kili the Bill. To
use a cominon expression, I take no stock
ln the puerile objections taken to the Bill.
I stoutly favour the l)riuciijle of allow-ing
any persous to join together for their indlvidual benefit, so long as they do not hnfringe the laws of the country, or Interfere
with the exclusive rights of others.
The establishment of a co-operative soclety
for their benefit is not to be considered an interfereuce whth the retailers ln any business, whether grocers or dry-goods or otber merchants. A
few Individuais have Just as good a right
to my mmnd, as merchauts to, co-operate for
their own Indiridual advantage and obtain
goods lu the cbeapest market possible. I
arn strongly of the opinion, from the authorîties whlch I have cited, that thougli
probably the report we are asked to adopt
mlght be improved in f orm by slight
amendment, w-e are quite correct, aud that
this House would be justified ln pursuing
the course that bas been suggested, of
obtainlng the opinion of the Minister of Justice. I know that some gentlemen bere w-ho
discussed this point the *ther nighit, said
that we were not only abnegating our functions as legislators, but that we were admittlng that there w-as superior k.nowledge to
be obtained f rom other people to that w-hlch
we possessed ourselves. It Is possible that
the gentlemen W-ho uttered those sentiments
may hbave a hîgher opinion of their ow-n
ability and discerument. and power to coustrue the constitution of this country than
the Lords of Eugland or the members of

1335
13

the Imperial House of Commons, Who seek
the advice of the law officers of the iCrow-ni
w-heu tbey deem' It necessary, -ln order to
keep themseives right lu the course tbey
are pursuing, ln placlug laws upon tue
statute-bôok.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-In case 'the remarks I made mlght have been misunderstood. If the. hon. gentleman refers to anything I said, I neyer meant to Insinuate, or
to say in. any w-ay that the object of the
commlttee ln recommending that It be sent
the
to the Minister of Justice w-as to 1<111
Bill. I neyer lnsinuated anything of the
klnd, but 1 did say that If «we lid the Bill
lu our possession, and if w-e sou.ght to refer
It, I dld not see w-here the Bili %vould find a
standing. place w-heu it came l>ack to us.
aud that thait motion w-ould be equivaleul
to a six months' hoist as far as this Senate
is coucerned.
DY-tcould always be
Hon. '-%r. L
replaced on the orders of the day.
Hon. 31r. FERGUSON-It w-ould menu a
delay. sud menu the handing of it to nu
officer over w-hom w-e bad no control, and
a long time w-ould be taken up in consideration of it, w-hlch might have that effect. 1
neyer concurred lu the view that w-e had
flot the power to send it to the Minister of
Justice, but w-e hiad the Bill lu our possession. There w-as no doubt lu my mind if
w-e had the Bill lu our possession w-e had
the pow-er.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I hiad
no reference to, the hou. gentleman at ail.
It w-as not stated ln the House. It w-as
stated among the members that for other
that for a political purpose, that we were
trying to kîli the Bill. The Bill bas neyer
left the commlttee. The Bill Is still standing for consideration by the committee, sud
the moment w-e get a report from the Minister of Justice. If we ever get It, it wiIl be
referred to, the commlttee at once, and they
wil deal with It, and if no answ-er la given
by the Minister of Justice or he declines to
give an answer, then It wlll be the duty of
the committee to, proceed with the Blill aud
deal w-lth It.
The SPEAXER-The point of orde'r. as
raised by the hou. gentleman froju Halifax,
covers, as far as my* understauding of it

1336

SENATE

goes, the rlght of this House or of the com- 1 accept the suggestion made by bis bonour
mlttee to refer this Bill to the Minister of 1the Speaker. It was not the Intention. of the
Justice, as ln tbe case of a reference to the committee to lay the 'Bill before tbe Minissupreme court under our rules. At tiret ter of Justice. Had that been done without
slght this report seems to warrant the the autbority of the Senate, the Bill would
Interpretation given to It by the hon, gentle- have accompanled the report ? What we
man from Halifax. On readlng the report slmply asked for was leave f rom. the Senate
more closely, 1 came to the conclusion that to submit the Bill to the Mînister of Justice.
this was not, and could flot be the Intention If we had brougbt the Bill Into tbe Ijouse,
of the commlttee, because the Bill le not tben the Bill would bave been before the
reported.
Senate, but we dld not act upon the Bill furThe report reads:
tber than we had reached the dilemma, as
The Standing Committee on Banking and far~ as the committee was concerned, as to
Commerce, to whom was referred the Bill wbetber we bad the power after ail the ob(No. 5 from the House of Commons) intituled: jections taken, and the conclusion of the
' An Act respecting Ço-operation,/ have ln committee was simply as tbere was sucb a
obedience to the order of reference of 24th of contradiction of opinion amnongst the genMarch last, exarnined the said Bi, and now
tlemen representing the various governbeC lenve to report as follows:
It does flot say 'beg leave to report the ments, that we tbought the wisest course to
take was to bring in the report askiug leave
same.'
of tbe Senate to submit the Bill to the MinThe report adds:
ister of Justice for bis consideration and
This committee deems it advjsable that the
Senate, before proceeding with the further approval. I am quite willing, as chairman
consideration of the said Bill, shouid refer of the commlttee, If I may be permitted by
the said Bill tc, the Minister of Justice, with the House, to accept the recommendation of
a request that he will give his opinon as to
the exclusive right of the provincial legisia- His Honour the Speaker, that we asl, the
tures tu deal with the subWet thereof.
leave of this House to seek the opinion of
The point raised by the hou. gentlemlan tbe iMinister of Justice with respect to tbis
from Halifax is based on an erroneous Inter- Bill. 1 thlnk that will cover tbe ground.
pretation of the report, Inasmucb as tbe Bill
THE SPEAKER-As the bon, gentleman
ls flot before us, and, ln consequence, I debas moved concurrence lu the report, some
clare that the point of order is not well
To my mind, the House and the other bon, gentleman wili bave to make
taken.
committee have the right, for tixeir Informa- tbe motion.
tion, to seek the opinion of the Mînister of
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I will maire the
Jusice on a BIil whlch Is before them. But
motion.
although I thus decide, I would draw tbe
attention of tbls bonourable House to
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Before tbe motion is
the tact that the report as made Is submitted to tbe Senate, I desire to refer to
most exceptional; It asks the iSenate a statement made by the ex-premier and exto takre action upon a Bill which bas leader of the opposition. 1 tbilk be interflot been returned to the Senate, and to preted the statements nmade differeutiy from
niy mmnd the better course would have been what they were intended. I remember very
for the commIttee, If it feit that it had not well stating that in my opinion, as this was
the authority to seek that advlce, to ask simply a report, and no reference to its
leave to obtain It, and. lu consequence. I going back to tbe commlttee, that If we
,would suggest that tbe report be either re- passed tbnt report we wvould-I think I used
ferred back for reconsideration to the com- the word ' scuttie'1 the Bill. Wbat I then said
mittee, or that it be referred back wltb an I bave the pleasure of knowing that the
authorization to tbe conimittee to seek the Speaker now endorses. There was ne deadvice of the Minîster of Justice. 1 'would sire, or any intention on the part of any ef
favour the flrst course.
those who made these remarks to insinuâte
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-As chairmian of the that there was a deliberate Intention on the
committee, with the approval of the House, part of tbe committee to shunt this responThe SPEAKER.

JrTNE 25, 1908

1337

lUNE 25. 1908

1337

certainly bave given bis adbesion ta the
Bill, and that being so, I do nlot think there
la any reference necessary to hlm at al].
The committee cannot take It Up and reconsider its provisions. If tbey have flot
amended It ln every respect as they want
ta amend it, they could finish thefr work and
report it ta the House.

sibiiity off on the Minister of Justice. What
we then said, and wrbat I have noir stated,
ls that there iras a means whereby, If ire
passed that -report, that the Bill should be
brought back ta the iSenate and revived
and considered by the Senate. That iras
zny object. Those were the irords I used,
and I do not think they can be dlstorted ln
any shape or manner ta convey the expresHon. Mr. GIBSO.N-I do nlot tbink I arn
sion be impled, by his statement here ta- infriuging on the rules ef the House ln
Uight.
regard ta the pecuilar conditions of this
The SPEAKER-The matter stands on a report. I may say that nlot a section of the
motion of the bon. gentleman from Lincoln, Bill has been read by the committee. Ail
that bas been doue was to hear the learned
that the report be noir concurred Ini.
counsel wbo came before us to represent the
Hon. M. BEIQU-I suppose the matter various provinces, protesting ln toto against
wiii stand until to-morrow. Without adding the Bill. The Bill bas neyer been dealt with
any remarks at ail, I wouhd raîse a question by the committee as ta one clause or anof order, on the ground that I stated in sup- other, and auy recommendation tbat would
port of the point raised by the bon, gentle- go back ta the comxnittee wouId simply
Lian from Halifax, that the: report la no leave the Bill wbere it was before. We ask
report; it ls neot irithin. the functions of the for leave of this House, as sug-gested. by
committee, and that tbe committee dld not the bon. Speaker, If some one wll make the
The committee does not motion to adopt the recommendation of
report the Bill.
require any authority ta ask the opinion of Hie Honour the Speaker, ta get the
opinion of the Minister of Justice so
the Minister o! Justice.
that the Bill may be proceeded with.
simple motion to reThe SPEAKER-A
There le no attempt on the part of the comfer the Bill back for reconsideration wouid
mittee ta destroy this Bill. Many Bis came
attain the same end.
down from the House of Commons, and It
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I tbink the pro- Is quite competent in this case as well as
per way would be ta send It -back for re- in every other, ta make ameudments ta
consideration. From a remark that iras them. But we have not reached the point
dropped, it would seem to be inferred that where an amendment bas been suggested
the committee could take the action of re- by one aide or the other. We were s0 injecting the Bill. It lo a public Bill, and terested that noa unfair means sbould be
the committee cannot do that Ail they taken against the Bill that we considered
con do Is ta make amendmnents, whicb I we sbould know at Ieast wbere we stood,
understand bas already been done, and and thiat we were standing on flrmn ground
when it goes back to them, they cau further with respect ta the constitutionallty of the
consider it, or they ean get the opinion o! Bill itself before proceeding with It.
the Minister af Justice on it, or they can
Hon. Mfr. CASGItAIN-I more ln amendreport the Bill tQ the Hanse. To my mmnd, ment, seconded by the bon, gentleman from
I tbink the better way would be that they Toronto, that this report be nlot noir
should report the Bill to the -House and adopted, but tbat it be referred back te
it should be referred ta a committee o! the committee for furtber cooneideration.
the whole as I bave already stated, Then it can be worded properiy irben It
I do not think that a reference to the ls In committee.
Minister of Justice is called for at ail, for
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I move in amendthis renson, that the Bill irent througb the
House 0f Commons ' and tbe M.%inister of ment ta the amendment, that the action
Justice was a member of the Hanuse of Com- asked for by that report to be exercised by
nions; that It was adopted by the govern- the 'Senate be left ta the conimittee ijtment of wbii be is a member, and he must self.

SENATE

1338

SENATE
1333
is flot our motion of the l9th October, 1903, entered into between
Hou. Mr. KERR-Tbat
the government and the Quebec Bridge and
at ail. The icommlttee bave made an appli- Railway Company?
What is the amount so, subscribed by each
cation. Let us eitber adopt that report or
it bnck to the committee, and let of these persons or of these companies?
refer
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Tlie auswers to the
tbem deal with it agaln.
want bon. gentleman's questions are as foiiows:
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tse committee
ths Hous-e to ask the permission. We say,
Date
*ask It yourselvès.'
Hon. Mr. KERR-Send it back to them,
and they can get the advlce or flot.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We send the report
back, and you bave a right to ask it yourselves.
Hon. '.%r. BEIQUE-I think this subameudmnent ls open to a point of order,
because it is flot upon the grouud that the
coanmittee bas the power to bave any mandate or permission froin this bonourable
House to enlighten itself. It bas the rigbt
to do so, and I tbînk it would be a bad
precedent because It would be implying
that the committee hias no sucb power.

Amount.

Naine.

Hon. S. N. Parent. ...
H. M. Price.. ...........
J. B. Laliberte..........
N. Rioux..............
V. Boswell...... ......
Hon. N. Garneau ...

R. Audette ..... .. ......
J. Break6y .............
G. Lemoine ............
....
F. G. Fortier .......

Hugli A. Ailan ....

.....

C10harlesi M. Hays (in tut.
M. P. Davia ............

of
subscription

2,500 Dec. 7,1903
400
9, 193
9, 1903
200
9, 1903
400

s
9,1903
91903
200
9, 1903
400
3, 1903
200
9, 1903
200
100 Jan. 3, 1904
27, 1904
25,000
50,000
27, 1904
25,000 Feb. 24, 1904
,24, 1904
91,900

200,000

The SPEAKER-On the assumption that LOCATION 0F GRAND TRUNK PACIthe committee bas the power to seek tbat
F10.
advice, the bon. gentleman wiil not Insist
INQVIRY.
upon bis sub-amendment.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired of the govHon. Mr. LANDRY-Well, if lt Is understood that the committee bave that power, erninent:
so that they will flot send it back with
Ras the line of the Grand Trun'k Pacifie betweea Quebec and Edmundston, and especially
another prayer.
.
in the nihburhood of Lakes Long and Po.&n the cournties of Teinîsco uata
The sub-amendmeflt was withdrawn and héeao
and Kamouaka, been definitely located?
the amendmnt was declared carried.
Since whei?
At what place precisely does this line pass
The Senate adjourned until tbree o'clociç
in the region of Lakes Long and Pohéinega±o-morrow.
mook P
What is the length of the railway in question betweea-

(a) Quebec and Edmundston?
<(b)Edmundstoa and Moncton?
What is the elevation, in feet per 100 feet,
Friday, June 26, 1908.
OTTAWA,
of the grades. especially those which are to
the west of Lake Pohénegamook
The lSPEAKER took the Chair at Three
What is the number and the lengtih of the
curves or detours made to avoid the ascents
o'clock.
and descente between Quebec and Edmuadston P
Prayers and routine proceedings.
At what place are the most marked curves
situated P
4QUEBEC BRIDGE AND RAILWAY COMNPANY.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers are as
follows:
INQUIRY.
1. Part of the line of the National Trans%r. LANDRY inquired of the gov- continental Railway betweeu Quebec and
Hon. -.
.erament:
Edmundston has been definlte)y located, viz.:
What are the naines of the persons or of the Froin the Quebec bridge eastward to about
companies who subscribed the $200,000 additional of capital stock required by the contract 6 miles east ef the southi end of Lake

THE SENATE.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

J1INE 26, 1908
Pohênegamook and fromi Edmundston westward te the boundary between Quebec and
New Brunswick.
The line lu the vlclnlty
of 'Lake Long bas been located, but bas flot
*vet been approved by order in euncil.
2. That part of the Une between Quebec
bridge and Lake Pohénegamook has been
definitely located and approved by order
ln councli at varlous times betwen~ May,
1907, and May, 1908, the portion ln the
vlclnlty of Lake Pohénegamook havlng been
approved by order in council, May 30, 1908.
The portion between Edmundston and New
Brunswick-Quebec boundary, was approved
June and July, 1907.
3. The line passes close to the south western shore of Lake Pohénegamook for about
three miles, crosslng the southern extremity
of the lake nt 'the boundary Une between
the counties of ICamouraska and Terniscouata.
The lune, as at present located
<but not npproved) passes close to the
southern shore of the western part of Lake
Long, and crosslng sald lake at the 1Nar'rows'1 passes close to the northern shore of
the eastern part of sald* lake.
4. (a) From north abutment of Quebec
bridge to Edmundston 229-44 miles.
(b)
230-,30 Miles.
5. The grade frcmn the south end of Lake
Pohênegamook immedlately westward for
about 10 miles Is about 1 *10 feet per 100
feet compensated for curvature, rlsing westivard.
The maximum grades for the reniaInder of the portion la question are 0-4
feet per 100 feet risln.- eastwards and 0Ol
feet per 100 feet rislng westwards, ail compensated for curvature.
6. 272 curves, total length 365,342 feet.
7. The most marked curves are at mile
17, about 2 miles east of boundary between
icounties of Lévis and Dorchester, Quebec.
Mile 39, crossing of River Etchemin; mile
71, crosslng of River du Moulin; mile 140,
crossing of River du Loup; mile 174, south
end of Lake Pohénegamook.
FRENCH TREATY.
Hon. Sir MACKF)NZIE BOWEIL-Before the orders of the day are called, I
should like to caîl the attention of the MinIster of Trade and Commerce to a question that was asked ln the lImperlal parlusment the other day ln reference to the
French treaty.
It ls as follows:

1339
13

Franco-Canadian convention.
Mr. Pike Pease (Darlington, Opp.> asked the
Secretary for Foreign AI airs whether any
representations had been received front the
goveraments cf Germany and other foreign
countries as to the probable effeet upon. their
trade of the Franco-Canadian convention; and
if so, would he state their purport to the.
Hlou.
Mr. J. A. Pease .(Essex, Saffron Walden),
answering for Sir E. Grey, said: 8cm. iiuquiries have been received-from foreign countries as to how the most-favoured nation
clause wîll b. interpreted in respect ta the
Franco-Canadian convention. Onlly one communication has been received which is a
representation as to the prejudicial effect of
the. convention upon trade with any other
country; it is being transmitted te the Canadian goverament, and tli they have received
and considered it my right hon. friend can
make no further statement about IL.
I sbculd like to' ask the Minister cf
Trade and Commerce whether any suchi
communication lias been received frcmi the
home governrnt and fromn what counitries
were the representatiens made, or ra-ther
froni what country was the representation
made te the Imperlal parliarnent as te the
lll-effect upon their trade arlsing out of the
provisions of the Franco-Canadian treaty.
If such communication bas -been received,
wlll the gevernment be prepared to lay sncb
communication befere the House?
It is
a matter, my lion. friend will readily understand, of very grent Importance, the effect
which the Franco-Canadian treaty may have
upon trade generaliy, and more particularly
upon that of Canada.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIn the first place, we have not yet received.
any assurance as to the passage of the
treaty In question through the French Senate befere whcm It at present Is placed.
Unider these circumstances, It would be
rather premature to dIscuse the effect of a
treaty wbich may neyer come inte effect,
for ought we know to the contrary. There
has been, I belleve, sorne communication
recelved by the Imperlal authorîties from
Germany, and those matters -are under consideration at this present moment but I
am not ln a position to state te my lion.
friend as yet wbat action, If any, the
Canadian governrent may see fit to take
about It. To the best of rny recollection,
It h as been slmply from Germany the demand has orne, and, as the bon. gentleman knows, the German trade wlth Can-

1340

SENATE

1340

SENATE

ad le afflicted flot merely witb a general
tariff but wltb a speciai surtax provided
as au offset against tbe German tarif. He
knows aiea that tbe Germans bave It ln
tbeir power to get rid of that surtax If
tbey place Canada ln the same position we
occupied before tbey quarreiled wltb us
because> we gave Great Britain priviieges
whlcb we did flot extend to tbem.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-1155 tbe bon, gentleman any Idea wbat lias caused the delay
In tbe passage of the treaty by tbe French
Senate ?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI bave no officiai Information, but persanally I might say lt Is because the Frencht
are affiicted with the heresy of protection
wblch bas made sucb progress lu other
quarters.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
shouid like to aek furtber, ln case any deeision is corne to by the Canadian gaverfiment, or any Information tbey receive upon
tbis question, wiil nly hon. friend be able
to lay it before parliament la order tbat
we may understand wbat the objections
are ?P
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI sbouid be giad to do so If w'e could; but
M'y bon. friend wilI understand there will
probabiy be pour'parlers and neg-otations
gaing on witb tbe German government,
and wbiie they are being carried on, It:
migbt be Inconveniefit to bring down an
imperfect carrespondence.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-1
compliment my boa. frîend on bis gaverfiment baving adopted tbat protection beresy
since tbey bave been ln power, notwitbstanding tbeir condemnation. of it wbile
tbey were lu opposition.
Hon. Mr. PERGUSON-I tbink my riglit
bon. frlend. long ago passed the stage wben
be regarded protection as a beresy.
Hon. Sir RICHIARD CARTWRIGHTBy no manner of mens. I bave nat altered my views of lt ln any respect.
THIRD READINGS.
Bill (71) An Act respecting the Standard
Mutual Pire Iasurauce Company and to
l.r.

V.-

lDT01EADf

rPWP(nT

cbange Its name ta tbe Standard Fire Insuranee Company.--(Hon. Mr. Kerr.)
Bill (169) An Act to amend the Yukon
Act, as amended.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
Bill (119) An Act ta encourage tbe Construction of Dry Docks.--<Hon. Mr. Scott.)
Bill (171) An Act respecting tbe government Guaranteed Bonds of tbe Grand
Trunk Pacific Railway Company.--<Hon.
Mfr. Scott.)
Bill (150) An Act ta amend the Yukon
Placer Minlng Act.--(Hon. 'Mr. Scott.)
INSPECTION AND SALES
ACT.

0F GRAIN

IN COMMITTEE.
The Hanse resoived itself into a Coinmittee of the Wbole on Bill (CCC) Au Act
ta amend the Inspection and Sale Act as
regards grain.
(In the Comnnittee.)
Han. Mfr. DAVIS-Tbis Is au Important
zueasure; we bave a slun Hanse, as we aiways bave on Frlday afternoon, witb a
possibility tbat by four a'ciack nearly
everybody wba can get away wili be away,
and there ls gaing ta be a week's adjounment; I would therefare ask the minister
If it wonld not be a fair proposition to postpane tbe iconsideration of this ineasure
until we resume? I do not think a matter
of tbis Importance sbould be rusbed tbranglh
a tbin Hause. We were making fair progress ,vith tbe nieasnre hast evenlug, sud
by six o'ciock the general understanding
between my frlends and myseif was that
tbe consideratian of tbe Bihl was ta be resumed in tbe evening. I bad an appointment out nt Ayinîer, ivbere I amn staying,
but cancelhed it and made arrangements ta
stay in tawn, aud whlen I reacbed bere I
was very mucb surprised ta see tbe Secretary of State mave tbat tbe committee rise
and repart pragreas. it did accur ta me
that If tbe governinent deeided nat ta continiue the discussion last nigbt tbey mlgbt
bave treated us witb sufficlent courtesy ta
let ns knaw previons ta six o'clock tbat lt
w-as flot tbeir Intention ta proceed and tbey
migbt bave governed tbemnseives accordingly. I do not ask for very mueb consideration froin the Hanse, but I desire to
say tha-t I arn 52 years of age an<I bave

JUNE 26. 1908

1341

had a littie experience and do flot wish to
be treated like a child ln matters of this
kind, and as we were put off last evenIng,
when hon. members were here prepared to
vote on the motion that I moved, I think
It wouId be nothlng but fair, now that
those gentlemen are not present, to postpone the furtber consideration of the Bill.
My hon. friend f rom Wolseley and others
Interested la the Bill were here, but they
could not be present to-day.

serious questions whlch should flot lie discussedl with a siim House like this.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-There are neyerai
gentlemen who wlshed to vote for the mo,tion on the Uînes laid down by myséîf, and
were prepared to do it lest night, but
were deprived of the opportunity because
the measure wes flot taken up last night.
I mention the name e! Mr. Perley, who la
Interested lu tbis matter, and other members from the Northwest are interested In
it, and I think they wIli agree with me
that It was oniy fair to postpone the matter untll we can have a full diseussion.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-This clause lm not
passed yet I am referrlng to the qcoured
wheat. This ls the clause that was uader
discussion laet niglit.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-But that le the partîcular question?
Hon. Mr. DAVIS--That le the partîcular
one under discussion.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-l was. going to suggest, If the hon, gentleman was satisfiedalthougli I have net discused It with the
minister at aIl-to -make a separate grade,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- make It one, two and three scoured wheat,
0f course my hon. frleDd 'wIll notice that but do flot put It In No. 1, 2 and 3 Norththie ls a companlon Bill te a Bill which ern.
le new before the House ef Gommons, and
Hou. Mr. DAVIS--That is an open matthe delay rnay inconvenlence It.
Neyertheless If lie states from bis place that ter yet My hon. friend wili remember that
there were gentlemen who wanted to dis- question lias passed the committee, but
cuss this who weuld be deprived of the there are some gentlemen cemlng down rap.
opportunity to do se, I wili not press the raaentlng the grain growars of the waat,
Bill under those circumstances, but wiIl and I sbould lîke to hanve an opportunity of
diseussing It with them.
allow It to stand ut bIs request.

Hon. M~r. POWER-I mîglit say for the
Information o! my hon. frlend, that the hou.
gentleman frorn Wolseley will not be back
at the close o! the adjourament.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-But there are other
bon. gentlemen who wIll be prepared to
vote on this Question--enougli te carry It.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I would like to aek
the hon, gentleman f rom Prince Albert,
whether lie refers particularly to the matters under discussion hast nigit hie Rmendment, whlch reade as follows :
AU Manitoba dried and rejected wheat after
passing through the terminal elevator and lie!ng properly treated shail lie graded by the
inspector aud put jato its proper grade.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-That is a different
mattar. I arn not asking to have It put la
No. 1 or 'No. 2 or anytbing else.
That le
flot under discussion.
I wIil probably be
ln a better position to make more concessions when we resume than I arn at the
praient time.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTUndar the clrcumstances, I think I wll ailow the Bill to stand; but I must say to
my hon. friend that I do so on the honourable understandlug that he wlll not filibuster, and that he wlll, after a fair discussion,
have the matter put through at the next
slttlng. That I take for granted my lion.
friend wIli not objeet to.
I arn perfectly
'wiliing te have full aud fair discussion, but
there le a reasonable limit.

-Hon. Mr. DAVIS-As far as filibustering
le concerned, If I were going te do any filibusering, I would do It this afternoon, liecause 1 arn pretty well loaded for that sort
of thing, and I think the hon, gentleman
will make better progrese by permittiug the
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-That ls one of the cemmittee to rise, than by proceeding ail
questions. I think there are a lot of other afternoon.

1342

SENATE

1342

SENATE

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThere may be truth ia the hon. gentleman'sI
statement that It la better for convenience
sake, but I assume that he will give al
reasonable faciilties for the passage of the
Bill on the next occasion.
Hlon. Mr. ROY, from the committee, reported that they had made some progress
with the Bill, and asked ieave to sit again.
WILiLIAM B. SMITHI PATENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. POWER, moved the second
reading 0f Bill (FFF) An Act respecting a
certain patent of William B. Smith.
'Hon. tSir MýACKFNZIE BOWELL-I
would iike to ascertain-I have not been
able to obtain the information-what the
character of this patent la? It merely ref ers to the number ef the patent, without
I think lt la well we
giving the name.
should have an expianation now, in order
that we may have time to consider -the
merits of the request made by Mr. Smith.
Mdy own view has long been that we are
dealing with this question of patents altogether too Iiberally.
It ties Up many patents that are of some vaine to the parties
holding them and who have negiected doing
anything with theni until the expiration of
the *terni, when they corne to parliament
asking for an extension.
In some cases
they fail to malce the application for renewal within the ternis of the provisions of
the law, and then corne to parliament and
ask for the renewal.
We have been too
lenient in many cases ln extending patents.
If they are of any value, and the holders
faii to commence manufacturing In the
country and to give the Dominion the advantage accrning froni the establishment of
manufacturing Industries here, we should
be careful about granting extensions. For
that reason, I ask the bon. gentleman if he
will kindly explain what this patent is and
why the extension is soughit.
Hon. Mr. POWEiR-I regret that I canmot explain the nature of the patent, but
the affidavit of the president of the company
gives a reasonable grotund for a reference
of the Bill to the committee.
The letters
patent were issued on the 13th August,
1901, and there was a reissue on the 12th of
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

April, 1904. The president niakes oath that
Eie was under the Impression that the period
of the renewai extended from the l2th of
April, 1904, and he depended on his attorney
bere to lInform blm fuliy about what took
The president did flot k-now until
place.
after the six years term had explred that
it did flot extend from the 12th of April,
1904, but f rom the date of the original
The company within the time
Issue, 1901.
limited by the Patent Act for so doing,
establisbed a plant at a cost of approximately $15,000 ln the Dominion of Canada
for the purpose of manufacturing and supplying the patented articles and have since
that time been contlnuously making and
supplying them to the trade of Canada at
reasonable prIces.
Hou~. Mr. LANDRY-Where?
The
Hon. Mr. POWER-In Canada.
company purchased the patent for a large
sum of money and has not had an opportunity of recouping Itself for Its expenditures and will be greatIy prejudiced unless
the patent be extended. The petitioners
further state that none of the patented
articles have been imported into Canada
since the establishment of the factory.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wbere was the affidavit made?
Hon. Mr. POWER-The affidavit was
sworn to before a notary pubie in Chicago,
The second
on the Cth of June, 1908.
clause of the Bill contains a provision saving the rîghts of persons who have conimenced to manufacture and use the patented articles sînce the expiry of the patent.
Hon. Sir MACKEINZIE BOWELL-Wiill
the hon. gentleman ascertain what the patent la and how long the company have been
mannfacturing in Canada?
Hon. Mlr. POWER-The patentee will be
represented before the committee, and wiil
furnish ail the Information.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-There la a good deal
in what the hon. senator froni Hastings
has said In referen -e to the renewal of these
patents. If they are of any value the publc ought to enjoy the benefit of them after
Here x'e
a certain length of protection.
have a BUi for the renewai of a patent.

JUNE 26,1908

JUNE 26. 1908

1343

1343~
-Hou. Mr. KERR-We should have time
The proprietar is la Chicago, and very littie
The
The ta ýconsider this important clause.
Information bas been given ta us.
Bill was Introduced two or three days ago, Bill bas been Sa chopped and changed about
If the that it is hard ta understand IL.
and ls now up for second reading.
patents are 0f any value ta the public why
Hon. Mr. 8OOTT-I have the clause now
should -we extend the time ta nearly 18 In a form that the gentleman professIng
years? If the patent la useful, the owners ta represent the Canadian mtaDutacturers,
should have given the public the benefit of the wholesale men, the importers and the.
They knew perfectiy well how long a retail merchants, desired. -He attended
it
patent had ta live, and why did they wat here for the last twa days with credentials,
until nearly a year had .passed «before camand I have. had two long telegrama tram
They
Ing ta parliament for a renewal?
Toronto appraving of the Bill and the
corne at the very last moment, when paramendments propoMed. The arneudmneut Is
Riament ought ta be prorogued, urglng that
as tolaows :
notices bo dlspensed wlth In order that the
9. This section applies oniy ta articles comBil may pass. The han. sénator tram
af g aid, silver, or any
Haifax ought té give uis tuiler Information posed, wholly or partiy.
or silver, which are made or sold
betare asklng us ta vote for thus extension. alioy ai gold by or brought into Canada by
il Caada
I agree wlth the hon. senator tram 1Hast- dealers.such an article bears any mark it must
2. If
luge, that If we continue extendlng patents have applîed ta it the following mark&,(a) A mark or marks truly and correctly
In this way the country wlll lose the advanby this
in tie
There ls a law indiatn uality ai manner'required or alloy.
tage of many Inventions.
the. gold, silver
Act, eti.
governlng patents and aIl holders of such hereiser cualjed arie
quality mark; and aiso
rlghts shauld be treated alke. These pattrade mark or the marks register(ýb) Aaccardance with tradeTrade Mark and
ein
ents are recarded for a certain length of Desifn Act.
3.I the article bears-time, and If the patentees findt they cannat
applied
sell them or induce somebody ta put maney ta (a) Hall-marks lawful Kingdom according
ai G3reat
the. laws of the Uni~
Into them, they appiy for an extension ta Britain and Ireland;
(b) Marks applied by the government, or
gain time. Until we have fùrther explanauixder t~he lava of sny fareign country, to
tion about this Bill It should not be given indicate the cjuality of the gald, silver or aiIoy an
a second reading.
(c> a bath cases, if ail the other provisions
The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill of tuis Act have been aomplied with as regards the article;
was read the second time.
it need not have applied ta it any of the
marks mentioned in subsectian 2 of thîs section.
SE~COND AND THIRD RIDDNGS.
That is,_If there la a hall-mark, any auBill (GGG) An Act for the relief of
Arthur James Townsend, was read the sec- thorized mark, elther tram Great Britain.
or any forelgu country, it wlll be accepted
ond and third time and passed.
as indlcatlng the quality of the gold.
GOLD AND SILVER M1ARKING BILL.
Hion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Has
the quality of the goid to be marked on
IN COMMITTEE.
it in addition ta the hall-mark?
The House resumed lu Conimittee of the
Whole consideration of Bill (AAA) An Act
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The British hall mark
respecting the sale and marking of manu- la weil known; of course 1 cannot gi'-e
factures of gold and silver and gold and any explanation of a hall mark of any other
silver plated ware.
country. We are qulte willlng ta adopt
the standard of any country If it Indicates
(In the Committee.)
the quahitY af the gold.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-When we were hast ln
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-If it
cammlttee, two clauses were held aver, 9
I now take up clause 9. I have bears the hall-mark of Eagiand, bas it,
and 19.
had the proposed ameadment printed and in addition toe that to state the quallty,
wbether it is of 9 or 10 carats?
shahl be giad ta explain It.

SENATE

1344

.Hon. Mr. SGÀOTT-I ar n ot putting the
ion, gentleman down.
Il
Hon. Mr. KERR-Then I will show what
ilnd of legislation It la we are talking
1 only asked for delay lin order
ibout.
to
t bat this amended clause be submitted
:hose -who are taklng an Interest lIn it, and
who are not represented here, but wbo are
-epresented as approving of It, and who are
not approvlng of It up to the present time.
Whether tbey approvedl of the change five
minutes ago, I amrn ot prepared to say; but
when It la stated that the trade are unlted
on the point, I want It understood I have
In my bands the evidence that that is not
If the bon. gentleman will allow the
so.
Bill to stand until the neit slttlng, It may
go through wltbout any dîsturbance; but
wben I amn told I canixot have an opportunlty of stating the case, and that I muet
be choked off, I wlll not have that done.
WiII the hon. gentleman allow it to stand
over?
Hon. Mr. &5OTT-I -trust the bon. gentleman will allow It to go down to-day.
Hon. Mr. KERR-I would ask that this He bas neyer given a name of parties who
I bave given a list of
clause be allowed to, stand to enable us to disapprove of IL
forty or fifty men In dîfferent trades In
communicate with the parties lnterested.
Hon. MIr. SCOTT-I have allowed it to favour of It.
stand; it ls the same as before, and It muet
Hon. Mr. KERR-I will give the hon.
I have here a letter
go to the Gommons.
gentleman a name.
addressed to me by the oldest bouse lu
Hon. Mr. IKERR-If that laso5, I have
most reputable bouses
to take up the time of the House to read Toronto, one of the
or In the Dominion of Canada,
the four clauses aud see If It le differe nt. in that clty
ln the
There are four clauses bnded to us as by a man wbo bas been engaged
lu the cornrepresenting the ninth clause lu the original business, and wbo stands high
& Company. Lr.
Bill. The phraseology ls absolutely chang- munity, T. H. Lee, Son
Thomas Lee ls a man whdse word and
ed.
name goes for anytbing to wblcb be .-Ives
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-Point out nny material It The letter rends as follows:
change.
The Hon. J. R Kerr.
The Senate, Ottawa, Ontario.
Hon. ',%r. KERR-The m-hole thing is enJune 24, 1908.
show my bon.
tirely cbanged, and I will
Dear !Sir,-dIt was with much pleasure that
The -first Bill I learned on reading this morning's papers
frlend one niaterial change.
that you along with Senator Gibson raised an
that was submitted hereobjection against the Jewellery Bill, and as
wel
you
SCOTT-I object to our going reported in the papers samne are fairly state
Hon. '.%r.
when you
seized of the purport of
back to what w-e have already adopted.
it is a new departure in protective legisiation

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, that is accepted
as satisfactory; no more questions are asked If It bas the bail-mark. Then the fourth
subsection of the amended clause is as folIo %s:
4. If the article bears a trade mark regi.
Mark and
tered in accordance with.the Trade if it bears
Design Act and a quality mark, or
(a)
auy of the marks daefined by paragraphe may
and <b) of subsection 3 of this section, it the
aiso have applied to it either or both of
following marks(a) Nurnerals intended to indicate pattern,
if sucb numerais are not incorporated with
auyquality mark;
7b) The name or initiaie of'a dealer.
That le, If an article bas the ball-mark
ou it to begin witb, then the numerals may
be added sud the usine of the dealer snay
be added. Or If It bas the quality stamped
on it, tbe dealer may have bis naine and
the numerals. The clause ls practically as
we supposed we .passed It, but on reading
It, It dld flot carry out to the full extent
the Idea the tradte wished. It le now, I
tbink, lin a satlsfactory shape to the varions
bodies -who bave taken an lnterest In ILt.

Hon.

M-Nr.KCERR-The

hion,

gentleman

may try to put mue down; but he will under1
stand tbat be cannot do it that way.
take a great deal, but I wviIl not bave
-will
iUiy person lu tbis Flouse thlnk hcecan put
me down that way.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIIE BOWELL.

and also that it is a restriction of trade when
it absolutely declares that a certain class of
goods cannot corne into Canada. Being a
member o! the committee who signed the
amended Bill, I would like to take a few moments of your time and give you a few reasons why I was a member and why I signed
the same.

JUNE 26.1908

1345

JUNE 26, 1908

1345

In the ârst place the Bill was originaiIy
brought out by a few manufacturera and there
was an effort made by them to raiiroad it
through without any conaideration being
given to the importera, retailers or consumers, but fortunateiy we were able to frustrate
their attempt and atter it twice coihing before
the House and Sonate it was requested that
thore should ho a Bill drawn up which wouid
b. more satisfactory to ail concierned. and 1
as an importer was plaoed upo h cmitee whh was selocted for Toronto, but unfortunately the manufacturers were in the
majority and from the general tons of each
meeting, certainly I could flot; thinir that the
Bill as sent down for your approvai was anything but unsatisfactory.
I have been in the jeweilery business for
about thirty years and have travelled and
cailed upon nearly every dealer in the business from Halifax to 'Victoria and 1 have
never yet had any intimation from o of
themn that they would like te have any such
Biil, and since the present Bill was first spoken of 1 have had a number of conversations
with quite a few of the loading retailers and
they can hardly recail any one who approved
of it and many who thought the Biil ridiculoua. In discussing the Biil at different times
with the manufacturera I have failed to ohtain satisfactory answers as te the meaning
of soverai items therein, moat of the answers
given were about as foilows: 0f course this
means what is the common usage of thf trade,
wihich, of course, leavea the question very
wideiy open as te what is the common usage
of the trade. There is no doubt, as you are
rýeported to aay, that there are a great many
Unmes of gooda made in Europe which cannot
be made in this country, and this class of
goods it*is the intention of the manufacturera
through this Biii to exciude, which certainiy
I think very unfair te those who wish to purchase them. LIt is not evei-y one who is able
to buy 14 carat or even 10 carat gooda, and
thoro are iota of iower qualities of gold goods
that have been sold in thia country and which
to-day are giving quite as good satisfaction to
the wearera as lots of Canadian goods costing
double the money. 1 wouid think that a Iduty
of 22J per cent for English, 35 per cent on the
United States and other countries, with a surtax cf one-third on German gooda ought to he
quite aufficient protection for any manufacturer, especiallv as the duty has to be paid
upon the gold which in the majority of instanoes is conaiderably more than twice the
coat of making. As an example I would
like to state the case of a gold chain. The
coat cf making is about oae'ffth of the coat
cf the complete article, and as the majority
cf these chains corne froni Germany, you wili
easiiy see that the manufacturer has nearly
250 per cent protection on his labour. which
I think quite sufficient.
If a Biil is te be put through te protect the
consumer, as the manufacturer puta it, why
not have it as they are stamped and then inflict a severe penalty for infringement. The
Biii as it at present stands has a great many
techaicalities which I am sure the majority of
the trade wili not thoroughiy understand. and
wiIl be the means of quite a lot of annoyance,
trouble and litigation without henefitting any
one. I am sure if you consuit with the others
tt-.-ttrn

who signed this Bull as a committee, you will
find they are of the same opinion as I and that
they merely signed it as being members of
that commîttee and net hocause they thought
the Biii a satisfactory one. Thanking you
for your attention and hoping I have flot
trespassed toc much upon your tume, I romain,
Youra respectfully,
SYDNEY H. LED,
P.S.-No doubt both y ou and Senator Gibson have had considerabie information given
you on this subject, but as I have net; written
hini (I would ask you te kindly place this letter before him.
That letter was received by me wlth
reference'to this Biii, from one cf the -most
reputable and largeat Importera
ln the
country.
Hon.
name?

Mr. SCOTT-Wbat

la the

son'a

Hou. Mr. KERR--Sydney *H. Iee,
I
think, and Mr. Lee aigned the original
proposition for the Bill, whicb la quite
different from this one, and quite different
from the one that was introduced ln the
House, and which was changed two or
tbree times on a crucial point. I have Det
communicated with anybody ln the trade
about this matter, but this letter was sent
to me. I know that others ln the trade are
also opposed te the measure.
They told
me ao, and gave exactly the same reason
Mr. Lee gives. He says the pretense here
la that thîs legislation la intended for the
protection of the public; If se, why don't
they say so, and provîde that those who
brlng gooda here must put a dellnite mark, on
them, and If they misrepresent thé goods,
they must be held responsîbie and be punished for It. 1 could give the Dames eof
others whe have stated that they are -opposed to it If It la necessary te do se, but
I do not propose to do se at )present. Let
me recail this Biii, whlch ls so Important,
which, when I asked for au adjeurnment
on the firat occasion, I was told miust go
threngh. Hon. gentlemen have before them
the propesed aniended Bili, wbich reads as
foiiows
Shaîl net; be iawful for a dealer te make or
te soul or te import or te attempt te import
into Canada any article composed either in
whole or in part cf geld or of silver or cf any
ailoy cf goid or silver, except the articles
mentioned in sections 13 and .14 of this Act.
That la not the basis upen whilh theclause la now framed.
rfl,,-rflM

1346

SENATE

SENATE
1346
and consider, and see whether we are flot
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is the same.
Hon. Mr. KERR-Then we bave the going mad on a subject of thia kzind. We
amendment, the one wbich was dlstributed, certalnly should pause and see whether it
which we were called upon to adopt. The ls a Bill that ought ta be placed ou the
statute-book, considerlng the escapades of
clause reads :
placlng on thue statute-book two years aga,
section applies only to articles composThis
ed wholly or partiy of gold or silver or of a measure which was ihi-considered, and
any alloy of gold or silver which such article whlch has been since suspended, by a furmay have applied ta it.
ther Act between heaven and earth -for two
That provIdes that It shall fot be la-wful years.
We ahould have taken time and
ta bring It ln. The clause continues:
gîven the members of this Bouse an opThis article may have applied ta it ail or portunlty of knowIng what It la they are
any of the marks.
In this particular
belug asked ta pass.
Purely permissive, exactiy as the trade case, we are asked ta adopt section 9. Let
understood IL. That was the amendment me ask how mnny members of the Senate,
drawn te meet the objection tak-en ta thue even of those who are now present, know
Bill ID the form in which it was found. what It ls they are voting for when they
This clause says :
How many of us can
vote for section 9?
If such article bears any mark it must have give a fair, deliberate, Intelligent descripapplied ta it the following mark.
tion of what that section la? It says:
The dJ.fference between Imay' aud 'must'
If any article bears an y miark, it must
la very Important. One Bill ls ln a certain have applied ta it the following marks: A
have mark or marks trnly îndicating in the manner
form, and now lu a certain form we
Act the quality of
It repeated; but It also changes the thîrd required by this hereinatter calied athe gold,
quality
silver or alloy.
prlnted elrcular brought down, and we are mark.
asked ta swallow It. I wili flot say that
That la the proposed amendment. There
It la flot decent to ask us to, legîslate ln
understandiug that,
fair, and is no dlfficulty about
this way; but certalnly it la flot
and alsa a trade mark or trade marks regîscertainly la flot asking us ta cousîder It
tered ln accordance wlth the Trade Mark
wlth deliberation. It certalnly is flot the
How can the importer
and Dlesign Act.
way lu whlch we can understand the rlghts
who buys goode lu Germany, Switzerland,
of the public are being protected, and cerFrance or England have his goods stauuptalnly the rlghts of the public, sa far as 1
ed by the manufacturer with -the Canadian
can sec, have been ieft entirely out of thîs
How cau he, when he goes
trade mark.?
Bill. We are told that the parties have over ta Europe and finds on the sheives of
agreed to It, and who are the parties?
the warehause a large quantlty of gooda
'Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This is the first one I such as he wishes ta buy, how can he buy
have heard opposed ta It.
those gooda, when they have their own
His mark can
Hon. Mr. KE.RR-We were told ûrst It trade mark upon them?
was the frade, bath manufacturera and Ira- be put on after It is manufactured. Those
1 are marks whlch must be put ou during
porters, and ail classes in the trade.
The result la
said the trade had. not been consulted. the procesa of manufacture.
What about the larger constituency, the tbat an Importer could ouly buy gooda not
What about the people wbo do then on baud, gooda not ln stock in Engpublic?
flot want to buy expensive jeweliery? ]aud, or on the continent, or ln aruy manuWhat about the people who want ta buy facturing centre, not gooda of a pattern
cheap jewellery-people 'who are flot belng whichi they have, but gooda for which a
lmposed upon, who are flot payiug 250 per speclal pattern must be desîgned, containing
cent profit ta the manufacturer? Are a Canadian-trade mark, aDd" the Canadian
these the people who are approviug of the trade mark of the man who lives lu GerBill, or ls It -the manufacturera with their many or lives lu Russia or France or some250 per cent on the labour part of their wbere else. Is that a sensible thlng ta do?
Sureir that statement by Wby don't you say that no gooda shail be
manufactures?
these gentlemen la enougb ta make us pause bougbt except froin a Canadian manufacHon. Mr. KERR.

JUNE 26, 1908
turer? That Is, parctically, what we are
trying to do, and coming at it as nearly as
we can by this Bill.
If the article bears
hall-marks lawfuliy applled and s0 on, or
marks apphied by the government, or under
the laws of any forelgn country to Indicate
the gold and iver alloy, and ln both
cases, If ail the other provisions of this
Act have been complied witb as regards the
article, It need flot have applled to It any
of the marks mentloned ln subsection 2
of this section. That is to say It need not
have a mark Indicating the quallty.
It
need flot have a trade mark If it ls hallmarked or marked by the government.
Then fourth, If the article bears a trade
mark registered ln accordance with the
Trade Mark and Designs Act and a quality
mark, or any of the marks definecl by
paragraph A and B of subsection 3 of this
section, it may aiso have applied to It either
or both of the foliowlng marks: (a) Numerals intended to Indicate patents, and s0 on,
and (b) the name or Initiais of the dealer.
1 should like to know whether the Secretary of State understands how ail these
marks are to be put on, and If others do?
It takes a littie time to master alI that. If
it la fairly and honestiy intended to nccomplish the purpose of preventIng the public from being deceived, ail that is necessary 1a ta provide that it shal flot have any
mark calculated to mislead or deceive. I
submlt that la the proper method,' and the
ouly proper method of marking that I have
seen, by which it shahl be open to the trade
ta buy or Import lnto this country, and by
'which the trade and the public can have a
fair deal.
I am opposed t0 section 9 as
proposed.
In lieu of if. as far as I can see
at present, ail that la necessary wouid be
to say that no such article shaIl bave any
mark Intended ta mlslead or Éleceive.

objections, but they were ail threshed ont.
I have the Bill of two years ago, which
was pretty welI agreed upon, whére we
required thie gold ta be up to the btandard
of ten carats. The only dIfference la that
tb.is ailowe 9 carat gold, but ln ail other
respects, the Bill la practically thie same.
The varions members of the trade-hundreds of them-agreed ta If. I thought it
was flot necessary ta keep the bundies of
letters here, and I sent them away. But the
hon, gentleman gent me this communication:
Toftnto, February 18, 1908.
The Bight Hon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier,
President of the King's Privy Council,
Parliament Buildings, Ottawa.
Dear Siri,-This is ta certify that we the
undersigned. members of the joint committee
representing the retail and wholesale jewellers
of Canada, have held a number of joint meetings, with a committee appointed by the Jeweilery manufacturers of Canada for the pur.
pose of preparing amendments ta the Gold
and Silver Marking Act, the operations of
whieh were suspended for eight montha from
July 13 last, 1907.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The position taken by
the bon. gentleman from Toronto, la one
ln opposition to the whole Bill. It ls really
quite evident that he d<oes flot know anything about the Bill, from thie way he
taike about If. Many of the objections he
urges agaInst the Bill have been aceepted.
by ail the parties for the iast three years.
If there are hon, gentlemen withia my
voice who served on the committee two
years ago, they may recognize some of the
851

trade of Canada and also the buying public,
petition y aur goverament ta have the Goid and

The attached copy of the amendmenta have
ail bean mutually agreed upon ini every par-

ticular, with the exception as ta whether the

lowest standard quality shouid be nine or ten
carats.
We, as retail and wholesale jewellers, agree
that the quality in Canada should be the saine
as ta the lowest quality thot as adopted at the

lowest hall-mark of Great Britain, vis., 9
carats.
We contend that inasmuch as a very
large quantity of 9 carat gold jewellery is imPorted into Canada from England which is
not manufactured, and could not be profitably manufactured in Canada at the Prenant
time. and which bears the hall-mark of Great
Britain, that we should not ho deprived from
being able ta maIl the same and especially as
the hall-mark 9 carat Engliali standard is weli
knawn ta the buying public both in England
and in Canada as being reliable.
join with us
*The manufacturers therefore this exception,
with
in every other particular ta
which tey have decided
leave ta your decisian.
We, therefore, as a joint committee, representing the retail and wholesale 'jewellers of
Canada, belie *n that aur contention will ha
in thie beat intresta of the entire jewellery
Silver Marking Act amended according ta aur
wishes.
Tours truly,
RYRIE BROTHERS, Limited,
Harry Ryrie, Secretary and Treasurer.
BENJAMIN KET
B. & H. B. Kent.
J. W. JOHNSON,
The Goldsmiths' Stock Company of Canada,
Limited, Walter J. Barr, Managing director.

The T. H. LEE & SONS, COMPANY,
Limited. Sidney H. Lee, Manager
Thie LEVY BROTHERS
OMPÂNY,
Limited, Premident.

1348

SENATE

1348

SENATE

I hadl the original draft and read It, the
It
one agreed to and printed In Toronto.
lo sIgned by Ryrle Bros., Kent, Lawson,
and others, among them T. H. Lee & Son,
Limited.
Hon. Mr. POWER-What Is the date ot
that letter?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-February. The hon.
gentleman takes exception to clauses of
the Bill that for the Ilrst time have elhcited opposition. I have had letters and
telegrams from al branches of the trade,
retali dealers, wholesale dealers, country
merchants, protective associations and free
traders that this ls largely la the interest
of the trade, because It will protect the
public from sham Jewellery coming In. I
read from the Montreal 'Witness' on a
former occasion a statement whicb, ne
doubt ls true, that whie we Import about
$40,000 worth of this Jewellery from Great
BrItain, we lmport' $400,000 worth of it
from the United States. Positive evidence
was given before the commlttee two years
ago and the articles were produced, showlng
that some United States manufacturers
maire it a practice to mark articles warranted to last sîxteen years whlh would
flot last fIve years.
Hou. Mr. KERR-Does not my hon.
frlend understand that that has been done
In this country, and that cases of the kind
are before the courts.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tben we can punlsh
tbemn under ts Act.
Hon. Mr. KERR-They cau be punlshed
under the crimînal law.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We cannot reacb the
dealers ln the United States, but wP can
prevent our dealers from selling rubbishi of
Representatives of the press
that sort.
spoke to me to-day about this Bill asklng
wby we ware keeping It back. I sald no
one.was keeplug It back, that It would be
down to the Commons lu good time. 1
had a long letter from a dealer askiug the
cause of the deiay, and I repiied that there
was no delay, that thue Bill was going
tbrough lu Its natural order. I have a telegram slgned by W. K. George, ln whicb
he says * I heartiy agree wlth Mr. TrowHon. Mr. SCOTT.

er's proposed amendments to section 9 of
the Stamping Act.'
Hon. Mr. KERR-Trower's amendments ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He did flot draw them;
I submitted tbem to hlm and he accepted
them. He Is here, he tells me, representing
the three branches of the trade. The telegram continues :
In my opinion it is imperative in the interest of the publie and trade to have honest
compulsory stamping as a safeguard agaiast
the dishonest manufacturer or dealer.
I had another telegram to-day whichi Is
as follows:
The lending trade, retail. wholesaie and
manufacturing, are unanimoxsiy approviug
of your stand in- supporting the proposed
ameadment of Mfr. Trower's to section 9.
I may say it was 1fr. Trower's !dea, but
I ask any one to compare the proposed
amendment wlth the clause lu the Bill and
point out where they differ. The proposed
amendment la clearer. The telegram wbich
I started to rend la signed iby W. K. 3lcNaught, and continues:
The Act will protect the public and the honest denier, and this cannot be got except byý
making it compulsory to stamp honestiy if
stamped at ail. I trust the Act will go through
as approved by ail three sections cf the jeweilery trade, voiced by our representative.
I brougbt these telegrams because they
happen to arrive just as I was comiug to
the Chamber. I have read to the House
testimony from wholesalemen, manufacturers, retail dealers and others and 110w
we have this paper which I have read,
signed by 1fr. Lee himself, so I think my
bon. friend la not qulte consistent in speaking ns lie does.
Hon. Mr. KERR-I have received two
tehegrnms approving of Mfr. Trower's amendment, sent by Mfr. Barr and Mfr. George;
but I do not understand that we are te
Se
adopt the Bill because It suits them.
far as Mr. Trower la concerned, there are
two of bis ameudments, one of whîch provides that the article 1must 1 have appiied
to It, &c., and the other that the article
' may'1 have applied to it, &c. There Is a declded difference between ' may ' and 'rnust.'
The bon. Secretary of State bas made a
point of the fnct that these gentlemen signed a memo, approving of the draft Bill,
but clause 9 of the draft Bill is entirely

JUNE 26,1908

1349

JTITNE 26. 1908
different from the proposed amendment we
bave before us. The hon, gentleman says
they are agreed on the Bill-what Bill
The Bill lntroduced ln this House?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Wiil the hon. gentleman point out where the two differ?
Hon."Mr. KERR-One Baya 'must' and
the other saya * may.' We are told by Mr.
Lee exactiy how the agreement was come
to.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The clause was t2hange4 by the Law Clerk. Âfter readlng It
over, b. thought It could be made clearer,
and I defy any one ta point'ont a syllable
ln one whlch dîffers from the other.
Hon. Mr. KERR-The hion, gentleman la
changlng the clause that was agreed to.
How waa It agreed to ? Unfortunateiy
the manufacturers were ln the majority,
and from the general tone of the meeting
I conld not thînk that the Bill sent down
was satlsfactory. The mlnority left the
meeting when they found that their vîews
would not preval. We are raîiroading this
legîslation through. It la an attempt on
the part of the manufacturera ta exclude
the Importation of manufactures of gold of
any description ln thîs country If there la
any klnd of a mark upon it.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If that la Sa,
why are the very largeat Importers supportIng the Bill ?
Hon. Mr. KERR-Some of the largest
Importera are opposlng It. The gentlemen
It
who favour It are the manufacturera.
la the manufacturera who are rallroadlng
thîs through the committee, and they have
put It Into the hands of the han. Secretary
of State ta get It through.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-It la unfair to aay
that it was rnilroaded through the commitWe had the Bill a long time before
tee.
The first change was made by the
US.
Law Clerk, who thought he could makie it
The onlly change that cau be
clearer.
polnted ont is that we have come down ta
the 9 carat standard.

~Hon,

Mr. GIBBON-I took, perhaps, as
clause 1) as the hon.
a1trong ground agaînat dld. He and I have
senator from Toronto
watched tbis tblù'g ciosely and have had

1349
several Interviews wlth the gentlemen repreaentlng ail the branches of the trade.
The first paragraph of the amendment applies only to goods that are marked, and
the gooda that are flot marked neeft flot
have any registration mark; but the Idea
la If the goods are marked they shall be of
the quality represented.
Hon. Mr. KI3RR-Wby does the clause
flot aay so?
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-It does by Inference,
becanse it says If an article bears a mark
it must have applled to it sucb marks as
are provlded by the -Act; but there Is no
prohibition of goods brought ln here withThe moment a mark Is put
out a mark.
on, then that mark must be evîdence of the
quality of the goods. Clause 9 as it stands
now la à great improvement on clause 9 of
the original Bill. The meaning la clearer
The objection
to members of the trade.
I had to the Bill was, that they, flot belng
lawyers, were unable to get at the true
Like the hon. Secremeaning of the BUi.
tary of ïState, I have had numerous lettera
and telegrams urging the passing of the
Bill and that It shouid come into force on
the lst October to have the matter settied
for ail time, so that the trade mlght know
I do not think this
what tbey are about.
Bill has been rallroaded through the comI do not know of a Bill that bas
mittee.
had as much attention at the -bands of the
M.r.
Hous as this measure bas had.
Trower is here ln a unique capaclty, representlng the retalier, the wholesaler and the
manufacturer, whilh shows that they have
implicit confidence ln hlm dolng the right
thlng by ail parties coucerned. That being
the case, why should the Bill stand over
and run the risk of not becoming Iaw during the present session?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWliDLt-The
whole argument of the -bon. senator from
Toronto seems to be ln the Interest of the
He ls solleltous
poor unfortunate public.
for those who wear, or desîre to wear bogua
That la the whole tenor of bis
jeweliery.
If this measure bas any one
argument.
good quality, It la that it wll protect the
The object of the manufacturer
public.
and the honeat Importer bas been to protect
the publie against bogus jeweiiery whlch

1350

SENATE

1350

SENATE

public.
It seezns to me that If the goverament are really anxlous to proteet the publie, they should take this marking of Canadian jewellery Into tbeir own bauds,
Inasmuch as they bave a mint 110w, ail that
work sbould be donc by the governiment and
flot left to the jewellers. .Under the existing iAct, the manufactulrera mark the quailty of their own goods.
We bave -been
dlscusslng thls afternoon the question of
gradlng grain.
The government does not
leave that to the dealers.
It should be
the same witb this question of marking
jewellery.
In other countries it Is doue
under the control of the goverliment, and
that system sbould bave been lucluded lu
this Bill. If we really wlsb to protect the
public so that tbey would know when they
buy Jeweflery witb a mark on lt they are
getting what It purports to be, the gov'ernment sbould assume the responsibillty of
the marklng and guarantee that it represents the actual quality of the goods. The
hon. senator from -Hastings refers to people
not belug able to get back at the man who
guaranteed the jewellery If the jewellery
is lmported Into the country from the outside.
But S0 far as the west Is concerned
we are almost In as bad a position wlth
regard to jewellery manufactured in Canada, because It la made ln the eastern provinces and the only person you can bold responsible is the dealer froîn whom you buy
ln the west, and he probably would refer
you back to the manufacturer.
iSo if the
quality of the goods were not ns represented, the purebaser ln the west would be la
just as bad a position as the people ln the
east are wlth regard to Imported jeweflery.
The government should consider the matter, and take up the quest of lnarking
jewellery themselves.
On subclause 2,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was a inere axatter
Hon. Mr. POWER-We have- speut a
of wordlng.
good deal of tîmne over this Bill, and i is
Hon. S -r MACKENZIE BOWELI,-I the desire
of every one, I suppose, that
admit that, but the wording of a clause
it should be as nearly perfect as possible.
may destroy the very object la view.
It ls a case where a very slight change in
'Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I understand he bas the phraseology may mean a good deal. In
been la communication with theni, aud this the first place, our Interpretation Act does
away wlthl the use of siagular and plural.
was adopted yesterday.
Now this ameadmeat contains the phrase
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I can only look at 'mark or marks'; the original sald 'marks,'
ibtis froax the point of view of one of the and that is the proper phraseology.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.
bas a .good appearance, but bas flot lntrinsic
value.
Two years ago, wben we bad this
subject under discussion, I listened wlth a
good deal of attention to the views of the
largest Importera la Canada beard before
that commlttee, and the one divergence of
opinion, so far as I can recollect, was whether the iaw sbould inslst upon the importation of 10 carat goods or wbether the
standard shouid be 9 carat. 1 understand
the manilfacturers have conceded to the
Importera that the qualty shal -be fixed nt
9 carat, and the Importera are satisfied wlth
that arrangement.
11f erlor jewellery, lmproperly marked, Is sold by Irresponsible
peuple-I mean people that you cannot
reacb to prosecute tbem for misrepresentation.
My bon. friend quoted the views of
an extreme f ree trader a few moments ago.
It would be no trouble to .-et letters of that
klnd from people who bold extreme vlews
on questions of trade.
I venture to say
you could get mast as stronge letters la
support of the Bill f rom protectionLats, nui
the protective nature of the Bill induces
me to support IL
I am very giad to know
that my right bon. frlend the Miaister of
Trade and Commerce, who ls responsîble
as a member of the cabinet for this Bill,
as weli as the bon. gentleman who lntroduced It, bas s0 far advanced la bis political Ideas tbat he bas become a convert to
that 'beresy' whlcb he bas so frequentiy
condemned.
I recelved a telegrami from
Mr. McNaught a few days ago, protesting
agalnst the amendment wbich bas been
adopted, and whlch was declared to be destructive of the wbole mensure. 1 should
like to know f the amendment now proposed meets the vlews of Mr. McNiNaught
and others wbo protested agalnst the former clause?

JUNE 26, 1908

10

Hon. Mir. SCOTT-I hope there will be 1 thought the hon. Secretary of State would
This amendment bas heen alter It.
no change.
telegraplhed to Toronto and accepted by the
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We mlght leave
trade.
It to the Commons to cross the t's and dot
Hon. Mr. POWF>R-If we are to legis- the l's.
late here under duresa trom certain gentleHon. Mr. POWER-It much an article
men ln Toronto, .1 should Ilke to know it; bears any mark, ilt must have applied to
because I thought -we were legislatlng here It the following marks.' We are deallng
as the parliament of Canada, and that the now with goods whichi may ha lmported
gentlemen ln Toronto and ln every other from any country-'a mark or marks truly
clty have to take what we pass; and I lndicating ln the manner requlred by this
eertainly object to, any outslde parties un- Act the quallty of the gold or silver or
dertaking to dictate to us the language we alloy of gold and sliver, herelnafter called
shall use.
the quallty mark' I do not see any objecHon. M. BCOTT-I regret very ' much tion to that. They should be marked s0 as
that this commlttee should niake any to show their quality, and (b) the trade or
change, because there .are a varlety of trade marks registered ln accordance with
the Trade Marks and Designs Act. I thlnk
marks.
the word there was a good deal of force ln what the
Hon. Mr. POWER-Surely
bon. gentleman trom Toronto sald wlth
'marks'1 covers ail marks.
Hon.Mr.SCOT-Te bo. gntlmanrespect to that, that If you Import a watch
loves to make a change of a word ln every
paragraph. I hope the committee will not
change this. It la very Important.
Hon. Mr. pOWER-If the hon. gentleman takes that lune, I propose to reslst
this measure.
vHon. Mr,. SCOTT-I amn blamed by the
Hlouse because I arn not followlng the directions of the hon. gentleman from Toronto. Here la a technlcal matter that I
do not profess to be skllled-lu; I cannot
grasp It the whohe thlng is technical from
the beginning. We are leglalating ln order to satisfy the trade. Is It flot hetter
to give It to them as they want It, particularly as the law clerk upholds IL He
says It Is proper. He ays it refers to
several marks.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It may be perfectly
true that the gentlemen ln Toronto know
better what they. want than we do, but I
do not thlnk they are better judges of
parliamentary or statutory phraseohogy
than the Senate, and that la .the point I am
making. I am not 'asking to alter the
meanlng of this paragraph ln the slightest
degree. When our lnterpret4tion ÂA't says
the singular Ineludes the plural, and the
plural Includes the singular, It le not good
d.raftng to use both plural and singular.
I arn not golng to move au amendment.

zerland wl not necessarily be famillar
with our tradte mark, and wlll not have
that trade mark applied to the article.
The hon. Secretary of State asks the hon.
gentleman from Toronto to point out how
this proposedl clause 9 differs fromt the old
clause (9). 1 thlnk it differs ln this way;
the old clause 9 says :
If to such article there is applied any mark
other than(a) trade marks registered in acoordance
with the Trade Mark and Design Act;
. <b) marks truly and correctly indicating, in
the manner reqired by*this Act. the quality
of the gold or silver, or alloy of gold or ai
sîlver, la the article;
(c> numerals intended to indicate pattern,
such numerals not being incorporated with
any mark indicating the quality of the gold
or silver or alloy of gold or of silver of which
the article is composed;
(d) the name or initiais of a dealer, whioh
hast mentioned mark may b. applied only if
the article bears also a registered trade mark
in accordance with the Trade Mar~k and Design Act.
There should bc one of these marks put
This ameudment says that
on the article.
ln addition to the quality mark there must
be a trade mark registered la accordance
I
wlth the Trade Mark and Design ÂAct.
thlnk the better way is to go back to the
spirit of the original clause 9, to, Insert
afterthe words 'ApplY to it,' the following
I think that ls reawords ' One or more.'
I do not think you could expect
sonable.

1352

SENATE
SENATE

1352
a forelgu article to bear a Canadian trade
Hon. 3fr. POWE>R-I move to strike out
mark.
tne latter section (c) ln both cases. It does
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I hope the committee flot make good Engllsh.
wlll flot accept the proposa!, for many reaHon. -Mr. SCOTT-It is good law.
sons. I have expiaiaed before that it sbould
The ameadment was declared lost.
go through ln the shape It Is.
The subelause was adopted.
Hou. Mr. POWER-We have had tbis
clause la so many shapes, that I do flot
On sublause 4,
know that this shape wl! lie any better
4. If the article bears a trade mark registhan the other shapes. I tbink it would tered in accordance with the Trade Mark and
bie more to the purpose to point out what Design Act and a quality mark, or if it bears
marks defined by paragraphe (a>
is wrong about the proposed amend- aay of the subsection
and (b) of
3 of this section, it may
ment. It Is unreasonable to expect that aIso bave applied to it either or botb of the
foliowing mark&a forelgn maker w!!! apply to the goods
(a> Numerals intended to indicate pattera,
wbicblie makes, a Canadian trade mark. if such numerals are flot încorporated with
If hie puts the quality mark on bis goods any quaiity mark;
(b) The name or initiais of a deaier.
tlint Ought to be sufficient.
Hou. Mr. POWEll-I uaderstand the proHon. Mr. GIBSON-He ouglit to put a
moter, or the gentleman who represents
number on ItL
everybody, Is satlsfied to have the foliowHon. Mr. POWER-He miay put any lng words added at the end of subelause 4:
mark- on It that hie Ilkes.
Any other mark not calcuiated to mislead or
The committee dlvided on tbe amend- deceive, and not incorporated. with any quaiity
mark.
mient, whlch was lost.
There Is no reason wliy, If tihe manufacHon. Mr. SOOTT-I shouid cal! my boa.
turer of a watcb chooses to put on somefrlend's attention to tbis fact: it aeed flot
tbing besides the numerals and tise ane
bave applled to it any of tihe marks menior Initiais of tise dealer, bie should not
tloned la subsection 2 If the article bears a
lie allowed to put on any other mark which
trade mark. registered lu accordance w!th
Is not calculated to mlslead or decelve.
the Trade Mark and Design Act, and the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have no objection to
quallty mark, or any«of tihe marks defined
by paragrapha A and B. If It Is the hall. that.
mark or an approved mark of aay country
Tise amenament was adopted.
It need not have a trade mark. it is only
The subelause was adopted.
la the event Of Its not having the quality
Hou. 3fr. BELCOURT, from tihe commitmark.
tee, reported thse Bill with ameadmeats,
Hon. Mfr. ROýSS (Middlesex)-Are we to
wbicb were coacurred la.
understand thut the ball-mark is sufficient?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I move tise suspension
Hon. Mr. S'COTT-Tes.
of tise rules la regard to tbis Bill.
Thse subelause was adopted.
Hou. Mr. KERR-Tbe second section of
On suliclause 3,
tise Act Is filied ln, briaging it Into operation on October next. The mercisants may
3. If the article bears(a) Hall-marks iawfully applied according not lie able to coaform to the Act 'by tbat
to the laws of the Unitied Kingdom of Great timue.
The former Bill was to go mbt
Britain and Ireland; or
(b Marks appiied by the goverameat, or force ou the 2lst of March.
I wlll tbereunder tbe laws of, any foreiga country, to fore object to the suspension of the rule.
indicate the quaiity of the izoid. silver or ailoy; and
Hou. Mr. SCO'IT-Read clause 5 of the
(c) In botb cases, if ail the other provisions
of this Act have been complied with as re- Bill,
gards the article;
Hon. 31r. 1K-ERR-That does not meet my
it need not have applied to it any of the marks
meationed in subsection 2 of this section.
objection.
Hon. Mr. POWER.

JUNE 26, 1908

1353

1353
JUNE 26. 1908
Hon. Mr. POWEll-I hope the bon. gen- tries prior to the coming into force of the
tleman from Toronto wiiI flot persist ln Act. That la what my hon .friend proposes.
objecting to the suspension of the mIle, be- A Customs Act and a Tariff Act as a rule,
cause we have been allowed a reasonable go Into full force and effect the moment
time for the Consideration of this Bill, they are sanctioned by the governor. In
and If lie Insiste in bis objection, the Bill tact It goes further; the moment It ls Introcannot go to the otber House for a duced by the Finance Mînîster ln the Comweek, and that delay is likely to prevent it mons, telegrams bave been sent to the difreceiving f ull consideration iu the other ferent points to, refuse entry of any goods.
House, which 1 arn anious it should have; In other cases, provisions have Ïbeen made
and I should be very sorry that the enfore- to protect the purchaser, and you are proIng of any teclinical mule should hinder the tected, provided there is bona fide evidence
Bill from golng down to, the -Commons ln that the order for the goods was given prior
time to recelve that consideration.
to the passage of the Bill.
That la wbat
Hon. Mr. KERR-It la the first time I the bon, gentleman asks, but he can acbave ever ralsed an objection oL the klnd, complish It just ns well ln the Commons, as
I
but I have been tolId I know so llttle about by delaying the Bill until next week.
the Bill that I sbould Ilke to study It a would suggest that course to him, unless he
Ilttle more, and I tbink It is better ln the wants to defeat the Bill.
interests of the country, as well as ln the
-Hon. Mr. ICERR-I do not want to delnterest of those wbo have not had commit- feat the Bill, and 1 will not oppose the
tees appointed to represent their special In- wlshes of the House. 1, therefore, do not
terests, but ln the interest of those who, for press my objection.
the first tim#e, will hear of the Bill when
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
it becomes law-that there should be a littie,
was rend the third time and passed under
more time given before the third reading. a suspension of the mules.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I hope the hon, genBANK ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
tleman will not insist, because one of the
THIRD READING.
conditions of thîs arrangement, and one of
the things that was forced on the Secretary
The House mesolved itself into Commitof State, was the llxlng of a date whereby tee of the Whole on Bill (100) An Act to
aIl the provisions for Christmas trade amend the Bank Act.
could be made.
These men want to go to
(In the Committee.)
England to buy their goods for the ChristOn clause 1, subclause 4,
mas trade under the operation of the Act.
1. Section 61 of the Bank Act, chapter 29 of
Why should It be hield over until January. the Revised Statutes, 19W6. is repealed, and the'
It is not for the Canadian people, it le for following is substituted therefor:
61.
its
the people who go abroad and buy their notes The bank tamay issue and re-issue inpayable
bearer on demand and
goods.
Why should we say 1You shaîl flot tended for circulation: provided that(a> the bank shahl not, during any period
bring any more foreign goods Into Canada
of its
under this Bill until next year.'
Once this of suspension of payment notes; liabilities, is-.
sue or re-issue any of its
and
Bill becomes law, they can go to the ends
(b> if, after any such suspension, the bank
resumes business without the consent in writof the eartli and make their purchases.
ing of the curator, hereinafter provided for,
Hon. Sir M.%LCKE#NZIE BOWn7DLL-The
hon, gentleman mlght accomplish the object
be bas ln view by suggesting to the pro-,
moters of the Bill ln the Commons, when it
meaches there, to brlng up these matters.
The point lie raised, Io one that has been
concýeded iover and over agan
benu
changes lu the tariff bave taklen plae.
There have been provisions made for purchases whicb were -made In foreigu coun-

it shall not issue or ru-issue any of its notes
until authorized by the Treasury Board so ta
do.
2. No such note shail be for a sum less than
fiye dollars, or for any sum which iu not a
multiple of Byve dollars.
3. T he total amount of such notes in circulation at any time shaîl not exceed the amount
of the unimpaired paid-up capital of the bank:
provided that, during the usual season of
moigthe crops, that is to say, f rom and incuigthe &rat day of October in any year
ta and încluding the thirt"-first day of January next ensuing, in addition ta the said

1354

1354

SENATE
SENATE

amount of notes hereinbefore authorized te be
issued for circulation, the bank may issue its
notes, te an amouat not exceedine ifitteen per
centuni of the combined unimpaired paid-up
capital and reserve or rest fund of the bank
as stated in the statutory monthly returu
made te the minister for the month immediately precediag that in which the additional
&Mount is issued.
4. Whenever, under the anthority of the
proviso te the next preceding subsection of
this section. the issue of an additional amount
cf notes of the ban-k has been made. the genoral manager, or other chief executive officer
of the bank for the time being, shail forthwith give notice thereof by registered letter
addressed te the minister and te the president
of the Canadian Bankers'Hon. IMr. FERGUSON''-I want te caîl the
attention of the commlttee te the condition
Of the circulation last fali at the time it
was held tliat there was such an extraI take the months
ordin*ary strlugency.
ef November and December, -which wlll be
regarded as the months ot the year lu whlch
the crop la mnovlng and requiring a greater
1 find that ln these mouths
circulation.
*there was net an abnormal circulation. The
notes ln those
issue et government
montes was less than It was lu Àprll thîs
,year. The Issue of government notes
,on tuie 3Oth November was $62,519,400, and
the circulation by the banks $84,452,899,
about tee ame as it was lu the month ef
October, and five millions more than durlng
September; but the circulation et geverument notes contiued about the same durIu tact, for the nine
lng ail these months.
xuonths, the lewest amount *Is $61,2411544 lu October last, and the higbest $62,These figures certalnly
664,837 lu May.
de net ludicate a great stringeucy as re1 notice that the effect
gards circulation.
et the action et the goverument lnst year
was not te Increase the circulation et
the Dominion notes, although teat was
the torm the order lu council took,
but te lead te a large depletion et
gold trom the treasury. Turnlng te the
question et gold, 1 find that there ýwas
held as gold or sterling debentures lu excess et what wns necessary te secure the
depesits lu the government savings bnnks,
$40,821,642 on the 3Oth ef September. There
wss $40,421,798 et gold beld on the 3lst et
October, $38,019,400 held on tee 3Otn et
November, $35,011,368 on the 31st of December, and ou the 3lst et January the
lowest point, the gold reserve lield by the
Hon. Mr. KERR.

That was
governinent was $34,222,568.
$6,700,000 lesa geld tean was held on the
I just mention tels as
3Oth September.
indlcating that there dees net appear te
have been last tai sncb a great dlfficnlty ln
the circulation at aIl events.
Hon. Sir RIOHARD CARTWRIGHTThe mode lu which teese returus are turnlshed Is a Ilttle apt te mlslead, and for
thls reasen; when yen talk of the circulatien et gevernment notes, ne sncob thlng lu
reallty exista except ais regards eues, twos
and tours. The vast bulk ef what le called
geld reserve eught te be called gevernmnt
certificates for gold beld, net preperty ef
the goverument lu any true sense, but heid
for the banks, whe find It more cenvenlent
te held tee certificates et tee governmeut
redeemnable in gold than te hold the gold
which lu ordlnary circumstauces weuld be
Our system la peculiar
held lu the vanîts.
lu that respect; we have made ourselves
custedians et apecle, which, under erdlnary
circnmstancee weuld be hield by a bank or
banks. I am net sure lu many respects teat
It was a wise move. I know why It was
doue, and it was net tor any genuine scientlfic reason, but eimply te belp tee Finance
Mînîster et tee day eut et a dlfficulty iLnd
let thlm get a lîttle more geld than he ceuld
otherwlse convenlently secure. At thîs
moment, tee vaut bulk ef the gold whlch le
held ls te ail Intents and purpeses tee property et tee banks sud net et the goveruThe gevernment must baud it over
ment.
on demaud, aud It Is net tee ranch, havlug
reterence te the deposits, te hold. Now,
the hon, gentleman wlll observe anether
thlng -wlth respect te this: that is, that
lu ail these cases where there Is a danger
ef a run, a Paulc sncb as occnrred last
November, tee banks will always try and
ought te try and strengthen themselves, aud
ought te hold more geld at these tîmes than
If they cau teey -will do se, but
oteers.
lu our syetem they would preter, ef course,
to hold the goverument certîficates fer gold
as belng more convenleut te keep than the
That
ordlnary specle they wonld hold.
AB
se far as te goverumeut circulation.
te tee ether point iny hon. triend alluded
te, test le a possible stringency, 1 would
Point eut this: He quotes perfectly cerrectly
the total ameunt ef circulation eut lu Ne-

JUNE 26. 1908
1355
JITNE 26. 1908
1355
vember and December, but he -wIll note that mission was given by order in council to
the banks which deait in the Northwest la make an Issue of notes without specie reparticular, notably one or two of the larg- serve, dollar for dollar was this: not that
est of them, had gone up to the very full the circulation of the goverameat notes beamouut that they could issue under the came greiter (I speak of the circulation
law, and there was an absolute strin- issued from the treasury) notes of small
gency as regards their notes. They could denominations going freely loto circulation
flot get them out nor couid they borrow with a guïrantee of 25 per cent rethem from other banks, witbout paying serve held against them. The larger
goid, *which It was flot advlsable to do, numbers go with a dollar for dollar prowithout Increasing the reserve which they vision and the banks hold this legal tender.
deemed expedient to hold.
In almost ail What appears to have happened whea this
these cases, the business of a community larger Issue of notes was agreed upon by
like the Northwest ls conducted flot by the order in council, the banks got that and
whole of the banka of Canada -but by a turned around and took the gold equivalent
certain number of banke.
They found a to It, because the gold. ln the hands of the
great strlngency.
No harm. can exist from goverament feli off and the circulation did
giving the elasticity requlred to be given, not appear to Increase. They issued legal
because under no circumstances can any of tender certificates to the banks without a
those banks, nder our system, keep a dol- reserve,. and they must have corne back to
lar ln circulation more than the needs of the treasury and taken the gold.
the country requlre.
The instant they exHon. Sir RICHARtD CAjRTWRIGHTceed the amouat that la absolutely wanted,
their notes corne back to them and must be Uadoubtedly.
'redeemed ln gold, so that very little rIsk ocHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I can well undercurs, particularly in the case of those banks stand that that would be an excellent thing
baving large reserves, ln glving them for for the purpose 0f stiffenlng up the banks
the time the rlght to Issue 15 per cent more for ruas upon them.
There was a panlc
than at* present they are allowed to do. outslde of Canada which might seize our
lion. gentlemen will note that you cannot country at any moment, and it was desirkeep circulation out under our systemn to able that the banks should lacrense their
any extent more than the naeeds of the coun- reserve. They did It at that time, and that
try requlre.
If you attempt to do it-and probably caused a good deal of conffdence.
I speak with knowledge-your notes will They used thls concession they got f rom the
be returned to you withln a very f ew days, goverament to strengthen their reserves,
perhaps a very f ew hours, and must ýat but it does not appear to have gone into
once be redeemed In gold.
circulation and therefore It did not have the
Hon. Mr. FERGU8ON-I am quite aware effect of niovIng the crop.
that last yea:r and every year, some ef the
Hon. Sir RICHAR~D CARTWRIGHTbanks, owing to the nature.0f the business My hon. friend Io perhaps not aware that
they transact, do not get aIl the notes out under the precautions taken by the Finance
that they are entltled to Issue.
Very sel- Mlnister none of this gold went to any other
dom the Bank of Montreai Issues to Its full bank or for any other purpose than for aspower and authorlty. 'The saine Is true sistiag ln moving the crops ln the [Northof the Mierchants Bank of Canada.
I west whlch were at that turne ln a state
suppose It la due, to smre extent, to the or congestion, and whlch could not be
kind of business they are doing. When my rnoved because the banks which chiefly
hon. friend speaks of the gold held by the dealt there had practically exhausted their
government, and that they are holding It means ln the way of note Issue or used up
for the banks, it must be rememnbered their gold reserve. Divery precaution was
that it la the legal tender notes that taken, and successfully taken, to make sure
the -banks hold that gives them the rlght that nobody got a dollar of the gold except
to corne back and take out gold at any for that particular purpose, and It was, as
time; but what happeaed last fali when per- I have every reason to belleve, successful

1356

1356

SENATE
SENATE

to a very considerable degree ln iessening
the extrerne congestion which had taken
place ln the Northwest at that Urne. The
mere tact that the goverument had Interfered, loosened the purse strings, as hon.
members frorn the Northwest can testify,
of Borne of the other banks and a very considerabie arnount of grain was sent forward, which, wltbout the interference of
the governrnent, ceuld neyer have been sent
forward and probably would have been
worthless If heid there until April or May.
'Hou. !Mr. FERGUSON-It would nlot appear, bowever, that the goid would be sent
to the Northwest.
It'would be paper
mouey that would be sent there.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTQuite s0; but you cannot get paper rnoney
wlthout gold.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSGN-Wbat happened
last fali was, they got over $5,0O0,0O0 ln
notes wlthout paying gold.
1 refer now
to the peculiar arrangernt tint was made.
What appears to have happeued was this:
they got notes under an order ln council,
and tien turned around wlth these notes
or others In their. possession and took gold
for them, and the gold went out o! the
treasury. The goid becarne $6,00,000 short
early ln the year cornpared with what it
had been two or three rnonths before that.
My difficulty Is to find why' It was necessary to rernove the gold. '%as there auy
large exportation to the -United iStates or
other countrles at tint time?
It can be
traced froni tie returus, but lt would seern
to me tint a great deal of this gold mnust
have lef t tbe country just about tiiat time.
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARITWRIGHTNo, it was handed over to the particular
bauks engaged lu the transaction, and witli
LAist tiey were able to obtain the notes of
other banks, which nnswered tbeir purp>oses.

Hon. M r. FERGUSON-That is what was
done. It la the gold that is rnissing. AItbough the notes were issued, It appears
that they were used as legai tender and the
gold was irnredlately withdrawn. Therefore, untll you have the details of how that
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It lef t the govrnoney was distributed to the banks we are ernment and tie country wlth that large
at a loss to know how It was used in the loss of gold.
forrn of gold ln place of paper rnoney.
The clause was agreed to.
'Hon. -Sir RICHARD OAARTWRIGHTHon. Mr. COFFEY, from the conittee,
It was fuily discussed ln the lower brandi reported the Bill witiout amneudment.
of parîlament, and, I rnay say as a matter
The Bill was then rend the third tirne
of knowledge, noue of the banks that were
deallng ln grain ln the Northwest got any and passed, under suspension of the rules.
of this advnnce.
They got it under a pe- BRITISH COLUMBIA COURT 0F APcullar arrangement made with tiiern and
PBAL BILL.
guaranteed by the Bank of Montreal. If
THIRD ]READING.
the hon. gentlemnan bas the returus for NoThe House resolved Itself Into Commitvember and December before hlm I think
lie wili see that under the usual head there, tee of the Who'le ou Bibl (165) An Act res0 much was held ln gold and so rnuch lu specting the Court of Appealinl Britishl Coother securities of Canada by the Bank of lumbia
(In the Committee.)
Montreal.
I can tell the lion, gentleman
that it was only for that one partidular purOn clause 1,
pose the gold was used.
1. Paragraph <c) of section 26 of the Disfranchising Act, chapter 9 of the Revised
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Whatever forin Statutes, 1906, is repealed and the following
the transaction took, lt ended in se mucli paragraphe are substituted therefor:
(c) in the provinces of Nova Scotia, New
gold goiug out of the treasury.
"Gold Brunswick and Prince Edward Island, to the
would nlot be useful currency in the west. Supreme Court in banc;
(el) in the provin* of British Columbia, to
-Hon. Sir RtICHARD *C-,RTWRIGHT- the Court of Appeal.
The banks could not get extra notes without
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The present appeal is
It. For the notes tey had to pay gold.
to the Supreme Court lu British Columbia,
Hion. Sir RICHIAPD CARTWRIGHT.

JU-LY 2, 1908

1357

3. What was his ealary, and how much did
and the eff ect of this provision la to make
It to the Court of Âppeal.
It refera to a ho drawP
case where a voter has voted Illegaliy, and
Hon. Mr. e00TT-The answers to the
a test case Is made, and It goes to the Court hon. gentleman's questions are as foilows:
of Âppeal, lnstead of to the Supreme Court
1. Yes.
as formerly.
2. Fereman.
3. (a) $2.50 per day.
(b) $260.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It seems to me a
remarkable thing as to a case of that charREDPAIRS TO 'DUFFFIRIN TERRACE.
acter, where a man bas voted Illegally,
INQUIRY.
that iastead of going to the Supreine Court
Hlon. M r. LANIYRY Iaquired of the govIt has to go to the Court of Appeal. The
Court of ÂAppesl does flot meet mo frequent- ernment:
]y, and the questioa Is not of such a charAre the works of repair mnade by the goverament to the land which serves as foundaacter that It need go there.
tion for the Dufferin terrace at Quebec now
. Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I presume that la the finiahed, or at ieaat sufficiently advanced ta
permit the whole terrace being open te the
oIlly explanation.
public at the time of the celebration of the
Hon. Mr. ROSS (3flddlesex)-It eugbt to third centonary of the foundation of Quebea P
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The repaira to the rock
go to the highest court, whlch la the Court
whlch serves as a foundation for Dufferin
of Appeal.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I amn surprlsed to Terrace, Quebec, have been completed, -but
hear the hon, gentleman from Middlesex the terrace wall and piatform of the end
oay that an appeal on a trIfllng matter that has been closed to the public will flot
be finlshed before August 15.
The reshould go to thé Court of Appeal.
mainder of -the terrace bas been strengthen-Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-That is the ed by the city authorities, and is finished.
way It la In Ontario, and It works ail right.
RANK 0F MILITARY OFoeICERS.
The clause was adopted.
INQUIRY.
Hon. UIr. KERR, from the committee, reported the Bill wlthout amendment.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired o! -the govThe Bill was then read the third time, ernment:
and passed untier suspension of the rules.
1. Ia it the intention of the governrnent to
The Senate adjourned until Thuraday, grant te each of the officera commanding highor commands, or commanding a brigade, rank
July 2nd, at 8 p.m.
corresponding te the oommand devolving upan
them?
2. What rank is given in England te such
commanding officera 1
3. What rank cou be granted te those who
THE SERÂTE.
occupy aimilar positions in CanadaP
OTTAwA, Thursday, July 2, 1908&
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers to the
The S-PEAKER took the Cbair at Eight hon. gentleman's questions are as foliows:
1. There Is ne Intention of conferrlng
bigber rank. at present, either on officers
commanding commands or on officers commandlng brigades.
In the latter case, the
FBIIPLOYMFENT 0F ELlE ROUSMU.
rank of colonel can be granted under the
INQTJIRY.
regulations promulgated ln Generai Orders
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY lnquIred of the gov- Nos. 73 and 105 of 1908.

o'clock p.m.
Prayers and routine proceedinga.

erument:

1. Was there, in 1907, amongat those who
worked. at Trois Pistoles wharf, in the county
of Temiscouata, a workman or a day labourer
anawering, on the pay-liat, to the name of
Euie RousseUP
2. In what capacity was hoe mployed P

2. In Engiand, as a rule, the 'Commands
o! the Army' sire heid by lieutenant-generais, and brigades are commanded by colo.
nels wlth (in the regular forces) the temporary rank of brigadier-general.

1358

. SENITE

1358

SENATE

3. In tilne of peace no officer In the Canadian multin can be appointed to a bigher
rnnk than that of colonel, except for the
purpose of assumlng the command of the
militin; but tbe temporary rank of brigadler-general may be conferred upon an offcer of the rank of lieutenant-colonel or colonel, when epeclal]y autborized.

4. 2,600 feet square timber at 18 cents,
$468; 207 pounds steel at 12 cents, $24.84;
20J pounds steel maces at il cents, $2.23;
nails, &c., at 5 cents, $5.01.
5. P. E. Amiot, assistant engineer, and
Achille Durette, foreman.
6. March 9, for Item of $468; Juiy 15, for
Item of $27.0î; November 23, for item of
$5.05.

BIC HARBOUR WHARF.
INQUIRY.
'Hon. Mr. L.ANDRY inquired of the government:
1. When were the 2,600 feet of squared
spruce delivered. which are mentioned at page
V--460, of the Report cf the Auditor Generai
of March 31, 1907, under the heading «'Bic
harbour: wharf at Pointe à Coté '?
2. By whom and te whom was this wood delivered?
3. To whom and when were the $468 paid.
which this wood cost?
4. Was there a certificat. cf delivery there.
of P
5. By whom was it given?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe answers to te
hon, gentleman's questions are as folIowsý
1. February 25, 1907.
2. Delivered by P. E. D'Ânjou to P. E.
Amiot, assistant engineer.
3. To P. E. D'Anjou by cheque lssued on
Mardi 9, 1907.
4. Yes.
5. By P. E. Aniot, assistant engineer.
OONSTRUCTION 0F POINTE A COTE~
WHARF.
INQUIRY.
lion. Mr. ILLNDRY inquired of the gevernment:
1. From Auguet 1, 1907, te December 31,
1907, did Mr. P. B. D'Anjou receive froni the
Department of Public Works eny sum whatsoever ini paymeut for goods delivered for the
construction of the Pointe à Coté wharf, Bic
harbour?
0. For what goods P
3. Ât what date was the delivery of these
goods made P
4. In what quantity and et what price?
5. Who certilled the delivery cf these goods?
6. At what date was payment made for each
of the items so delivered?
Hon. Mr. SGOTT-The answer te the
hon. gentleman's questions are as follows:
1.Yes.
2. For hardware and lumber.
3. February 25, 1907; June 20, September
18, October 15, and October 18, 1907,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT'.

SENATORS AN'D MEMBERLS 0F THE
COMMONS APPOINTE]) TO OFFICE.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. I,ÂNDRY moved:
That an humble address b. presented te
Ris Excellency the Governor General, praying that His Excellency wlill cause te be laid
beîore the Senate a return showing:
1. The name of ail senators and members
of the Senste and House cf Commons who
have been appointed to office of emolument
during the yeare 1896-7-8-9, 1900-1-2-8-4-5-6-7 and
2. The nae cf the office te which each
senater and member was appointed.
3. The salary attached te each office.
Hou. Mr. MeMULILEN moved lu amendment, that the figures 1878 be substituted
for 1896l, and tliat the return be for each
year subsequent to that date.
Hon. Mr. LAS-DRY-I accept the amendment.
The motion was amended and agreed to.
AN ERROR IN THE MINUTM.
Hon. Mr. ROBERTSON-I waut te cail
attention te a mistake in our last minutes.
The House wili remember that on Thursday Iast we discussed the question of adjournment, sud the eutry in the minutes
ls as follews:
The Houcurable Mfr. Robertson moved, seconded by the Houcuraible MT. Tessier,

That when the Senate adjourns to-morrow,

it do stand adjourned

ntil- Wednesday, July

8th prox., at three o'clock in the afteruoon
The Honourable Mr. Perley iu ameudment
moved, seconded -by the Honourable Mfr.
Baird,

That ail the words after "adjourued"- be

struck out and the foflowing inserted in lieu
thereof " until Tuesday, the 7th of Juiy next,
at three o'clook in the afternoon."
The Honourable Mfr. Casgrain in ameudment to the proposed amendment moved, seconded by the Honourable Mfr. Talbot,
b.
That ail the words after -"until"- struck
out and the following iuserted in lieu thereof
" Thursday, the second cf July uext."

JL'LY 211908

1359

JULY 2, 1908
1359
-Hon. 'Mr. GIBSON-The hon. leader of
te opposition is flot present to-nIght, and,
as he bas smre remarks to maire on this
Bill, I suggest It would be weli to postpôfle
It until, say, Tuesday next.

The question of concurrence being Put On
the said amendiment to the proposed amendment.
The Senate divided as follows:Yeas. 35.
Nays, 15.
Bo it was resolved in the affirmative.
The question beingthen. put on the main
motion, as âmended, the ame was, on a division, resoived in the affirmative.'
I fid that wben the -House adjourned
on Friday, Ris Honour the Speaker declared
the Sonate continueI tutul the 2nd of July
1 at 8 o'clock. In tbe evening.' I 'want to
know how tbat motion, carried *by the
House, was changed?
The SPBÂKER-The explanation la as
foliows: The sub-amendment of the hon.
sonator from De Lanaudière was Iu wrIing,
and it remnained. on my desk and wam not
transmitted to the cierk until the foliowing
day, when the clerk noticed that the Motion, as 1 hadl put it, was 8 p.m., and that la
as the amendment was wrltten.
4Hon. Mfr. ROBEBRTSON-But 8 p.m. was
not In the motion as sent to the 'Speaker?

Hon. Mr. G&SGR.IN-I do flot think
that Senator Lougheed wiil be back again
this session; but If ho sbould return tie can
state his objection at the third reading.
The Bill may as woii be dlsposed of one
way or the othor now.
Hon. Mr. GIBBON-In conversation witb
him, he told me that he was opposed to the
Bill and wouid Ilko to have an opportuflity
of speaking on it before the third roading.
Hon. Mr. CÂSçGRIN-He bas alroady
spoken against It two or threo times.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Did the bon. gentleman say lie bad the opinion of the Minister of Justice on the question?
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRIN-I had a letter
from the Minister of Justice, and it bas
been read and printed ln our debates.

The SPEÂKER-Yes, it was In the amHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Wben?
endment as prepared by the hon. menator
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRÂIN-Âbout two weeks
from De Lanaudi4re. The clerk did not
ago.
catch the 8 p.m., and put In 3 p.m.
Hon. -Mr. GIBSON-I look upon tbis Bill
Hon. Mr. ROBERTSON-It' was not
after the House had adjourned? as one of the moat dangorous measures over
handed Iu
introducod tnto the Sonate, and, for that
The SPEÂKER-No. I was notilled next
reason, I think it sbould. be withdrawn. No
day that there was auch an error, and when
good reamon bas been given wby changes
I looked for the mub-amendmeut I found It
of thii kind shouid. be made. As I underon my desk.
stand the matter. It seems ridiculous that
dlaims on account of any supplies or on
RAILWÂY ACT AM'ENDME~NT BILL.
account of a.ny work that la done In couIN COMMITTEE.
nection with the railway shouid rank beThe House resumed In Commlttee of the hind the securities that have been given
The
Whole consideratlon of Bill (PP) An Act In the way of bonds or mortgages.
to amend the Railway Act as regards the thing is n0 ridiculous In ltzelf that a mani
prefereutial charge created by the Issue of miglit stop InsocurIties.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I rime to a question
(In the Committee.)
of order. Several distlnguished and hon.
Hon. Mfr. OÂSGRAIN-Sluoe this Bill lias gentlemen of this Houso have exprem.ed
been on the Order Paper, the hon. -Secretary themaolves In favour of the Bill, and it Is
of Stato lias obtained a letter from the Min- out of order to speak: of their action as
ister of Justice, and it la now a question ridiculous.
of policy with Uic Sonate whether they wfll
The CHÂAIRMÂN-I thought so myseif.
It la unnecesaccept or roject this Bill.
Hon. Mr. GIBBON-ThOn I wili say tbat
sary to repeat the arguments in favour of
the Bill la a most extraordinary one, If the
I therefore move that clause 1
this Bill.
word ridiculous does not expreira It fully.
be adopted.

1360

SENATE

SENATE
1360
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The hou. gentleHon. Mr. POWER-If the lion. gentleman from Beamsville has flot followed the
say, in hîs humble opinion.
man w-lll
discussion, or he would flot speak as he
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I w-i flot be dictated
This is
This Is flot a new Bill.
does.
to by the hon, gentleman from Halifax or
simply «revertlag to the law as It was beI think he
any other bon. gentleman.
fore 1903.
should. ailow other people to express thelr
Hon. Mr. LÂ,NDRY-Wby was it changed
opinions, and 1 have been long enough lu
1 at that time?
this House to understand the procedure.
w-as assumlIng that the w-hole scheme of
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN-It was changed
this Bill, and w-bat bas been sald ln favour inadvertently, by parliament.
of It4 are based on a fbogey. The proposiHon. Mr. .LÂNDRY-No.
tion, as I understand It, la simply this:
debt upon a ralway
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-It had existed for
Take for Instance a
for ties, cars or locomotives suppiied, peo- forty years.
pie w-lt such dlaims cannot collect the
Hon. Mir. IANDRY-There are two or
money because there happen to be other three other clauses lu the Bill.
peopie w-ho hold the bonds of the rallway.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-This Is a
The tblng Is so pecuilar of Itseif, that 1
The
very serions Bill, la iny judgment.
wonder the members of the Senate have
their more se- hon. gentleman from De Lanaudière states
flot taken this matter Into
revertlag to the Iaw as it was ln
rions consideratlon. Take a bondboider that -we are
1903. The change was made, I belleve, by
The
or mortgagee of a farma property.
I thluk It was a goverilfarmer may borrow huudreds or thousands the government.
The Railway Bill was very
ment Bill.
of dollars as the case may be upon lits
It la a very Importproperty. The tact that It is so mortgaged carefully consldered.
I tbtnk the goverament should
ant Bill.
does flot preveut: hlm from making extenfor any
sions and Improvements on bis property. assume the fuil responsibillty
I think w-e
But that Is w-bat the Bill professes to do. change that Is now proposed.
Minister of
Whatever the debts of a railway are, they should be advlsed that the
upon the property. I amn told Railways approves of wbat la proposed.
should rank
Is lnthat a creditor must describe every Item The responslbflity of the government
0f course it Is involved In any
from one end to volved.
of a rallway property
ln an
the other, wlthout leavlng ont the station Bill, but It is particularly lnvolved
before ameadment to a government Bill, and aiground, or any other things,
he can enter a suit against the rallway icom- thougb 1 would be disposed, If the worst
law
pany. Âccordlng to the Bll, ns 1 under- came to the worst to revert to the o!d
creditor must firat prove that of 1903, under which railway securities
stand It the
I thlnk
the rallway bas assets other thanu those have sold for so many years, stt!!
I
this Bill could very well stand over.
that are availabie to pay the bondholders.
and I
That means he bas to go to the court and would prefer It should stand over,
prove that the railway had sufficient assets would rather vote that It should stand over
to pay Its debts beyond Its bonding power. than that we sbould pass it, unless 1 have
I do flot profesa to be a lawyer; but If the the assurance from the leader of the Senate
law as it now ls on the statute-book, bas that this matter bus been carefully considerw-orked w-el! for so many years, w-bat Is ed by the goverument, and that they are bethe reason of the change? There mnust be hind the hon, gentleman w-ho has lntroWe should be slow to
crook-ed work somew-here. Somebody wants duced the Bill.
We w-t!!
make ameadments of this klInd.
to get ont of paying bis just debts. Why
be brougbt upset a vast amount of rallway securities;
shonld a Bil! of this Importance
la at the eleventh hour of the session? Some perhaps the securlty of millions of money
railway or some prîvate Individual w-ants may be more or less prejudiced by the
Ail the railto get rld of some lndebtedness. I ask the action w-e are going to, take.
In Canada that have borrowed any
House to consider this Bi!! and give It ways
the fate It deserves, by voting against It. money and have issued any bonds are interHon. Mr. GIBSON.

JULY 21 1908
What do they say?
ested lu this matter.
'Iýhjs Bill
We have flot heard frorn them.
should oniy pass atter It bas been fully
consldered by those who hold aecurities.
We should. flot act rashly.
I hope the lion.
leader of the Senate, before we proceed
further, will be able to tell us that the
government has considered Vis ameudment,
that the Department of Raiiways entirely
approves of it that- the goverument are
fully aware of what la involved ln 1t, and
that this House wiii act upon sucli caref ni
and deliberate advlce as we sliould, have ln
a matter of thls consequence.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Every hon. gentleman
knows that as a mile 99 per cent *,f the
moaey that has bulIt our railways, has
corne from the other side of the Atlantic.
It la advanced on bonds that have been
secured by a mortgage, a first charge upon
The mortgage lias probably
the rond.
brought about the acquisition of tbe rails.
It lias furnased. the construction of the
railway, and In smre Instances the roiling
stock.
The mortgage lias covered everything, and that was the original Inception
As time went
of railway mortgage bonds.
on, it became apparent that there were
certain charges, wages of the men, &c.,
that did not particularly interfere with
the security lield by tbe mort.gagee.
After a certain time, as property was
requlred to complete tbe hune, personal property and 80 gn, *provision 'was made
ln the law that notwlthstanding thîs
mortgage the charges at the time to
which I bave Iast referred should te
pald out of tbe rents aud revenues.
And thiat was the la w froin time Immemorial Up to 1903. la the clause la wbich the
reference ls made the words 1property and
assets'1 appeared a few lines above-there
was a paragrapli setting forth that the
property, assets, rente and revenues were
security for the mortgage. A few lunes
below that it was set forth that the property, rents and assets sbould be subject,
ln the first place, to ni penalty Imposed,
and afterwards to the payment o! what
was called worklng expenditure. The worklng expeudîture Includes a very long list
of items, and there is no manner o! doubt
that tic change la 1903 weakened very
consldemably Vie dlaims of the mortgagee,
86
ibEVISED

and that no mortgagee out o! the liundredi
perhaps tbousands o! parties wlio held
securlty of that kind in Canada, was aware

that that change was made. As bon, gentlemen who are famîllar wltli the Railway
Act know, Vie law requimes that when a
rallway company Issues a mortgage securlng bonds, they file a duplîcate o! fi ln
Vie office o! the Secretamy of State. I have
looked over a number of mortgages fIled
siace 1903, and they have evldentiy lgnored
the change la Vie law, convlncing me that
the lawyera were not aware that Vhis
change had been -made. The Rallway Act
ameadments la 1903 were prepamed by Vie
lnw clerk of the Railway Departmeat. He
was asked whetlier he bail any recollectlon
of maklng that particular change, and lie
replied tliat he had not-that he dld not
know how It got there. He liad no lde«t
that Vie property and assete weme takeu
as a firet charge for the working expenses
and payment o! penalty. I Vien wrote to
the Minîster of Justice Vie followlng letter :
Der Mr. Âylesworth,-There je a Bill before
the Sonate (PP>, promnoted 'by Senator Caagrain and supported by Senator Néique and
othera, etriking ont the words '.property and
assets ' in the fifth lia. of section 138 of the
Railw'ay Act, Chapter 87, Bavised Statutes.
The argument iiued is that the worde « property aad amets' were inadvertently added
to ' rente and revenues,' sa no explanatioix
can be be obtained as to how the two words
came to be inserted. The law clerk of the
Railwai Department; who drafted the Bill has

ho recolleotion of having inserted thora in the

Bill of 1903. If 'prbpemty and assets' are to
bu made subject te a ilthe items of working
exipeaditure as defined ia Vie inteinpretatioit
clause it will eeriouely affect the iaterests, cf
the bondholdera, as instances can be given
where the amount would rua into the huadreds of thousands cf dollars.
I inolose you a memo, giving the pointshaviag been asked by the Sénate, to obtain
your views.
Yustuy
R. W. SCOTT.
The Hlon. A. B. Aylesworth,
Minister cf Justice.
To this letter 1 received the following

reply :
Ottawa, June 20, 1908.
*Dear -Mr. Scott,-I arn duly in receipt of
3,our letter of the l5th instant referriag te
the Bill <PP), now before the. Sonate, to strike
out the words 'Vroperty and assets' in the
th line of section 138 cf the Eailway Act,
ch&-pter 37 Revioed Statutes, and yen state
that you have been aeked by the Senate to
obtain my views in the matter.
EDITION

1362

SENATE
1362

I tiiink the question wiiether these 'words
chould or ehouid not romain in the statute
id entirely one of policy, end, therefore, one
upon which I arn not competent te advins parliament, except te thie extent te wiih asa
,meinher of the. Houée of Commons, I rnight
venture toe xpress in thie Houe any opinion
I znight entertain.
I amn quit. unable te ofier aay su g eston as
te what may have been intended by parnament when thes. worde were inserted in the
it
seotion in question in 1903. 1 eiiould think ef
probable.they were repeated in the provisethse
in
the, section because they appeared
enumrers.tion of thie property of the. coinpany
which rnight b. made the. subject of the. mortgage deed.
Tei legal effect of the presence in the provise of thon words in, of course, es yen étate,
that thie penalties meationed in the clause, as
Weil as thie wonking expenditure of the raiway are made a charge upen ail of thie mortgaged property, -prier te -the. .mrtgage encumbrance. Wiietiier or ne parliament in
1903 apprediate-d and intended te produce tuis
efleot 1 sui unable te say.
Ireman,
Yours, faitiituillv
Â. B. ÂYLESWORTII.
The. Honourable B. W. Scott,
Secretary of State.
The memorandum attached te Vie correapeadende l'a as fOllowa :
RE MORTGÂGE ON RÂILWÂYS.
*By section 94 of the. Bailway Act, 1888, thse
mertgage deed was eecurity upon the wiioie of
thé. property, assets, rents and revenues of the
,empany present or future, or botb as described in the. said deed, but such rente and
revenues shall b. eubject in the. firet instance
te the. payment of any penalty îrnposed and
annexed te the. paymient of the working expenditure ef thse railway.
13y 6ection 112 of the Act ef 1%03, providing
for the creatien ef xnortgagres which may arnbrace the. wiioe efthVe property, assets, renta
and revenues cf the company, present or f uture or beth as described therein, but sucii
property, assets, renta and revenues shall be
subjeet te the payinent of any penalty end te
the. payment et the woirking expenditure of
the railway.
It is alleged that thse words 'property aud
assets' were inserted by mistake, as it doe
net appear thiat any reference was made te

the clause in either the Senate or Blouse of
Gommon.s. It is considered that thse including
of 'property and assets' weakens thse value
ef the -mortgage very seriously.
From a basty search I bave made ln
Vie department-uud I bave looked over
a number of mortg-ages tbere, I have found
oniy one lu whiclb reference is made te
the legislatien ef 1903. That ene appears
te bal.e been the only eue that accepted the
legi-alation et 1903, the others beiug entirely Ignorant of the change. Thiere is

one very Important ene drawn by a gentleman 'ivlo keeps ln toucb wlth the legisHon. Mfr. SCO)TT-

lation, Mr. Lasb. acting for the Canadian
Nortiiern. He had prepared the mortgage
that company Issued on the old Unes wbicb
made the mortgage a first charge on the
property and assets, as wel as on rents and
revenues; se I have corne te the conclusion
that the *words were introduced Inadvertentiy, because I ean flnd -no one who is
cognîzant of how the change occurred, and,
therefore, it becornes, as Mr. Ayleaworth
aaya, a matter ef policy. I think If It were
known te, a mortgagee that ail dlaims for
'wagea, materlala and supplies were to be
preferred ln advance efthVe mortgnge he
would besitate about accepting Vie bonds.
One case was mentloned the other day. It
waa net verifled, but I presumne it was
founded on truth, Viat Io, that a railway
company owIng a debt et ever one huadred tiousand dollars payable te parties la
thîs country, dlaims that that amount would
corne ln prier te Vie firat rnertgage, se you
can quite aee Viat a very serions condition might arise where heavy debts are
incurred fer which Vie road bed, Vie rolling
stock and ail other preperty would be
lhable la advance of Vie rnortgage. Mortgagees and bondhelders would be slow to
accept bouds If Viey did net feel Viere was
absolute security for them.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-What about the labourers?
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Every railway Bill
passing through parliament authorizes tbe
company to Issue bonds te a certain arneunt
per mile. It does net feliow that.the wbole
amount autberized is issued, but they may
Having satisfied the
issue that rnuch.
bond-holders that debts have been incurred
te people ln Canada for labour and materiai,
it is ouiy fair that those debts sbeuld corne
in ahead ef the dlaim of the bend-bolders.
That is the whole tbing. One of the tougliest fights we bave ever had at the other end
0f tbis building occurred somne years age
in cennectien wlth the Toronto, Hamilton
In tbat case
and Buffalo Railway Bill.
the railway contracter was an incorperated
Tbat company
company frorn Chicago.
sub-iet the whole of the work, and we got
from them a certain sum ef money placed
la one efthVe banks te cever the cost of construction between Waterford and Hûmilton.

JULY 21 1908
JULY 2, 1908
Wiben the railway was extended from Hamliton to Welland, they ieft the Indebtedness
of that part of the Une and pald the other,
and éthon came ta parliament afterwards
with a plon that they wanted one million
live hundred tbousand extra bonds, and
wonld be willing to pay the contractors If
thero were any to pay. But the real creditors were the sub-contractors in Canada,
the main company being the corporation lni
Chiicago, and under the iaw sub-contractors
The resuit was that
are not recognlzed.
the people who bult thxe railway had to
That la the
take 20 cents on the dollar.
sort of thing we want to prevent: ln a Bill
of this kind. We want the people of Canada to be paid for the work they do and
I have na desire
the materiai they supply.
ta Injure the bond-holders; lndeed I have
always stuck up for thom; but ln this case,
there la a black man In the fence somohad better be satisfled witb
where. -We
the iaw as it stands, and people who want
ta lend money can lend it unýder the law
that we have now on the statute-books. I
therefore move that the committee rise.
Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELIL-The
Minister of Justice, who Io supposed ta advise parliamont ln matters af this kind,
really gives no advice or opinion at ail In
this matter; ho simply says it is a question
of policy.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Hear, hoar.
Hon. Sir 3MÀCKENZIE BOWELjL-The
gavernment ought to, have a policy on s0
At the time we conImportant a mattor.
salidatedl the Raliwny Act, it was discussed
clause by clause for a woek or two, and at
the suggestion of those who took a very
deep Interest ln the question, scores of
go great was
amendments were offerod.
thxe interest taken ln the mensure that we
actually had a conference-something unprecedented in the hlstory o! aur legisiation
-with thxe House of Commons as ta the efioot which certain clauses would have if
One in particular
they romained ln the BI.
was the rlght o! appeal in cases o! dispute.
Naw we nre told tiiat wards which wero
placed ln the statutes, of a very Important
chararter, wore plnced there inadvertently
by somebody, an employee of tho government, and not by the member o! thxe cabi-

1363

1363
net, who is responsible flot only for the
consolidation o! thxe laws, but for the
amendments accepted by parliament. Yet
we are aaked ta believe that an amendment of so0 Important a chnracter as this
whlch we are now discussing was added
ta the Act by a inw clerk or somo one who
When we consider tho
drafted the Bill.
care that was bestowod upon the ÂAct by
parliament and the varied intorests affected, It seems incredible that words of such
an Important character as those should
have found their way into the iaw without
the knawledge and consent o! the Minleter
Every one knows he was an
a! Railways.
astute man and understood what he was
doing, and would neyer have aliowed such
an Important change ta be made wlthaut
Those familiar wlth our
his approval.
system of government know that In the
consolidation of any Act, whatever dopartment It may affect the minister at
the head of that department Investigates
every change proposedl ta lie made,
or mhouid do so, ln arder that ho may
be ln a position ta explain and defend the
The position
measure In paillament.
taken by thxe gaverument ln regard ta ttis
measure seems ta 'ne very extraordlnary.
We ask tho MinIster of Justice for advice'
on this measure, and he tells us what every
one knows, that it la a matter a! policy;
but thue government Intraduced the Act es
it stands, and were responsIble for every
clause it contains, and consequently It must
have been at the time the law was passed
the pollcy o! the government ta protect
those who were not protected under the
it la a grave question for the
aId iaw.
Senate ta consider, whether they ehould aI10w a change ta be mnde whlch will Interfore wlth the dlaims of creditors wben the
delits have been Incurred for the purposo
of enabling the road ta be run and ta earn
suflicient money ta pay Interest on the
bonds. The suggestion made by the hon.
senator fram Middlesex is the correct ane.
It is a matter of such grave importance
that the Sonate shauld hesitate until the
government has taken the whole question
into its consideration, and have laid lt dawn
as the pallcy of the gavernment that this
Thon, when they
change shauld lie made.
Came to that conclusion, they wll be able

1364

1364

SENATE

to give us sufficlent reasons, one would suppose, to Justlfy their action.
In the meantrne, 1 tbink we s*hall be dolng justice flot
only to ourselves but to the creditors of
every rallway company Ia the country hy
adopting the motion of the hon. senator
from Lincoln.
Hon. Mr. BAIRD-This Bill sbould flot
becorne law. It bas been stated bere that
the words which give these dlaims for labour and material a preference, siipped Into
the Act of 190W Inadvertently. 1 doubt It.
If sornething had been dropped out, I coùld
understand that -a rngtake rnight have
occurred lu that way; but where a section
ls Inserted affirrnlng a pollcy, It never
sllpped into the Bill by mistake.
There
does flot seem to be axiy good, sound reason for supportlng this Bill.
It would be
unfair to a. labouring man and the man
who supplies materlai for the rniiway that
the bondholders' securlty should corne firet.
There does flot seem to be any crying need
for thls legisiation. There are no railway
companies here demanding It. There may
be sorne unimportant roads whose bonds
are net good security, and some menibers
who desire to put tis Bill through on their
behalf, but It je legisiation which la dangerou. and unneeessary. The Minister of Justice has pronounced.no opinion upon It; be
sys It la a matter of policy. It la a dan- gerous
precedent to pass sucb legisiation,
and I therefore oppose the Bill.
Hon. Mrn SCOTT-Hon. gentlemen assumne that we are taking away the protection the wsge earner should have. They
have a dlaim on the earnIngs of the road.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-But supposing there
ls no revenue ?

Hon. Mr. BAIRD-Supposlng I deliver
50,000 ties, on a road, and it does flot eara
a revenue to pay my dlaim?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I know of only one
road thatils not earning a revenue, and thnt
la in New Brunswick.
Hon. Mr. BAIRD-This railway is not
far frorn New Brunswick.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I have listened on
and off for three monthis to discussions on
the Bill.
Some hbon. senators make it a
matter of cIrcurnstances; others make it a
Hon. Sir MACKENzIE BOWELL.

matter of principle. This Bill is very -simpie, but it is a dangerous mensure. If we
pase It, we estabIlsh the princîple In this
country that labour la not as worthy af
protection as capital. The bonds of the
rnortgagee are to, have the first privilege,
but the bonds sud rnortgages wblcb have
been enhanced by labour should not override labour. The labour and the materil
which have made the bonds valuable should
be protected. Now this Bill tends to, destroy thnt princîple. I arn not against capital, but I dlaim that whntever goes to enhance It sbould have equal privileges. We
are asked by tuis legislation to destroy a'
law which was pnssed delberately by thus
parliarnent live yeara ago. By whorn was
the amendrnent introduced 7 The mover or
tbis Bill says, by a law clerk, and the
bon. Secretary of State practically endorses
thit I arn prepared to show tint it was
Introduced by the Minister of Railways at
that tirne, the late Mr. Blair, and it was
deslgned to meet cases wbere ru ilroads
were trylng to deprive labourera and those
who furniahed material, of their psy, and
these people had sufficlent Influence with
the mliuter of that day to have their dlaims
snfegunrded. It takes four or fi ve years
to build a railroad; where is the workilg
man to get bis money out of the earnings
durlng that time?
If be has no dlaim on
the property, he risks givIng bis labour for
nothing. Thot clause wns deliberately enacted by the lnte Mr. Blair, and it is attacking the Intelligence of tie departrnent
to say that the rnost essential clau-se la
the wbohe Raiiway Act was inserted Inadvertently. Tbat clause changes tie whoie
systern of flnancing roads, and guarantees
the worklngmen and those who supply ma.terial. The House of Gommons accepted
thus clause as presented by the Mifnister
of Railways at that tirne, and It was adopted by the Senate also, and it is too lote
now to sny that parliarnent did not know
what It was dolng, and tint the Minister
of rnilways of that day, wbo, was one of
the brightest administrators In the Liberai
government, did not know wbst he was
doing. The Idea of falling back on flhe
law clerk Of the department and quoting
hlm as snying that be dld not know how
this provision got into the Act, la an ab-

JULY 2, 1908

1365

1365
2, 1908
of that property by our labour or material,
and why should we be deprlved of equal
I admire
righta with the bond-holders?
and respect the opinion of the Minister of
In bis soul and conscience he
Justice.
couid flot recomniend this legisiation, and
he tbrows It to pariament to deal with as
I would have admired
a matter of polcy.
hlm more if te bad aaid ' No, you cannot do
It, It ia wrong and agninat publie policy.'
But he geta out of the dlfficeulty, by saylng
«It le; a matter of poiicy for parliament to
But parliament decided in 1903,
decide.'
and Is now called upon to revoke ftheir deThe MInIster of Justice would
cision.
have been a good deal bigger man ln the
country If he had sald that the legisiation
of 1903 was justlfted, and that declalon of
parliament ahould be ostained to-duy.
This Act has been on the statute-book for the
past dve years, and 1 made the atatement
two or tbree months ago when the Bill was;
thon betore us, that there had been more
bonde sold. and more capital biought into
Canada ln the past live years to build railways, thon, there had been ln the 15 years
But we are told that
or 20 years before.
Investors did flot know that thia provision
exIated ln the law-tbat this clause was
iinobserved, that nobody theuglit of It. I
hope thia statement wIil net be sent broadIt la a direct
caat throughout the country.
challenge against the honesty and Intelligence ot the counsel of every railway comWe are toid that money came ln
pany.
f rom bonds fioated abroad without this
clause -being notlced and examined by omiI
nent lawyers, attorneys anid counsel.
Bay It la a challenge to their honesty, lnRt 18 the Most essentegrity and abiiity.
tIal clause ln the whole Raitway Act, as far
as the financing of a railroad la concerned,
yet we are told that nobody knew anyThe lawyers dld flot see
tbing about It.
it. It pasaed them unobserved. The position la ridiculous,. and I would flot esk any
attorney, no matter how young and inoxporienced ho migbt be, to accept the reaponslbility of advlsing a company be it the
Grand TruDk Railway or Canadian Pacific
Railway or Canadian Northorxi, wlthout
knowlng what was the csontial clause lu
the .Rallway Act ln regard to finances. That
Il le an argument put
cannot be accepted.

surd argument, sud one which cannot ho
admltted. We are responaIbie for our own
legIslation, and we should not try ta shîf t
that responaibllity on to others.
There la flot one responsibie'rillroad ln
the Dominon of Canada-take the Grand
Trunk Ralway, Canadian Northern, Canadian Pacific Railway, or any great corporation--asking *forlegislatlon of 1h15 klnd. Il la
for some bankrupt concern whlch ventured
on a scheme wbich dld not pay. They 'want
to save their bondsa t the expense of whom?
0f the people we are called bore to proteet
-St tho expense of people who are furnishlng labour and supplies. You wIll not ifnd
any of the responaIble companles asking
It la comfor legialation of tibs klnd.
panles who have fioatod bonds on roads
which they thought would pay, but which
they found did flot pay, like the one for
whIch the hon. Senator Casgrain was soîlitor or liquldator. I do not know which, the
Bale de Chaleurs Rallway, where they refused ta psy the worklng mon. They dld
not refuse, but they did not have the money
Io it la
to psy for labour or~ supplies.
bebaîf of this or a similar coMpany that
That la a
such leglalation la introduced?
The Grand Trunk Railway
fair question.
do not ssli lt, nor the Canadian Paclfi Railway nor any other of the great railway
corporations, but rallway companles 'who
floated bonds on properties that were not
They
very solid and flot very profitable.
come before parlament and nsk to have
thelr bonda held by parlament, wlth a
prillege denied to labour and to material
which enhanced the value of those bonds,
and If they were in sny way profitable It
wouid be on account of the work doue by
Is lt on behaîf of
the labouring man.
liiese people the hou. inover introduces the
mensure?
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-No, no.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-On bebaîf of the
Grand Trunk Railway?
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN--On behaîf of the
public Interest and nothing else.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Pubiic lnterest la
centered flot only ln the mon wbo Invest lu
the bonds, and 'wlo have the property and
other assets as securlty; but you or I, or
anybody else, also, -wha enhance the value

1366

SENATE
1366

ln the debates of
before the people of the country that they question can be found
or of the other Chamber-made
They want labour pro- this House
wiii flot accept.
mortgftges on railtected equally with capital-no more and ne a sweeping change that
raflk as a
that la the principle that la to go way.propertiea would no more
lees-aend
of first charge, flot on]y for the future but for
forth ln this country, nnd'the Minister
It would affect mortJustice has saved tbe responsibility of the the past, which means
gages prior te, that date, that prior charges
Liberal party, because he would flot accept
If It wonld be created which 'would take ranic
responsibillty for this legisiation.
such things as exvwere to go before the electors of the coun- before mortgages for
Liberal gov- penses. Let us take two paragraphs. The
try, that the Liberal psrty and
as follows:
ernment were party to, a meamire whereby first paragraph reads
For ail office and management expenses, inthe rights of labour were to ibe sacrificed
fees and agency, legal and
unjustly and unfairly, their deom would be oluding directors'
xess
plain Eiîglish o! 1t. ohr.k
That la the
sealed.
Hon. Mr. F'ERGUSON-Strike that out
I do not go behind the door. I know what
I know -what and that will make àt abouit right.
it la to meet publie opinion.
Hon. Mr. BIQUE-I arn drawing attenIt la to meet people who want f air play and
I hold that, tion to thie enfect of the change that was
f rom parliament.
equal righta
it
as members of this honourable House, It le made. Tbe hon. gentleman says strike
the righta both of out It la s0 exorbitant, that I realize the
our duty to, safeguard
capital and labour, net to, sacrifice one as suggestion that it cannot be countenanced.
againist the other, but keep them on even Then paragraph (b) reads as foilows:
AUl expense of or incidentai to the working
This legislation Is calcuiated to
ground.
It la calcuisted to of the raiiway and the traffie thereon.
bring labour down.
Which means ail the traffic balances. A.
take f rom the man who furnishes supplies
I ask this honour- railway may be golng on, as I have known
bls right to payment.
able House also to, consider that ln passing raiiways to, do, piling up the traffic balthla legisîntion, they wiii give to, the people ances for two or tbree years ngainst oe
of thie country a further conviction that property te the extent of $70,000 or W8,000,
this Chamber legisiates flot in the interests and these 'wiil rank before the mortgage..
of the people at la rge, but In the Interests The railway companies can weli afford to
let their traffic balances plie up against one
o! capital.
msy be the anotiier when they are gunranteed by the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Whatever
decision arrived at on this Bill, I desire Raiiway Act that ail dlaims lu that directhat there may be ne. misappreheniso3 as tion wiIl rank as a first charge upon the
MY object preperty, before ail the money that bas
to the effeet e! the mensure.
ln rising is merely te try and put the been loaned upon the rond. TheD let us
question ln its proper iight. From the ln- cotnetesaeprgah osaary rpaira ad
ple
ahe
ctin
ception of our Ralway Act until 1903, what
another
has been.-the eondition of t.hings? It has te roîiing stook, whether on the lino of
company.
been this: the mortgages on railway pro- railway and another
We have railway companies that have
perties were given the -first charge upen the
except some penalties and things tnousands of frelght cars xvhich are kept
property,
kept
o! that kind, there were- private charges on United States ronds. They are
revenues o! the rallwiiy, eut ln that way almnost !rom the beginnlngon the toila and
but the parties lending the railway cern- te the end o! the year.
ls
uhae
o.M.COA
panies accepted that position and did lt
knowingly. In 1903 Vie Raiiway Act waa
States cars on Canadian roads.
consoiidated and considerably changed. We United
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Afld they arp. pald a
find Vint parliament had made a sweepiflg
per diem rate. The repairs te these cars
change, es far as the position of mortgaget,
cars may repreon raiiway.property was concerned. This and the supplies te these
and huudreds of thousands
parliament, without dlscussing the matter sent thousands
or two, tbree,
at ali-because net a single word on the ef dollars, ln the course of one
Hou. Mr. CLORAN.

JULY 211908

1367

JlYLY 2, 1908
tour or live years. From 1903, under the
change la the Rallway Act, theae are made
a first charge upon the properties and to
rank before the mortgage.
Hon. Mfr. DÂVIS--Why Dlot?
Hon. Mfr. CLORÂN-Why not?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Because the parties
who have loaned their money bave loaned
it on the falth of a statute 'vhich dld not
permit of anything of the kind, and It la
the sme as If I 'vere iending $50.000 on
the Russell Hanse or any otber property,
and to-morrow there 'vould be an Act of
Parliament which 'would say : 'Weil, It
le true you are tbe firet mortgagee on that
property, but bereafter you 'vili Dot De
the firat mortgagee. If any debt of the
Russell Honse be crcated for suppliea or
othcrwlae It 'vIlI rank before your mortgage.
Hon. Mfr. ROSS (Mlddlesex)-Does the
bon, gentleman aay this clauae la retroactive?

1367
Now, we flnd, two or three or four or fIve
years ai ter, that this change bail tairen
place. What la the duty of parliament ?
Parliament made the change, but what I
eall attention to-and It 19 a very serions
point 1 thlnk-ls to the tact that If a change
of that magnitude and Importance had been
made intentlonaily aurely It would bave
been noted; and trom the tact that It was
not noted, I say It: la the beBt evidence
that It 'vas made Inadvertentiy, and evcrycarefuily
o ne who will read the clause and the Railcompare It as It was lnscrted In
way Act of 1903 wlth the clause as It stood
before, wvii readiiy understand how the
change came to be made ln advertendly.
Hfon. Mr. LANDRY-Was tbat change
mnade by an amendment, or 'vas it worded
ln the Bill as It came down?
Hon. Mfr. CASGRIN-dIt
that way by mIatake.

'vas prlnted

Ilon. Mr. BEIQUEF,-It 'vas prlnted that
way.

Hon. Mr. DÂVIS-There 'vas no mistakoe
H3on. Mfr. BEIQUE-Surely it la retro- about It; it 'vas intcnded at the Urne.
active.
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-That Io the firet
Hon. Mfr. PERGUSON-Wll this Bill be point to which I draw yonr attention. that
retroactive?
we have the rlght to Inter from the tact
that both branches of this parliarnent were
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-No, It 'viii not.
entlrely aient on the question, that It 'vas
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-Why not?
made lnadvertently, and especially when it
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-I cannot answer hau the effect of creatlng prior claims, whi,h
every one at the sme Urne. If yon allaw are the destruction of the rlght of the mortme ta proceed I wIil try to make my con- gagees and whlch are sa exorbitant that,
tention as clear aa I posaibly cau. I Bay as one of the bon, gentlemen said: 1.Strike
that, under that Act of 1903, the law 'vas It ont make the change as far as this parta the effect that martgagea 'vere ta rank agrapb la concerned.' I say this law la reas firat charge upon the property, not upon troactive.
the rente and revenues, but upon the proHon. Mr. ROSS (Mlddlesez)-I underpcrty. There wcre, of course, milliona and stand that tixis la'v 'ill only apply to mortmillions of rnoney lnvested under the law gagea or bonde lssued subsequent ta 1903.
as It stood then. In 1903, I say, 'vithout any
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE--That la wbere the
discussion at ail, 'vithout the attention of
any.1body being callcd to the tact, thla bon. gentleman la mIstaken. That la the
eweeping change 'vas made ln tbe law. point 1 amn going ta take now.
Ie It ta be belleved, that this House or the
other brandi of the parliament of Canada,
wouid make a change of that klnd 'vithout
uoticing It, and withont aaying it la donc
for such a purpase? No; that has been donc
by a atroke of thc pen, by addlng the two
words la thc section ln thc wrong place.

Hon. Mfr. ROSS-Let me modlfy It with
this rcrnark : I do not underatand that It
would be poasibie for thia law ta apply te
uccurities that 'vere taken before the la'v
came Inta operation, unless lt 'vere so
dlstlnctly declared. A retroactive law muet
be expressedl ln terme; but, as I under-

1368

SENATE
SENATE

136~i
stand It securities issued In 1903 would *law, that Viey de net fiud it te be their
flot corne under the clause. Bonds held *duty te take heid et the Bill and pass it
prior to that date would flot be effected. 1 tbrough.
I arn not satiafied wlth the Bill
do not think this ls retroactive. However, as It ls.
I have piaced on tbe Order
my hon. frlend la a lawyer.
Peper notice ef an aznendrnt, and, pesHon. Mr. BEIQUE-My bon. friend will sibiy, Vie arnendment might Improve Vie
I aay the good faitb et parliabetter understand my argument when 1 mesure.
say, that suppose at the tirne the Rallway ment ls at stake, because 1 say this law
Act was passed there were no taxes IevIed ln its nature la a retroactive law, wbich
on the rallway company, and, as a matter bad Vie effect ot destreylng the value et
of tact, in the province of Quebec, there the bonds isned on iWaiway preperty reprewere mince the passlng of the Act of 1903 sentiag millions and millions of money.
taxes Imposed on rallway property at the Now what la the effect of tbis Bill If It Is
-It does net affect elaims that
rate of so much per mile, a heavy tax, and passed?
I tbink the same thing has taken place ln bave been crea-ted trern tbe passing et the
Ontario. This tai, In virtue of the law of Act of 1903 te Vie tIme that Vie Bill wi]l
Vie province, affects Vie property wbetner cerne luto 'operatien.
it lB rnortgaged or not. The tax ls the first
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Glve us a concrete
charge. It is well kuown that Vie munici- case.
pal or geverurnent tax is thbe first
Hen. Mr. BEfIQU-I can give tie bon.
charge upon Vie property. It bas a privilege upon Vie property. It affects Vie mort- gentleman Vie concrete case et the Baie de
gagees te a certain exteat. It affecte Vie Chaleurs Railway.
mortgages ismued prier te 1903 as well as
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-That la Vie ene.
mertgages Iasued aubsequeutly.
Hou. Mr. BBDIQUE-It le well knewu Viat
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-But only since the
ln tbe case efthVe Baie de Chaleurs Rail-'
paosing of Vie Act.
way ther e were twe or tbree huudred thonHon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes, ef course. Frorn @and dollars et dlaims of ail kluds for sup1903 down te the present tirne, and in the piles and labour againet it, and If that law
future any ameunt of dlaims may be pled bad been lu eperatien at that tirne, the
up, w-bicb wIil destroy Vie value et the effect would bave been te wipe eut almeat
bonds lssued betore 1903, and I say, to Viat eutirely Vie bend-bolders eftVis railway.
emtent, the law la retroactive..
This law Instead ef that, Vie creditors have corne remakes no distinction as to wheVier the peatediy before parliament, aud betere Vie
bonds have been lssued betore the passing legislature et Quebec, for Vie purpose et
of the Act or subsequent te the -passing ef obtaining help by way et sulbsidies, -and
Vie Act.
This law declares Viat ail the help ln that way was grazited te a -couworklng expenses lncluded ln the para- sîderable exteut, and properly se.
But Vie
grapbs (t) and (g) wbicb I have read-that rights efthVe bond-bolders remalned intact,
ail 'the dlaims 'whicb may be created ln as they sheuld have remained Intact. Now
vitue of Viose paragraphs and comIng I know et another case.
wlthin the werdIng of those pairagrapbs
Hon. Mr. ýGIBSON-Was the incorne ef
shall be a fIrst charge upon tie property
and wlll therefore, lu the future, stand be- that rallway net dlssipated?
fore any mortgages or any bonds, whetber
Hou. Mr. BEIQUEF-Yes, but net by Vie
Viey were Issued prier or subsequent te Vie bond-bolders,
The property was lu disAct of 1903.
Therefore, I say that this Iaw honest hauds, pessibly, but Is it fair or just
is retroactive, and I say It la rebbing, witb- that because the preperty and Its affsets
eut any notice at a]l, the parties wbo had should be dlsslpated the boud-holders sheuld
lInvested their rnoney lu goed talth 'upon be rebbed et their privileges?
We are
rallway preperty ln thîs country, and 1 nlways saylug that coutracts are a sacred
must aay that I arn surprised wheu the at- tViig and goed faith sbould be kept with
tention et the Zevernrnent la called te that ail contractIng parte- sud when millions
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

JULY 211908

1369

1369
2, 1908
say that any creditor advancing money or
supplies te a railway company would have
a privileged daim, taklng rank before the
mortgage,. te the extent of the increased.
We bave that
value given to the property.
provilsion ndter our commun law ln the province of Quebec and ln other provinces. Lt
la a wise provision, but It; la not thxe question wltx 'wbch we are dealing.
If it was
only deall*ng w4tx a priviiege ef that kind,
tben the proper macbinery exista already
for the protection ef a new creditor.
A
regIstration bas te be made, and it ta le! t
to the courts te -decide by evidence te what
extent -the value of tbe-property bas been
enlxanced, and -the-mortgagee caa bave no
cause o! compiaint.
But bere we bave te
do w1tx a change whlch goes far beyond
Hon. Mr. CLOBR.AN'-Is It not the practice that and makes no distinction wbetlxer the
value of thxe property bas been enbanced
of capitalists la Europe or in the United
It opens the door to this-that
or not.
6tates, When a company la formed to have
supplies sucx as raIls, fies, coal, &c., may
representativee on the board of directors?
-Have thxe bond-holders not their representa- be purcbased and reaold te others, and yet
fthe creditors wlll rank before the mortgagee
tives on the boards of directors?
and the property, although those materials
Hon. Mr. BIQUE,-No, It la flot the were neyer used to enhance the value o!
practice at ail.
tbe property.
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-In that case thxe
Hnon. Mr. OLORAN-It la the first tdîme
I have beard that denied.
action ahould be taken against the direcHRon. Mr. BEIQU-It ls not the prac- tors and not against thxe poor man who supplies the material and labour.
tice, and It la -not done.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The bon. gentleman
Hmn Mr. CLORAN-My experience la
different; I know forelgners wbo are ln- la dealing wleb somnethIlng tbat la not pracLet hon. members apply tbemterested ln ralroada, *and who have their ticable.
selves te correct thxe mistake which bas
representatîves on the directorate.
Rt Is a very Important law,
been made.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It bas been said that
but thxe first duty of this pariament la to
rolring stock should be protected.
Weil, reinstate the rigbts of tbe mortgagees, and
under the old Act It was lu thxe power of
by additional legisiation protect the crediperlons or companies seliing rolllng stock to
tors to the extent o! the addltlonal value
protecit thexuselves; but last session libis
I bave suggested an
given to the roadt.
parliament very properly improved the law
Lt la f0 add to the firat paraamendment.
ln that respect, and adopted ln chapter 38 grajph of section 138 of the Railway Act
of the last statute, provisions wbldh make the following:
it pertectly easy for anybody selllng rolling
and
9
Tii. zh paymient assets &hall also b. suhstock to any rallway company té protect
of ail reuf, charges, ce
jt tL -Vreerty
themselves. They keep a mox'tgage on that interest on the purchaae money af lande b.1
part of the property and that will not ln- longiag to thxe company.
-Because there la no question the mortterfere with any vested rlgbt.
The bondholders are net entltIed to acquire any gagee la benefitfed by [t, and It la -fairthat
privilege on rolling stock purchbased subse- the party wbo sold the land to the rallway
quent to, the creation of the mortgage, and company for tbe right of way, sbould be
on wblcb they have not lnvested tbeir protecfed and nef rank atter the mortgagee.
money.
Llkewlse this pariament migbt Ilhen I add:

JULY
and millions of money have been lnvested
on the taitb of the Railway A&ct, is It the
duty of parliament to Bay: 'You have lent
your money,. itlai true, on the faitb of a
privilege; but instead of having any privilege as was stipulated for, as the 'Act of
parliament gave it to you under the faitb
of thxe Railway Act, it wlll be in the
future In the power of any dishonest
board of directors by way of *fees to
themmelves, by way of bigb salaries to tibeir
employees, and piling Up counsei fees, and
otherwise to defea.t your mortgnge,' because
ail these claims wIll runk before the mortgage.
Wbat guarantee would the bondholders have ln the future?
To my mind
It lg Incumbent upon parliament to change
the law, and [t cannot do so too 'quickly.

1370

1370
SENATE

0f ail rates and taxes, and of ail salaries fect on bonds from this tIme forward.
and wages of persons employed ia and about With regard to the ehange of 1903, which
the working of the railway for a terza fot
it has been said frequently -was made Inexeedinz three months.
advertently, that statement has been reI fnted,
I arn asked. what about the rails?
and yet the hon. Secretary of State
would f avour an amendment to this effeet, la puttlng a case for the MinIster
of Justhat If rails or rolling stock had been sup- tIce, rather suggested that
the change had
piled, they wi be a first charge to the ex- been made lnadvertently.
We have the
tent they Increase the value of the pro- most conclusive evidence that It was flot
flot agalnst that. We made through lnadvertence, because there
perty but the Bihl
must commence with the first clause, and are at least Vhree ameadments la the Act
the firet clause Is to reinstate the Xict as It which are meant to harmonize with this
Now, If the Bill passes, one, showing that the change was made a
was betore 1903.
it bas flot the effect of interfering wlth any a part of the goverument pollcy. One of
claqms whle bhave been lncurred from 1903 these ameadments la I section 430, dealng
to this date. These wlll remain as a first with penalties, and brlnglng It Into harcharge on the property on the basis of the mony wlth what ls now section 138.
Then
It wlil
change made la the Act in 1903.
we find that the interpretation clause was
affect future creditors, and have the effect amended, and that the section whlch stands
of relnetatlng for the future the mortgagees as 141 in the Act lu made to harmonize
to their proper rank and remedy.
wlth the ameadment to section 138, -showHon. Mfr. McMULLEN-If this change Is Iag that pariament and the Department o!
to be made at ail, la order to remnstate Justice made this change deliberately. The
bond-ho'iders ln their rlghts before 1903, it Bila before us would change one section of
should be a different Bill a1together froni the Act and flot affect the other three, and
lt the Act would be incongruous, If the Bill
the one now before the comm4ttee.
shouid provide that the rigbts of bond- should become law. The change la tue
holders outstanding at the date of the Act la 1903 brought it up to modezrn Ideas
passage of te Act shall fot be affeoted by and creations. It Is only wlthin the
You should amend the clause by last twenty or thirty years that the
the Act.
puttlng In a declaration that this Act shahl mechanica lien provisions have found their
not apply la any case to bonds outstandlng way Into the laws of the different proat the date of the passage of this Act. You vinces, so that not'withstandîng there is a
do not accomplsh that by the present Bill. mortgage on the house, the labour and materiai put Into It are protected. It was tue
Hon. Mr. BEIQUED-It whil then be affectvery same princîpie that was lntroduced
lng dlaims Incurred from 1903 to this date.
into the Ra!Iway Act In 1903, giving -wages
Parliament therefore stands between two
and materlal priorlty. It la In tue Interest
fires.
of honest bondholders, and honest railroads
Hou. Mr. McMULLEN-Thiose who hold as well as I tulnk, generally speaking,
bondis lesued subsequent to 1903, took them honest people that It should be the case.
wlth their eyes open to the law as it stands, We shouid leave the Act as It la, and the
but t'hose who purdihased bonds prior to fact that the Minister of Justice did not
1903 acqulred them under the provisions of give bis sanction to this Bill, notwithstandAil we lng that he 'was adroitly told by the hou.
the law which existed before 1903.
want to do ha to reinstate those men where ýSecretary of State tuat tue hon. senator
.they stood before.
from De Lanaudière and the hon. gentleman
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The question of from. De SaIaberry were supportlng it, and
the retroactive character of the legisiation notwlthstanding that he was toid that tue
does flot corne In. The Act of 1903 was change had probabIy been made lnadverflot retroactive. A law to be retroactive tentiy, he did not give bis consent to this
must expresiy say s0, and the 'amendment ieglslation. I amn quite satlsfied that If the
whlch the hon, gentleman Is trying to make Minister of Justice were shown that la 1003
1ls not retroactive elther, but wfIi take et- at leat three otuer changes were made in
Hon. Mir. BEIQUE.

JU-Ly 21 :L908

1371

3UIY 2, 1908

1371.

the A&ct to harmonize with the one under
discussion, he would say: ' Leave the law
as It stands.'
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Tbere IR one
thing that ruas lu my mind, -and that 's
that the creditors must be paid. The hou.
sena'tor from Montreal was justmfied ln
waying that the large, respectable railways
are not seekiug to evade payment of their
debts. They are not asking for this legislation lu order tliat thiey may creep out
Let us suppose a case
of their liability.
to Illustrate how this Bill would work; a
gentleman ls trying to build a railway. He
get hiq charter and goes to England and
as4ks capitaliats there on what terms they
wiil take bis bonds. They wlll offer hlm
eighty or perhaps fit ty cents on the dollar,
and ask the promoter to agree that the
road shahl be but by their oWn contractors
and further that they shail have a majority
of the 8tock. They go still fu.rther and say
that their own man shahl manage the aftaira of the company. Therefore, these peopie who take the bonds really own the
whole thing, lock, stock and barrel. I eau
give au actual case, If It la thought necesThe contractor
W'hat follows?
sary.
may be a man of straw, or he may be
backed up by people who are interested polltieally or otherwiae lu seeing that he gets
lie sublets the 'work, and
that contract.
It may be stili further sublet. Now, where
is the hast subeontractor to go for hîs
My hon. friend says the bonds
money?
must be luviolate and stand before everythlng; but he fails to tell you that the parties who took the bonds lu E.ngland took
them on speculation to selI them at a profit, and the whole thing la Interwoven, the
contract, the bonds the stock; and the
publie are lu no way protected. It ls a
case of caveat exuptor. It la not to be supposed that wben they took up that specu]ation they would eut out the labourer or
the man who supplies material. If yoit
admit the contrary, they could get the road
bult on credît aud own the property which
bas been made valuable by the people w.ho
eupphdied the labour and material, and stilI
have a firat lien on the raiiway. That does
not seem rlght. I eau understand that the
bondholder should be protected. It la to
the credit of Canada that he should be pro-

tected. The Canadian Pacifie Railway, the
Grand Trunk Pacifie, the Canadian Northern and other Important lhues are not asklng for this legisiation; yet here is li proposed to enact a law by which the Interesta of our own people wiil be jeopardiized.
It would be moat vicious legisiation. There
le nelther politica nor common sense lu It,
and I do flot flot aee wby It should be
pressed this session with so mue]> earnestNo good reason has been advianced
ness.
ln support of It and the Impression created
by this discussion ls tbat t'he passage of the
Bill would give small speculative rallroads
an opportuuity of evading the payment of
their debts. I shall vote against it.
'Hon. Mr. WÀ&TSON-Â good deal of mystery surrounds the words which it ls aileged sllpped inadvertently Into the Act
1 believe they were placed there
of 1903.
deslgnedly and that they were 50 geuerally
approved that discussion was unnecessary.
Some years ago, when the Northwest Centrai Railway was In trouble, I had someÈhiug to do with havlng a clause put Into
the Bill that If a new eompany took up
that road, they should pay the debts of the
The people 1 arn interested.
old company.
iu see]7ng paid are the men who work on
the road, the contractor wiio undertakes to
bulld and furnish supplies, -and at a time
There
when there are no earniugs at ah.
is no doubt, the bond-holders of the big
compaules would not be affected; It is for
tihe protection of men who are deceived for
the purpose of creating an asset valuabie
We had withlu the
to the bond-holder.
hast two or three years evidence before this
House In the case of the Broekville and
Westport road whidh was flot completed.
The bond-holders hold tbe bonds, and the
I believe
road waa entitled to a subsidy.
the line was not built Up to tihe proper
standard, and would not be accepted by
-the department, and parliament said, before
granting that subaidy the bond-holders
should agree to pay the contractors w'ho
bulit the road. This la flot a new principle
In the legislatiou for tihe Grand
at ail.
Trunk Pacifie It is provided*that the subcontractors shall be paid. The Grand
Some of
Trunk Pacifie must se to that.
the arguments advanced by the hon. senator for De Salaberry are not good. He says

1372

SENATE
1372

be proposes to alow for the payment of
In the
dlaims created tbree months back.
case ef the Nortbwest Central the work eof
construction was commenced ln 1883 or
1884 and work was golng on for years. 80
glarlng was the diohonesty of the company
wbo let the contracte that tbey would flot
psy their bis, and pariament actually
pîaced ln the statute-beoks a provision
that the bond-holders sbould pay some $50,000 to sub-contractors and people ivho furnlshed supplies before the charter becanie
operatîve, and the renewiil became good. I
arn not at all surprised that these words
were placed ln the Act of 1903 witbout debate, because ln bofb Houses those familiar
with the experlence of the past ln connectien witb the construction of rallroads,
know bow otten contractors were unpald,
and the necessity for the legislatien was so
apparent that the words were placed lu the
Act witbout debate.
Hon. Mr. OLO.RAN-1 wlsb te pay a
trLbute te the first statesulan who introduced -this protection for those who suppiy
labour and material-the Hon. Honore Mercier.
-Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Ever since this
discussion began, I bave bad te reply very
often to tbe assertion that this Bill was
meant for one rosit more than for another.
I wish te repeat once more, thet when my
attention was drawn te the tact tbait mortgages were flot a flrst lien on 'railways I
It was poin.ted
could flot believe ut true.
out to me ln tbe la.w, and I then made Up
my mind tbat I would brlng the matter beI have done se, and
fore this House.
when this bonourable House ls more en»ýgbtened on the subWet, I bave ne doubt
after the discussion whlch bas taken pince,
In the near future some sucb amendment
The next trne the bon.
wilI be made.
szenator from Beam9ville (Hon. Mr. Gibson), 'who is a financlal man and who unfortunately dees noet view this Bill as I do
-gees across the water to get money te
bulld a rallway, wben he tells capitalists
that their mortgage wil.l flot be a first lien,
but Wl] corne ln after paying ail the expenses ef tbe railway, he will be told thbat
they de not care te Invest their money under su4cb clrcumstances.
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

,Hon. Mr. WATSON-ThO law bas been
Does tbe
on the statutes for <ive years.
rien, gentleman know of any case wbere
the credit of Canada bas been lmpaired by
lt?

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The law as It
stands te-day ls net understeod.
Some, hon. GENTILDfEN--Ob, oh.
Hon. Mr. OASGRAIN-The bon. Secretary of State will back me up in that etatetuent, and s0 wll the hon. senator fro'm De
The hon. senator froni De
Salaberry.
bas stated that two or Vbree
Salaberry
yeam:.ago be brought la a BihI te the same
1 bave
effeet as this ene, la thîls Heuse.
done my duty la preseating this measure,
and when .tbe subject bas been more studled
it will be admltted tbxat some change muet
be made la the law by wbicb the capital
invested la our rallway enteiprises shall be
protected, and the sacredness of mortgages
A geod deal bas been said about
upheld.
this law changlng entirely the value et
Wben the
mertgages la this country.
was made la 1903, the same arguchange
The mortgagee
ment weuld have applied.
lest bis first dlaim on the road and still flot
a word wes ad la eitber House on lue
When the -4en. senator from
subi ect.
Marsbfield just now spqke of the change
made in section 141, be raised some deubtis
I tbougbt perhaps there
lu my mmnd.
mlght bo somethlag ln that repetition, but
the bon. senator from Deý Salaberry does not
As soon as tbis subject
share bis opinion.
is well understood; as soon as people try
te raise money abread, and find ho:w serieusly the existing law lnterferes wltb their
operations, petitions 'will be presented te
parliament te restore the law as It stoed
before 1903, and as it bad been froni the
very Inception of the R-allway Act.
Hon. Mr. GIBSÔN-Ifthle bon. gentleman thinks luat lue people of England are
sucb fools as te lend money te reckless
people going over to float railway projects, ho doeg flot understaild lue nature
of lue Eagliab Investor. Furtber than luat,
ne railway promoter can go te England
witb any bope of succeedlng la lniffuencing
capital unless be bas bona fIde men back
of the enterprîse as a guarantee luat tbe
road will be bult. Neither will lue money

JULY 31 1908

1373

JITLY 3, 1908
1373
be advanced to tbem until parts of the FRENCH EDITION OF CIVIL SERVICE
lune are under construction to the satisfacREPORT.
tion of the engineer whom tbe bondiiolders
INQUIRY.
send over to look after their property. Rie
Io taiking of building a raiiroad and owing
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
everything.
My !bon. friend la willing to
When wili the, French edition of the, report
give the worirmen- tbree montfhs' saiary of the, Civil Service Commission b. distributto those members of thia House who have
and no more. 1 arn astonlshed at the sug- ed right theretoP1
a
gestions wbIcb have been off ered by my
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I am quite unable ta
bon. frlend who Introduced this Bill, with
regard to the people of England. The peo- say when, nor can anybody elue. The
pie of England, Ireland or Scotland, know answer to the above is that the Printing
Bureau bas received five forms, or 80
to whom tbey can Iend their money.
pages of tbe translation. The report makes
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Wihi they iend any to 235 pages, so that tbey bave recelved les
Charlie Armstrong?
than one-third. The hast 1copy 1 was reHon. Mfr. G±sbý.;-1he hon. gentlemen ceived on May 29.
could flot give the explanation from a printer's point of view, how these words came FRENCH EDITION 0F JOURNÂLS 0F
THE HOUSE 0F COMMONS.
to be inserted. But one would actually
think tbese two words fell ln as al typograINQUIRY.
phicai error.
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY Inquired:
The motion was agreed to, and the coinWhen wili the. French edition of the,
'Journals' of tiie Houa. of Gommons for the.
mittee rose.
session of 1906-7 be deiivered ta those who
*The SPEÂKER-Is there any report to have a right te it P
be made by the chairman of the commitHon. Mfr. SCOTT-I am quite unabie ta
tee ?
answer that question. The Hanse opened on
November 22, 1906, and chosed, on AprIl 27,
Hon. Mfr. CHOQUETTE-No, the com1907. The Bureau la In receipt of translamittee simply rise.
tion up ta December 17, 1906, making 0.5
Tbey
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-No report Is ne- pages out of a total of 676 pages.
bave .recelved .only 65 pages of the Frenchs
ceasary. Bourinot sys.
journals of last year.
If a member wishes ta flupersede a question
entirely, he wifl move that the ohairman do
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-Tbey received yesnow leave the,chair. A motion that the chairman leave the. chair shall always b. in order, terday a part of the French translation of.
and shail teke precedence of any other mo- the Journals of 1905-three years ago.
tion. If this motion, which. la equai in thiq That ls doing justice to the French eheeffect to a motion for the. adjournment of
the. Hous, be resolved in the affirmative, the ment?
chairman will at once leave the chair, and,i
no report being made to the House, the. Bill
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The Bureau bas nothor question disappear, frozu the. order paper.
ing ta do witb ItL
The Senate adjourned until three o'clock,
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-I do not know
to-morrow.
where the fauît is. I know it la not my
fault.
I tbink we shahl be obliged ta
change the government.
TEE SENATE.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The government have
OTTÂ&wA, Friday, Juiy 3, 1908.
notbing ta do with It.
The SPEÂKERt took tbe Chair nt Three
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I received yestero'clock.
day. the French translation of t~he Journais
Prayers and routine .procaedings.
ýf three yeare ago.

1374

1374

SENATE
SENATE

THE DRY DOCK AT COLIJINoGWOOD.
AN EXPIANATION.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I wisb to
make an explanation referriag to the deIn
bate on the Bill for aidlng dry docks.
dJ.scussing that Bill, I made the observation
that I belleved the dry docks on the (western
lakes, notably that of Colllngwood, were nlot
sufficlently large to admit the largest class
I arn advised now
of vessels for repa-ir.
by the manager of the dry docks conceraed
that I was mistaken, that It le sufficlently
large to recelve the largest vessels on the
I make this observation
western lakes.
lest the remark I made before may be
detri-mental to the Dry Dock Company.
INSPECTION AND SALE ACT AMDN-%DMENT BILL.
IN COMMITTEE.
The House resumed iln Committee of the
Whole consîderation of Bill (RCC) An Act
to amend the Inspection and Sales Act as
regards grain.
(In the Commnittee.)
Hon. Sir RICHARD CAR:TWRIGHITI want to move that the ýwords ' whein
practicable' be added to the hast sentence
1 arn advhsed iby
of clause 14 of the Bill.
the officers that there are occasions whien
It ils practlcally Impossible to find out and
mark on the certificate the quantity of domestic grain.
Hon. -Mr. YOUNG-Are -there not other
cases in whîch the Inspecter finds it inpracticable to state the percentage?
I
move that af ter the word 'division' la inte
firet lune Of -the Clause, the saine expression,
-Wben practicable,' be inserted, so that it
wlll be uniforin la both cases. There may
be occasions when It will be impossible for
an inspector to determine what dirt there
la la a car of wheat. He is obliged to do it
wberever it is possible, so that it la placing
the Inspecter la the saie position withi
reference to dirty grain as *with reference
to domestie grain-that is hie bas to put the
percentage on the eprtificate when practicable.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS--We are perfecthy satisfied If It le left la the bands of the Inspector.
The ameadmeat was sgreed to.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

Hon. 'Mr. D'AVIS--I move that:
Section 1l37 be amended by striking ont the
lait two lines uxider the heading of spriag
wheat, where it refera to Manitoba acoured
wheat, and the following inserted:
Ail Manitoba dried and rejected wheat; after
passing through the Terminal Elevstor and
being properly treated shall be graded by the
inspector and put into its proper grade.
I do not kaow that I need go Into aay
discussion on this question. The motion
speaks for itself. As the Act now*stands,
there la a chass of wbeat called lu our
We are net
country 'rejected' wbeat.
deaiug wltb the lower grades at ail. We
do nlot want aay mlsunderstanding about
it. We are dealing with No. 1 rejected
wheat. Now that la generally a first-class
wbeat. If there had not been a few sinut
balis la it, It would grade No. 1 Hard or
These smut balîs get
No. 1 Northern.
in it and can ho taken out when properly
cleaned and properly treated. We have
an elevator at Fort William that cari do
this 'work. It le fnot aiways necessary to
scour the wheat. It eau be' cleaued. The
elevator Is for that purpose. If a fariner
wants to send bis wbeat down tbere to be
treated, hie ean pay for it and have It doue.
Under the law as It stands, tbis class of
grain to wblcb I arn alluding Is forced
down to No. 3 grade, wblcb means thie
(iliference between No. 1 and No. 3, somnething ilke 10 cents a bushel. The producer
says : 'If I have my wbeat put -througb
the elevator and pay for having it properly
treated and cleaned, I waat the elevator
man to use is own Judgmeat and put that
wbeat luto whatever grade It shonld go.'
We
I thlnk that Is a fair proposition.
are not asking to have lt put lu No. 1 or
No. 2; we are heavlug it la the bauds of
the Inspecter. We bave a.very competent
inspecter. Tbe grain dealers and thie farmers bave absolute confidence In our lnspector, and If hoe were to put the grain
Into No. 3 tbey would be satisfied, because
they would know It sbould go there. But
there Is a general supposition, aad there
la a great deal o! foundation for it that
la the past tHua grain bas been cleaned
and bougbt up by speculators as No. 3
grade, and very otten sold to mIhlers at a
trîie be]ow wbat'bNo. 1 would briag, and
there wonlld be a good run o! profit la it

JLTLY 3, 1908

1375

1375
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I desired to vote
for tbe arndment and I was ln the
House wbeu the amendment was put.

JI'LY 3, 1908
for them. If there is anything lu this
grain, I tbink the farmer sbould get It.
We are only asking ta leave it lu the hafnds
of the Inspeetor. My attention bas been
called to thé fact that my motion wouid
probably read better If I put It ln this
way:
AUl Manitoba dried and rejected wheat after
pas ig trough the Terminal Elevator and
ben Vraperly treated shall b. graded by
eii
inspector and put into the. g rades to whîch,
aftr bing treat.d, it properly beloiags.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI have carefully considered the matter,
and I amn sorry to say that 1 cannot agreé
to this amendment. It is a matter of
great Importance tbat the prime qualities
of the wheat No. 1 Nortberu aud sncb
Ilire, sbould be absolutely free from any
possible risk lu the English market, and
without Iu the aiigbtest degree desirin.to depreciate my hon. friend's notice, 1
think he would be more likely to Injure
the vaiue of grain than to Improve it by
bis motion.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The bon. mInister
cannot have very mu-eh confidence ln bis
inspector.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI have a great deal.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-If he bas confidence
ln bis inspector, he migbt k-now that the
Inspector would flot pùt it Into a grade for
whicbi It was not fit.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTWe are iegisiatiug for ail tUme, and tbe
inspector In future migbt not be qulte as
mucb ln my hon. friend's confidence as
the present inspector.
Han. Mr. DAVIS-I might say ta the
minister ln cbarge of the Bill, that on two
occasions I witbdrew motions that are now
being piaced in the Bill by our friends in
the other House. I k-new I was perfectly
right then, and I know I amn perfectly
rigbt now, and I therefore refuse to wvitbdraw tbe ameudment.
The commlttee divided on the amendment
wbicb 'was carrled on the following division.
Teas 10, usys 15.

Tbe CEFAIRMAN-The amendment bas
been carried by 16 to 15. The next proposed
amendment 'la the one by the. Hon. Mr.
Perley, wbicb reads as foilows :
That clause 16 b. amended by substituting
for the definition therein of No. 1 Manitoba
bleaclied wheat, the following definition:
No. 1 Manitoba bleaolied wheat ehail coutain wheat eliglitly bleaclied by weather oonditions and that otherwise would have graded
Na. 1 Manitoba hard or No. 2 Manitoba narthern, and weighiag not less than 60 pounds to
the bushel. Aiea no grade wheat that has
been properly 'treated and fit for storing, ail
of which in the judgment of the inspectar
has not been injured for milling purposes and
that otherwise would have graded No. 1 Manitoba liard or No. 2 Manitoba northern, and
weighing mot 1.e than sixty .pounds (60
pounds).ta the bushel.
Hon. Mfr. DAVIS-Tbis la aiready provided for lu the Bill; but I do not know
that the pbraseology pieased my bon.
friend from Wolseley. I suppose lie wants
to create another grade of wbeat caiied
No. 1 Manitoba Bieacbed. I rnigbt say ta
my bon. f rlend in charge of tbe Bill, that
1 have discussed thus matter witb the representatîves of the farmiug community
from the west, the Grain Growers' Associations botb from Saskatchewan and Alberta.
The secretaries of tbe two associations are
bere, and tbey take the same view of this
matter as I take, that it should be left lu
the discretion of tbe inspector ta put the
grade wbere it beiongs. My hon. f riend
tbinks it la better, perbaps, ta make a grade
of Manitoba bleached wheat. I would suggest to my hou. friend, notwitlistanding
wliat is In this measure, that lie sbouid
makre two grades-No. 1 and No. 2 Manitoba bleacbed. Tben it may bave some
vaiue, and If my hon. friend caunot find
some way of doing that, thon I would
cal! it No. 1 Manitoba bleacbed. Tbe Bill
merely says Manitoba bieacbed wbeat and
does flot sa - No. 1 or No. 2 or nytbing
else. I fancy the hou, gentleman from
Wolseley intends ta make it a grade of
I cannot see nuythlng
No. 1 bleached.
else.
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTNo, I do not think I cau accept it; I wIl!
take the *measure as If stands.

1376

SENÂTE
1376

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I mnove that clause 16
be amended by luserting the word ' bard'
It would change
before the word 1spring.'
the expression to 'red varieties of bard
sprlng wheat.'
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI bave no objecition.
The amendment wns agreed to.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTOr course the whole position of Alberta
oats is different from that of many of the
To us, extra No. 1 looks
other provinces.
like a faucy grading that neyer would be
reached.

Hon. Mr. TAriBOT-I cousider 42 pounds
talrly low, because It Is quite common in
Alberta to find oats weighing 50 poun 'ds to
On clause 17.
the bushel, and I bave seen It welghing 52
notice there are pounds. Hon. Mr. De VRjBER-I
three grades of each varlety of wheat, -but
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTno allowance is made for rnlxed grain, ai- I amn advlsed that It would be apt to Injure
thougli the Act governing In the east muaikes the other provinces which are also governed
It is
provision for two grades uf mlxed.
by this Act.
I therefore move
overslght.
evldently an
tbat the clause be arnended by adding the
Hon. '.%r. TAliBOT-It would flot injure
followlng:
provinces that provide only about one-tenth
Out of the fifty million bushPage 4, line 3i.-Âfter the word ' bushel' of the oats.
insert ' No. 1 Alberta mixed winter wheat els we expect to produce in the west, proshall be red and white winter :wheat mixed, ;bably forty millions would corne from the
round, plump, and dlean weighing flot less
than 61 pounds to the bushel and containing province of Alberta. However, I do flot
not less than 50 per cent red winter wheat.'
upon this ameudment at the present
No. 2 Alberta mixed winter wheat shail be insist
round, plump, tIme.
red white winter wheat mix .ed,
dlean, weighing not less than 59 pounds to the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTW.RIGHTbushel.'
Clause 18 reconsidered and amended, as foi- 1 will take the matter into consideration,
lows:
and ivili mention it to the gentleman in
Hon. Sir RICHARD CA&RTWRIGHT- charge of this Bill In the other Huse, If
I biave no objection to the ameudmeut.
that will satisfy my bon. friend.
The clause was ameuded and adopted.
Hon. Mr. TAL.BOT-That will be quite
On clause 18,
1 now mnove that the clause
satistactory.
Hon. Mr. De VLuBER-Tlie highest be amended by iuserting at the toi) of page
grade oi oats la extra Canada Western, 5 the foliowlng:
Next to
whichi should weigb 42 pounda.
Extra No. 1 feed oats shall be saaud,
that cornes oats weighlng 36 pounda to te except as to f rost, shall contain not more thaa
-more than two per
I consider six pounda la too much two per cent of wheat norbe reasonably clean,
bushel.
I cent of other grain, shall than 38 pounds to
difference -between these two grades
and shall weigh flot less
therefore imove that '36' be changed to '38.' the bushel.
Hon. 'Sir RICHARD 'CARTWRIGHT- * oînetirnes we have In Alberta-we bhave
It: bias been pointed out to me that this pro- *îad it during the 18 years I have been
vision -will apply to the -wbole west, and il there, 0o1 four occasions-our grain iujured
would be rather unfair to make the change. *by frost, at what Is called the dough stage
Lt still goes on deof its development.
lion. Mr. TADBOT-It is a hardship thal
veloping, however, and Is nu excellent feed
oats weilhlng 41 pounda to the bushie]
grain, frequently weighing 40 to 50 pounda
should get only the same price as oaà
per bushel; but It Is not suitable for anilling
weighlng 36 pounds.
purposes as there la a black streak through
Hon. Sir RICHARD) CARTWRIGHTthe kernel; nor Is fl sultable for seed,
It will be sold by the pound.
because It bas lost Its germinating power.
it Is a muci i As It stands at the present time, that oats
Hon1. Mr. TALBOT-But
better grade ut oats, and should be entitle(I would be thrown on the mark-et on the same
basis as onts weig-hing 34 pounds.
to a better price.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

JTJLY 3, 1908

1377

JIJLY 3, 1908
1377
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-It bas to do
witb the motion that the Bill be reported.
I tblnk 1 amn ln order ln expressing rny
view wltb regard ta country pastmasters.
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-I bave gîven notice I kaaw the duties lrnposed on tbe country
tbat the number 34 lna une 5, page 5, be postinasters for a great rny
I
years.
cbanged ta 36, but I ar n ot very particular knowi wbat tbey have bad ta do ln the
about that.
district In wblcb I live, and I know tbere
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- la a universal eomplaint f rom rural postThat point I bad alsa cansidered, but I amn masters ln regard ta the very lUmited alloWadvlsed that titis will Include most uusound ance that ls given for keeping tbe offices
oats Wblcb will came Iuta the rnarket and open tbe year round. I simply wlsb ta
wbicb were flot deceut field oats; so I as]. express niy regret tbat tbe goveramneat
the bon, gentleman flot to p>ress ItL
bave flot seen their way ta recast the
wbole Post Office Act, givlng the country
The amendinent was drapped.
postmasters a better allowance. I thlnk
lion. Mn. ROY, framn the camniittee, rethe maney could be devoted ln that way
ported the Bill wltb amendments.
to a better purpose than tu cutting do-wn
POST OFFICE ACT AMENDMIDNT BILL. tbe service lu cities front 2 cents for delvering drap letters by a large staff of
IN COMMITTEE.
letter carriers. Ou my trip last week. I
The Hanse resalved itself juta a Commit- had a conversation wltb one pastinaster
tee of tlhe Wbole on Bill (162) Au Act ta who bas conducted a post office for aven
amend the Post Office Act.
25 years, and he bas expressed a deaire
(lu tbe Comrnlttee.)
ta reslgn because of the Inadequate rpmuHon. Mr. McMTLLEN-I -wisb ta say a neratian. He feels tbat be la making a
few wvords before this Bill ls reparted. I sacrifice tbat be sbould flot be called upon
regret tbat tbere Is not saine provision lin ta make, ln arden to serve tbe district lu
tbe amendments ta tbe Post Office Act ta wblch be lives. 1For Instance, be bas ta
lncrease the allowauce ta country post- ernploy one of bis daugbters the year rounid.
masters. Saine lîttie lucrease bas been to attend ta the past office. He receives
grauted, and an amendrnent n'as muade ta about $56 for the year'e service, and that
the Act saine Urne ago; but I know tbere young woman bas ta attend ta the duties
are a great ntary af the country pastinas- of the office the year round fer tbat amount.
ters wbo bave been perfonming thte duties Tbe ather daugbter left borne and Is earn-*
devolved upan tbem for a nilserable pit- Iug saine $300 a year. Sorne change sboild
tance. Tbey vlrtually get notbing. Titey be made, and I would press upan the Secare pald $15 or $25, la sorne ea-8es, for retary of State tbat wben parliarnent ls
ag-ain amendlng the Post Office Act, tbey
runnlng the post office tbe year round.
sbouid consider the rlgbt of country pastHan. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is masters ta a better allowance titan tbey
thîs subject relevant ta the Bill befare
at present receive. I made au appeal lu
thse House?
the Hanse of Commans years ago myseif,
Han. Mr. !NclMULLEN-Tbls Bill amends and I have bad great dlfficulty ln gettlng
the Post Office Act, sud there are reduc- nien ta I the offices of reslgned pastinastians wltb regard ta the postal charges, ter,, Il, rny district. Post offices bave been
and provision is also made for salaried offi- actunlly closed tn tbe district I bave tbe
cers, and 1 tbiak It la qulte proper that I bonour ta represent, because people could
sbould b *e alawed the oppartunlty of say- flot be got ta take thein at the arnal allawIug a word la connectIan witb this arnend- ance tbat was graated. In severai large.
ment in regard ta country pastinasters.
well settled districts the post office bas
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This actually been closed, because of thte lunquestion bas natbing to do wltb tbe Bill Ited allowunce. Tbat sbauld nat be thte
case. Wben aur post office revenue la ln
under consîderatian.
87
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHITI accept tbe amnndent.
Tue arnendrnent was agreed ta.

REVISED Er>ITION

13 48

SENATE

1378

SENATE

the fiourishlng condition ln which it la
to-day, carrying to the treasury of tlis
Dominion a respectable sum, I say there
ls no class more entitied to fair consideration by the government than the rural
postmasters. They are a necesslty. We.
cannot de without country post offices. It
la desirabie they should be contlnued whire
they exist, and 1 desire to throw out the
suggestion that the government should take
this matter up when they are again amendlng the Post Office Act and try and arrai'ge for a better allowance.
Hon. '-%r. DERBYSHLRE-I should like
to add to what the hou, gentleman fiom
Wellington bas said, that the money received by these People who have charge
of the country post offices would flot pay
for sweeping out the dirt which Is left on
the floor by the people who come there to
The postmaster bas to
get their mail.
furnish the office himselt and keep [t dleaned and heated.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I shalI be giad to cal!
the attention of the Postmaster General to
the remarks ot my hon. friead. The subject is one that rests iargely witb the administaatioii of the Post Office Department. I presumne that 'when a postmaster
or postmistress resigns, the department bas
Do difficulty ln getting a successor at any
time. They eau alwaya resign the office.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Yet la same sectbons of our country they are suffering for
want of post office accommodation, because they can get nobody to take the ofI know one place where an office
fice.'
had been ln existence 20 years, but It Ia
closed to-day because they cannot get anybody to accept the position of postmnaster.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tliat
may be, -but there are many cases ln the
country where storekeepers fight bard to
get the position la order to ibring customers
In niany cases la the
to their stores.
country, People ask for post offices for the
1 am Dot
accommodation we give them.
fanding fanit with the argument of the hon.
gentleman; but we know tbat to be the case.
There are other instances where the government might bave gone one 'step further
and changed the law and made the circulation of newspapers free as it had been unlion. Mr. MeMULLEN.

I
der the Conservative administration.
know a -locallty la my own constituency
where the post office was vacant for six
months, and the oniy reason for it was that
the gôverament could not find a Liberal ln
the nelghbourhood to take It, and they
would not appoint a Coaservative.
Hon. Mr. LEGRIS, from the committee,
reported the Bill witii ameadmeats, which
were concurred ln.
The Bill was then rend the third time
and passed.
PATENT 0F WILLIAMI B. SÙIITH BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
Hon. 'Mr. CLORAN, from the Committee
on M.Nisceilaneous Bis, reported Bill (F'FF)
An Act respecting a certain patent of Wrn.
B. Smith with amendaients.
Hon. Mr. POWER moved that the rules
be suspended ln so far as they relate to this
Bill.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEFJL-I
think the hon. gentlinu promised some explanation about this patent which we are
asked to extend.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I gave a rather fuller
explanation than usuai wheil the *matter
was iast before the H-ouse, and my statement 'was that when the Bill came before
the commnittee the explanations -would be
I upderstand that the counmade there.
sel on behaîf of the promoters appeared
before the committee and made the neces1 do not know euough
sary expianations.
about the details of the matter to give further explanation.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The amendment to
the Bill was adopted ýby the eommittee on
the recommeadation of the law clerk. The
The object
Bill contained a contradiction.
of the Bill is to authorize the Commissioner
of Patents to sigu the certificate, on the
payment of tees which are overdue, and
that the company are maaufacturing under
The company have a factory
the patent.
la Hamilton, costiag $15,000, and they are
doing continuous business. The only thing
wrong is, the attorney of the company failed
to pay the ordinary fees at the end of six
years, and the petitioners now ask parlia-

JULY 31 1908

1379

JUILY 3, 1908
1379
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
ment to permit the commissioner to sigu
I object until I know something more about
the certificate on the payment of fees.
the Bill.
Hon. 'Sir MACKENZIE BOWELiL-The
hon, gentleman from Halifax was quite THE EXPORT 0F PULF WOOD FPROM
CANADA.
correct lu saying thnt he gave as much ex-,
planation as le usualiy given, and that le
none at ail.
Hou. Mr. POWER-I gave an expianation.
Hon. -Sir 'MACKENZIE BOW'EL-The
hon, gentleman read an affidavit made In
Chicago, but we know notbing about the
man -who made the affidavît. The bon, gentleman eays the explanation was given before the committee, but the Senate knows
nothlng of that, and the oniy explanation
given by the chairman of the committee Is
that some change bas been made in the
phraseology of the Bill.
I object to the
frequent renewing and extending of these
patents on what I consider to be very
frivoloue excuses.
I have not yet learned
what business these petitioners are carryIng on, or to what extent they are manufacturlng In Canada.
We are toM that
they have Lnvested $15,000, and are carryIng on their work; if so, there le no necesslty for them to come here.
There muet
have been some fallure on their part la
compiying wltb the provisione of the law.
The Senate ougit not, w.lthout adequate Information, extend these patents.
Lf au
article thnt le patented la of no use to the
people, then the patentee having falled to
avaîl himself of the provisions of the A&ct
enabling hlm to manufacture In this country, the public ought to be free to use the
article when the patent expires, lnstead of
having to pay treble, and sometimes quadrubie the cost of Its manufacture. We
ehould put a stop to these applications for
the renewal of patents. Every manufacturer knows .the disadvantage under -which
the country labours lu the production of
patented articles for which large prices
have to be paid, and the patentee havlng,
probably, made a fortune, the public ehouid
have the benefit of the article at the expiration of the patent.
The SPEÂKER-Is there any objection
to the suspension of thie ruies?

DEBÂTE RESUMED.
The order of the. day belng called:
R.suming the. adjoumned debat. on the motion of the Hon. Mr. Baird, that in the, opin-.
ion of the Senate it is advisable that a comnmission b. appointed conaisting of representatives from the. different legisiatures of the.
several provinces. togetiier with such otijer
persons as may have the, management of the,
Crown lands of Canada, with power to report
on the. best means to, adopt for the. preservation of our forests in the best interests of
Canada, in view of the. large amount of logs
and puipwood that are annually export.d
fram Canada.
Mr. McMULLEN sald: I consider this
question to be one of the most Important
that cau be brought before parliament.
We know from the history 0f other countries the loss and suiferlng caused by the
disappearance of the forests, and aiso that
ive have been very rapidiy denuding our
own country 0f the timber. The time bas
arrIved. when w. shouid very serlously, as
s Dominion and as provinces, consIder
tbe whoie question, and not permit the
tImber to b. cut, destroyed, removed and
exported without more careful supervision
than bas prevailed for many years past.
Older countries than our. own are beginaing to realize the grave mistakes tbey
bave made In tus direction. Evaporation
la very much greater In open land tban In
forests, the difference belng one hundred
for open fields, as agaînst twenty-four for
forests. Twenty-live per cent more of the
ramn fail Is absorbed In wood land than Is
kept Iu the open fields. No country bas bad
larger foreste than Russia, and now Rusnia la beginning to suifer seriousiy fromt the
dîsappearance of the timber, more particularly In tbe southern portion Of tbe country. Etreamas that many years ago were
fit for navigation are almoat completely
drIed Up simply because the sources from,
which they drew the supply of water bave
been destroyed by the. removai of the forests. 1 se. by the forest reports, tbat lu
1885 Russia had 527,427,000 acres or 42
per. cent of tbe entire empire under forest.
On the. Nortb Âmerican continent Including

1380

1380

SENATE

Canada, we bad altogether about 380,000,- taken, and more strinigent provision shouid
Wbea our lumbermneu
000 of acres under forest or about 17 per have been mnade.
0f this went into our forests to take what tbey
cent of the entire eontinent.
amount tbere la now 85,000,000 held as wanted for lumber, tliey shouId have been
forest reserves, iargely la the United States. preveuted from siashing and destroylug a
,Out of that, last year, they sold of timber great portion of the growing tuinber and
that had reached a matured condition that, leaving the land completely cleared of al
Fire, of course, lias
If left wouid rot or become destroyed, the valuable trees.
$500,945. In British India they have 140,- doue immense harn la Canada, and we reM0,000 acres, or about 25 per cent of the gret to-day the very serions injury that bas
entire country under forest. In Germany, been doue in the past ia the north portion
the government control company grounds of Ontario and by lires whlch are raging
It is to be regretted that stringent
as weli as private grounds, and before the now.
remove a tree hae provisions were flot made to ýprevent occurowner of a property cau
1 dare say that we
must apply to the forest superintendent rences of this kind.
for permission. They bave begun to realize bave lost more of our forests by destructive
that the forests are not oaly a blessing but tires than xve have by the mere cuttiag of
an absolute necessîty to thue country, the timber. It is a deplorable thing to have
and they wIlI not permit trees to be re- to confess, but 1 belleve it is true. Vrigorous
nioved even on prlvate lands at the IlI mens sbould be taken nt once to put a
of the owner. It can only be done after stop to setting out forest lires at a senson
an application and complylng with the of the year whien they may possib]y spread
ruies prescribed by the forest Inspector. and do sucli uallnited. destruction as tbey
We have an imThey bave forestry schools Ia Gerniany, have done lu the past.
and nurseries for raising young trees, and mense area of land aiong the north shore of
tliey distribute young trees from those nur- Lake Supenior, and any person who lias traseries to any person wbo will replant them. velied through that district, as I bave, must
In that way tbey are largely IncreasIng their have ù6oticed the enormous destruction that
forests and encouraging the growth of bas takea place there by lire, and the imAustria lias also suifered by the mnense stretch of land on xvhich very littie
timber.
Iu India, the If any timber of value Is now growu. There
destruction of lier forests.
British government have established a for- are sections of that country that could be
estry department by law; 55,000,000 of acres turaed to good use, if we bad an efficient
hû,ve been placed under control of forest forestry organization wliereby portions. of
This bas Ïbeen doue for the pur- that country couid be re-forested. For my
rangers.
pose of protecting the country from the re- owu part, I look forward with very grave
suits of clearing it completely of its tini- apprehiension to the tume whien our *Rocky
bar, and a condition of things thiat would Mountains wvill become deuuded of ail their
W'e know perfectly -well, that at
seriously militate agaiust the prosperity of tumber.
has established the present time they attract great fails of
the ag-riculturalists. Austria
agriculturai schools, with a forestry brandli suow 'and rain, and they are the source of a
for the preservation of forests aud for the very large nunber of magnificent streanus
purposeo f re-foresting lands saited for the sucb as the Bow River, tlue South Saskat1 think we have made mnistakes chewvan, the North Saskatchewan and other
purpose.
la Canda that siiould flot be repeated. MWerivers which are alunost entîrely supplied
have sold to lumbermiea the riglit alinost froua tlue meing snows froni the mounIf %ve go on clearing those moununreservediy to cut tunber on large areas tains,
of country, and In ffany cases the land Is tains I have no doubt that the resuit wll
completely c]eared of everytbIng lu the way be suiffering somiething like France is ex'1 have seen sonue of this iFrance has corne to
of forest.
periecing to-day.
we sbould realize timat the deuuding the country of its
1 thii
providence myseif.
M'bile it was 1orests lias brouglit about an unfortunate
have been more careful.
Great drauglits have
quite riglit we shouid part with a portiou of condition of tbings.
the tunber, groater care should have been prevaiied, and she is taking very active
Mlr. IfeMULLEN.

JUIY 3, 1908

1381
18

timber. They.
steps now to replant with trees every piece Its forests, but for waut of
eut last year ln the United 8tates 40.000,o! land that is not desirable -or agricultural
of lumber,
The sides of her his and moun- 000,000 feet board uieasuxe
purposes.
whlch was an enormous output lu one.
talus 'have been replanted, because she ibe100,000,000 ties cut aiso
gins to realize that it is only ln that 'way year. The re were
about a better water sup- for railroads. Some railway companies are
that she can briug
of tie.
W"e kuow that getting s0 auxious about the supply
ply than exists ut present.
timber that tbey are begiuuiug to plant
our own Departmeut of the Interior bas
lu order to grow their
doue somethlag ln Vie way of tree pianting out trees themielves
own ties. The Santa Fe lhue bas aiready
I am exceediugly pleaslu the Nortbwest.
step, because tbey see wbat is
ed to notice by a report recently Issued, taken this
abead of tbem, and realize that unless
that a good deal bas been doue in that -way,
Iu 1901 there something is done tbey wili soon be withaud it Is growiug rapldly.
the country. It would
were sonie 5-4 applicants for trees to set out tie timber lu
require the cut of one million acres of land
The goverument farins have plantaout.
States witb the quai'tions ivhere youug trees are prodnced. to supply the Unlted
tity ot ties tbey need each year. There were
There were 47 of those that supplied 581,in 1902 Viere were 550 3,500,000 telegraph poles cut lu 'the Uuited
000 trees iu 1901.
Thiat ls an enormous
applications, 49-1 granted, and there were States last year.
drain upon the timber. It Is to be hoped
468,000 trees distributed umong the settlers,
of puttiug telegraph wires
for the purpose of creating stormi guards that the system
It
underground wlll be largely adopted.
anuI affording a shelter against the severe
cities and towns,
that very ofteu prevails out la beiug adopted by the
weather
danuded of timIn 1909- there were 1,070 ap- but by Vie country beiug
there.
and 616 .were ber, and for the waut of telegraph poles,
trees
for
plications
tbey will have to put
granted, aud 920.000 trees dllstributed. In It may just bappen
1,122 ail telegrapb Iunes underground, because
1905, there were 2,118 applications, aud
have poles to string tbem ou.
were granted trees, aod 2,000,000 trees tbey wiil not
There were 165,000,000 cubic feet of timwere set ont Viat yenr. Iu 1906 Viere
lu the mines lu the Ulnited 6tates
were 2,900 applications, aud 1,127 were ber used
last year. This also was a very large
granted the number of trees that they retimber reserve of that counquired, aud there were 234,125 distributed. draw upon the
try. The tauliers of the United States used
Iu 1907, Viere were 3,750 applications for
That
1,370,000 cords of bark.
trees, aud 1,371 were granted the"trees last year
meaus the strippiug of an enormous quansud over 2,000,000 trees were distributed.
bemlock of Viat country for Vie
Iu 1908 there was a correspoudlug lu- tity of the
of supplying tauuic acld, whicb,
crease, and Vie demand us, no doubt, going purpose
adds to the enormous drain upon
ou lncreasiug. The way Viat Is doue under of course,
year twelve milVie Interior Is, Viey Vie timber. Tbey cut last
Vie Department o!
lion bundies of shîngles and four million
keep a number of men, s0 tbat 'Wheu apo! lathes. Vebicle and machiuery
plication Is made for a certaiu number o! bundies
timber ts becoming scarcer lu the Uuited
trees to plant, Immediately au inspector is
every year. The price has risen
sent out to view Vie land and gîves direc- States
!rom 25 per cent to 65 per cent since 1899,
tions lu what way It ls to be prepared for
and they now, by a close estimate, conthe trees, and after Vie preparation Is made,
continue to draw uipou
sud plauted, and clude that If they
the trees are supplied
tha 't kind of timber the preseut growth .wfll
by taking Viat course, there bave been
flot last more than about 16 years, and tbey
over 80 per cent of the trees Viat were
not have the hardwood timber regîven out growing and dolng 'well, aud will
quired lu the manufacture of agricultural*
mauy places have beeu greatly improved
implements aud for vehieles of ail kinds,*
lu appearauce because of It. The United
and se on, that it wiIll be completely used
States are begiuulug to realize aise that
In 1906 there
f rom 16 to 20 years.
Viey are likely to suifer, not merely be- up lu
were 268,000,000 tigbt barre] staves cnt,
cause they have deuuded their country of

1382
1382

SENATE
SENATE

and a very large proportion exported from
the United States. The Sunday Issue of
a journal that lias a large circulation, the
average circulation la the States, requIre
the pulp' wood of twenty acres for one
Issue. Tliey cut up la one year spruce
pulpwood to the extent of 1,785,608 cords.
For ail purposes, in the U nited States, there
were 4,000,000 cords of puipwood nsed
last year, wbicb shows that they are
making a very beavy drain upon their
owu resources as well as taklng a
It takes
very large portion from us.
two thousand cords of pulpwood to suppiy
one daiiy newspaper a year. Pnipwood
Is net qulte 5 per cent of the entire cut
of timber of the United States. Thîs shows
what an enormous amount of timber Is
Tbey
used eacb year la that country.
made 315,000,000 lead pendils last year lu
the United States la whicb tbey used 3,700,0000 cublc feet of red cedar, a wood that la
se desirable lu the 'manufacture of pencils.
At this rate, it la estlmated dhe cedar supply of the United States for that purpose
wlll give out la twelve years. Ia aIl, the
United States bas about 450,000,000 acres
of timber lands ieft of wbicb 165,000,000
of thîs la now a national reserve. The goverument at Wasbiugton have been taking actIve steps to protect the country from belug
shoru of ail Its timber aud they bave been
makiug large reserves, and tbey have tbat
"It* Is eitlmated
amont under reserve.
that 100,000 acres of wood land is cut every
day ln the year ln the United States, estfmating wbat Is tuken for ail purposes, lucludiugipulpwood lumber, aud iucluding the
At the present -rate
Cnt for all purposes.
ail commercial timber wiil be cut lu about
20 years. Canada should preserve ber forests, especlally ail lands unfit for cultivaDuriug tbe time of this discussion,
tien.
wheu the bol. gentleman f rom Russell (Hon.
Mr. Edwards) spoke upon It, lie rather
depreeated the ides of putting au expert
He Is a free trader
dnty upon puipwood.
1 tbink that ln view of
above ail thiugs.
the Increased demand upon Canada by the
United States for the expert iif pulpwood
from our couutry, and In view of the fact
that ou this continent uow we coutrol the
principal supply of pnlp timber that is left,
we shouid carefuliy look after our InheriMr. MoMULLÉN.

tance ln this respect, and not allow it to
be destroyed or exported to other countries,
when we, lu future years, wili require to
draw au increased quautity from our reWe admit that in
sources for home use.
the case of a man who bas 100 acres or 200
or 300 acres of land, with a large amount
of pulpwood upon it, it may be considered
a bard matter to refuse to permit him to
make the best use he can of wbat lie bas
But I thini we
become the owner of.
sbould rather consider our forests as beI tbink
longing to the entire -Dominion.
it is adniltted that we should dictate to
those that are In possession of .forest lands;
that tbey have to be carefully and prudently dealt with, and the timber removed only
-In the past it bas
to a limited extent.
been generaliy made the chief conceru of
the goverumnents of the provinces, what
would be the best returu they could get out
of the timber, If the timber were sold to
They have
advaatage to the lumbermen.
no doubt contributed very largely to the reVery large
sources, of our province.
amounts of xnouey have been paid to each
provincial treasury from the sale of timber
limits, and the policy of that day may bave
been pardonabie under some certain conditions, but I do thiak we sbould now call a
hait lu this line aud put our entire forests
under the control of a weli disciplined staff
of men wbo wili look carefuily after what
we bave ond noet ailow the tîmber to be
removed nt the rate whicb it bas been
The United ýStates is talcmn .past years.
ixig very vigorous measures at tbe present
Tbey
moment to re-piant their country.
have given out within the lnst few years
over 3,000,000 trees, aud they bave a very
large number of nurseries now, from whlch
they auticipate -beiug able to give ont one
and a haîf million every year, to those who
wish to plant their lauds, wbicb lu many
Tbey bave altocases tbey are doing.
gether lu their nurseries over 8,000,000 trees
There neyer was
at the present moment.
an Act passed by the government of Outario that redounds more to the statesuiansbip of the men who conceived It, and advautage to that province, than the lew declaring that saw legs could nlot be exported
Immedlately after the paslu the rough.
sage of that law, to which no0 doubt our

JULY 3, 1908
the United States,
of expoirting
United States frieuds took a strong excep- trade stripping our bark ta of ail the hemlock
foresta
thus
tion and went to the court la the hope that ta an alarming extent. Large quantifies o!
they would be re-lnstated ln their rigbt to well-timbered hemlock land have. fallen into
hands of speculators who after taking al
cut timber and take It wherever they Ilked, the bark leave the timber rotten and the land
the
-%vas upheld, the resuit was that totally uIt for settiement. Ta-espaseers . ale
but the iaw
unoccupied
gain
a very large number of saw mille were for the sakre of ta the enter upon ta individuCrown and
belonging
by United States lande destroy ail the hemlaok timber. Now
established ln Canada
ais and
miii men, and a verv large amount of lum- there is an extract f romn this hemlock bark
whioh is exported ta the United States. The
ber Io now being manufactured and sent United States goverament no do ubt very wiseInto aur -Nortbwest from New Ontario, the 1y Io'kngthi
own intereàts,
euiri
duty
section that was most directiy affected by have ?mosdapetemr in thisupon this
country,
tha emnfcue
I know that eitvact
the passage of that law.
but admit the hemlock bai-k duty f ree. We
this action on their
there are now elght or ten saw miils operat- propose ta counteroheok
a duty of $1.50 a cord upon
part by
lng there--some of the largest in Canada. hemlock putting This ie not; a question really
bar&.
The miii at Rainy River ls one of the larg- aliecting the revenue. We neither hope nor
this way nor do
est mille lu Canada. There is not a larger expeet ta get any revenue in, undesirable that
ive desire it. but it is very
Tbey have over 16 miles our heznlook trees should b. ail eut down and
miii ln Ottawa.
I
of railway trach within their own lumber the bark sent ont of the country. thismay say
eubject
representations on
They are sending very large lots of that while therom the Eastern Townships, we
yard.
c]i.efly came f
west every received soin. representations ta the samne
lumiber to Winnipeg and the
-Some of ciet f rom the province of Ontario.
year, and the United States.
these manufacturera hold large limita in That ls a paragraph cnt fromn hie speech
Minnesota, and they are cuttlng their logs at that time, and a duty of $1.503 per cord
there and taking them into Canada, sawing was at that time imposed an hemlock bai-k
them ln Canada and sendlng the lumber to exported fri-an Canada. I contend that. we
1 know that for a certainty. ehouid Impose a heavy duty on pulpwood.
Manitoba.
'ine reason tbey build their saw mille on The United States manufacturera willl
the Canadian aide was an account of the denude our country o! pulpwood 'and
Âct of the Ontario government preventIng preserve their own if they are per.
them exporting saw logs cut on Canadian mItted to do so. They are doing the saine
limita. They have gone Into competition ln with pulp and paper as they did ln the
the purchase of limita and the limite have past with the extract o! hemlock; they put
been soid at a higher price, because these an a heavy duty on puip and paper exmen were bound to keep tbe milis runntng, ported from Canada, but they are allawed
and tbey control a large area of timber t0 take away the raw materlal-millions
sold 'wlthin recent years.
o! corde o! pulpwaod without the payIn March, 1871, wben Sir Francis Hlincks ment of an export duty. We have a right
was Minister of Finance, this question of to meet our neighbours on their own
the exportation o! tîmber la the rough was ground, and ln return for the heavy duties
brought Up and they pRssed a law Imposlng tbey Impose on aur pulp and paper 'we
At that time, saouid put on an export duty on puip$1.50 a cord u-pon tan bark.
the Ulnited States people were cuttlng a wood. We should aiea takze very earnest and
very large portion of our hemlock timber, active steps to put a stop ta the destruction
they felled trees and took the barl, off and of aur pulp timber by fire. I hope that
the trees were le! t to rot upon the -round, along the lune o! the Grand Trunk Pacific
and there .was a general suspicion that If and National Transcontinental Railway due
that were allowed to go on nhecked, there care le being taken that the timber le not
would flot be a hemiock tree lef t lu Canada being destroyed by fire and atherwlse. We
1 bave an extract taken shauld look upan aur timber as one of
ln a short time.
from a speech delivered by Sir Francis the chie! sources of aur national wealth.
Hinoke when hie was Finance Mlnister, de
aMorover, the farmers of this country should
lvered an the lOth March, 1871, which read! be enconraged ta plant trees wherever they
as fallowe:
can be gat ta graw, so long as tbey are
Within a few years a swarm of speculatori Splanted where they do not Interfere with
have carried on ta a very large extent thi

1384

SPNATE

1384

SENATE

farming eperatiens. It weuld beautify the
farma and be advantageous te the farmer
and a shelter fer bis cattle. I sbeuld like
te see the gevernment of the Dominion
as 'well as the local geveruments taire steps
lIn this direction, and I bave ne deubt lt
weuld result in a national benefit. It lias
been neted la the United States that cyclones are devastating tbe country la many.
places te an Increasing extent every year.
Some attribute this te, the enormeus net
werk ef telegrapb and teleplione wires;
te railroads and wire fences, and seme
te tlie tact that the country -bas been se
largely denuded of fereats. I bave ne
doubt tlie disappearance et tlie feresta lias
had sometbing te de wlth It, and -we shail
discover la this country that we bave made
a very serions *mistake If we permit our
timber lands te be destroyed net only by
the axe et the lumberman but by fire.
The lumbermen slasli, cnt and liack everytbing tbey censider wertb removing, witbout regard te the future. An expert duty
on pulpweed sbeuld be impesed at once.
The goverament sbould net leave a moment In meeting our friends across the
border on their own greuud, aud bave our
pulpweed manufactnred Into pulp and paper la our ewn country. I amn fully lu
accord witb a mevement ef that kiad and
trust that the goverument will taire prompt
steps la tlie direction I bave lndicated.
Heu. Mr. BOLDUC-Living ln a section
ot the country wliere a great deal of pulpWVood is seld by tlie tarmers, I censider it
my duty te offer a tew remarks on this
subject. I de net fiud mucli tault with
the resolution as written, but 'I do fiud
rault with some of the speeches ln wliicb
the gevernmeut are urged te impose in
expert duty on pulpwood. I agree with
those who regard our forests as eue of
our best assets, and that we should takze

flot need to place an expert duty on timber.
As stated by the lien. senator from Russell
wlien this subjeet was last under discussion, there la far more timber destroyed
by Eire than by tbe axe, and tee mucli
care cannet be exerelsed to prevent forest
fires. More fixe rangers sbould lie employed on the timber limite to protect
them. Imposing an export; duty on pulp
wood would be a very serious matter te
the poor settler. In the section of the
country from whlch 1 corne, I have known
many Instances wbere a farmer baving
four or fIve acres te clear bas been able
to cut 50 or 60 corda of pulpwoed. What
could lie do with that pulpwood If lie bad
flot the United States mnarket?7 He would
have to burn nt least baif of the legs on
the land lie clears. Spruce ef first-class
quality for pulpwoed may have ne value
for saw legs. Crooked legs, gum seamed
and twlsted spruce are cf ne value fer
lumber; but tbey ean be sold In the United
States market at the price paid for legs
of the best quality. The goverument are
urged te Impose an expert duty on pulpweed la order that our labeurlng population may have more empleyment. If that
la the ebject, we ean accompli-ah it better
by impesing an expert duty on sawn lumber. To saw a tbeusand feet ef lumber
ceats about 90 cents te a dollar. The telling of the trees la as expensive for the
production of saw legs as fer the productien et pulpweed. 'Out ef a tliousaud feet
et legs, yen have twe corda of pulpweed.
It cesta about $2 a cerd te, peel it, se that
for one dollar expended on thie saw legs
yeu have te, psy tliree or four dollars per
thousand feet te the settler for preparing
the pulpweod. His only teols are bis axe
and saw, and a little iren biookc, altogether
costing about $2.50. That gives you about
$4 fer preparing eue thousand feet of pulp
wood, as compared with one dollar per
theusand for preparing the legs.

every precautiou tu preserve LLemI and en
courage the manufacture of eur pull) timaHon. Mr. BAIRD-Wliat de you get per
ber in this couatry. I do net se 'e wn-bat
we can do liere te prevent'the local gev- cerd for pulpwoed lu your part et the
eruments from disposing et their timber country?
bertlis as they please. In Ontario, the leHn
r
ODCAot$.5acr
ODCAot$.5acr
r
Hu
gisIature lias passed laws reçquiring legs
cut ou geverument lands te be manufac- -that la about $14.50 per thou-saud feet.
tured lu the province. If the same thlng. The settler wbe lias te, clear about five
,were doue In ail the provinces, we would 1 acres et land will get elght or tenl cords
Mr. McMULLEN.

JIJLY 3, 1908
per acre. Witliout any expense and wltb
the help of his famlly lie 'wlll peel ail that
wood In the summer time, and be able to
haul it In wlvter. You can understand bis
position, when lie can maire out of the
clearing of five acres o! hi. land about
$30.
Wbat would be the. result If an
export duty were placed on that pulpwood? He could flot dispose of It. He
couid perhaps sel! sorne of it at $8 or $4
a cord. We have but few pulp manufacturers ln the country and tliey own large
tîmber bertbs and do flot care to buy from
the fermiers. Supposlng the settler Is near
a saw milI, and has timber equal to, about
25,000 feet of lumber, bai! of It wouid flot
be fit to be sawn; yet the tîmber whlch
wonid have no value at the saw milI la fit
for pulpwood, and you would prevent the
poor settler disposIng of bis own property
to the best advantage. Is that fair ? There
is no doubt we have the power to Impose
an export duty, but la it rlght that we
ahould do so? Is It just that we >should
deprîve the poor settler of the opportunlty
of making a few dollars out o! the tîmber
on bis land? If It is just to Impose an
export duty on pulpwood, wliy flot say
to the farmer : «'You are selljng your oats
at 45 or 50 cents a bushel; wliy flot use it
on your farm and produce pork and beef.'
Hon. Mr. MCULNTa
s bis own
production but the pulpwood is flot.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Botb belong to the
farmer, aud lie bas to remove the pulpwood for the purpo'se of clearing bis land.
We have, lu the district that 1 represent,
about 90 per cent of ail the asbestos- produced ln the world. It sella nt prîces ranging from $10 or $20 and upwards, the
finest qunlity belng -%orth about $350 a
ton. Wby flot say to tiiis man you are sellng your produce -lu the rougb.
If you
build factorles Instead o! selling at $20 or
$50 a ton you wll realize $500 or $000 and
give employment to the labouring population tn the nelgbbourliood. You bave as
mucli rîglit to Impose an export duty on
asbestos for tbese reasons, as 10 impose a
duty oAn the pulpwood Iliat the v;ettler lbas
ho selI. Tou are golng aganat the laterest of the poorest cass o! the commanity, the man who bas onlY bis axe with

1385

whlcb ho, maire a living for bis family.
You hell hlm: 'You bave no rigbt to selI
your pulpwood except lu the country and
lnstead o! gettlng $7.25 a eord we wl!, by
law, compel you to seil It for $4 per cord.'
Hon. Mr. BÂIRD-It mlghh go up lu
prire If export; duties were put on.- Our
neighbours must bave It.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-The hou, gentleman
says our nelglibours wIll bave ho puy the
higlier price. If It Is money you are trylng to get, wby do we look for money not
falrly esrned? We are not ln a necessitous condition.
Our government bas a
surplus, every year, and why sliould we
try to Injure our trade with the United
Sta tes for the sake o! maklng a feiv more
dollars every year?
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Unfortunately I was flot la the Chamber wben
the hon. gentleman was speaklng, but I
sbould like to ask hlm if lie lias zpoken
of tbe syshem established la Quebec by
the Hon. Mfr. Marchand, by wliých be
lncreased. the rate of stumpage, but remihted the stumpage to those wbo manufactured thie logs la the province. Thls
was afterwards repealed. If the hon, gentleman dld not speak of that, would lie
give us Borne Information o! wbat happened then? Was It not a good move.
Hou. Mr. BOLDUC-I amn ot at aIl
agaînst the Impositio n of a hîgli duty by
local governments, but, *as the lion, gentleman reminds me, Borne years ago Mfr.
Marchand, who was then prime minister
of Quebec, Imposed a duty by Way
o! stumpage of $1.50 a cord on eacli
cord of pulpwood exported to the United
States, wltli the proviso that on the
pulpwood converted luto *pulp la the pro-.
vince the duty would lie reduced to something like 60 cents a cord. I have no objection to that at aI!. Every local governinent
bas a rîgbt to dispose of Its property la
the best way they choose; but I amn against
the principle of trying to impose an export
duty on tlie wood sold by the poor settier,
thus deprlvlng hlm of the opportunity to
earn a living for himself and !amily.
Hon.
Mfr. DeBOUCHERVIIJLE-Thîs
plan of the Hon. Mfr. Marchand did not
deprîve hlm of anythlng.

1386

1386

SENATE
SENA.TE

Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-Net at ail.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE,-I think
the hon. gentleman made a lapsîs linguae.
The stumpage was not on the wood exported. It was an Increase. la the stumpage ail over the province, and If *the
wood was used In the province, then the
goverament would remit the dîfference.
Could the hon. gentleman tell us wby thls
system dld not continue?
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I explalned the ditference was $1.50 a cord whien the wood
was exported, and It was reduced to 60
cents when manufactured la the province.
This le about the same arrangement tiat
they have la Ontario. It is se rauch per
thousand feet, I believe, the lîmît holder
has to manufacture the legs la Vie province, and the exportation of logs la prohiblted.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-Yes.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-I have no objection
to Viat, but what I do object to Is Viat
lnstead of pernitting the -settler to make
money out of the timber on Iris land, when
he has to clear It, that you deprîve hlm
of Viat prîvilege and force hlm to bura it.
I amn strongly against that.
Hon. Mr. RIOSS (Mlddlesex)-This question bas been discussed la many aspects,
both by the mover of the resolutlon, and
the hon, gentleman from Wellington who
I need not
bas spokea Vis afternoon.
point out Vie cliniatical effect of the denudation of our forest. We know that. It
le on record ln Vils country. It la on
record la Vie older countries of Europe,
that Vie -denudation of Vie forest bas a
very serious effect, a very debilltating effect on Vie cIlmate. There Is another bass
too Viat we mny f eel later on la Vils country, la the development of our water-power
syetem and our electrical power systeni,
because If the foreste are cut down, our
rIvers wll flow very strongly for a few
mon Vis la the sprIng and then dry up.
There wlll be a lack of Viat constant supply of water whlch la essential to Vie succeas cf a water-power systeni; lndeed I think
In New Ontario, la Vie nelghbourhood of
to
Port Arthur, they are endeavourIng
overcome that dlfficulty by maklng reHon. Mr. DE BOUCHERVILLE.

servoirs of the big lakes and of the upper
sources of the rver, whereby they can let
down ID the summer meas nb Vie water
they have stored tbere, that otherwlse
would have flowed steadily away durlng
the sprlng season. This costs money, and
rna1,e- electrical power much more expensive. A very serious matter ID connection
with the subject, however, Is the destruction of forests by fire. This House cannot
reach that, except Insofar as we can £onThe
trol forests upon Dominion lands.
provinces have the entire control of forests
upon provincial lands. The provinces have
the entire control of forest protection.
Tbey own the lands. and, of course, own
In fact, as
what grows upon the land.
on many othe>r subjects, there is a divided.
authorlty betw'een the Dominion and the
local governments in the matter of protectlng forests. For Instance, if we project a rallway tlxrough any forest land, it
la expected that the provinces wlll themselves proteet their property from damage.
WVe have suffered lrreparable loss la New
Ontario from the construction of the Canadian Pacific Rallway. Any one who bns
ridden fromn North Bay westward along
the main line to Winnipeg, or arouud by
the Sauit, wlll almost be appalled by tlie
desolate character of that country. Millions snd millions of dollars worth of 'timber bas been destroyed by fire, and I
fear very muc]; fhat in the construction of
the Grand Trunk Pacifie which is now proceeding, that similar loss will happen to
our province, say from Lake Abltlbbi westward, and what will happen us wlll happen Quebec to Its forests and to the province of New Brunswilck between Moncton and Quebec. These are very serions
things. If I were in autbority in the province of Ontqrlo now, I would Insist very
strongly that the Domqnkon goverument
should protect the property of the province
along the line of the Grand Trunk Pacific;
ln fact I think the province would havýe
the
agalnst
action
for an
ground
Dominion goverament If by any wantoflness on Its part or the part of its contractors, any considerable property la our forI belleve precauests were destroyed.
tions are being taken, and I thlnk the Dominion government Is acting wlth consider-

JUIY 3, 1908
able liberallty lu endeavourîng to supplement the efforts of the local goverumeat by
We have lost milprovldlng fire rangers.
lions of property lu Vie province of Ontario
already for the want of proper precautions,
yet iwe Eind Viat even ordinary precautions
were very helpful ln the construction of Vie
road froni North Bay to New Liakeard, the
Temlscamlngue and Northern Ontario Railway.
We bave passed through one of the
niost valuable timber reserves or plue reserves that we have ln Ontario, perbaps as
valuable as any we ever had or any other
province ever had, and yet, we succeeded
ln building that railway througli that -valuable reserve wlthout a single serions bass by
fire, and what me have doue through there
ought to be attempted and ouglit to be nccomplisbed I thlnk, aud would be, witli
reasonable precautions, lu the construction
That is a
of tie Grand Trunk Rallway.
miatter, liowever, largely for local conceru,
alded and assisted by the goverument. The
protection of our foreats from ifre la but
The otiier
one brandi of Vie su'bject.
branch, and the one pressing upon us very
strongly 3ust now, -la how we cau conserve
the weaith'of our foreats, and prevent the
rapld destruction of plue and pulpwood.
The province of Ontario, by requlrlng that
pine loga cut wlthlu Vie province should be
manufactured fnto lumber 'within Ontario,
has doue a great deal to retard the rapld
As
destruction of lumber lu Vie foreats.
It was before, millions of legs .were towed
acrosa Lake Huron to milla ou the Lake
Michigan aide, cut lu Michigan saw inilis,
and supplled to the United States market.
-The advantage of brlnglug these logs over
They escaped the
was qulte apparent.
duty on lumber, aud they were fed to milîs
of very large value and very large size.
The United States people, by meaus of their
capital, supplied themacivea wlth logs from
the Canadian aide, aud they were operatlng at Vie same time agaluat the Canadian
lumbermen, ivho had largely to aupply the
We' have driven to a
Canadian market.
great extent the United States destroyer
from our forest, by requlrlug our loga to
be manufactured lu Ontario, so that the
greater part of Vie lumber now manufactured lu Ontario ls fed to the Canadian markets, barrlng what may be exported to

1387

bouth America, or tbe British markets. We
have retarded-and I want to empbasize
that point-to a certain extent the destruction of our forests by that regulation, and
It was a very simple regulation lu ltself.
The next step was taken more recently, aud
that la to seli timber berths on the condition tbat matured timber only should be
1 belleve thls la the most efcut down.
As
fective remedy to preserve our plne.
the hon. senator from Wellington bas sald,
under an ordlnary sale of a timber berth
the lumberman cuts everythlng ln slght aud
destroys everythiug that is wortli cutting.
By marklng, as they do ln Germany timber
that la matured aud ready for the markets,
we save the Immature aud younger timber,
and ln the course of tiuîe forests wlll reTliat process of dealproduce tbemselves.
ing wlth timber, la worthy, I believe, of
It may be said
v'ery carefuli consideration.
that there wll be a 1055 to somebody by
prohihiting the export of our logs, or requlring them to be manufactured In our
There may be a loas to the
province.
United States lumberman or the Canadian
lumberman wbo ls deprlved of this privilege; but looklng at our timber, froan a
national aspect, we must cousider whether
the country as a wbole benefita thereby.
Ontario passed, ln 1898, this restriction
upon the exportation of Canadian logs, and
four years afterwards we found that saw
mils to the value of $849,000 were erected on
the Canadian side along the Georgian bay.
employing 1,218 men, aud producing lu Canada, a luniber cut of 212,250,000. Old milîs
were re-fitted at an ex'pense of $181,000, employing 100,000 men, and cutting lumber to
In ail, we
the extent of $147,000,000.
secured the expenditure upon the erection
of new saw milla and Vie re-fitting of old
sa-w mlîs of a sum of $1,030,000, aud gave
labour to our Canadian citizens to the number of 2,328 persons, or men iargely. That
was a substantial advantage té the province
of Ontario. and may I say to the whole Dominqon; firet because we retarded the lIndiscrîmînate destruction of our foreats, and
secondl1y we gave em.ployment to our own
people, and thlrdly lu the maintenance of
our saw mills and lumber camps for the
production of lumber on our own aide, we
supplled a large local market, aud, perhaps,

1388

SENATE

1388

SENATE

I migbt also say, a large genemil market.
We bad a consîderable advantage la tbis
respect, and If a similar mile were applied
to aIl the plne forests ia Canada under the
coatrol of the local governinents, I have no
doubt tbey would reap -advantages sirnilar
Passing froin
to wbat we reap ln Ontario.
lumber to pulpwood, wbich ls perhaps a
more acute question than lumber, what do
we find? We bad an estimate made a few
years ago of the pulp reserves of the province of Ontario and roughly considered it
was put at 288,000,000 cords 'of pulpwood
A royalty of 40 cents a cord on that amount
of pulpwood ln Ontario would represent an
Income to tbe treasury of the province alone
of about $115,000,000 were It ail cut downi.
Tbe restriction upon the export of pulpLt
wood is sinillar to that upon lumber.
Is no.w required to be manufactured into
That restriction only applies to
pulp.
pulpwood grown upon crown lands. Tbere
Is no lnterfereace witb tbe sale or export of
pulp'wood growa upon private property.
WTe had no rlgbt to proceed tbat far; thereThe restriction
f ore we dld flot do so.
upon tbe export of pulpwood I believe wiIl
work out rnucb tbe saine as in the case of
Wne have
Now what -have we?
lumber.
first a very large pulp milI at the Sault.
We have another very large one at the
Spanlsh river, thnt wiIl produce a large
arnount per dlay, and a larger one nt Sturgeon Falls 'whicb produces pnlp and paper.
Tbese things have a material effect upon
the settiement of tbe country, and the social
Tbiey furnisli
conditions of the people.
the local settler with a horne rnarket for bis
pulpwood rlgbt at bis door and save the
pulpwood forests to Ontario for posterity.
My bon. frlend frorn Lauzon (Hon. Mr. Bolduc) w-ho spoke a littie w-hile ago, said tue
export duty upon pu]pwood would be a
very great bardship to the settier, for it
would deprive hlm of the market for the
pu)pwood bie cut lu clearing bis farin.
Does hoe not suppose that if -an export duty
were placed upon pulpwood, and Unirted
States people were oblig-ed to find pnlp for
their necessities, that tbey would not, as a
matter of course, corne over to tbe Canadian sîde and erect their pulp miuls on the
Tbey would brlng the
Canadian side?
milI to the wood wlheu they could not bring
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

Tbat is how it has
the wood to the mii].
Tbe local man finds a
been In Ontario.
He does flot
market rigbt at his door.
In
need to export bis puipwood at ail.
clearing bis land hie seils bis pulpwood as
We have a convenience
hie goes aiong.
for the settler here, a borne market for the
settier; we have the settier birnself and we
have the land wbich hie clears, and we are
savlng tbe pulpwood lu the bargain.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC--Does the hou. gentleman know wbat Is the price paid for
pulpwood lu is section of the country.
Hlon. '.%r. ROSS (Mlddlesex)-I could not
say wbat the price is now, or what It was
at any time; but It was generally spokea
Supposing the
of ns $5 and $6 a cord.
foreigu buyers of pulpwood biad to pay
an export duty, my hon. f riend sys
that the effect would be to reduce the value
or the market price of pulpwood lu the
country. Posslbly It migbt effect the market for pulpwood to a certain extent lu the
I. arn not able to nnswer that
country.
question ; but supposlng It did, are there
any otber conditions wblch might, to a certain extent, compensate for that? 'My bon.
friend argues that following out the logic of
putting an export duty upon pulp wood, we
sbould also put an export duty on .pork and
The two cases are not
corn, oats, etc.
Yob can grow a crop of oats
ainalogous.
every year and raise biogs every year, and
you can always keep a supply of corn, but
cut your forests dowa once, and tbey are
gone, you eat your cake and there 15 no
more bread ln the market, and so y0u
Our proposition Is, that by restarve.
straining, as it necessarlly n'iust be for a
short time, the cutting downl of their forests, the settier in the long rua will be
Let me give a case
greatly advautaged.
1 was brouglit up on a faimn,
la point.
and lu the forest, and 1 know sometbing
if we bad been
of the clearing of land.
under sorne restriction 40 years ago la Ontario ln clearing our land, rnucb as we
miglit ilave complained, It would bave been
the greatest blessing one could imagine.
W~e would bave saved timber that bas
gone up in srnoke, that would to-day
seli for $40 and $00 a tbousnnd, and
I venture to, say that nothing that ba~s

JULY 3, 1908
grown upon that land silice that time
would, aIl put tog-ether, la the 40 years,
bas realized as much to the farmer as the
My
timber wouId If hie badl it to-day.
hon. frieud says that the lnjury is flot conlu Middlesex 1 thlnk
fined to Ontarlo.
we have suffered more from, slhali I say
the vandalismu of the eariy settier lu deailng wltli the fbrests, than in some
1 have travelied through
other countries.
and Bruce,
Gray
of
counties
the
over districts that
have gone
and
would recail the-barrenness and emptinees
of a prairie, so fearfuily bas the woodmnan
deait wçith the eariy foreste, valuable ln
many cases as they were. A restriction
upon the sale of pulpwood, eîther by Its
manufacture into pulp lu the province,
or by an export duty, would, I believe,
work a great advantage to us. We cannot
fromn this House Impose any restriction
as to the manufacturing. That is a matter for the province to do, and aaything
that we may eay liere wiii be but a word
of admonition from us to the local legislatures to take heed and anticipate the
future sterility whlch must arise f rom the
The United
destruction of the forest.
States people consume 4,000,000 cords every
year In the manufacturing of paper. They
muet corne to, us, and as I said before, If
they must have our pulpwood, wouid we
flot by thie procees, compei them to bring
their mlis to our cùxîntry, iastead of raquiriflg us to send the timber to their
market, and If tiîat were done, we have
the advantage of keeping- labour ii the
coux*ry, which le -something to the settier. We ivould have a market for the settIer, and lie would be as ivell If not better off than lie le now. We wouid have a
market for the othier products of the farîni
which wouid be au addîtionai advantage
to the settier, and we would help to fill
up this country %vith a population, and
need population just as miuch a,ý we need
The
pulpwood or any otber com',îociity.
province, therefore, could. by exercisiug the
restrictions within tbQîir jurisdictiou and
authority, do sompining to preserve th.,
It
forest. WVhat nu the Dominion do ?
could oniy -'o one thingI sud that ia Impose an export duty, and the band of the
Dominion lu this case wouid reacli fur-

thier tlian the hand of the province. The
province couid only go so far as to require the wood whlch le grown upon Crowu
Lande to be manufactured Into pulp. Their
arm would flot reach ho the wood grown
upon private property. We neyer did appiy
our regulatione to, timber grown upon property 0f which the man heid a deed or evein
a lease. We believe that the province lias
flot the rIght to do eo, because It would be
an luterference with private riglite. eo the
power of the province lu deaiing wii thîs
question is a limited power aad ouly deais
witli lande ln the Crown. The Dominion
lias a strong apd long armu. The Dominion
cau say iu the case of ev-ery tree of pulpwood or plne-and pine le not concerning
us for the moment-that there shal lie
an export duty upon every cord of pulpwvood, and tliey should encourage at the
saine time the establishiment of pulp mille
by saying that lu the case of that pulpwood, on which there was an export
duty, belng manufactured into pulp in a
puip miii on the Canadian side, there
wouid be a drawback in tlie etumpage as
there le now ln the ca-se of the manufacTake
turing of agricuiturai Implements.
the Imports of Iron and steel for the productiou of these implemnente. The manufacturer gets a drawback wvhen the impiemente which are maGe from the imi)orted
inaterials are exported. Let the settler feel
that thiere le a Grawback in bis favour. lu
the case of every cord of pulpwood manufactured in the Canadian mille, aud 1 thlnk
that would have a good deal to do to regulate the price of pulpwood aud prevent
I sympathize with the setn reduction.
hIer. 1h le pock-et mouey.fior im, but lie
le a citizen of Canada and lie muet bear
bis ehare of the common burden by whicli
the country can lie enriched and Ite future
prosperihy enhanced, and if the time would
corne as it :ruet come, when the United
States people will Lqive to come ho Canada
for pulpwood, and we s-ive our foreets,
instcad of gehting $7.25 a cord, the settlers
ivili get $10 ho $15 a cord. If lie cuts It
down and selle it now for $7.25, wben tlie
enbanced market prîce comes lie wli have
nothing ho seil, aud lie wvill lie 80 sorry
there was not a law to protect hlm against
hlmself. What would many of our lum-

1300

SENATE

SENATE
1300
bermen do or say to-day If, lnstead of tiers in Quebec to-day bave in their posslashlng tbe lumber on the Madawaska session a considerable quantity o! pulpand the Mississippi and aiong the Up- wood, and how many of tbese would sufper Ottawa ln years gone by, tbey fer? -I think If w-e bad a census taken of
had saved thelr timber limits to this the settiers of Quebec who would suifer by
hour? Their profits would be enhanced by an export duty on pulp wood, their number
I
millions. But with sometbing like a wan- would not rua up to mnny thousands.
ton waste, they swept tbem away and sold do not know Quebec as well as some hon.
their lumbpr at five to ten dollars a thou- gentlemen do, but the whole front of Quesand, which they could now seI at twenty- bec aloug tbe St. Lawrence and the CanaI
five. thirty and forty dollars a thousand. dian Pacific Railway is cleared now.
Then there la auother consideration; we suppose when you go back Into the valley
bave to watcb the evolution of things In of the St. John, and perbapa the upper
the United States. The owners of timber water sheds o! the Gatineau River, there
limits ln the United Stûtes -are too ready are settlers there having pulpwood to selI.
to save their own reserve and corne to the
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC-And ln the eastern
We know that the own- townships.
Canadian reserve.
ers of large papers like the New York,
lion. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-Ând per'Heraid,' the New York 'Worid,' and New
York 'Journal' have their own reserves. laps ln the Eastern Townships too. Tbere
The 'World' newspaper, consuming sixty- may be more than I Imagine; but after
two tons of paper for the Sunday edition ail, doea not my hon. friend. over.-estimate
alone, bas reserves in Minnesota, Wiscon- the loss to the settler? If, as I said besin, Malne and the Âdlrondacks, and are fore, the pulp mili would come to, hlm,
saving those reserves to-day and derlving there couid be no loss unleas the puip manutheir pulpwood from the Canadian market. facturers would put up a combine, and
Tbey get their supplies from us because agree to pay only a certain price for pulpthey know that every year that passes will wood because it could flot be exported;
make their own supplies more valuable. but we bave a law against combines. The
Let us meet them on their own ground, and Dominion goverument bas power, the very
force tbem, If necessary, to consume their moment an Import duty enables manufacown timber and eave ours, so that wben turers or other dealers to combine, to break
theirs Is ail consumed they wili have to down that Import duty and ailow foreign
*A similar'principlegooda to come ln.
come to us for their supPly.
Would it be wise for tbe7 Dominion gov- wouid appiy to the export duty, and comernment to impose an export duty on 'puip- bines could be broken up on 24 hours' noThat ls a question o! policy. So tice. So far as the other provinces are
wood?
far as Ontario la concerned, I do not think concerned, others ean speak for tbem ;
It would burt anybody to any extent. Our I cannot. I can only speak for my own
pulpwood now ls not ln the hands of pri- province. I am not fond of export duties.
v-ate owners, èxcept ln the neighbourhood of The constitution of the United States preis no vents the government !rom lmposlng an
pulp milis in New Ontario. -There
Canadian export duty on anytblng; but self preservapulp-wood practically south of the
Pacific Railwny, say from North Bay west- tion la the first law of nature after ail, and
Beyond that point, the pulpwood is if we found that the manufacture of pLue
ward.
mostiy ln the Crown; but ln the case of into boards was of advantage to us, and
î,rlvate owners, ln iuost cases it is wltbin pulpwood into pulp was of advantage to
easy reach of pulp milîs or within easy us ln the province of Ontario, and If prereach of transportation by rail or river to sent metbods are not sufficient, shouid 'we
pulp - mlis. Ontario would not suifer. stop short and alow those foresta, that wiil
My bon. friend speaks of the poor settier in flot reproduce themseives in 20 or 30 years,
We regard every- to bc destroyed? We owe lt to ourselves
the province of Quebec.
tblng that Is of interest to the settier or to -It would be a capital way of iaying up
any citizen of Quebec but how many set- for posterity a pulpwood bank account
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex.)

JULY 311908

1391

3, 1908

1391

JULY
that: would yleld very large divldends In
future years. Speaking for the provinces
also, It would be a way of preservlng a
most valuable provincial asset from whlcli
millions of dollars woiild flow into
the treasury.' The income from our plne
woods to-day exceeds a million a year,
and'has exceeded that sum ever ince confederation. There la another means of
Income from our pulpwoood, perhaps flot
as great au from plne. One eannot tell
what It might amount to; but apart from
that, the other cons1derations of climate
and of molature and of water-power and
of preservlng for posterity what la a valuable asset, ail grow ln Importance the
more we consîder them, and the Dominion
government mlght very well find some
means whereby an export duty .could be
lmposed wlth a minimum of lnjury to the
settler. That problem ls surely not iso hard
as smre we have deait with successfully,
and If that cau be done, then let lt be done
by ail meana, and done soon, for every
year that passes there Is lncreased damage
trom fire and bass from the export of pulpwood, and there Is time lost ln aecurIng
on the Canadian aide the erection of pulp
milîs. 1 have not given the subject a much
tbought as the hon. senator from Wellington, or partlcularly as the hon. gentleman to whom we are so much lndebted
for having lntroduced this resolution; but
It grows upon one the more it laI considered, and when we regard irbat bas been
done ln Sweden, Norway, Germany and
Central Europe, we certalnly should be
well advised and conserve a valuable asset
before It la entirely destroyed.

DELAYED RETURNS.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Perhaps my hion.
friend, the Secretary of State, wlll be able
to obtain the balance of a retura with reference to. rallway crosslngs from the PuIlway 'Commission.
The motion was made
on the 27th of March, and my hion. friend
brought down a partial statement.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I shahl ascertain whiether nny more can be obtalned.
THE FRANCO-OANADIÂN TREATY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Haa the French.Senate adjourned for a month or a month and
a haif without ndopting the treaty with
Canada?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-We have no Information except what hon, gentlemen have seen
ln the press.
Han. Mr. LANDRY-I ask, because I see
ln the report of the House of Commons yesterday that it was stated thet probably they
would get Information to-day. Tbe French
Senate adjourned yesterday.
Hon. Mr. 80COTT-Wge had heard nothlng
when I lef t council to-day.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Has any action been
taken by thîs government?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We could, of course,
take no action.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I mean, of course,
la carrylng out the provisions of the treaty?

Hon. Sir MACKIDNZIE BOW.FDLL,-I
think the hion. Secretary of State should
answer that question.
Did I understand
hlm to Intimate that no action lias been
Hon. Mr. LEGRIS moved the adjoura- taken by the Customs Department with
mient of the debate.
reference to the reduction or remission of
duties under the treaty?
It has been statThe motion was agreed to.
ed in the newspapers thiat certain concessions have been -made la anticipation of the
BILLS INTRODUCED.
ratification of the treaty by the Frenchi
Bill (173) An Act to restrain the use of Senate. I can scarcely thlnk it would be
tobacco by young persons.-(Hon. Mr. so.
Scott.)
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I think not. I am not
Bull (116) An Act to amend. the Rallway advlsed of it at ail events. It la not probAct 'wlth respect to telegraphs and tele- able.
phones and the jurlediction of the Rallway
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday next
Commissioners.-<(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
at three o'clock.

1392

SENATE

1392

SEINATE
SENATE.

TE
OTTAWA,

Tuesday, Juiy 7, 1908.

The SPEAKER tool, the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
DISBURSEMENTS 0F MR. ALEXANDRE
TASCHEREAU.

INQUIR-Y.
Mr. LANDRY iaquired:
Hon.

construction of the «Quebec bridge, bas flot
appiied to the government for any assistance.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Does the hon. gentlemnan say the Quebec Bridge Company bas
not applied?
Tbe Phoenix
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Brilge Company bas flot applied.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I was flot asking

1
as to the Phoenix Bridge Company.
was asing as to the Quebec Bridge Com-

1. Wha't is the nature, in detail, and the
date of the disbursements; made by Mr. Alexandre Taschereau to the amount of $29.20 in
the matter of the arrest of Monaco and Lacoste for infringernent of the Criminal Law,.
amount reimbursed?
2. When was tis

pany, and that answer is tbat the Phoenix
Bridge Company bail fot applied.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers te tbe
hon. gentleman's questions are as follows:
Statement la detail of dishursements pald
hy Mr. Alexandre Taschereau te police court
on warrant against Monaco and Lacoste:
$ 1 10
Stamps.. .. ...........
3 00
.
Service of warrants..
00
Mileage............25

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Ând perhaps with
more truth than the answer wblch bas
been furnisbed the bon. gentlemen.

Paid December 28, 1906.
December 29, 1906.

$29.20
Reinibursed

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Perbaps 1 ean answer
It myseif.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The bon, gentleman
does net refer to any particular company ln
The question merely refers
bis question?
to the Bridge company.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It
i'bicb cornes after No. 5.

Is the question

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I dld not answer that

one. 1 bave Do answer te tbat, nor couid
The matter bas
at present.
QUEBEC BRIDGE AND RAILWAY COM- I bave one
flot been deait witb.
PAN Y.
INQ'TIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY Inquited:
Has the Québec Bridge end Railway Company, since the fail cf the bridge, done anything whatsoever to clear the site aud prepare it for the reconstruction of a new bridge?

ISSUE

0F DEBENTURES BY QUEBEC
BRIDGE COMPANY.
INQUIRY POSTPONED.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
L. Up to what amount was the Quebec Bridge
and Railway Company authorized to issue
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answer is :
debeatures ?
2. Wha.t amount of debentures bas the com1. No ; that Is a matter wbicb conceras
paay issued?
the Phoenix Bridge Company.
3. For what amount hevs the goverament
guaranteed the debentures issued by the
BRIDGE.
REBUILDING 0F QUEBEC
Bridge Company?
4. What is the amount which the Bank of
INQUIRY.
'Montreal dlaims frorn the Bridge Company
for advaaces in money mnade to the company,
Hon. Mr. - LANDRY inquired
and what emou.nt of debeatures ba& it reQuebec bridge, ha's ceived as a guarantee for repaymént?
1. Since the fall of the
the compaay which had undertaken the con5. Âpart from this dlaim of the Bank of
struction cf it, applied te the goverament for Moatreal, has the Bridge Company borrowed
any assistance whatsoerer?
direcetly from the goverament a sufl of u',000,
2. When?
000, by a discount of $1,000,000 upon 'La Ban3. 0f what nature was the assistance asketl que de Paris et des Pays Bas,' and of $1,000,
for?
000 on the ' Crédit Foncier Franco-Canadien,'
4. What was the reply of the goverument
repayable in one year at the Bank of Montreal
at 4 per cent?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Phoenix Bridge
6. How mnuoh altogether does the comnpany
bad the con.tract for the now owe;
Company, which
HIon. Mr. SCOTT.

JULY 7, 1908.

1393

<a) The, etatement indica«tng the amounts
<'a) To the governmeat for advances of mospent on the Desohambault wharf-February
ney P
4?.
<b) Tc the, Bank of Montreal P
(b) The correspondence exchanged between
<o) To other financial institutions?
the Department of Miîitia and Lieutenant
<d) To the Department of Customs?
Colonel Davidson re the latter's dismissal and
:(e) To the Phoenix Compaay?
the promotion of Sir Henry Pebiatt to the
(f) To any otier persons whatsoever?
tank of colonel-February 14?
(c) The. details asked for on the GubWet of
Mr. SCOTT-The answer te thus the. additional subscription of $200,000 to the
Heu.
Company
lnqulry was not completed. They are workc'pta1 stock of the Quebec Bridge
iag at it uow. I saw Mr. Fielding a Ilttie -fanuary 29?P
(d) The statement showing what was the
before 3 o'clock, and lie asked to allow It daily pay of the. soldiers cf t he Comp'any Ne.
2 of the Ottawa Field Battery in 1865 and 1866
te stand.
-March 17?
The inquiry was allowed to stand until
Hlon. M~r. SCOTT-I gave particular InThursday.
structions the other day, when the hon.
J. INcGOVERN. gentleman called attention to it, to enACCUSATION AGAINST
deaveur to obtain the Information from the
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
depnrtment, but it bas not been furaislbed.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY Inquired:
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose the Hou-se
1. Is it true that the goverameat has order- wili not prorogue before we bave au anJ. Mced an inquiry into the coaduct of Mfr.
Govern, foreman of thie Intercoloniali Railway swer to these questions.
between L~évis and Rivière du Loup?
The SPEAKER-The unnnswered ques2. Ras the inquiry been ordered 'as the resuit of grave accusations of peculation brought tions wIlI stand until Thursday.
against this employee?
3. What is the precise n'ature of the accusaTO
tions the truth of which, the commîssioner DELAY IN SUBMITTING REPORTS
SENATE.
holding the inquiry has been ordered te find
out?
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I notice that
4. Who bas been appoin-ted colnmissioner te
hold the inquiry? Is it Mfr. T. C. Burpee, of la the other House a resolution for the disMoncton? If net Who?
5. When was the. appointment made and cussion of wbat Is commonly known as
when is the. inquiry te commence?
'the AII-Red Line' b as been submitted. Is
Hon* Mr. SCOTT-I have ne answcr fer It propesed to bring a similar resolutien before the Senate, or would it lie necessnry
the hion. gentleman.
or proper tint the subject should be preHon. Mfr. LANDRY-I s there nny good seuted te us by the goverument?
reason wby thus Inquiry is flot answered?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have net seea the
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-I bave no answer for
statement, but I presinne an opportuaity to
it.
get the views of thec Senate might be ohiHon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-The Iast Informa- tained by introducing here a resolution simition we bad from the minister was that a lar to tint introduced by Sir -Wilfrld tautelegram had been sent. That was on rier la thc -Commons. I should lie very
June 16, and It Is new July 7.
-lad te do that.
te-day, and
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I inquired
.Hon. 'Mr. ROSS (M,iddlesex)-The resoluceuld net get an nnswer.
tion is on thec une agrecd to by thc colonial
Thc inquiry was allowed te stnud until coaference last summer.
Thursday.
Hon. Mfr. BURNIER-Will the report on
0F DOCUMENTS.
the Georgian Bay canal be .prcsented tuis
PRODUCTION
session to the House?
INQUIRY.

Hon. Mfr. LANDRY inqulred:
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-It Is being printed
government think that it now.
When does the,
wili be able te lay on the table of this House
the foiiowing documents the. production cf
Hon. Mr. BDRNIER-We have been prowhich was ordered during the. present session, mised that report for two or tirce years.
at the. dates mentioned:
88
REVISED EDITION

SENATE
SENATE
I

1394

f394

-

bers of the goveramuent only saw it within
the last week-the day Lt was given to the
>ress, Tbursday or Friday of last week.
Hon. Sir MACICENZIE -BOWEL-Tbe
It
Systern bas been completely changed.
to be considered a breach of the privitised
eges of parliament to let any one see a
report until it had been laid on the table
The practice
of the Flouse of Commons.
was changed on motion of Mr. Charlton,
when lie was a member of the House of
Commons, and orders were given for the
prlnting and circulation of reports of that
cbaracter, and departmental reports se that
they might be ln the bands of members beI do not
fore the meeting of parliament.
see why lu the case of an Important document of ihis kind, ln whlch the whole Dominion is interested, the same course bas
Why the practice bas
not been pursued.
not been carrled out ln this case Is due, I
suppose, to the fact that the goverument
ouly received the report the other day.
That mav be an excuse. 'Reverting to the
AlI-Red 'Une, did I understand the hon.
*Hon. Mfr. LDOUGHEED-It Is accessible Secretary o! State to say that a resolution
would be submitted to this Flouse, or that
te the Flouse of Commons?
it is not the practice to ask the concurHon. 131r. CASGRAIN-One copy.
rence of the Senate lu a resolutiolu of that
Hon. 3fr. -IANDRY-If tbere were three kind? 'My owa Impression Is that Lt is not.
copies, where are tbe others?
It is merely an affirmation o! a principle
brougbt before the Flouse of Commous. If
Hou. Mr. CASGRAIN-One La the officiai
It were an address to be presented to any
copy on record and the other is in the office
one, it would have to'corne -before us to be
of the engineers.
A resolution
deait with by this Senate.
Hou. Mfr. FERGUSON-This la a thing of the kind brought before the Flouse of
Documents Commons by thie ]Premier Is different.
1
that Is frequently occurring.
are given to the Flouse of Commons, and do not think there is any precedeut for layEven tbe papers with ing such a resolutlon before the Senate and
we are Iguored.
reference to the Issue o! Dominion notes askiug confirmation of a principle adopted
were neyer laid on the table of the Senate, by the Commons.
although the members of the Flouse o! CoinHon. Mr. SCOTT-We have been endeamous had thein. The Senate Is belng treatvouring to have the report o! the Georgian
ed wlth the utmost disrespect.
Bay canal eng-ineers completed, but Lt was
Hon. t'4r. SCOTT-I do not tbiuk my bou. only ready for subrnission to parliament last
frieud can say tbat any disrespect bas been week. The ministers had not seen IL The
Where volumin- first 1 saw of it was the summary published
shown to this Ohamber.
The report Is being prlnted
ous reports are brought dowu, Lt is utterly in the press.
I think referimpossible to submit more than one copy, now as rapidly as possible.
unless the production o! them la postponed ence was made to the AIl-Red Line ln the
for weeks or months to prepare a second House o! Commons, and, naturaliy, au exOrders were given as soon as the pression o! opinion from the premier wag
copy.
That was
Georgian Bay canal engineers' report was expected before prorogation.
If tbere Is to be
The meru- given a day or two figo.
submitted, tohave Lt printed.

r.SCOTT-It was only brought
Hon.
down ia the loeuse of Gommons the latterI
part of last week, and Lt bas been orderedI
I amn speakiug entirely from
to be printed.
wbat I have seen ln the press.
~Hon. Mr. BERNIER-It is Important to
western Canada, and after haviug been
promised a report for two years we shouid
have It produced.
Hon. Mr. <JASGRAIN-I weut myseif to
the office of tbe Georgian Bay canal engineers to see wbetber a copy of some sort
was nlot available, and was lnformed that
there were just two copies prepared for the
goverumeut, one of which was placed iu the
After the FELouse
bauds of the minister.
bas taken communication of It, I presuine
Iu the
It will be ordered to be priuted.
meanwhlle, lt is not accessible to anybody
but the ministers.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbe ministers and
the hon, gentleman.
Hon. iMr. CASGILAIN-I bave not seen ItL

Hon. Mr- BERNIER.

JULY 71 1908

1395

1395
JULY 7. 1908
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, that ls being dane.
an expression of opinion on It ln the Senate.
-and I think It -would be proper ta bave
Hon. Mr. POW.ER-The usual course bas
sucb an expression, I shall be very glad to been followed ln this case. The minister,
submit a resolution bere.
who is a member of the Hanse ut Commons,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The difficulty brought down bis report and laid It on the
that will contrant the leader of the Hause table ut tbe Hnse of Commons and It was
I cannot see that
la that the resolution Involves a money ardered to be printed.
As I understand tram the press, we have anytliing ta camplain of. If one
vote.
what was Introduced In the Bouse of Com- of the mînisters In the Senate brings dawn
mons was slmply a declaration. of pollcy ex- a report connected with bis department lie
pressing a wlllingness ta vote a subvention daes nat bring down a second copy for the
Wben tbe reports
for that Une. No snch resolutian could be use of tbe Commons.
lntroduced ln the Senate. Reverting ta the are prlnted, members of the Communs get
question of the Georgian Bay canal, the copies, and as soon as this report ls printed
1 am jnst a littie bit
status of the Senate ln the estimation ut we shall get copies.
the country must depend largely an the surprlsed at the keen desîre of bon. gentleposition the leader of tbis Hanse will take men ta get this report, because, .after ail,
wlth the government with reterence ta the the subJect ut the Georgian -Bay canal bas
npper Chamber being seized of public mat- been su tburaugbly d1scussed ln this 'Hanse
ters ta the sanie extent as the Hanse of that the repart can hardly give ns any adM y bon. friend tram
The very statement miade by ditlonal Infurmation.
Commons.
my hon. friend ls Incontrovertîble évidence De Lanandière and others bave enlightened
that a copy uf that repart sbould bave been this Hanse most campletely on the subject.
placed on the table of this House, since I think It la really a desire ta make the
the hon. senatur tram De Lanandière who han. -Secretary af State earn bis salary mure
seema ta be cbarged witb this enterprise than any particular desire for Information.
and ta lead the discnssion upon it, has made
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My han. triend la
the stat 'ement that three copies ut the requite rlght. A document la bronglit down
Nuw, the leader of
port were prepared.
the Senate makes the astaunding statement as the resuIt ut an order of tbe Hanse, and
that betore lie knew anytliing about It a If there la neglect iu this Instance, we
copy ut the report was given ta the press. bave ourselves ta -blame, if noue ot ns
were snfficiently tboughttnl ta make a
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-The han, gentleman la motion; but I was nder- the impressiun
mistaken. Surel y 1 spoke distinctly enough that this report was brangbt down ln the
wben 1 said tbat wben the copy was brought Gommons as an action of tbe government
down ta, the House of Communs the press, and withaut an arder of the Hanse. There
as la always the customi, had an oppartnIty ls a wide dîfierence in tbese two caes, of
to see it for the purpose of making extracts course. If we make a motion for a paper,
I said wbat 1 hadl seen It will be braught down here, but nat nefor publication.
of the repart was what I bad rend ln the cessarily lu tbe other Hanse, and If a menipress.
ber ut the ather Hanse gets an order for a
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEIDD-I understoad my number ut papers, sud tbey are brouglit
bon. friend's remark was, that he had no down there, we du flot necessarily get a
knowledge of It until lie saw It meationed copy; but If it ls a public document laid
But except my ban. friend an tbe table by the government ut Its own
ln the press.
Insista on thie sanie Information being glven Initiative, we bave a right ta receive It lu
ta the Senate as la furnished ta -the Hanse bath Hanses.
of -Commons, we cannot enjoy the sanie
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Is It a goverumefit
statua in the public mmnd ln dealing witb
report, or a return ta an order made by
questions of this kind as the Gommons bas.
the Hause?
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-May I request the
Han. Mr. SCOTT-No. It is not on an
bon. .Secretary ut State ta see that tbis reorder for a return.
port be printed at once and clrculated?

1396
1396

SENATE
SENATE

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-If I am flot mistaken, Vie hon. gentleman from St. Boniface moved some tume ago to have that
report brought down la Vils House, and
later my hon. f rlend from De Lanaudière
made a similar motion.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-That may be. The
report was not la shape to be broughit
down.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-It ls not la shape
yet. Is It a government retura, or a return to an order of this House ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbere Is no use splitting hairs about it. Perhaps two years
ago parliament voted a certain sum. of
money for maklng an accurate survey for
Vie Ottawa and Georgian Bay canal. We
had Lad surveys made on two former occasions. They were for a smaller canal
than Vie one now proposed, which Is for
21 or 22 feet? Engineers were appointed
and Viey have been at work- for the last
eighteen months making surveys and taking levels on the route. The government
tried to push Vint report in order to have
It ready for Vhis session. They could not do
go. The gentlemen la charge of lt were
working liard to get it completed, and It
was only finished a few days ago and,
when it was filslhed, Vie Minister of Rillways and Canais, la wbose departinent it
was, laid It on the table of the Flouse, nnd
It w"as ordered to be priated. Ia thi.e meantime, 'when it wns la transit to the Bureau.
the press, as they very often do, perhsps
fortunately, secured extracts from It and
published very small parts of Vie report.

1 think a
parliament on the same day.
report should be presented here at the same
time that it is presented ln the House of
-Commons, especially when there are three
copies, of it.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hon. Secretary of Stnte does flot seem to be
seized of the point raised by Vie hon, gentleman from St. Boniface. A motion was
carried ln this House for tie production of
the report, to be laid upon our table, and
It was carried. The question asked by the
hon, gentleman was: Is that order to be
complied 'wlth? ' The hon. Secretary of
State tells us how the report wns nmade out,
and Vie surveys and so on. That Is flot
the point at ail. If the hon, gentleman
said : Yes, as soon as I get a copy 1 wili
lay it on the table.' That would be an
answer.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is a long and an
elaborate affair. I am quite sure Vie plans
have not been triplicated. The public are
anxious to know something about Vie report, and the quickest way to distribute it
ls to have It printed. The House of Coninions Is not getting the benefit of it, except
what appears la the press.
-Hon. -Mr. BEIQUE--This ls the ordinary
course followed by previons governments,
but I think la future it would be better
practice if a sufficient number of typewritten copies were made. .Four or five
copies are as easily made as one or two,
and they could be laid before both Houses
of parliament at the saine tume.

THIRD REA.DING.
Bill (20) An Act respectiag the Belleville
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It ks la Vie sanie
When and Prince Edward Bridge -CompanyPosition as a goveramieat report.
the Mînister of Railways and Canais brlngs (Hon. Mr. Ross, Middlesex.)
l a report to the Hlouse of Commons the
IILIWAY ACT AM'NENDME.NT BILL.
saereport is laid before the Senate by
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
the Secretary of State.
The Flouse resolved itself into CommitHon. Mr. SCOTT-It is not a parallel
tee of tie Whole on Bill (112) An Act to
case.
amend the Railway Act as respects the
Hon. Mr. POWEll-Lt is hrought here constitution of the Board of Railway Coinmiss loners.
after It has been priated.
(In the Coinmlittee.)
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-They are supposed
to be printed before they are brought dowvn,
Hon. Mr. LOUGREED-Canl my hon.
because Viey are printed duriag Vie recess, friead give the House nny information as
but they are preseated to boti Flouses of to the reason wby this board Is being inHon. Mr. SCOTT.

JUIY 7, 1908
Is the volume of business of
creased?
sucb a character as to -warrant the doubling
up?
Hon. Mr. BSOOTT-Yes, it is found that
the business'bas growu ln a marvelous degree, particularly on account of the commissioners meeting the views of tbe public
and transacting business ln different parts
The business bas enormously
of Canada.
lncreased, and it is proposed to add to their
duties, as the bon, gentleman will probably
bave noticed by a Bill now before the iSenate, to give them control over the telegraph
and telephone lunes, sud over the rates and
connections, and al the arrangements mnade
betweeu the private hunes of the Bell Telephone and tbe telegraph compaules, the
Canadin Pacific Railway nnd Great Northwestern, so that the duties of tbe commission are very much increased, and they are
said to be now very much behiud lu their
work.
Hon. Mr. LOUG'HEED-This view of the
situation seems to be overlooked; that the
duties of tbis commission mean the Introduction of an entirely uew system of deailug with ail railway questions, or compliAt the inception
cations that may arise.
0f this work-and it can scarcely be said
that we bave more than crossed the tbresbold of its inception-there naturally would
be a very consîderable volume o! work to
be doue, but 1 doubt very muchi If the volume o! work already doue wlll represent- a
I do flot know
lire volume ln the future.
whether the goverument bas taken lnto cousideration this view of the matter. It lookrs
to me very much as If tbe goverument bas
arrived at the conclusion, tbat because upon
the introduction o! tbis system lu dealing
with ail railway questions a very large volume of work lias arisen, it must uecessarily
continue to increase as time goes ou. 1
doubt that view very much. As soon as
many of the moot questions wblch bave
lu tbe past demanded consideration are
settled, It seems to me that it is going to
reduce to a very large extent the amount of
work that will corne before the commission;
whereas, under the preseut Bill, we are
asked to double the members of this commission without havlng any idea tbat the
-work wlll continue lu the ratio it bas doue
lu the past.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

1397

Hon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN-I bave Iuquired a
great deal about tbe duties of this Railway
Commission, and I have come to the conclusion that the work la not llkely to dîminish, but, oh the contrary, It is increasing ail
the time. Every time a road crosslng le
required, wbich used to be clealt with by
tbe Rallway Commlttee of the Prlvy Council, it Is now made the subject o! an application to -the Railway Commisslouers, and
The people
inquiries are being carrled ou.
have tbe advantage of appearing before the
commissioners aud praying to Lave these
This facilîtates very m-ucb
roads opeued.
tbe opening of higbways tbrougbout the
If a culvert bas to be opened, If
country.
land Is about being drained, then again apThis necessitates conplication la made.
stant new work, and as the public is finding the great usefuiness of this commission,
more and more work is plliug upon tbem.
That Is only the physical part of it: then
there Is the regulation of f relghts. Every
farmer who feels himself aggrleved at being
charged too mucli on small packages, makes
a compiaint, and it a to be iuvestlgated,
and the railways bave been compelied to
change their rates or make refunda, and
as the public Is beiug more enllghteued as
to the usefulness of the commission, the
work is being iucreased.
Hou. Mr. FERGUS ON-I do not altogether agree wlth the bon. gentleman from
Caigaiy, that the work of tbe Board of
Railway Commissioners is llkeiy to be less
lu the future than it has been lu the past
0f course, lu the Initiation of tbe work of
the Board there would be a great deal of
wbat one must regard as prelimluary work
to be doue. But my view is that If
the Rallway Commission does its duty, the
work that is before lt la very serions,
and that it wil Increase lu the years that
are to come. From Information that I bave
gathered, fromn returus and otherwise, I
find that the Board of ]Raîlway Commissioners have absoiutely doue nothlng, wlth
refereuce to the question o! railway crossings, and It Is a question that cannot bc
kept ln the background. It ls a question
tbat tbey will have to dea] witb, and one
of the reazons given for not dealiug wlth
It, la tbat parlament bas not Imposed a
positive duty on the 'Board wlth regard

1398

SEINTATE

SEKATE
1398
cause, which I there. It must be manifest to hon, gentleto thaf subjeet. Another
believe is true, is that the attention of the men who have givén any attention te busiBoard bas been taken up with other mat- ness of this kind, that Immediately questers which they regard as more Important tions are decided upon Unes of settied pothougli I 'do nlot know that any question Iicy, as must necessarily take place ln the
should be more Important than that que&- near future-most of these questions being
The of a kIndred nature-immediately a poiicy
tion whicb s0 affects human Il1e.
riglit of the railwaya to cross one another la settied upon, the arduous duties of this
and use one another's Unes, and the ques- Commission must necessarily decrease. The
tion of the interchange of freight are ques- duties of the railway commissieners are of
tions which have forced themselves upon such a character that they can oniy be
the Board, and they have deait wlth them, transacted, practically, by the chie! comand they have now got dowu to hard bot- missioner. Without making any criticism
tom, perhaps, and it may nlot be as diffi- upon the commissioners, other than the
cuit in the future te deal with them as ln chie! commissioner, who are doubtiess quite
the past; but that is only part of its duties. as willing and anxious te perform the duI think the work of the Board, without ties of the Commissioller as the chief cernregard te the additions of the telephones missioner himseif, those of us wlio are famand teiegraphs, wIl increase. The ques- iliar wiith the duties of the Board, must
tion is whether the increase fixed is a pro- know that practicaliy the whole of the
per increase in the personnel of the duties of this Commission fail upon the
Board. There is provision made for a chief commnissioner. Now, we propose dousingle member te do sonle work. That Ls bling Up the membership of Vie CommisThis Bill admits of sion, by appointing an addItional three.
ln the law now.
more than one sitting being held at the If the governrnent bad proposed te appoint
same time. Any two of the commissilonerio an assistant chief commi-sioner, who would
can hold a court. I arn not sure but that practically perforrn the same duties that Vie
a board of five would have been enough. chie! commissiener is perforwing to-day,
That wouid have given one, you might I could understand the propriety of Vie
say, to hoid an investigation singly, which country assuming Vie expense of the 'salwould have to be reported to the Board ary of that additional assistant commisand passed upon, and two sets of commis- sioner.
sioners te hoid separate sittings. For a
Hon. Mr..SCOTT-The Act provides f or
whle there may be 'a danger of having
Viat.
these men tumbllng over one another, which
,Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But they are apIs the worse state of things you could
possIbly have wlth regard te aay business. pointlng three commnissioners.
I think It wouid have been wlser to IaHon. Mr. SCOTT-Oae Is au assistant
crease the commission from three to fIve,
chief commissioner.
to see how they would get on, and then,
If it were found the work couid be more
Hon. Mr. LOUGHFEED-But the Bill
properly done by increasing It te six, that proposes appointing Viree commissioners,
could be done later.
one ef whom shalh be an assistant chie!
The Bill proposes doubling
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-I entirely differ commissioner.
with the *hou. gentlemnan from De Lannu- the membership of the commission, aad il
dière as to the increase of duties aiong the Is a weil kaown fact that the duties ef the
Une he mentioned. Very many of the di:-. twe commissioners other than the chief
ties now transacted by the Board would coramissioner have net been of such an opbce very mucli better transacted by the en- pressive kind as te exceed the volume ef
gineers of the Commission, rather than te ti.me at their disposai, and yet we propose
have ail the commissioners ln proceed- appointing twe other commissioners, who
mng to distant points, and in that will occupy the same subordinate position
way disposing of minor matters such as as the two commissioners aiready occupy.
whether a crossIng should be here or It seems te me that tbis is very Iargely a
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

JULY 7, 1908,19
One of the commaissiOflers
othe board.
tentative measure, the government wouid tî
satisactually went there lu order ta give
bave been much wiser, and ht wouid
Then the engineer
to the people.
action
biave been much more economical had f~
i the commissioner himseif, advised moving
an assistant chief commissioner been ap- 0
le Une over a certain distance from tliis
polnted, and, If it were then ascertained t]
hurch, and ail the plans of the. railway had
that the chief commissioner and the assist- c
o be changed, perhaps Increasing or diminant chief commissioner, ascisted by two t
shing the cost of the work. These are al
ordinary members of the commission, wouid 1!
'The other
h ard and intricate probiems.
be unequal ta the task assigned them, then ~reat question is the adjustment of rates.
the government, with -propriety and service 9
Perhaps two
t takes experts ta do that.
ta the country, couid have appointed the 1ommissioners might make a speciai study
other two; but at present I is s0 experi- c that question.
They might divide and
îf
mental, that 1 think It Is unwise ta do it. C
the work. I arn sure there wiii
pecialize
leader
Hon. Mr. OÂSGRAIN-The han.
)e pienty of work for the whole six of
of the opposition said that the 'Board maighit hem.
leave the settiement of many of these quesHon. Mr. MeMULLEN-It la ta be hoped
Wneil, they do.
tions ta their engineer.
bat when the Italway Commission is lnWben a compiaint Is made ta the board, the tcreased, the Intercolofliai Raiiway wiii be
engineer la immediately sent out toa take
piaced under their supervision. I amn sure
levels, make plans and so oni, «so that theI
the best Interests of the people would be
case may be beard bef are the commission,
served by glving the Commission superviand a report is aiso made by the engineer
sion of the governnient roads along with
advising what steps shouid be taken. Afthe rest. I wouid prefer ta see the Interter that, the parties are notified and heard.
colonial Raiiway under an independent comThe board does flot necessarily go and see
mission altogether, the same as the -Auswhether a raiiway crossing la put ln such
are. We have spent over
The engineer tralian roada
a place or ln such a way.
ei.ghty million dollars on the Intercolonial
makres a report, but that entails hearing the
Railway, and it Is mereiy earning Its own
case, either by having the parties corne ta expenses.
Ottawa, or the board movlng ta Toronto,
Two comHon. Mr. L01UGHEED-Do I understafld
Winnipeg, or any other place.
Winni- the bon. gentleman to say that it Is the'
missioners would be able ta go ta
place the
peg ta hold the court there, wiilst the Intention of the governmfelit ta
Railway under the Board?
other may be hearing cases ln %fontreal or Intercolonial
Hialifax.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-No.
HRon. Mr. LOUGHEEJD-Thls ktnd of
Hon. Mr. LOUGREED-I thought it was
thing is flot going ta go on for ahl trne.
a declaratiol' of polcy.
Mr. CÂSGRIN-Then what would
Hon.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-I said I should
be very destrable-I do nat knaw whether prefer ta cee that railway under an indepenthe commissioiiers would adopt it-as it is dent commission altogether; but faliig that,
absolutely Impassible for those six men ta I should Ilke ta see all the governmexlt roads
be equaily weil versed ln ail the different put under tbis Raiiwiiy Commissioni. Untîl
problems of the work, perhaps two of'the that Is doue, they will neyer yieid a remembers of the commission might take up turn on the investment. They wiii nevier
the physical part of the work. *When corn- be better than tbey are now whlle tbey
panies apply for the adoption of certain are under a political chier. Other counlocations for Unes, then the plans are ~Ied tries have tried It. Af ter years cf trial Ipi
witb the raiiway board, a certain trne Is Australia, finding the raiiroads were not
fixed for ail parties ta appear and abject, giving proper returils, a commission was
If a property awner thinka the raiiway line appointedl ta control them and they are
is being iocated too near bis building, or now paying a respectable Interest on the
as the case occurred ln Port ]Daniel toc money invested. We are entitied toan renear the church, then application la mnade

1400
1400

SENATE
SENATE

turn from the Intercolonial Railway. and
we could get it If it were placed under
an independent commission, but If we canflot get that let us place it under the
larger railway commission we are nôw to
bave.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I quite concur ln the
remarks of the bon. gentleman. 1 can
see no justice whatever ln having one principle of law applied to a government railway and another to a company railway.
The same prIncipie shouId appiy to al,;
and whether the raiiway Is to be governed
by an independent commission-to which I
would flot offer any objection-or by the
Railway Commission, ail the ronds should
be goverued by the same principle. That
Is the more desirable now when the telegraph Uines are also to be taken under the
control of the commission. I do not sep
why there shouid not be a plan of managing goverumeut railways and deaiing out
justice to those 'who employ those raiiways
ou thie same principie as is applied to the
other great Unes lu the country.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-When the railway mensure was before parliament ln 1903,
I made iseveral futile but persistent efforts
to have the Intercoionial Railway placed
under the Railway Commission, but received very littie support. 1 think the hon.
gentleman from St. John, the hon, gentleman froin Westmoreiand, and the hon.
geiIleman, f. nrn Hastings supported me,
but the governmeut would flot listen to
my suggestion. Faiiing lu that I then tried
another change, thàat was to get the government to consent to put il under tAie
Commission as fur as through traffic was
concerned. In that I was strongly supported by the lion. gentleman from De Salabeîry. I pointed out that ail the company
ronds ln the lower provinces could not be
bronght suecessfulIy under the new law
wiith reference to through traffic unless the
liuk that connected them with the bIgý
roads lu the west was also under the Commission. The hon. Secretary of State rather favoured the suggestion, and haîf promised to act upon it; but on consulting bis
colleagues he called upon bis supporters to
vote Il don-n. I n-as gratified the following
year when the goverument came down with
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN.

a Bill dealing with the goverument rail-

ways, carrying out the suggestion that 1
lied made, that the Intercolontal Raiiway
should be. bronght under the commission
with regard to tbrough rates. I agree aitogether with the hon. senator f rom Wellington, that thie government raIiways should
be brouglit under tAis Commission.
1
kuon- It cou]d not have the effect the hon.
gentleman speaks of with regard to firiiicmal results, because the evils of patronage
lu appointments sud lu purchasing would
remain.
That could ouly be secured by
appolnting an Independeut commission sncb
as they have la Australie. I amn on record
and arn stilI strongly of the opinion that
it would be a good thing to put the IntercoIouil Rau-nay under thls Commission.
The clause n-as adopted.
On clause 2,
2. Subsection 5 of the said section 10 is
repealed and the following is. substituted therefor:
<a> Any person may be s.ppointed chief cernmissioner or-assistant chief commnissioner who
is or lias been a judge of a suýperior court of
Canada or of any province of Canada, or
who is a barrister or advocate of at Ileast tea
years' standing 9,t the bar of any sucli province.
(b) The chief commissioner shalh be entitled
tù hoid thie office of chief -commissioner, and
the -assistant chief commiesioner the office of
assistant chief commissioner or that of chief
commissioner, so long as they respectively
continue to Aie members of the board.
(c) The assistant chief commissioner shahl
b.ave ail the.,powers of the *hief commissicuer.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The -practicai effect of
this clause Is to appoint an assistant chief
commissioner who wlill take precedence next
atter the chief commissioner.
The Act
makes provision for the board sitting ln two,
places, uuder two sections.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is the g-overument prepared to suggest where the office
should bie located?
Hon. Mr. %(,OTT-1 presume
rest entirely with the board.
Hon. *Mr. LOUGHEED--Or
ment?

that n-ill

the govern-

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, with the board.
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-There are severaI
very Important changes lu this Bill from
thie present Ian-. When the Rail-ny Aýct
wvas passed, It contained a provision that on

JULY 7, 1908
a question of iaw the chief commiesioner
sbouid bave absolute control over bis colleagues, and it was flot provlded that hie
must necessarly bie a lawyer. It 'was discussed a good deal ln this Flouse, and It was
provlded that bis vlews sliould prevail over
those of bis colleagues when there was a
Now, we find that
difference 0f opinion.
the law Is to go very mucb further; It le
provided that the chief commissioner shall
etber be a judge or a barrister of at.least
ten years standing, and that the assistant
commissioner shall also have the same
qualifications, and subsection (c) provides
that the assistant shall have ail the powers
of the chief ln the absence of the chief coinmissioner.
I wlh to point out what -wiii
happen.
Supposing the chief and the assistant commissioner sit together, and they
must both be iawyers, the chief commissioner's view must prevail ou any question
of law tliough the assistant may possibly
be a better iawyer than the chief. I tbink
It Is an absurd provision that the opinion
of one man shouid prevail over the opinions
of the rest.
Ail the questions comlng Up
will bie mixied questions of law and fact, and
any man who is fit to be appointed on that
board would have no dlfficulty la verv soon
mastering these questions sufficientiy wel
to make bis opinion just as valuable as that
of the chief commissioner, even though hie
were fot a awyer. Where the assistant coinmissioner bas a court of bis own, lie belng
a lawyer, bis vlews shall prevail over the
views of bis coileagues. Then there Is a
provision that the deputy shall preside ln
the absence of eitber the chief or tbe assistant, and boid a court; but there le no
provision that his views shall preval over
the views of the men who ma s it wltb
bim.
When the deputy commissioner performe tbe very came duties as the chief
commissioner-althoughl be may lie a iawyer, and the chances are they wli ail
or nearly ail be lawyers, because that le
the trend of government appointments
-tie views of tbe deputy commissioner
wili be no better than those of hie
colleagues and wilI not prevail against
theirs. Thiere Is a great absurdity ln this
provision.
The provision that requires two
of tbem to be lawyers, Is wrong. The first
consideration for a competent chie! coin-

1401

missioner ie that lie Is a good railway man,
and If lie le that, lie knows rallway law
very mucb 'better than a lawyer who lias
not been a railway iawyer, for lie will know
the workfng o! the railway law. We bave
a board constItuted witbout a railway man
being appointed.
It wiii bie !ound that
between politicai and other Influences, it
wili lie liard to get a reaiiy iffrst ciase railway man on the board. 'I
presume tlie
goverament liave determined to put the
Bill tbrougb just as they bave sent It to uis.
We are seidom aliowed on this side of the
House to suggest amendments to government bille, but 1 really think there are some
absurdities ln this clause before us that
the government sbould remedy -before malclng It law. I amn opposed to the provision
tbat two lawyers shahl be appointed, and
I amn opposed to the provision that gives
either of thern the control in matters of iaw
over bis colleagues.
There is another
absurdlty ln connection wltb thie; the board
le to, decide wbat is a question o! law. As
I said before, nearly ail the questions that
will corne before the board are mixed -questions of law and fact.
Supposing there
are four Inymen on the board and tliey are
displeased witb the action of the chairman,
tbey can decide that every question is flot a
question of law, and, therefore, their views
would lie just ns good as the view of the
chief conimissioner or bis assistant. Wliere
a queston* is a maixed queetion of law a'nd
fact, It would require a pretty good lawyer
to decide wbetber It Is a question of law
or not, and these laymen on the board mniglit.
decide that questions comiag before thein
are flot questions o! law, thus depriving the
chief commissioner of the power given, and,
as I think, very Improperly gîven to hlm ln
tbis Bill.
Hon. Mr. POWEll-I can understand
tbat the lion, gentleman from Miarsbfieid
sbouid bave taken the ground which hie did
take la 1903, because at that time we lied
not tbe experience of the working of the
Act to go by.
Âlhough the bon. gentleman says that on a question of law-and
bie was quite clear on that-the opinion of
any layman was as good as that of a iawyerHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I did not say
that.
I said that a firet class raIhway man

1402

SENATE

1402

SENATE

wbo bas a life, experience ln railway mat- bas happeaed and we bave to 1ook ut
ters wouid become conversant witb railway the experience of the last few years and
iaw and understand It -better than a lawyer aise give credit to tbe commissioners for
being men of at ieast average common
who was nlot a railway iawyer.
sense. As bon, gentlemen k-now, I am not
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbe bon. gentleman always just as faitbful a follower of tbe
dld say sometbing to tbat effect aiso. Thisi goverament lu ail the details of their meaAct bas been lu operation for some five sures as I mighit be, but 1 must say that
years, and it bas flot been suggested by any this is a mneasure which must commend itone but the hon. gentleman that a mistake self to tbe House, and certainly wiil comwas made in appointlng a lawyer as chair- mend Itseif to the country. Tbe work
man of the Commission. The press of both wbicb these commissioners do Is very valsides of polities, and members of both uahie and Important, and tbey bave not
Houses bave been loud ln tbeir praises of been able to anytbing like overtake it, and
the manner la wbich the late chaîrman of the work being valuable and important it
the Board, Judge Killam, discbarged bis la desirable tbat lt should flot get too far
duties, and 1 understand that recent opi- ln arrear. If three commissioners cannot
nion ls to the effect that Judge Kiilam's do the wvorl., the wise tblng Is to appoint
successor is giving similar satisfiaction. three more and w-e shall have tbis ImporThe truth is, that when you wisb to ap- tant work attended to thoroughly ail over
point a chairman of a board who have to the country.
deal with questions of law, a lawyer or
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Lest my remarks
ex-judge is about the best chairman you
I submit that p)roposition to sbould be misunderstood, I am f ree to say
can appoint.
about
the favourable consideration of the leader tbat If there is one redeeming feature
The bon. gentleman from the Rallway Commission and its work, lt
of the opposition.
Marshfield found fault witb the -wordîng is found la tbe work done by tbe late
the Board. I
of the BihI because If the chairman Judge Kiilam as chairman of
to thue
and the vice-chairman were both absent, do Dot thlnk tbat was due so much
fact that be was a lawyer, tbough that wouid
then the question of law sbouid be
decided by the deputy chairman. The not be anything to bis detriment, and It
deputy, he said, might be a lawyer, but Is would certainly be to bis advantage, but bis
not necessarily a lawyer. Notwitiistanding iadustry, bis bigh character and excellent
the fact that tbe hon, gentleman tblnks services are acknowiedged aDd deservedly
tbe government are too much 'addicted te acknowl edged by everybody. It la not simappointiag lawyers to Important positions, ply because he bas passed away that I
It happens they appointed oaly one lawyer make this remark; I sald so while he was
on the present Commission. 1 may say, and acting as chairman of the Commission.
I say it witb a good deal of regret, 1 am
Hon. Mr. ROBERTSON-What about Mr.
afrald wben tbey come to appoint three Blair ?
new commissioners that only one of tbe
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-He was commisappointees -will be a lawyer. Suppose tbat
sioner a very short time, and bis work did
the question before the Commission was
nlot take a form wbich would enable one
not a question of iaw but was a question
The
to pass judgment upon Its merits.
of engineering, and tbat one of tbe memone objection to Judge Killam's wprk is lu
bers of tbe Board was an engineer, does'
the rules be laid down for the governmelit
nlot the bon. gentleman think. that tbe opiof the Boardi. These ruies betrny the lawnion of tiiat member, on a question of enHe makes tbem so
yer ln every liue.
gineering sbould prevail over tbe opinions
fa-at and lirm that he leaves very littIe
of lawyers and farmers, If they bappened
elasticity la the working of the Board or
to fbe associated with hlm? I think so, and
of the provisions
comes even iu the law. Some
it Is the same wben a question of law
lu the law were intended to be elastic, but
up. Tbe hon. gentleman pictured four laythey bave been made firm and unbending
men combining agalnst two lawyers. I
lu these mules. I thlnk the rules sbould be
bave not beard that that sort of tblng
Hon. Mr. FERGIJSON.

JULY 7, 1908

1403

JUIY 7, 1908
relaxed very mucb lu the public lnterest,
so that any one who bas a grievance cou Id
get to the Board without employing a lawyer to fight a big corporation. The Board,
of lis own motion should, as is provided for
la the Act, remedy wroxigs even when they
1
have flot au application before them.
juast make this observation with regard to
Judge Killam, because I have had some
opportunities of judging of the work of
the. Board while be %vas cliairman, and 1
bave no hesitation ln saying thut lie rendered most excellent services.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The boa, gentleman
labours under a misapprehension as to the
The miles do flot prerules of the board.
veut the -board acting of their own motion.
As a matter of fact, they ofteu do *act of
The mules are printed,
their own motion.
and are exceedingiy simple aud can be used
They do not necessitate the
by anybody.
It is qulte easy
employment o! a lawyer.
for a layman to use the forms which are
printed as an annex to the miles for the
pumpose of applylng to have grievances reThere is, howevem, one point to
dressed.
'which 1 should like to call the attention
It
of the bon. leader of the goverament.
is ln refemeace to the power given to the
I understand that
assistant commîssiouer.
this.law ls iuteuded to double, so to speak,
the efficacy of the present Itailway ComTherefore, the assistant commismission.
sioner sbould bave power to act and exercise the powers of the chief commissioner
ln one part o! Canada when the chie! comnmissioner is acting In another part of tbe
I amn a!rnid that under this Bill
country.
lie will not be entltled to do so.
Hon. Mm. SCOTT--Ob, yes.
Hou. 'Mr. LOUGHEED-Has mny hiou.
friend read suliclause (c) wvhich provides
for what may be doue in the absence o!
the chief ?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes, but what is the
meaning of the word «'absence ?'
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Physical absence
I would sny.
Hon. ?Mr. BEIQUE-We have iu section
12 of the Railway Act a provision of the
It provides that lu the absame kind.
sence of the chie! commissioner tbe deputy

1403
commîssioner shial exercise the powers of
the chie! cominissioner.
Wbat is the
meaniug of the word 'absence' there? Does
it mena absence from the clty o! Ottawa,
for Instance?
Hou. Mr. POWER-From the court I
shouid suppose.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-That is a point that
should be made clear, because I am afmaid
thiat, under the common law, the word ' absence'1 would mena absence from the countmy.. If so, the powems of the deputy or
the assistant comînissioner would be very
much curtalled.
Hon. Mm. SCOTT-In tbe lmagiaary case
subrnitted by the lion, gentleman fromn
Mnmshfleld, whieme the chief commissioner
aud the assistant coinmissioner were supposed to be absent from the board, I may
say that nothing of the kind is coatemplated.
The Intention is that the -board shiaîl
act la two divisions, the chief and two of
bis colleagues la one, and the assistant and
two of bis colleagues on the other. It may
happen la the absence of the chief and the
assistant that It would be necessary to give
precedence to somebody, and that Is given
to the deputy; but tt la very unlikely that
the contingency will arise, ibecause either
the chief or the assistant will be sltting
wbere there are two o! the others sittln.g.
In many cases that 'are not of a controversial nature, that are memely formai,
elthem the chlef or the assistant may be
absent. The whole object o! appolnting an
assistant commissioner was that there
should be two full bodies la Important cases,
and they could sit la differeat parts of the
country, and that could only -be attained
by the appointment o! a third, and that
third would have ail thc powers of a chie!
commîssioner. I do not see that it is open
to any doubt whatever. It is the absence at
the time from the clty or place. *It does not
follow lie must be out o! the couatry.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Supposiag the govemament takes powem to appoint another
judge, ID the absence of tbe Judge of the
Exchequer Court, what would lie the meanWould It lie absence
ing of the absence?
from the country?

SENATE

1404
1404

SENATE

Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-It is by no means a
paraîlci case.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSOIN-Under this Bill,
there may be tbree sittings of the commissien held at the one time.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, ln non-controversial cases.
Hon. -Mr. FERGUSON-Two commissioners will constîtute a sitting of the commission, and therefore the third court that will
be sitting may nlot have the good fortune
of hnving a lawyer as a chairman, and bis
opinion wiii tberefore have to pass like that
of any other ordinary mortal and stand for
wbat it appears to be worth, and my view
Is that that would be the better way in ail
cases. If the iawyer is a good man and a
good Iawyer, it stands to reason bis view
would be accepted, even if there were nothing in tbe Act witb regard to It. He would
have greater weight than tbe ordinary Iayman, and I think It wouid be rery much
better, when you are taking power to appoint, to provide that the chief commissioner and the assistant commissioner must
be lawyers, and yen wouid leave them to
exercise the Influence that tbeir intellect
and knowledge would iead them to exerclse, without giving them additional powers
by Act of parliament.
Honu. Mr. SCOTT-In legislation of this
kind, you must bave elqsticity. Yeu can
not iay down nrbitrary rules for the control
of the commission. There are cases where
two commissioners will sit to hear matters
wbich are nlot controversial, if there Is any
doubt about the proper judgment to give
tbey can withhold it until tbey consuit the
Tbat is the practicai
chief commissioners.
In cases where there
working ont of it.
is no serious controversiai matter lnvolved,
two commissioners can sit, and why should
The great object of
there be a third?
legisiation of this ki.nd is not to cripple it
Allow it a certain elaswith fixed rules.
ticity, and with regard te the domestic
working of the commission the public wil
criticize their action and the press will not
fail to notice ItL
The subclause was adopted.

the assistant chief commissioner the office of
assistant chief commissioner or that of chief
commissioner, so long as they respectiveiy
continue to be members of the board.
Hon. Mr. LOIUGHEED-O'-an my hon.
friend point out the utiiity of the first two,
Unes, 'The chlef commissioner shahl be entitied to hohd the office of chief commissioner.' That Is manifest.
-Hon. M~fr. SOOTT-I suppose it Is because
they repealed subseethon 5 altogether that
it had to be re-enacted.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-It seems to me
to be idle to say thnt the chiof commissioner shall be the chief commissioner-the
same as If we enacted that white should be
whiite and black shouid be black.
Hon. Mr. POWER-One effect of this
wording, I tbink, would be to prevent the
government from displaclng the chief commissioner and appointlng any subordinate
commissioner ln bis place; so that the chairman must be a Iawyer.
ýHon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-He takes office
by virtue of the statute, and the government
He is appointed
could not displace him.
for a specific period-ten years.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSONg-There ls a little
-One
objection te It, that it is too fixed.
of these officers mhght :become really Incapacitated*.from acting as chief commissioner, and stihi might perform some easier
work, but be must foihow on to the end of
bis life, or to the end of the period, wbichever comes first.
Hon. 3fr. POWER-He can be removed
for cause at any time.
The subclause was adopted.
On clause 3,
3. Section 12 of the said Act je repeaied and
the foiiowing is substitnted therefor-

.12. In case of the absence of the chief commissioner and the assistant chief commissioner, or of their inabiiity to act. the deputy
chief commissioner sh?11 exercise the powers
of the chief commissioner for him or in hi&
stead, and in such case, ail regulations, orders
and other documents signed by the deputy
chief commissioner shall have the like force
and etfect as if signed by the chief commissioner.

On subciause (b),
Hon. Mfr. POWER-Tbere is no provision
<b) The chief commissioner shall be entitied for a deputy.
to hoId the office of chief commissioner, and

JULY 711908

1405

JULY 7, 1908

1405

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There ls a deputy at
present.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is Dr. Milis or
Mr. Bernier the acting dcputy commissioner?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Mr. Bernier Is
deputy commissioner.
The clause was adopted.

visions of suliclause 2 te the assistant chie!
colmissioner.
His duty is different frein
that of the. deputy commissioner. There it
la very properly stated that whenever the
deputy chier commissioner appears to have
acted for the chier coinmissioner, or the assistant commissioner, then it. shall b. presumed hie acted In tii. absence or disability
of the chier commIssioner and of the assistant chie! commissioner wltbiu the. meanuhlg
On clause 4, subclause 2,
But there la the saine
4. Section 13 of the said Act is repealed aud of the section.
the following is substituted therefor:
neoesslty for havlng the like provision for
1l3. Two commissioners shall form a quorumn, and not less than two commissioners shalI the. assistant chie! commissioner.
attend at the hearing of every case; provided
Hon. Mr. BBIQUE-No.
Because that
that
(a> in any case where there is no opposing section dees not say it w!ii be conclusive
party and no notice to be given to any ia- at ail. It dees net put the question nt
terested party, any eue cemmissioner may rest as to whether the chier
commissiener
act alone for the board; and
(b) the -board. or the dilief conmi!ssiener, is absent or unable te act.
may authorize auy one of the commissioners
Hon. Mr. -LOUGHEED-My hion. friend
te report to. the. board upon any question or
matter arising in connection with the busi- will observe lu Uine 29, tint it is enly lu
ness of the. board, and when se authorized
such commissioner shal! have ail the -powers the. absence e! the chier cemmissioner that
of two commîssioners sitting together 'for the the authority o! the. assistant chie! coinpurpose cf taking evidence or acquirîng the. missiener weuld be o! tint character.
necessary information for the purpose cf such
report, and upon such report being made te
-Hon..Mr. SCOTT-I thinli the lauguage is
the. board, it inay be adopted as the. order of
the board, or otherwise dealt with as te the quit. clear.
board seems proper.
.Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-But tint section re2. The chief commissioner, when present,
shall preside, and the. assistant chief commis- fers enly te tii. deputy chier commissioner.
siener, when preseat. in the absence cf the.
chief commissioner, shall presîde, and the Subcause 2 o! clause 3 is Intended te put
opinion cf either cf them upon any question at rest ail question o! jurisdiction whien the
arising when lie le j)residing, which in the board la preslded ever by the deputy chier
opinion cf the. coinmissioners is a question of cemmissiener
lu order that hîfs power e! relaw, shall prevail.
placing the chie. commissioner cannot be
'Hon. Mr. LOUGH1ED--..Whiat would be
the effect o! a deputy commissioner deal- questioned ni ail.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-Tlie word
ing with a question of law?
Under the
existIng Act, lie apparently lias ail the. assistant commissioner should. be insrted
powers of a chie! cominissioner whien act- in suliclause 2.
Ing In the. absence of a chie! commissioner.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-There Is ne similar
Now, by Implication, under suliclause 2 of provision for the assistant commissioner.
clause 4, 1 should say that lie could scarcely
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIZED-There is only oe
exercise that power, but It is quite clear
that under the existing law-and it Is net condition under which the assistant chie!
coiniissioner presides, aud tint is lu thie
repealed-he would have that autherity.
absence o! the, chie! commissioner.
Hon. Mr. $OOTT-H-e certainly -would
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-He canuot preside
net bave it under subclause 2.
excepi In the. absence o! the. chie! ceinHon. Mr. -LOUGHEED-He apparently missioner, and it la only in case of sucli
bas ail tbe powers of tiie chie! commis- absence tint the assistant chie! commissioner.
sioner has jurisdictien, and It should lie set
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is very curiously at resi by similar wordlng te subsection 2.
worded.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-WTould ht
Hon,~ Mr. BEIQUE-I would call atten- net serve every purpose if thie werds 'astien te the necesslty of extending the pro- sistant comnxnssioner' were iuserted.

1406

SENATE
1406

The deputy does not have ail those powto amend,
rs, but the deputy shali o-tly exercise the
H on. Mr. BEIQUE-It is easy
and I shmply desire to draw attention to ItL erowers of the chlef coramipsiofler for and
Hon. Mr. POWFHt--ý do flot tbInk tbere i bis stead, so that you see the one bas ail
languagei
Is any necessity for altering the
rie pokers of tbe chief commissiofler, and
13.
ie otber bas ouly autborlty to exercise
of the second subelause of section
rwben'i
The assistant commissiofler acts only
owers In certain cases and bas flot power
the cbief commissioner is absent. HIe nder certain circumnstaflces.
takes tbe place of the cbief comnmissioner.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Thaft is the same
Then If the assistant commissioner Ia also bing.
absent, tbe deputy takes the place, flot of t
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE,--L tbink wbat would
the assistant, but of the chief, because the
assistant commIssioner Is 'lot present andb 'e necessary to, cure the defect to wbicb I
cannot take tbe place of the chief commis-h iave called attention, would be to add to
sioner, and the place of the cblef commIs- ubsection C tbe foilowlng words:
la taken by the deputy commissiofler.
And whenever ho shall so, act it shall be
onclusively presumed that ho s0 acted in the
Hon. Mr. LOUGEED-What Jurisdic- c.bsence or disability of the chief commissioner
a
vithin the meaning of the section.
tion 'wIll he bave on a question of law?
Hon. .%Ir. EiLLIS--We are lncreasing the
Hon. Mr. POWER-I amn dealing with
bon, gentleman iumber of commlssioiiers, but are we not
the question raised b.7 tbe
from De Salaberry as to subelause 2 of ncreasing the powers of single commisIf tbe assistant commissioner sioners so tbat they are allowed to do more
clause la.
he could exercise the powers than tbey can at present? This Bill would
were there,
of tbe chief commissloner; but when lie permit one commissioiier to aet.
Is flot there the deputy exerc*1ses the powers
Hon. Mr. §OOTT-No, we are not increasof tbe chief.
lng tbe power.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Mlddlesex'I-TlIe point
Hon. -Mr. POQWMR-According to the old
raised by the hon. gentleman from De gala- Act, any one commissioiier can act wbere
berry, was as to the matter of absence. tbere Is no one opposlng the motion.
Subclanse 2 of clause 3 reade as follows:
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Il gave my bon.
2. Wheaever the depnty chief commissioner
appears to have acted for or instead of the frlend the Secretary of State a memochief commissioner, it shaîl be conclusively randum of a suggestion wltb regard to secpreurned that ho. se acted la the absence oi
Tbat is a disabling
disability of the ehief commissioner and of tion 15 of the Bill.
the assistant chief commissioner witbin the section, and provides tbat no commissiofler
meaning of this section.
shahi dlrectly or indirectly, bold, purchase,
But tbat cure only applies ta the deputy,
take, or become Interested ln, on bis own
and not to tbe assistant and my bon. frlend
bebalf, any stock, debenture or otber sedesires that tbat remedv sbould apply wltb
My
curity of any railway company, &c.
eQual force to the assist-ilt as well as the
suggestion was that this section sbould be
deputy. If tbe clause read: 'Whenever the
made to apply to the officers of the board
assistant chief commis-;Ioneýr or tbe deputy as well as to the commiSsionerS.
ebief commissioner appear-. to bave acted
for or Instead of the chief commissioner,'
Hon. Mr. %OOTT-I consulted the Minis&c., tben the matter of absence would be ter of Ju.stice about it, and be wrote me a
letter ln wbicb be stated:
entirely cured by the clause as it stands.
inthe
I have your letter of the 4th instant Act
Mon. Mr. SCOTT-It la copied f rom
closing the amendments to the Railway conas It stood.
law
proposed by Senator Ferguson. I have
Hon. Mr. KERR-Section C of clause 2 iiidered these amendments and tosee no great
prohibit ail
objection, though the proposai,
rends:
any
officers of the board frorn holding and railway
going a
<c) The assistant chief commnissioner shall stock eers to me unnecessary,
have ail the powers of the chief commissioner;- long distance, considering that these officers
but such powers shall not be exercised by hî;m can have nothing at ail to do -with the action
except in the absence of the chief commis- of the board.
sioner.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

JULY 7, 1908

1407

Then he refers to another matter. I df )varions parts of Canada. Presumably the
nlot see any objection to it, but it Is jus t business concerning the raiiway la any
as *weli the officers shouki not dabble i i particular district would be performed at
railway stocks.
the office lu that district. 1 think provision
be« made for the registration of Vie
-Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Since these mat -should
ters were snggested, particulars have comq namne of Vie agent at Vint particular place.
out with regard ta the Marine Departmeni Otierwise you subordinate those cases to
which show the Importance of this amend Ottawa, Invoiving communication between
ment.
very distant points.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-It la for Vie conveHon. Mfr. SCOTT-It Is exactiy the iam
as It stands, with the addition of th( > nience of the Board. .They cau refer at
words 'officers of the board.' Tbe bettei once to Vie Index lu Ottawa as to Vie coinpany and Its agents, and ascertain who
way wiil be ta re-enact the whoie clause.
shail be served wiVi papers.
The ameadment was adopted.
,On clause 6,
6. Section 18 of the said Act is amended b3
adding thereto the foliowing subsection:
2. The Governor- in Council, upon the re,
commendation of the minister, may establist
at any place or places in Canada such office «oi
offices as are required for the board, and maj
irQvjde therefor the necessary accommodation,
furnishings, stationery and equipment.
Hon. Mfr. LOU1GHEED-What offices havE
been estabiished by the Governor ln Coun*
cil up to the present tIme?

Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Whiie It may
not appear on Vie face of Vie Bill, evidently the Intention ls that one section of Vie
Board shail look after western business
whiie Vie oVier attends to eastera business.
* Hon. Mr. POWBiR-No; the West cannot
have everythIng.

Hoin. Mfr. LOUGHEED-It ls an easy
matter ta divide Vie Dominion Jnte two
sections, Vie eat and thxe west. The Board
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Up to the present for Vie eastern section
mlght sit at Ottawa,
time, 1 do not know of any.
and the Board for the western section at
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is there not an Winnipeg.
office In Mon treal?
Hon. Mfr. POWER-Or Calgary.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-There may be.
Hlon. Mfr. SCOTT-If the Board recomHon. Mfr. LOUGHEED--Ând ana ther bne mend sucx a division, I presume parliament
In Winnipeg, lu addition ta Vie one In wouid have no objection?
Ottawa?7
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHBED-There shouid be
Hon Mfr. SCOTT-Quite iikely.
They more flexibiiity about Vhis particular clause.
meet In both cities.
The clause was adopted.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. 1fr. FERGUSON-I put a notice of
On clause 9,
some ameadments In Vie hands of my hon.
9. The said Âct is ameaded by inserting the friend tbe Secretary of State some time ago.
following section immediateiy after section 41: One amendment deals with returus ta be
41«. dere shall be kept ia the office of the
secretary of the -board a book, ta be called made by Vie Board. I notice ln Vie letter
the agents' book, ia which every railway coin- rend from Vie Minister of Justice that he
pan y ta which this Act in whole or in part did not consider it necessary that a stateapplies shall enter its naine and the place of
I
its head office and the pame of an agent et ment of expenditures shouid be given.
Ottawa and his place of business or soine do not know Viat I would Insist very much
other proper place within Ottawa where hie
mnav be served for the company with any upan that Vioug It wouid be a good thing
notice, summons, regulation, order. direction, If the expensea are shown In Vie commisdecision, report or other document.
sioners' report. I do Viink, liowever, Viat
HEon. 1fr. LOUGHEED-Provision
bas the report of the Board ubould be very
aiready been made ln an eariier part of much mare compiete than Vie reports We
Vie' Bill for Vie esttablishment of offices In haire had In Vie past. The provisions In

1408

SENATE

1408

SENATE

section 62 of the Act cails for a very meagre
report, Dot sucb a report as a body like
a railway commission should be expected
to furnish to parliament. It is merely a
report respecting applications, but docs flot
specify that the applications themselvcs
taken should ibe renor the action
ported. 1 propose to change that by
adding 'and proceedings thereon under this
not
Act,' so that tbcy shahl report
,nly the application but their procecdings.
Section 28 of the- Act gives thc Board
power to proceed on its own motion or at
When such
the rcquest of the minister.
action is taken, I think the findings
The
should be reportcd to parliament.
Railway Act received a good deal of attention from both Houses of parliament, yet
we allowed It to pass witil the provision
that the Board should report to the govcrnment and the. minister sbould lay the report before the House of Commons, entlrcly
lgnorlng thec Senate. I wieh to amend subclause 2 to provide that the report shall be
laid before both Houses of parliament. If
the boa. Sccretary of State la disposed to
accept the amendaient as regards the expenditure, so that we migbt know how
nlhl the Board Is costiag the country, the
amendinelit that I have drafted mi.-ht lie
takén ln its er.tirety. I leave that to the
bon, gentleman.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The proceedings of
'thie Board migbt cover a thousand pagesor
more, ami I do flot think. it would be possible to report the details of the applications.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Thcy mlght report their findings or decisions.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I have no objection to
after appliadding the word 'findings'
cation. The expenditure is ln the Auditor
Gencral'-s Report, and it seems a pîty to
lie multlplying expense. If bon. gentlemen
kncw thc tens of thousands of dollars spent

every year lD preparing reports for parlia.
ment, that are neyer looked at, they would,
hesitate about increasing- the work beyond
what ia neccssary. We have to engage a
staff of ten or twelvc clerks in -some of
the dcpartments and keep them busy the
whole session preparing reports wbicb are
nasked for and which are neyer read. The
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

Printing Commmittee do not care to order
tic printing of themn, and thcy are only
throwa away. If we have the applications
to the Board and the findings of the Board
reported It will embrace cvcrything.
amn satlsfied
Hon. ÏMNr. FERGUSON-I
with the word 'findînga.' The Act prov ides
for two distinct proccedings; one on application, and the other on the motion of thc
I
board or the request of the minister.

tbink the public wlll look anxlously to sec
whether the board is implementing that
power of acting on their own initiative
It Is lImi
where they sec a great abuse.
portant that wc sbonld have It.
Hon. Mr. -BEIQUE-Tie great mnajority
of the applications and of the decisions arc
of no interest to the public, and to include
them would make the report vcry voluminous. Vcry many decisions are rendered la
cliambers by eitbcr the chief commissioner
Surely it
or the assistant commissioner.
is flot the Intention of the hon. member to
ask that a report lie made of ail the flndAs it Is, the railway
ings ln such cases?
board make a report embodying every ycar
a summary of thc decisions wbich arc of
any intcrcst to the public, and I tiink It
It Is printed
sbould lic limited to that.
as an appendix to their report, and the pub1
lie will find there ail that Is required.
_,vould suggcst to the hon, gentleman to
Possibly il
limit bis a mendment to that.
might be better to defer the' matter until
tlie third rcading of the Bill, ia order that
the amendment may lie worded to meet the
views of the hion. gentleman without mik
ing- the report too voluminous.
have looked
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I
over the two reports tbat have been pubiThey give the applications, but
Iislhed.
I biad occasion, la connot the fanding-s.
nection witb a freigbit mattcr ia wbich 1
ý%vas intercstcd, to go over Uic cases, and 1
found wherc a case similar to the one lu
w'bich I was lntcrcsted bad licen consîdcrcd.
If I had had the fanding-, I would have hiad
some light, but the finding was not given.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The lion. gentleman
,%vill fiad a summary of decisions la that
report.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Sonie cases are
given at great leagtb, because, I suppose,

J[JLY 7,1908
JULY 7, 1908
USE 0F TOI3ACCO BY YOUNG
SONS.

the board thouglit them of great importance. ,The finding ln any case could be
stated as briefly as they please. This commission will become one of the most powerMuI and important judiciai bodies in Canada
ln years te corne, and we should start weil
so that the report would be of vailue to
every one interested ln transportatIon. It
should contain something which would give
Information, and, therefore, we ebouid require the board to furnish. synopsis of their
fandings.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I suppose it is limited
to controversial cases.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Or cases of interest
to the public.
Cases whîch interest only
the parties coacerned, cannot lie of any
value or interest to the public.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I wiil hold It open for
two days until the third reading, ln the
hope that we may agree upon some amendment.

1409
1409
PER-

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second rendlng of Bill -(173) An Act to restrain the use
of tobacco by young persons.
Re said: We are ail aware that there
lias been a very wide agitation over the
counytry for legislation whicli wouid ln some
degree check the use of tobacco by miuors.
I need not refer to the serions lai ury botli
mental and physical Involved in the use by
minors of tobacco, ln any form or shape,
more 'particulaTly la the smoking of cigarettes.
I was very mucli surprised some
time ago in reading a report from Washington where a large number of middies were
presented for the navy, and about tiireefourtlis of themn were turned downi. ail due
to the fact or their usIng tobacco.
The
degeneration, physical and mental, w-as sO
marked that they falled to become proper
snbjects to be taken la the navy.
Hon. Mfr. ROSS (Middlesex)-The Bill is
a very Important one, and I am very giad
that It lias been in'troduced.
I wish to cail
the attention of tbe leader of the Senate
to what appears to me to be an omission
from the Bill. The penalties are àtringent,
and precantions are taken to ensure the
workiag of the Act. In the Ontario statutes
to preveat the sale of iiquors to persons
interdlcted, the purchaser of the liquor Is
obiiged, on examination, to say wshere lie
got the liquor.
Ia the Prohibitory Act of
Prince Edward Island there Is a simllar
clause. .Would It flot facilitate the enforcement of this 'Act If any boy found smoking
were obliged to tell where and from whom
he got tlie tobacco?

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-l wIil give an Illustration of what 1 want.
A friend of
mine liad a difficuity over the transportation of liousehold effects.
A release was
procnred from the carter in Britishi Columbia, and under that release the railway
ciaimed they were flot lhable for the injury
of the goods, because a person who had no
interest ln them had given that release. It
was very iikeiy to lead to a law suit, and I
was curions to dnd that any case of the
kind lad come before the board. 'I found
that there had been one, but the decision
*as not reported. Aithougli some of the
officers need to bie bruslied np a littie,
somne of the board are efficient men. I
Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-We wiil coasider it la
refer especiaiiy to the freiglit expert; lie
com mittee.
took- the matter np and settled lt. I menHon. Mfr. ROSS (Middlesex)-What we
tion that case to show that people wlio have
deallngs witli the railways and do nlot want want is legisiation that will lie effective.
to go to the iawyers any more than they
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
can heip, would like to get liglit as to the
vlews of the Railway Commission on cases
Hon. Mfr. ROSS (Middiesex)-The man
like their own.
Whio selîs tobacco to a boy, Is partcefps
criminis witli the boy.
Provision la made
Hon. Mfr. BOLDUC, from the committee, la the Bill for a fine for the first offence
reported the Bill with ameudments, wbIch and a ]arger penalty for the second offence;
were concurred ln.
but If the boy la obliged to state wliere lie
89
REVIBED xOiti0N

1410

SENATE
1410

got the tobacco It w-ould ýmake people more
careful not to supply tobacco to boys, and
the law would be muchi more readily enforced.
Hon. ïMr. SCOTT-Perhaps the hou. gentleman would prepare an nmendment and
offer It when the Bill cornes up li committee.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I lntend to support the
Bill, but there la nothing to me so Irresistlbly humorona as to Eind a body of gentlemen, a great majority of whorn smoke tihemselves, passing a law to suppress the use of
tobacco by others. Why do flot bon. gentlemen who favour this Bill stop smoking
themselves? We are continually passing
laws creating off ences. We find it difficuit
to -enforce them. Young people can very
readlly see the absurdity of the logic which
says to them, 'you should not srnoke, and
you must not smoke,' when they see their
fathers and eider brothers smoking, sud
know that ItlaI a- mere question'0f trne
when they wll reach the age when they
'Ivli be permitted by law to amnoke themI would therefore suggest to the
selves.
House to deal serlously, I would not like
to say honestly, wlth the question, and let
the members themselves stop smoking and
stop using tobacco ln the varions forma in
whlch lt is nsed, and there will then be
some substantial basis on which this legislation can be attempted to be enforced. I
know that we have. geiîtlemen in the cominunlty in whlch 1 live, and ladies also, who
earnestly desire that a law should be enacted for the suppression of the use of
tobacco by minora, but I fear thia legialation will flot h ave any effect, however, because It bas not the substautial basia that
It is regretsuch legialation ahould bave.
table that the use of tobacco la spreading
in parliament and in the lobbies and lu
committee rooms to the extent to wvhich it
la.
I do not say that «it is persoually offensive to me. beca use I have been trained
ln a profession -%blere one lias to amoke or
to meet aniokers. but I thiuk there should
be sorne rule which would prevent the use
you
0f tobacco within our borders. -When
corne into some rooma, at tixues, the odor
of tobacco is most offensive to those who
do not use IL. I do flot wish the Secretary of State to ernbody sucli a provision
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex.)

la this measure, because It miglit jeopardize Its passage, but I throw out the suggestion.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The incousistency -to which the hon, gentleman refera
runs through ail our legisiation. We have
the sarne legislators passlng very strict
liquor laws, and the governent representing the party of whlch he Is a member is
to-day passing an election Bill for the purpose of suppresslpg election frauds.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
-was read a second tîme.
RAILWT AY ACT AMENDÎMENT BILL.
SECOND REA DING.
Hon. Mr,. SCOTT moved the second readIng of Bill (118) An Act to arnd the Railway Act, witb respect to telegrapbs and
telephones and the jurisdiction of the Board
of Rallway Commissioners.
He sald: This la to place the telephone and
telegraph systems of Canada under the control ot the Railway Commission, giving
them very large and ample powers over
rates and connections, and over the varlous
proceedings that may be necessary.
The motion wvas agreed to, and the Bill
was read a second tirne.
INSPECTION AND SALE ACT AMBNDMENT BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
The order of the day belng called:
Third .reading (Bill CCC) An Act to amiend
the Inspection and Sale Act, as regards grain.
-Right Hlon. Sir Richard Cartwright.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI move that this Bill be not now rend the
third time, but that It be referred back to
the commlttee with Instructions to strike out
the arnendment made to clause 137, with
respect to scoured grains.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I desire to move an
ameudment also.
Hon. Mr. POWER-If the House instructs the comrnittee we can deal only
wlth the matter the hon. minister refers to.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I desire to move that>
this Act shaîl corne Into force on Novernber 1. The necesslty of the Act coming in

JULY 7, 1908

1411

1411
JULY 7, 1908
atter last year's crop has been deait with,
Hou. )Ir. ROSS (Mlddlesex)-It is mnuch
and before the new one, bon. gentlemen cau better to refer it back to the coiniittee for
see is Important, so tbat there will be no furtber cousîderation, and it 'will serve the
disturbance of our grades until the new sanie pyurpose.
cropThe motion was agreed to, and the House
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We had better resolved itself Into Commlttee of the Wbole
go Into committee first.
on the Bill.
(In tha Committee.)
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Was it flot understood that when that first order was called
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT~It was to be taken Up later on to-day?
I move to strike out the amendmeut wbich
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, it was.
I was I have just read to the Huse.
asked wbether the bon, gentleman who biad
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I did not uuderstand
charge of the Bill would be here, and I
we were golug Into coinmittee until tosaid I -thought be would, and it was under- morrow. Tbe two principal niovers in this
stood by the House.
matter are away.
*Hon. Mr. YOUNG-WTould the hon. minHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIster include lu that motion tbe addition
They bad full notice.
of a clause lu the Bill to the effect that
Hou. Mr. PERLEY-It is hardly fair to
the Act shali not corne into force until the
proceed ln the absence of the hou. gentlelat Noveniber?
man from Saskatchewan and the bion. genHon. Sir RICHARD CARlTWVRIGI-Ttleman froin A-ssiniboia wbo bave charge of
I have no objection to that. It la a reasonthe opposition to this measure.
able proposition.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLmMost ample notice was given that the moI thInk it would be better to refer it back
tion would be made to strike out this
for further consideration.
amendment on the tbird reading, and If
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- hon, gentlemen are not present It ls no
I move to strike out the ameudment wblch fault of mine.
we made on Friday, whicb rends as folHon. Mr. PERLEY-Tbe bon. minister
lows:
was flot present when tbe Bill came up,
Ail Manitoba dried and rejected wheat after
passing through* the terminal elevator and and it Nvas tided over for bis convenience,
being properly treated shall be graded by the and the bon, gentleman on several occasions
inVjeotor and put into the grade to -which has not been present wben the Bill came
after being treated it properiy belongs.
Up and hon. members were good enough
And also to niake tVils Act corne lnto
to aliow It to stand over, and I tblnk bie
force on Septeniber 1.
sbould be willing now to postpone the conHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Would it flot be sîderation of it until to-morrow.
bet3ter to refer it to the commLittee for furHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTther consideration, and It can be discussed
There are very few occasions wlien I bave
ln committee.
flot been present, and I have repeatedly
Hou. Sir RICHAIRD CARITWRIGHT- granted long delays.
I have no objection, but we will only take
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I wlsh to say that
Up those two points.
there are a number of gentlemen bere from
The SPEAKER-It wIll only be to re- the west, Grain Growers' Association repreconsider clause 137 and the date at which sentatives and grain dealers' representathe clause will corne into effect.
tives, and tbey are anxious to bave the Bill
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I tbink there should passed ln tbe Senate for the purpose of
be two different motions; an hon, gentleman considering the Bill now before tbe Commilht be agaiust one proposition and in nions, and there la to be a conference toniorrow mornlng at 9 o'clock over tbe two
favour of tbe other.

1412
1412

SENATE

SEKATE

The SPEAKER-It must go over untîl
to-morrow, If it is objected to.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I have some doubt
about that; the Bill was at Its third readHon. Mr. FERGUSON-The committee ing and notice was given for the amendTote on the
rlsing and reporting would flot prevent ment. Instead of having a
amendment on the thîrd readlng, It was
this; they know what the Bill contaîns.
to go Into the Commlttee ef
There le only one controversial clause. My thought better
the Whole and make the ameudments, and
hon. friend. Is perfectly rigbt ln stating
that he gave notice that at the third read- I do not think the ruIe applies.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Rule 24 states:
ing he would move to expunge the clause.
It ls quite possible these gentlemen dld
One day's notice must b. given of any of the
mot understand that the third readIng would following motions:
(d) For the considgration of substantial
be taken lu it, It wouid -be weii to aiiow
amendments made in a public Bill by a Comft to stand until to-morrow.
mittee of the whole.
Bis. It would be niuch better, tlierefore,
If the two measures were embodied lu one.
I don't care a snap about it personally, but
I want to see fair play.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe SPEAKFER-1 thlnk the not1ce for
It the third reading beli- cailed. we are back.
1 have postponed it four or five times.
lo' exceedingly late lu the session and it at the original stage.
it le a matter of urgency to get It to the
Hlon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTcommons.
I miove
It ls flot worth squabbling about.
Hon. Mr. POWER-As one who voted that the ameudments bc concurred lu tefor the amendment moved by the hon. morrow.
gentleman from Prince Albert, I feel this
Hon. Mfr. POWER-I am not preposing
way with respect to the action being taken
to question Hls Honour's ral'ing.
will
now. I assume that the amendment
Hon. Mfr. LA'NDRY-I do not think the
be etriken out. Then the Bill will go down
without that ameudment to the House of hon, gentleman bas a right to discuss the
Commons. The House of Commons more decision.
directly represent the people of the west
Hlon. Mfr. POWER-I am not discussing
-as well as of the east than we do. If the ItL
members of the House of Gommons feel
1Hon. 3fr. LANDRY-There Is no other
tbat the action of. the Senate in striking
question before the House.
out this ameudment was a mîstaken action,
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do flot tiaink the
they wIll reinstate It and we will naturally
accept It; but I thlnk that looklng at the hon, gentleman from Stadacona should be
stage of the session, and this being a long the member te raise that objection.
and debatable sort of a Bill, we had better
Hon. Sir MACIENZIE BOW-ELL-If the
]et It go to *the Commons and be settledl chair has given a decision, there should be
there.
11o discussion; but the hon. member can ap'The motion was agreed to, on a division.

peal to the House.

Hon. 3fr. POWER-MNy own impression
is, if I may be allowed to express It witb
ail humility, that this motion would corne
lu under paragraph S of mIle 25. which
readis:
The motion wasa agreed to.
Other motions of a rnerely formoai or unconHon. Mr. ROY, trom the commlttee, re- tentious character, &c.
Then I may say that the two bon. gentleported the Bill with certain ameudments.
men who have had a .-!rd at me ln conHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- nection with this matter, remlnd me very
I imove concurrence lu the amendment.
much of Satan rebuklng sin.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-I objêet.
Eou. Mr. WATSON.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHIT-I
mo-vè tbat n clause be added te the Bill
provldlng tbat'It be not brought into effect
until September 1, 1908.

JULY 811908

141S

JULY 8, 1908
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT1 move that the Bill be read a thîrd tume
to-morrow.
The SPEAKER-The lion. gentleman can
give notice of a motion for the suspension
of the mIles so that the third reading may
come up to-morrow.
Hon. Sir RICHARD OIARWRIGHTI wlll give that notice.
CU-STOMS ACT AIIND3IENT BILL.

141a
way subsidies, and then there is a Bill in
connection wlth the Quebec bridge, and one
to create courts In Northern Onta-lo, and
another one whicb Is equally important,
for the extension of the boundaries of ManiWith ail these,
toba, Quebec and Ontario.
Important measures, and wlth the Civil.
Service Bill, and the Lands Bill, whioh contains 150 or 100 clauses, I suppose we can-.
,make Up our minds to remain here untîl.
fail, and there is no necessity for hurry..

Hon. '.%r. KERR-These are reasons whyFIRST READING.
we should get through as .much business
A message was recelved froni the House as possible to-morrow.
of Commons 'wlth Bill (1941) An Act to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-We
amend the Customs Act.
mlgbt as well give a littie consideratlon to
The Bill w-as read the first time.
the measures presented to us, tinless we
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved tliat the Bill be are prepared to shut our eyes, and open.
read the second tume on Thursday next. oui- mouths, and take whatever the govHe said: The chang-e lu the lnw authorlzes ernment gives us.
the Mînister of Customis to charge duty on
The motion was agreed to.
the repairs of n vessel going to a United
The Senate adjourned untIl three o'clock.
At preStates port to be repalred there.
sent, a Canadian vessel being repaired iu a to-morrow.
United States port is not charged a duty
on the repairs. This Bill proposes to brlng
It dîrectly within the range of the custonis
THE SENATE.
law, aud exact a cristonis duty on the reOTTAWA, Wednesday, July S. 1908.
pairs made lu a foreigu port.
The SPEAKER took the Chair nt Three
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
the hou. gentleman tell us tluat under the o'clock.
law as it is at the present moment, repairs
Prayers aLid routine proceeding.
made to a steamér lu a United States port
or dry dock are not dutiable?
METALICSHINGLfl COMPANY BILL.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Not at present.
FILIST READING.
Hon. Sir-NMACKENZIE BOWElIJ-I
know very weii that for years the practice
lias beeu to the coutrarv.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It lias 'lot beeu the
practice for seine years.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW'EIiL
have read the debates on this question, and
I am somewlbat lnterested lu nscertaiuiug
'whv this Billlhas heen iutroduced. I know
what the practice- was for 20 years, both
under the Mackenzie administration and
the administration whîich succeeded it.
Probably they have been acting witbout the
I observe that the Prime '-Ilnister
law.
ha.s given notice of some five or six ImWe are to have supportant mensures.
plementsry estimates, w-e are to have rail-

Hon. Mr. YOUNG presented a report of
the Committee on Standing Orders recommending the suspension of rule 2-1 (h) witb
regard to this report, in order that the report might be confirmed to-day, to enable
the Bill to be lntroduced lu the Senate and
facilitate Its passage.
Hon. Mr-. LANDRY-What is the nature of the petitlon?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It Is for the renewal
of a patent which bas expired under very
peculiar circunistances, and they showed
the commiittee satisfactory evîdence that It:
w-as a niatter of urgency.
The motion was agreed to, and the report was adopted.

1414

SENATE

SENATE
1414
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL lntroduced Bill delay in the publication in French of cer(HHH) An Act respectlng certain patents tain officiai reports, and to inquire of the
of the Metallic SbIngle and Sidlnig Com- govemament:
pany, Lirnlted.
1. Are the journals of the Houas of Gomnmons the reproduction of the records
Tbe Bill was read the first Urne.
published froin day to day during the session,
they
as
matter of -faot, the
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-I naove the sus- and areedition not, thesea sanie records?
revised
of
pension of ruie 29 (b) to enable the Bill to
2. During the sessions of 1906-7 was there
be read the second time to-rnorrow. This published for every day of the isession a remeasure la to allow the comimissioner of cord in the French language of the dauiberations of the Bouse of Gommons?
patents to accept fees for the continua3. If sucli records were published from day
tion of the patent. Through an unavoid- to day, why are the French journa.ls of the
sanie session not yet distributed?
able mIstake the fees were not pald, and
4. And if the laok of translation cannot be
as the session Is so far advanced I hope invoked as the cause of the delay, what can
or
the House will permit the ruie to be sus- be the reason cfwhich serves as justification law
e.xplanation
this infraction of the
pended se that It can be rend a second which recognizes the French language as one
of the officiai languages of this country?
tirne to-rnorrow.
Hon. ýMr. SCOTT-The answers to the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think, the hon, gentleman should tell us If there Is any opposi- lion. gentleman's questions are as fellows:
1. Yes, from the votes and proceedings.
tion to the Bill.
2. Yes, the votes and proceeding-s lu
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-Oij, no, I do French.
nlot thlnk there Is any opposition.
3. The printers have net received the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We bave suspended cepy; hence cannot print and distribute.
4. I cannot say.
Copy of translation
the rules ln order to permit the Bill to be
Introduced, but If we are golng to sus- inay be ready, but It bas net been sent te
pend ail the miles now, then we might as the Bureau.
well pass It Immediately.
Hon. Ckr. LANDRY-The third answ-er la
'Why -was the
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-The only reason ne reply to the question.
Is on account of the short tirne we wihl copy net furnlshed te the printer?
have lu which to put the measure through.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We are net responsible.
If the rule be suspended, It can be read the That is a matter for the Hlouse of -Coinsecond ançI third time to-rnorrow and wIil, mons «te deal wlth. I
cannot deai with
go to the House of Commons.
There Is that, nom can any member of the governno opposition to the Bill,
ment.
EMPLOYMENT 0F JOHNNY ROUSSEAU.
INQUIR-Y.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inqulred:
1. Was there in 1907 amongst those who were
working at Trois Pistoles wharf, in the colinty of Temisouata, a workrnan or a day labourer an.swering on the pay-lists to the
namre of Johnny Rousseau?
2. In what capacity was hie employed?
3. What was his salary, and how much did
ho draw P
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-The answer to that Is
slrnply ne; they have no man of that name.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I arn net asking who
is responsible; I arn asking why the copy
was not furnished.
Hon. 34r. SCOTT-The -hon, gentleman
knows as well as I do wbat officiais ln the
Hlouse of GCommons are chamged with duties
of that L-ind; they are net under my centrol
or that of any minister that I know of.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I know we are net
treated as we should be.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-By whom ? By officiais employed by the House of Conimons?
DE~LAY IN PUBLISHING FRENCH
REPORTS.
Hon. Mr. LIANDRY-Who are the officiais that are la fauît?
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY rose to draw the at~Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon, gentleman
tention of the Senate to the unexplained knows very well that the usual answer
Hon. Mr. YOUNG.

JULY 8, 1908

1415

JULY 8, 1908
wouId be, the transistor; there cannot lie
any other answer.
-Hon. '.Ir. LANDRY-It cannot be -the
transistor, because the translation ls done.
I asked If the translation was made day Iby
We
day and the answer given was, yes.
have the votes and proceedings in French
day by day, and wliy shou.ld we not have
the journals ln Frenchi?
Hon. -Mr. SC0TT-A printer cannot print
without copy, and if copy Is not sent te the
Bureau -how can they clisse up copy?
Hon. 51r. LANDRY-Why Is It not sent
to the Bureau!
Hon. lMIr. SCOTT-I cannot say.
Hon. 31r. FERGUSON-The Frenchi edition of the Votes and Proceedings is In
print. It Is there; why do tliey not publisb
it? I icnow the government cannot control
It,' but they sliould surely bring their influence to bear te have the Frencli edition
of the Journals prlnted and circnlated.
FRENCH EDITION 0F CIVIL SERVICE
REPORT.
%r.
Hon. -- LA-ýNDRY-Before the orders of
the day are proceeded witb, I wiil asl. the
hon. Secretary of State if any prog-ress bas
been made in the translation of the report
of the Civii Service Commission?

1415
Hon. Mr. POWER-At the second readlng of this Bill, I gave what I tliought was
an unusually full explanation why the Bill
wss asked for. Apparently, the lion. gentleman from Hastings dld flot hear my statement This patent was granted in 1901 and
there was an extension granted ln 1904.
Owlng to the negligence, apparently, of the
solicitor of the company or their agent at
Ottawa, they were allowed to remain ixnder
the impression that thls reiss-ue was good
for six years from 1904, lnstead of whicli
it -%vas good only for six years from, 1901
the date of the original patent. The agent
failed to give notice and faiied to, pay the
fee, and then when the company that had
been manufacturing the article ln Canada
discovered this, they naturally appiied for
legisiation to atone for the negligence of
their agent. The article whicli they manufacture, as I understand, Is something ln
the nature of bearings for sliding doors,
for stables and large buildings. The patent
has been ln use, and as I understand, the
company invested about $15,000 ln the f actory, whIch Is situated ln the city of Toronto. The factory has been ln operation
for some considerable time, and none of
the patented articles bave been Imported
into the Dominion of Canada by the patThese matters. as I under3tand,
entee.
were explained more fully than I can explain them now, before tlie comuaittee, who
reported in favour of the Bill witli two trifling ameudments which did not affect the
substance of the mensure.

Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-I:liave answvered that
question a bli dozen times, and the answer
Is aiwnys the saie-they have net got ail]
the copy.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-If
Hon. Mr. LANDItY-I wiii ask tlie questhe lion, gentleman had given that extion again.
planation. on one or two occasions when I
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I can give no other asked for It, he would have avoided the
answer.
trouble of expiaining It now. The information lie gave tlie committee ivas everything
PÂTENT 0F WILLIAM B. S.NITH BILL. lie lias uttered to-day except telling us
wlit the article was.
THIRD READING.

Hon. Mr. POWER moved the third rendHon. Mr. POWER-I did not know.
Ing of BihI (FFF) An Act respecting a cerHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thuit
tain patent of Wm. B. Smith.
e
hinge
kn e r , n
nlting
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Can ion ghe
n.1
inor n te oe
ddnt
House nt cetn,gnlema
the hon. gentleman inform the
dnoIfrmheHu.
this late period, wliat is the article forcetih
Hon. Mr. POWER-As a natter o! tact,
,which the extension of the patent laws Iz
invoked ? The House bas not yet been I did net know wliat the article was, and
consequently I could net tell; but the lninformed o! that fact.

1416

SENATE

formation was given to the committee, and
I do not see that the nature of the article
manufactured really affects the claim of the
appilcant for the Bill.
The motloc was agreed to, and the Bill
w-as read the third time, and passed.
INSPECTION AND SALE 0F GRAIN
BILL.

drawing along and 1 have -business to attend to-to be told that the minister, by
some miraculous means, bad arrived ia the
House. and had moved the House into coniiulttee and expunged the clause tbe committee a day or so before had inserted ln the
Bill, and tried to bave tbe third reading,
and the whole tblng closed Up durlng the
absence of myseif and friends.
I do flot
think the minister was treatlng me and my
friends who represent certain lnterests lu
this House, with the ainount of courtesy
w'hich was due, If flot to me personally, to
the people I am supposed to represent.
When be w-as not here, and I and my
f riends 'were here prepared to proceed wlth
the measure, we allowed it to stand, and
the leat the minister could have done, out
of courtesy to myself and friends, wben the
case w-as explalned to hlm, as it was by
some members, was to have permltted the
Bilh to stand over until to-day; but forsootb
the excuse was that the session was nearly
over, and that tbey must rush tbls Bill to
My hon. friend, the minthe other Bouse.

THIRD READING.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
moved concurrence ln the amendments made
lu Co'nmittee Of the Whole to Bill (CCC)
An Act to amend the Inspection and Sale
Act as regards grain.
Hon. '-fr. DAVIS-I beg to move ln
amendment to the motion made by the
lion. minister, that the report be flot now
concurred ln, but that the Bill be recomnmltted to the Comm lttee of the Whole
House wltb Instructions to restore the followlng clause :
Ail Manitoba dried and rejected wheat after
passing through the terminal elevator and
being properly treated shaI be graded by ister, forgets th at there is another grain
the inspector and put into the grade to ivhich Bihl in the other Bouse; that the other
after being treated it properly belongs.
Bouse bas flot looked Into the four corners
The motion is seconded by the bon, g-en- of It yet, and that wilh have to be discussed
tleman from Assiniboia.
before this mensure cau be taken up at ail,
This question has been before the House so that there was absolutely no necessity
for a considerable lengtb of time, and it bas to press the matter as It was pressed durI
been dlscussed f rom time to time, and at a ing the absence of myseif and friends.
sitting of the House a short time ago the venture to say It Is the first time in My
Commiittee of the Wbole reported ln favour knowledge-I am not an old parliamenof this clause by a majority vote. The -Bill tarian only biaving been lu the Bouse 0f
was set down for the third readiug 3-ester- Couimons twelv-e years-that I have seen a
day atternoon, and I was ln my place, and minister moving agaînst a report of a ComI think the
miy friends who were supporting me in the niittee of the Whole Bouse.
gentlemen that have been supporting me lin
stand I have taken w-ere also ln the House
prepared to vote. The order was called by tbis inatter deserve a certain amiount of
the clerk and the hion, leader got up and courteous treatment from the lion. iniister
I do not ask the
made the stateient that the minister wbo ili eharge of this Bill.
lion. iniister to take mne into very much
wvas ln charge of the Bill w-as absent froin
the dity, as he bad niot been at the council eonsideration lu reference t0 tbe mnatter;
mueeting that day. and that he could not perhaps I do not know as much about the
go on witb the Bill, r.nd my friends who grain Bill as other hon, gentlemen In this
were supporting nie lu thîls measure and B-ouse,' though I venture to say that I know
myseif were certalnly of tbe opinion that as mucb as the hon, gentleman ln charge
But we have behind us the
the measure was put off until the next day, of the Bihl.
to meet, flot our convenience but the con- lion, gentleman from Assinîbola, the father
'-enience of the minister. Imagine my sur- of the formier grain Bill, who first took up
prise on returnlag-, after doing some busi- the iatter and champloned the cause of the
ness yesterday afternoon-tbe session is farmers of the Nortbw-est, and wbo, by
Hon. Mr. POWER.

JULY 81 1908

1417

JULY 8, 1908
liard tigliting, muanaged to put it througli,
anud was conversant with the whole subH{as lie been treated with consideraject.
1 do.not compînin of the want of
tioni?
cons!deration I have been treated witb; but
I thlnk îny hon. friend behind me should
have [been treated wlth more courtesy.
Tlhere are the two hou. gentlemen froin
Assiniibola, and an lion. gentleman from
Alberta wlio have been supporting this provision, and we are told by the bon. minister
tliat hie cannot accept anything we suggest.
I should like to know whnt we are here
If our voice is flot to be hieard, If
for?
the people we arc supposed to represelit
liere hav~e no representative-for practically
it cornes to that-I should like to know fromn
what source the lion. minister gets the adIs it fromi tlie offivice lie tnlks about?
Is the advice of the officiais of the
ciais?
governme nt to be taken as against. the advice of the representatIres 0f the people,
or is it some othier little song birds that
are singing In tlie ears of my hon. friend,
I want to
wvho are sitting beliind hlm?
tell ny lion. friend that he should take
cure to reallze that those bon. gentlemen
do niot represent the whole of the people of
They represent a small corner,
the west.
or are supposed to represent a small corner
of Manitoba; but they do not represent
Re should also
Alberta or Sask-atchewan.
take iinto consideration the fate of an hon.
gentleman in Manitoba, wbo had these gentiemeu for lits udvisers, and -hîstory may reI say thore are othier bon.
peat itself.
gentlemen l tilis House just as able to
advlse the mnister on inatters of this kind
Lis the hon, gentleman .froni whoin lie apWitli reference
pears to be taking adrice.
to tlie mannier i luvilcli tis question camie
ni> yesterday, I was very mnudli surprised lui
going- over the * H-ansard' to-day to find
tlint no mention is inade of the first cahllig
of this'order of the day-not onie iota or
The clerk rose froîîî bis
word about ItL
chair and called this order, and iny -.on.
friend the leader of the House made a statemient, and you caln seareli tlie four corners
0f ' Hansard' andi you cannot find a word
of tliat stateiuent in It. Is It possible tlie
octopus tint controls this House extends Its
Influence to the1'Hunsard'1 reporters as
Not one word ln the 'Hansard' rewell?

1417
My hou. friends dlaim that we
port.
understood thiat we were supposedl to be released from attendance Inasmucli as the
We looked
Bill was to corne up to-day.
in ' Hansard' to-day for the Information,
and we found thE 'Hansard' a blank, flot
a word does It say about It. I looked lu the
minutes of proceedlngs, and I see there la
some mention made of It here. It says:
The Order of the Day being read for the
third reading of the Bill (CCC> intituled
.an Act to amend the Inspection and Sale
Act, as respects grain.'
With leave of the Senate,
On motion of the Right Hon. Sir Richard
Cartwright. secoaded by the Hon. Mr. Scott,
it was
Ordered, that rule 24a and e be suspended
in so far as they relate to the said Bill.
The Right Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright
moved, seconded by the Hon. Mr. Scott,
That the said Bill be flot now read a third
tinie, but that it be committed to a Committee
of the Whole presently.
The question of concurrence being put
thereon, the saine was resolved in the affirmative.
When that motion wns called It wars the
first order on the paper, I was here. The
Right Hon. Sir Richard CartwrIgbt was not
here, s0 that I presume this wliole proceeding is Irregular. It was put down as
a first order. I sat here until a couple of
subsequent orders were put through; stili
this first order appears lu the votes and
proceeding-s of the House as having been
1
moved, and that 15 ail there Is to it.
cannot -account for those *thlngs. I leave
that for wbat it is wortli.
The SPEAKER-I mny inform the hon.
gentleman from Prince Albert that the lion.
Secretary of State, whien the first order was
called, asked that it .should stand for the
present, witliout being sent over to the
following day. I su understood the demand, and I so ordered the clerk. These
are the facts, ai to wliat passed between
the chair and the clerk.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-It is a very strange
thing there is niot mention of it ln 'Hansard.' I would think that wthen a Minister of the Crown rises and makes a statement lu the House It slxould appear in the
ýHansard.'
Hon. Mr. POWER-Oh, not alwaYs.
Hon. ',%r. DAVIS-I understood, and my
hon. friends understood that the order was

1418

SENATE

1418

SENATE

Is scattered over the
threshing thiat sut
wheat, but it can be removed. and les reUnder existing legisiation such
mioved.
wheat is classed as No. 3 Northern, diminishing 'Is value aibout ten cents ini the
Ai 1 have asked In my resolution
bushel.
is that this grain shial be cleaned and gradIt Is graded now as it goes into the
ed.
elevator; what we want is that It be properly treated, and that the lnspector shall
place tbat grain whiere, in bis judgment, It
Now that la a. fair proposition.
belongs.
But look at the position lu whielb the right
hbon. Minister of Trade and Commerce
He asks the settlers of western
stands.
Canada to accept the juidgment of his Inspectors on 125.000,000 bushels of grain, on
whicb, if that judgment were improperly
exercised, the farmers miglit lose millions
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Perbiaps the hou, gen- of dollars. He asks tbe settiers to do thiat
tlemani could tell me why it la not in and they cheerfully do it; but when they
1Hansard.' I have tbe statements made ask. that one million bushels be lef t to the
by the minîster lu charge of the Bill be- judgment of the Inspector tbe right hon.
fore me, and one of the statements les to gentleman says no.
The rigbt lion. genthe effect that he was anxions to get thîs tleman bas no confidence lu bis own inspecBill tbrough; another to the effect that tors; we have confidence lu tbem and are
turne and tîme again this matter had been williag to leave the gradîng to their judgpostponed, and hie was anxlous to get Il ment.
The amount of smutty grain lu
through for that reason, and when some the Northwest is amaîl compared with the
of my bon. friends on this slde of the entire crop, but some of the best fariners
House asked to have It put off be refused sometimes grow smutty wheat. It gets infor the reason tbat be wns anxions to get to tbe soil and you cannot get it out, and
It througýh aud I should have been here.
ail that we ask la that the producers have
1 migblt retort and tell the righ.t bon. an opportunî ty to get a fair price for that
minister that hie sbould have been here at grain.
We -have a cleaning elevator at
I sat here until Fort William.
three o'clock yesterday.
I venture to say flot onebaîf past four, waling for this Bill to be third of that wbeat goes there to be cleanA great deal more mlght be ed.
taken ni).
You ask the grain merchants, and
said on tbe subjeet. but I wisb to deal with tbey say they do not k-now wbere it goes.
This question, as Nobody seems to know anytbing abouit it,
the question nt issue.
far as the stand I bave taken upon it, bas and I bave wondered If It is tbrown Into
If so, It la no
been mlsrepresented by a canvass lu this the bay at Fort William.
I have met members wlio have wonder that the goverament have to keep
House.
been told that wbat I wanted was to put dredgles there to clear the harbour. I beI neyer lieve and the farinera lu my part of the
amutty wheat iu our No. 1 grade.
made a statement of the kiud, and it can. country tborougbly-believe, that that wheat
flot be found lu the four corners of my reso goes down to the elevator and that these
There are two or three classes ol gentlemen, under the present Act, grade It
lution.
The lowei as No. 3 Northern and buy It as No. 8
this wiheat lu the Northwest.
class whlcb my hou. frieud speaks of anÈ Northern; that tbey tben bave it cleaaed
describes as smutty wheat, la not the clasý
cost of 2 cents a bushel and pocket 8
My resolution refer! at a
I amn dealing- with.
class of wheat
to wheat whicb would have been bharc cents a bushel on ahl that
înstead of letting the value of it go Into the
wheat aud so graded If there had flot beez
'Tbat la what we
Durlng thi Spockets of the producer.
a few balla of samnt In ItL
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

put off. My recollectiofi Is that the order
of the day was discharged.
SCOTT-The bon. gentleman ls
Hon. M.Nr.
entirely wrong. It was not discharged. It
was Intlmated to me that Sir Richard
Cartwright was to be here sharp at five
o'clock aud I asked that the order be allowed to stand. I simply stated thrat Sir
Richard was anxlouýs to go on wlth the
Bill.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-There le nothing ln
the Debates about it. My hion. friend made
a speech.
I simply
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-Ob, no.
stated as a fact what was stated to me,
that Sir Richard would be here at five
o'clock and nsked to bave this order stand.

JULY 8, 1908

1419

JIJLY 8, 1908

1419
f armer, but the riglit bon. Mîfnister of Trade
and Commerce telle me that he le advised
by somebody that It eliould not go through.
If ws are plot to be considered, there le no
use la takling any more. For my part I
shahl asic to have a vote taken on thie resolution, and we shahl then know and have on
record n-ho are the friende of the farmer
and n-ho are Dot.

think and we are pretty nearly right. It
is wonderful te see the deep Interest that Is
taken lu the farmers of the west by some
of the parties lnterested In this question.
We find guardian angels hoverlng over thîs
building whenever legislation of this kind Io
before the House. These great philanthropios corne from the fôur corners of the
Northwest paylng their own travelling and
bote! expenses, and giving their time, ail In
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTthe Intereet of the farmers.
I ehould be very boath indeed to appear
'Mr. TALBOT. Who are they?
to have been gullty of diecourtesy te any
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The bon. gentleman member of thie Hloue whoevsr lie may lie;
kuows very well. If lie looke towards the but I thînk I amn lu the judgment of the*
north end of thie room lie wlll find some Senate, when I remlnd the hou. gentleman
They take the same interest ln of these two thînge; firet, on four severai
of them.
the farmers that the liawk takes in the occasions I postponed tlie consideration of
Now thie farmers of the «west thîs Bill, sometîmes for severai days, la
eparrow.
have demonstrated not ouly to the 'Senate order to enable the bon. gentleman and
but to the goverument that they have lead- his friende n-ho had doubte about any parers amongst them quite capable of taklng ticular provision to consuît n-ith their
Set we are told by friends, and, as apparently the hon, gencare of themselves.
of the grain buyers that tleman dld, to make a canvase and take
the representatives
they know what le Ïbeet for the farmers, advaatage of an excessively thin bouse
I
and that the farmer dos flot know what to have a snap vote on the question.
If this amendment ie suppose that may be regarded as fair'parle beet for himself.
going to rua down the grades of wheat, llamentary tactces, but I gave express nodoes the House doubt that the farmers tice to the hon, gentleman and ail concerawould lie the firet to objeet? If the grades ed that on the third reading of the Bill,
of wlieat ln the n'est are mun down, the I should, move to expunge the ameadment.
loss n-il! not corne out of the pockets of Every one eau satisfy hlmself on that
the millers or the elevato *rmen, or the specu- point by referrlug to the proceedînge and
lators, but -out of the pockets of the men *the debates. lu tlie second place, as to
who tili the soli and wlio deserve to get the mucli more important question, the
every dollar tliey can ont of the wheat they grounds I bad for proceeding as I dld, I
The farmers of the weet have an may tell the lion, gentleman I have takea
gron'.
organization non- called the Grain Growers' Information from varions quarters, but noAssociation in Alberta and Saskatchiewan, tably from the Royal Commission n-hlcb
and they have sent thei representatives sat for nearly tn-o years for the purpose
Those representatives favour this. of lnvestigating this and other matters,
here.
proposition that I have put bef ors the and n-ho are most decidediy opposed to
House.
Does any one Imagine that the the proposition of the hon. gentleman, and
farmers of the n-est n'ould put their bande also to gentlemen lu 'whom he professes
In their pockets to puy the expenses of men to have 'great confidence, tbat Is to say
that tbey send bers to look ufter their Ia- the officers and inepectors attached to the
terests, If they did not feel confident that Department of Trade and Commerce. No
they were capable of properiy diechargIng doubt about It, It le a question of great
They are Intelligent men, and Importance to maintain the proper gradlng,
their trust?
the farmers have a rîglit to have confidence particularly of the right classes of wheat,
Ia them. I arn a farmer myseif, s0 are my la the northern country, and It may intebon. friende behlnd me who ask for this rest my hon. frlends and the Houe te
The representatives of the grain know what some of those n-ho are, to say
measure.
growing provinces are bers and have calied the leait of It, as n-eh entltlsd to speake
for this legisiation la the Interst of the for the farmer as my hon. frlend le, think

SENATE
1420

1420

about bis motion. Here is a telegram wbich an extremeiy high quaiity of grain, unsurpassed, I believe, in the worid. and only
I received yesterday:
equaiicd by the product of a very sailI
Indian Head, Saskatchewan,
number of places. If you destroy the high
July 5, 1908.
Sir Richard Cartwright,
reputa tion of our 'wheat; if you prejudice
Minister Trade and Commerce, Ottawa.
yon
Re Davis amendment putting cieaned smutty or affect It In the siightest'degree,
wheat into straight; grade. If this amendment cannot place a limit to the misehief you
becomnes law it will destroy confidence of Brit- wiil do. Ail over England, and to a certain
ish buyers in permanency of intrinsie values
of grades and cause enormous loss to western extent over Europe, the Winnipeg Inspecproducers.
tion of No. 1 Northern is sought for. for
R. C. SÂNDERSON,
Secretary Saskatchewan Grain Growers' As- the purpose of blendlng, more and more
sociation.
every day, and so long as I remain Minis1 received another telegrani about the ter of Trade and Commerce, and I belleve
so long as my present chief lnspector resaine tume, which Is as follows
mains chief Inspector, we shall do our utIndian Head, Saskatchewan,
most to see that the higb reputation of
98
Jl,6
Sir Richard Cartwright,
western grain is maintained, and shall take
Minister Trade and Commerce, Ottawa'
Senator Davis amendment would be catas- exceedingly good care, even If this amendtrophe, increase quantity smutty wheat grown ment did pass, that a very smnii portion
destroy confidence of buyers, -lower price for of smutty wheat shail get irto No. 1 Northhigher grades as removing smut from crevice
of kernel impossible. Important such wheat ern. I shaIh oppose the amendment of rny
milled alone and presence known to miller hon. friend.
brushing scarcely detectable.
JOHN MILLÂR,
Chairman cf Royal Grain Commission.

slight

Now, this is a question for experts, and
I arn obliged to take the advice of those
who have been bestowing a couple of years
work in endeavouring to g-et at the reai
merits of thîs question, and of the officiais
under my departmnent, who have handled
hundreds of millions of bushels of grain
and whose certificates I amn glad to say
are received to-day %with the greatest possible confidence in the Liverpool market.
I have no doubt myseif of two things; I
have no doubt the quantity of grain that
could by any possibility be treated and
under any pretext be put into high grader,

Is almost

infinitesimal.

I amn

perfectly

certain froin information I have recelvcd
from Inspioctor Horne and others, tiafl
only a minute quantity could find its way
into the higber grade, and I arn perfectly
certain of this, speakiag frorn a *tolerably
large experience 0f matters connected %vitb
Engllsh trade, that If it should become
known to Englisît purchasers that smutty
grain, under any pretext wbatsoever, is
admitted into our high first-class northerii
grades, it 'wIil appreciably injure the prîce
of that extremely valuable product In the
English market. This is a matter of considerable Importance to aIl producers lu
western Canada. This country possesses
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHIT.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I made the statement
that I have been misrepresented. The right
bon. Minister of Trade and Commerce has
read teiegrams and judging froni the wording of thei the writers have been misled.
Those telegrains say that I want to put
1
smutty wheat iuto the hiigher grades.
have niready said that I have no sucli intention, and niy motion does not cali for
nythlng of the kind. Whiat we want is
that the grain shah] go into the grade the
Inspector thinks proper. We have to accept the grading of the hon. gentlemnan's
officers for oue hundred nnd twenty-five
millhion bushels, and my hon. friend has not
confidence In his inspectors to let thern
grade the balance.
Honi. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe question Is not wliether I have contidence in the inspectors, -but whiether it is
prudent to put on the statute-book a clause
which miy, under certain circunistances,
permit inferior grades to be mixed with
Whie I bave the stroligsuperior grades.
est possible belief that my present chief in-ý
spector wiil take exceedingiy good care that
srnutty grain does not find Its way Into No.
1 Northern. I do not want to put temptation lu the way of others who mny not bave
the saine hlgh standing and experience tliat
Although I bave flot
Mr. Horne possesses.

JULY 811908
JULY
grown mucli w'leat, 1 have 'been proprietor
of more than one grist mill for years, and
1 know quite weli that thîs talk about the
extreme Indisposition of parties to put indifferent grain wlth good grain is a littie
The reports ot olar inspecoverstretched.
tors also show that even such extremely
lionest people as the farmers ef the west
have sometimes mixed grain which had ne
riglit te be mixed in the samples brought
The point
te the notice of the officiaIs.
which I wish te impress on the Honse is
this: you have to-day one of the best known
liigh grades of wheat ln the world. It has
proved itself over and over again, and It
wouid be the heiglit et Improvidence, for
the sake of an exceedingly amali percentage
of Inferior grain, to allow that high chai-acter te be degraded, and I for one shall opThe hon. gentlepose that te the utmost.
man wanted to know how these people ln
the 'Northwest came to send these telegrams--where they got the Information on
I do net know;
%vhich tliey were based.
thiey sent the telegrams of their own motion.

1421

8, 1908
1421
judgment, may decide to place It. We do
flot ask to mix it with the bigli standards;
we leave it with the inspector to say how
It shahl be graded. Then who is to get
the benefit2 Not the dealer or the trade at
Winnipeg, but the man who produces the
grain and pays the expense of havilg Il
He gains ten cents a
treated and graded.
It
bushels that lie would otlierwise lose.
is ln the interest of the farmer financiaiiy.
Certainly the trade wIii look after the stanThat la why we have this bitter
dards.
opposition«to, the motion. Where bas that
I regrain gene for the iast 20 years?
member the discussion we had about the
Many of
cieaning elevator at the lakes.
us thought it was flot proper te put smutty
grain aleng 'with grain ot higlier quality;
but we had the trade then advocating
strongly the maintenance of that elevator,
and It bas continued ail these years doing
The grain, after being
the same work.
scoured and brushed and drled and fitted
Was It
for the market was put where?
always ln a grade separate by Itseit? Was
it No. 1 or No. 2 or No. 3 Northern? God
Hon. Mr. DOUGLÂS--I spent some days only knews where It went, but it went Into
lu the consideration ef the -whole question the market, and the profits went Into the
Ini committee, and have endeavoured te do pockets of the trade.
We propose this
xny duty in connection witli this matter. I ehange ln the interests of the people wlio
have taken a very deep interest in the Im- own the grain.
I am ne advocate of grewportant question ef gradlng grain, and I do ing smutty wheat. With the proper use ef
net hesitate te sny that .my judgment on formaline, or bluestone, It ean be preventthe aubject to-day lias the confidence ef the ed; but we have It.now and wili have It
people ot the west. In reference te grad- for years to come. We have a large lnIng grain nnd keepIng up the standards, 1 coming population wlio are not skilled ln
have endeavoured to do my utmost te keep agriculture in the west. Even the farmers
up high standards so as te secure confidence from Ontarlo have a great deai te iearn
Some bon. gentleln the British market.
owing to differeut climatic conditions. We
men may say It Is very strange that an cannot expect for many years to educate
lien. member sheuid be -fourni ln the posithese people se that we shall not have
tion ef supporting this ameudment atter
this contlnued trouble about smutty grain.
baving for s0 maiiy years advocated high
The Tact is we have IL. In this whole dis-standards. I do se, because I do net becussion, the producers have not received
*believe this motion lias so muchi te de with
the consideration they Ideserve. While there
the iewerIng or raising of standards, as it
are honest men engaged In the grain grade,
'bas to do with the party who receives the
men. They
money for wheat that bas -been dectored at I cannot say they are ail honest
and they have earned
the lakes In the ' sick hospital,' as we used have a reputation,
why, and
te cal ItL Who is the party te ibe benefit- It and the country understands
the «'four
This amendment makes It pos- It lu not for us to legislate for
.ed by ft?
hundred,' ini the face of the entire counsible for a producer te ship bis grain te the
.doctoring elevator at the laktes, and have try. The money invested ln the grain trade
It cleaned and treated, and atterwards put by the grain exchange Is a bagatelle ln
Into whatever grade the inspecter, ln bis proportion te the amount of money ln-

1422

S ENIA T E

1422

SENATE

vested in the ralsing of grain la tbat great
country, and we cannot afford to turu a
deaf ear to the opinions and views of the
producers. The rlght bon. gentleman la
charge of hils Bill bas read two telegramas
to Vie House. I can tell hum something
about thein. Mr. Miller, who sends one of
thein, was on the Commission. I neyer
believed bie was a proper man to be there,
and when Vie officers of Vie associationI
were elected, bis naine was neyer mentioned lu connection with any office la the
Grain Growers' Association. That shows
us plainly tiat is opinion la counted of
very little worth Ini the estimation of the
Grain Growers' Association and Vie farmers generally. Why Is it, the grain growers sent a deputation down here to watt
upon members of Vie goverament and of
the two Houses and look after the interests
of the fariner? Tbey selected men of Intelligence, witi a knowledge of the Interests of the fariner, and who have Vie confidence of the people and are office bearers
in Vie Grain Growers' Association, white
Vie man wbo fatbered Vie telegrain Viat
bas been read to us, bas no standing ln
Viat association to-day and could flot be
eiected to any office. So the telegrain ls
o! very little vaiue. We are not advocating a change lu the grade or seeklng
to destroy the reputation of our grain, but
we q;ant te give Vie grower of Vie grain
everythhng bie eau get that, tbe trade wiil
allow, and wve leave it to the judgment of
the inspecter te say bow the grain shall
lie graded. Wby are these gentlemen so
energetic la opposlng a motion Viat simplY
protects Vie rigbts of those who grow this
grade of grain? It is because Viey are
personally interested, and are seeking and
Wltb refadvocating their own iaterests.
erence to the statemnent made by the leader
of the House yesterday, and lis statement
It certainly
to-day, it was niisleading.
misled me. I was in the House yesterday and bad ail my pape rs relating te
the grain Bihl on my desk ready to de
my duty. But the stateinent made was, s0
far as I understand it, that tue riglitlbon.
gentleman la charge of the Bihl was net
lu the city, tbat lie had gene te Kingston
Vie day before and we were net informéd
-- at leat it neyer reacbed my bearingHon. Mr. DOUGLAS.

that possibly lie would bie present at five
o'ciock and that the Bill might go on. If
five o'clock bad been mentioned ln my -bearI
lng I wouid flot bave left the room.
left the Chamber, flot for pleasure, but to
do business witb the department.; I daresay I shall be told that I had no0 rigbt to
leave, but the Bill under discussion at the
time affected legal questions ln connection
with rallways and I thouglit I could be
spared to attend to these other matters.
Had the statement been made that the Bill
I
woud bie goae on wlth at five o'clocl,
should have been present. I do liot ask
anybody to make an apology for me on
account of my absence. I was grievously
dlsappointed to find that the measure had
been se treated that we had no opportunity
to give expression te our views. I feel
thiat we shahl le snstained when we go back
to the country and tlhat the people of ail
the western provinces will say we bave
done our duty. It Is a general question
affectiag the general publie aad they -wiih
have a grievance to ventihate.
jlou. Mr. WVAT.SON-I arn in entire sympathy witb the move made by the bon.
gentleman la charge of the Bill lu reversing
the decision this House nrrived at the-other
day, by strikiug out the clause moved by
the hoa. gentleman froin Saskatchewan, because I beileve it would be very detrimentaI te the grain trade to have any provision.
in the measure wbich would allow an lnspector, under any pretext, to put unsound
1 do flot know
grain into higher grades.
that I can lam to be sucli an extensive
fariner as my bon. friend frein Prince
Albert, but I have lived la the west for 32
years. Froin tbe very inception of the Iaspection Act for Manitoba wbieat 1 have
taken a lively interest in the question, baving started on It lu the House of Coinmons lu 1883, and by years of continuons
work, I think seme six or sevea years ago
we succeeded ln forming standards wbich
bave been looked upon as the standards of
-western bard wbeat froin that date. These
standards bave become establisbed tbroughThey bave been reeut the wbole world.
ferred to by the 'Minister of Trade and Comnmuerce, as being the preper standing on
wvhich to put our wbeat before the markets
of the werld, where it is used for blending

JULY 8, 1908

1423

JULY 8, 1908

1423

puirposes and brings the bigbest price of
For these reaany w-heat ln the mnarket.
sons, 1 viewed wlth a greut deal of alarm
the action of tbe lion, gentleman frorn
Prince Albert and the majority of thîs
House ln cornmittee ln arnendlng the Act
by providing that smutty wbeat should, under any pretext, be placed ln the higlier
grades.
The hion. gentleman w-ho opened
the debate to-day states that lie bad no intention of placlng unsound or srnutty w-le tt
AIl I have to do
ln these bilher grades.
la to read the umeudment w-hidi le proposed, and w-hidi was adopted by the cornThe bon.
mlttee, to show w-lut it means.
gentlemani did nlot make any distinction in
that amenduient between smutty w-lest and
The amendment does nlot
rejected w-leat.
bear the construction w-ib l e seeks to
place on lt to-day-that It is only the bigher
grades of No. 1 rejected, that lie seeks to
put back' lu the hlgher grades; but It is
dried and rejected wlieat, w-hlch means that
wbeat which muy be damp and smutty, If
properly treated, may be put Into the higlier grades by the inspectors.
I have every
confldence ln the chief Inspector of grain
lu the w-est to-day, and 1 venture to say
that under no circumstunces would the chie!
Inspecter put that class of w-heat lu No. i
or No. 2 Nortlieru, nor would he permît his
Inspectors to do s0 if lie bad absolute control over them.
For that reason, sucli
wheat woiild not find !ts w-ay into tire
highet grades.
I do n'et know w-letber
my hon. frlend is aware of It, but my information is frorn thie Inspecter himself,
that those vcry grades whichi lie speaks of
as being No. 1 nnd No. 2 rejected are graded lu a separate grade by the Inspecter, and
a certîficate Is issued on tlier as scoured
wheat, No. 1 sud No. 2, w-bld mnust ln tlie
market bring w-bat It is worth.
I amn
rather surprised at the bon. gentleman wbo
bas just takeu biis seat.
He rather scoifs
ut the idea of me msklng this statement.
He made the statement across the floor of
this House the other day, that lie believed
smutty wbleut w-as diseased wheat, sud that
under no proceas could it be made into
sound wlbeat.
How could lie approve of
permitting fle inspectors to place unsound
I venture
w-leat into the hiiglier grades?
to say the largest mllling companies lu Caïu-

ada or the Uuited States w-ho bave auy regard for the foeur they manufacture would
nlot take damp, scoured, or smutty w-heat
Into their milis aud grind it If tliey got It
for nothlng.
I amn sutlsfled tout I arn correct lu making that statement, because,
whule 1 may flot be an extensive farmer,
Ilke some other lion, gentlemen 1 have farmed aud -milled wheat and manufactured
foeur, and know w-bat I arn talklng about.
I have handled smutty wlieat in the mli. I
arn te lie brided as one of the bad, bold
men w-ho try and pervert legîsîstion in the*
lnterests of the w-lent trade la Canade. I
arn not now engaged lu mllling sud bandling
w-leut; I arn lnterested lu growing w-leut,
and I thiuk that 1 arn speaklng lu the interests of the grain growers of the w-est,
aind I believe 1 arn supported by a great
rny
of them iii the stand that 1 tuke.
The hon, gentleman w-ho toolz his sent referred to the telegram of Mr. Miller. 1
think lie w-as selected by the government as
hein.. a fit and proper person to ait on the
commission.
When lie was appoiuted, lie
w-as secretary of the Grain Growers' Association of Saskatchewan, I believe.
Ia
that not so?
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAÉ-He could not lie
elected to tbat position to-day.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-If the grain growers see fit to chiange their minds it la thieir
business, but Mr. ;Miller, w-as élected ta
that position. Nothing lias been saJd about
the person who la at present secretary o!
tbe association, w-ho seuds a telegrum and
condemus the action 0f tlie Senrtte lu pluclug that clause la the Act. I consider that
o! sufficieut hnportance, that w'hile there
are other changes lu thie Inspection Act,
whill It la considered udvlsuble to have
placed ou tbe statute-books, I think the
minister w-ho bas charge of tbe Bill, ruther than have it appeur on the stututebooks w-ltl that ameudmeut w-hicli w-as
udopted on the commlttee the other day,
I
w-ould prefer to drop the w-lole Bill.
believe It w-ouid lie a rnost dangerous provision sud would not benefit the furmers
Thie stutemeut w-as
of tlie Northwest.
made by the lion. gentleman from Assînibolu thut the farmer w-ould benefit by thls
because If lie lad whleut sllglitly smutty,

1424

SENATE
1424

1 or No. 2 Northlie couid shlp it downl to Port Arthur and jthe bushel as out of No.
but you cannot get tlie quality, and
have It treated and in that way gain texi eru;
the chances to put any
cents a bushel. Mr. King wlll tell hlm n0 miller wlll take
Into a g-ood brand of foeur.
that hie caunot take one or two cars of any- of that wbeat
to grind a 10w grade foeur
body's wlieat and treat It separately lu tba.t But if hie wauts
hie fiuds lie
auybody gets the benefit of lie may buy that wheat. If
elevator. If
can get thiat quality of wheat to make a
thie cleaulng lu the elevator, it is the grain
large yield of foeur per busliel, lie can
dealer aud nlot the farmer.
It and get It estabhsbhed as a grade
r. DOGLASbuy
Hon.
Hon DOGLA-The dealer bas ail- for scoured wheat; but do not permit auy
Mr
laspector to place dlseased wheat !it the
ways the advantage.
I venture to
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-If the bon. gentle- grade for Sound wbeat.
it were
King if lie can ship two or Ba It would affect our markets if
Sman will ask Mfr.
The Importer of wheat iu Engthree cars of wbeat to bis elevator for treat- kuowu.
Our Inspection Act
ment hie will find that Mfr, King cannot treat land wlIl know what
lias become establislithat wheat and give hlm back bis Indlvi- Is. Our Inspection
is concerued, for
dual wbeat. If that Is the case, what advan- ed, as far as the quality
standard
to be? There is nlot a far- the last five or six years. Our
tage Is It golng
Is known now; It lias au establislied value,
mer lu thîs House or a farmer froxu the
were lmporting whIent
west represented bere, *who Is a good and. if tliese mien who
they were to run the possible
We understood
farmer, who grows smutty wbeat.
and unsouud and
sbould penalîze any -mau for growing smut- risk. of smutty, rejected
being placed lu No. 1 and
ty wheat. The bon. gentlemani f rom woî- diseased wbeat
tliey would liesitate about
seley grows probabiy froxu 15,000 to 20,000 No. 2 Northeru,
and lie does not grow smut- taiikng our wheat as they take It to-day.
busheis a year,
leave It to the luty 'wbeat. He does Dot have to grow It, At present we do nlot
to treat bis spector. It bas been stated by some bon.
because lie takes precautlons
is the man
seed properly, aud of course there la then gentlemen that the Insapector
Wby sbould wbo Is respousîble. We have confidence lu
no necessity for growlng lt.
If you permit by law
the bou, gentleman from Wolseley take the our Inspectors, but
that wbeat belug placed lu the grade It
chances, because the fermer next te hlm
We do not allow
may lie careless, and may not treat wlll lower tbe standard.
to bave a roving commission.
bis wbeat, to have bis wlieat placed lu the our Inspecter
estahlished lu the stasamne -bin with his nieigbb9urs' smutty We bave our grades
the Iuspecter.
simply because it is being *scoured tute. We do 'not say that
wlieat
however good lie may be, may state what is
Under uo circumstances
aud treated?
2 Northeru. We
should we place au Act ou the statute- No. 1 Hard and what No.
shal lie sound wheat weiglibook to permît of uusouud, diseased wheat say No. 1 Hard
being placed lu a higli grade. For those iug not less than 60 pouuds to tlie bushel.
reasons, I strougly support the views Of and iiavlng &5 per cent of the variety of
We say that Manithe bou. Mliîster of Trade aud Commerce Hard Red Fife whent.
of the Bill. I suggested toba No. 1 Northern shal lie Sound, well
who bas charge
the other day that the bon. gentleman from cheaned, welghing not less than 60 pounds
Prince Albert should flot lusist ou liavlng a and shal lie composed of not less than 60
We do not
clause of that klud placed lu the Bill; that per cent of bard Red Fife.
Ia- allow the Inspecter to say wliat kiud of
lie shouhd rather make provision lu the
No. 1
spection Act to have a grade for it, No. 1 grain wIll grade No. 1 Northern or
We give speclfic instructions that
and No. 2 scoured wbeat. If this wheat Hard.
and it
la la demaud, the purchasers of wlieat will wheat bas to lie Sound iu ahi cases,
out what It Is worth. If lias to have a percentage of the variety
very soun find
Would It
he wants to take chances to get 10w grade known as bard Red Fife wheat.
I have no doubt lie riglt to say, because you Say it is ln
foeur out of smutty wheat,
that bie
lie cen get a grade out of the scoured the discretion of the inspector,
should lie permltted to put scoured wlieat
wheat tliat wlIl manufacture as mucli to

JULY 8, 1908

1425

1425
JULY 8, 1908
It cannot this inatter, and I arn giad thc lion. geutleNorthern?
Into -No. 1 or -No. 2
bie graded auiy higlier than No. 3 Northierni. man bas giveunime credit for beiug personBut the insl)ector can see fit to mark on aily interested, because w-e bave been raisthe certificate, No. 1 and No. 2 scoured iug a large quantity of w-beat on our farm,
wheat. so thîîit if the milier wants to buy and I arn * Interested that thc ldentity of
that grade of w-lent lie can buy it to-day. I the Hard Fife wlieat sbould be preserved.
would flot object at ail to see an arnend- No man lu this Hlouse or In the country
ment to ruake a defined grade of No. 1 or has been more strongly in favour of keepNo. 2 scoured w-heat, if that would satisfy iug up a higlier standard grade of wbeat
the lion. gentleman, but I say under no tbau I have, and 1 think tbey lowered It
circurnstances shouid w-e permît any inspec- wheu they put the perceatage of Hard Red
tor to put scoured, dlseased, simutty wheat Fife dowu to 75 aud 65, aud theu cail It
It is
wbich lias been darnp and smutty Into the No. 1 bard and No. 1 -Northern.
higber grades of -w-eat. Every bon. gen- quite Important w-e shouid preserve the
tleman w-ho knows anytlîing- about wheat, hiiglicat grades for - our wheat, so that it
Is aw-are that damp, srnutty w-lent, I care w-i command the best price ln foreign marI reIt Is knowu by Its grade.
flot w-hat i)rocess you put it througî, can kets.
I fully agree member tbc time w-len w-e graded it by
neyer inake sound w-lient.
Farmers selccted the very best
w-ith the bon. gentleman frorn Assiniboin samples.
w-len lie said it w-as not possible to take sampie they could obtain, but they could
the diseased wlieat by any process and not possibly maintain that grade, because
make it souuid w-heat. and for tlint reason 1 the grain lu thc sample wouid be hîgher
arn surprised that lie Is lu favour of aiiow- thau the quallty of grain tbey furnishied.
I quite
ing the inspector to put the diseased wheat We are uow selling it by grades.
Lt wouid concur la the statemeut made by the liou.
into the bilier grades of w-heat.
do immense harrn. .Now that w-e have es- gentlemnan fromi Portage -La Prairie, tbat
tabiibed grades let us retain thern. Thiere the fariner is associated with the buyer.
la no0 evidence tiiat any one is suffering un- On tue Periey farm, betweeu my son and
Lt w-ouid be ini- the tenants, w-c w-i maise betw-eeu 50.000
der present conditions.
We could not seli it
possible for a fariner to get tw-o or three aud 60,000 bushels.
carloads of whieat treated at King's elevator la the foreign market. We must have the
That is
and made sound w-lieat. If this is the case. grain dealer nnd the iuspector.
w-ho is going to benefit by this amiendmnt? importanît to the business but w-hile w-e reThe grain deaier, thie bad bold inan, to cognize that tlc 'dealer w-ants a fair tial,
We shiould flot look on we do flot w-ant the fariner to lose too much
w-bom w-e refer.
I arn opposed to lîaving smutty
the grain dealer as being the enemy of the by it.
The grain dealer la just as in- w-lent mixed Ul) w-itl No. 1 or No. 2 Hard
farmers.
This clause Is a littie ambignous,
portant to tue whlent trade of tile w-est as Fife.
W'e are *and I would suggcst an imndmeut in this
the inaîî -who grows tlie grain.
surrotiuding- this trade with conditions w-ay; that the w-heat that bias to be treated
w-hich, w-e tblnk. -wiii make the lnspector eau neyer occupy the same higli standard
give everybody a square deal; but do flot lct as a wlieat that does iîot require to, be
us do tnytlilng- to deteriorate the standard treatcd. and 1 w-ould add a few w-ords to
of the grades w-bib w-e bave estabished. the clause providing that sucb ýw-lent sball
whicli are known tbrougiout the w-orld to be graded by thc lnspector, and sbail be
That . w-ould do
day, and let us not permit any inferior *placed lu a speciai bin.
grade to be rnixed w-lth the highier grade. *aw-ay w-lth ail the trouble, and tiiere would
not be any doubt about goverument offiHon. 31r. PERLEY-I shial vote to bave
If the House wll
rciaIs doing their duty.
this Bill referred back to the comnîittce foi
this clause of the
the purpose of subitting an ainendmen t make an amendmeut to,
the
sucb as tbe lion. gentleman froin Portag- eBill, it wll auswer the purposes of
Prairie bas sug-gested. that is. tha tcountry. The farmners do not want to have
La
Uic
scoured w-beat shall have a grade by itseif their sinutty w-lent inixed up w-ltl
We believe w-e
I arn interestcd li b iglier grades of w-lent.
aud a bln to Itseif.

1426

SENATE

SEKATE
1426
have a good article, and want to preserve kuow about rye. I flever bad to do with
Its ldentity, so that we can obtain a high rye.
price for it.
Tliey are afraid now. PerHon. Mr. FERGUSON-There Is no poisonally, I do flot see tbe reason for fear; 1
son connected witb sanut in wbeat.
have no fear, because I have more respect
for the grades. I do flot think that wbeat
Hlon. Mr. PERLEY-I do flot wisb to do
whicb is treated properly sbould go Into tbe anytblng wbich wll have a tendency to
bighier grades, aithougi -Mr. King told me ifiterfere with our higli standard of wbieat,
that efter wbeat had been treated properly but la order to remove tbe doulit and 'take
It: was as .good as wheat whlch had flot the respoflsibllty froin the graders, I would
been treated-tbat lie couid take out ail the make a grade speclaily for this klnd of
bad part, the sut.
The wbeat will then wbeat, and the parties selliug It would
welgh more to the busbel than before, and seil It for what It Is worth and they would
I do flot see why that wouid flot be the know what tbey were selllag and the buyer
case. If they take the smut off the bran, wouid know wbat lie la getting. If the
where the sinut la, there can be very little Bill ls referred back to the committee, I
,-Mut left la the kerfiel.
will move an amendment to make it plain.
Hofi. Mr. WATSON-Does tbe bon, genHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTtleman tbink it possible to treat wbeat
If my bon. frlend wll send me bis amendthat Is damp and smutty by any process ment I wli
have the matter consldered;
to make it sound?
but I cannot take upofi myseif the responHon. Mr. PIDRLEY-No. I have said that slibillty of acceptlng ameudmeuts whicb I
Mr. Kinlg toid me lie cou'ld take smutty bave bad no opportunlty to consider. Poswbeat, whlch is oftea dry wbeat, afld pro- sibiy, If the amendment lie sucli as tbe lion.
periy treat It so that lt wouid lie as good gentleman describes, I may lie able to
as No. 1, but I do flot propose to take that arrange to bave It lntroduced In tbe other
rlsk. I am wiliing to keep the good wbeat Chamber. I wouid have to deiay tbe m-hole
separate from that whieb bas to be treated process to adopt It here, and it Is too late
la order to make it good; but bere Is wbere to do that now. I may say to MF bon.
the difficulty would corne in. If this wheat frieud, that 1 recogaize fuiiy bis long expeis made neariy as good, and Is sold at ten rience and bis' riglit to lie beard on this
or tweive ceats a bushel less, the millers matter, and If lie bad sent this- amendment
can buy it awny dow nut the 10w price, to 'me at an eariy period I ýwould liave*
and mix it and grind it, and get the best given It every possible consideration. I
price for it-that is where the objection will undertake that the queston. shah lie
is to baving the smutty wbeat graded witli cousidered.
auythiug else.
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-I have followed this
Hou. Mr. SULLIVAN-Wýýould you give discussion very closely, ln the hope of ieinig
us a detinitou of what you Menu by smutty abile to come to a correct conclusion as to,
wheat ? 'nutty rye is generaliy the con- biow 1 could cast my vote lu tbe event of a
version of the grain into a very dangerous vote being taken.
I bave hieard the bon.
poison, but that is flot wbeat.
If it ls gentleman froin Prince Albiert, and the bon.
the saine with the wbeat as with the rye gentleman froin Assiniboia speak f rom tbe
there shiouid not be a word about it. Lt grain growers' standpoint on tbe question.
Is a powerful poison, and people usiug It 1 bave f150 beard the discussion by the bon..
gentleman from Portage La Prairie, and
would lie seriously diseased.
the hon. geatleman from Killarney, and the
Hon. -Mr. LOUGHEED-Seagram's
or
bon, gentleman.wbo bas cbarge 0f the Bill.
Gooderham's?.
I must say that tbere is considerable diffiHon. Mr. PERLEY-There are certain cuity iu the minds of tbose wbo are not
heads of wbeat that are smutty and wben western men, and have flot lad practical
broken they create a dust tbat mixes wîth experience ln dealing witb tbese matters.
and covers over tbe otlier grain. I do niot I have had considerabie to do with agriHion. Mr. PERLEY.

JTJLY 8, 1908
hon. friend from
culture ID Ontario, and I have bad to speakc ~ulty, and I hope my
bow it strikes me from the ?rince Albert will accept lu good falth the
somewhat as to
~tatement made by the right hon. gentiestandpoint of an Ontario agriculturaiist. We S
years ago, nan lu regard to having the ameudment
had smut ln, our wheat there
by establlahlng the
and we had to deal with It; but we. had nade ln the other House
erade aaked for. There la one elasa of
nlot wheat standards by iaw as we have
I understand can- be
now. We sold the grain on sampie when Its ~mutted wheat that
~leaned; that is, that which cau be cleaned
went to the market; but when 1 heard thec
w~ith .the dry prôceas by brushing alone,
hon. gentleman frorn Assinibola and the
and such grain will come out superior lu
hon, gentleman f rom Prince Albert say that
vaine to No. 3 Northern. To put that lu
tbey would accept the inspection by an lua grade with No. 1 rejected wonld be unspector to put it where It belongs, It struck
because they are
I do not think fair to No. 1 rejected,
me as reasonable and fair.
altogether. There
lic got to put an lu- ~wo dîfierent qualities
any inspector couid
s that quality which can be clenned by
ferior grade lnto a superior grade, and then
the dry procesa, and the other cannot be
to say the superior grade stilI remained. I
cleaned, because the defect gets into the
do not tbinik that would be possible, and
1 tbink the proper solution is to
grain.
any Inspeetor who would do a *thlng of that
have No. 1 and No. 2 rejected srnutty
kind wouid be exceeding bis duty-, and hon.
grades.
gentlemen discusa the question bere as to
allowîng the
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Under the circumthe danger that rigtarise ln
Inspector sncb latitude. Sorne weak inspec- stances I feel It necessary to explaîn the
tor may muin the standard of an Inspection reason why I shall vote lu the manner ln
by such a method. Some bon. gentlemen have which I am about to vote. We find the
spoken from the grain growera'. standpoint, hon. gentleman promotlng this ameudmexit,
and others have spoken .frorn the grain the bon. gentleman from Prince Albert, addealers' standpoint, one urging one thing vocatlng one view. We find he la supand one the other. From the grain deaiers' ported by *another bon. gentleman holding
standpoint, tbey compel the inspector to a simîlar vlew. We find an experienced man,
put the grain Into a iower grade tban it one w-ho has been engaged for years nnd
Tbey would flot bave It put lu years ln the business, la not in sympatby
sbould be.
To put It into a lower w-ith the other tw-o hon, gentlemen who are
a hIli.-er grade.
grnde Is, 1 tbink, an. injustice to the farýxmer, advocathug the adoption-of this amendment.
and thbe true solution was struck by the Now, I do not pretend that 1 underatand
bon, gentleman f rom Wolseley. and the bou. the grading of w-heat; 1 am therefore in a
gentleman frorn Portage La Prairie, tbat quandery. Here are three or four. farmers
1 unthere should lie a special grade for that expressing entirely different viewa.
wheat, and w-leu there is a grade establiali- derstand my hon. frlend f romn Manitoba la
ed for lt, very soon the grain denler wili get advocntlng a certain thing, and be la a
to know what the value of the grain is; farmer too. They talk about smutty w-beat.
If it la more valuable than No. 3 -Northeru, I know w-bat srnutty wbeat la. I know
they buy it ou the value of the standard w-bat fungus rye and fungua corn are; but
it bas made for îtaelf, and I tbink that la whether they are as objectionable as fungus
1 arn glad to find the w-heat 1 cannot say. However, 1 f eel that
tbe tmue solution.
rigbt hon, gentleman lu charge of the Bill, the government la responsible for this Bill.
state that be wii brIng thia point before 1 feel that If tbey are carrying an Improwboever wlll bave charge of the measure per mensure tbrougb, thereby injuring the
lu the other House, and if they corne to the farmers of tbe Northweat, upon thern be the
conclusion that that Is the beat tbing to do responslbllity, and If the country objecta
with it tlxey will have it accepted there. to the mensure as Introduced by the right
Frorn my experience in the matter, and hon. gentleman, they w-i make representfroin the w-ny 1 bave looked at it, frorn fol- ation to hlm and he w-iI try and rectify
lowing the argument as closely as I can, 1 the w-rong If there be a w-rong cormlitted.
thlnk that la the true solution of the diffi- 1 shali therefore feel myseif bound, wlth-

1428

SENATE

1428

SENATE

ont any regrets, to support the measure as
introduced by the goverament of the day.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I amn not presumptuous enough to undertake to say anythlng
on the merits o! this question. My sentiment with regard to the measure, whatevet lt may bave been before, is very mucli
the saine as that expressed by the bon.
gentleman from Lindsay. But I wish to
make a short statement with respect to what
bas taken place, and the position of the
matter befare the bouse. I was In my
place yesterday, and listened attentlvely to
what took place here with respect to this
measure. The hon, leader of the bouse
statcd thiat some hon. niember bad told
hlm that the* riglit bon. Minister of Trade
The
and Commerce was ont of the clty.
hon. Secretary o! State did not contradlct
that, but I understood hlm to Intimate that
the Minister of Trade and Commerce mîglit
be back In the Chamber before the sittlug
o! the House terminated, and In dealing
with this order of the day the hion. Secretary of State asked that it sbould stand
over so that in case the riglit hion.
Minister o! Trade and Commerce returned to the bouse, it icould be then
taken up. That suggestion of the hon.
Secretary of State was accepted by the
unailnious assent of the House. There
was nio dissent, so I think the hon. senator
froni Prince Albert ls not justified ln the
observations lie made on that particular
point with respect to want o! icourtesy. I
must say that wlille senatorini courtesy is
a very good thing, on the othier hand there
The
are other thinga to be considered.
condition o! the public business Is a matter that concerns thue bouse, and it was
the duty o! the hon. sentor from Prince
Albert to have remained lu bis place and
bie prepared to deal withi the question when
it came np. Now, wt] respect to the present position o! the question, we had a
vote yesterday and the amendmnent moved
by the senator from Prince Albert 'and
,which I had supported was elimlnated
from the Bill In committee. Another stîglit
ameadment was made with respect to
the time when the Bill should go into
operation. Now, the senator from Prince
Albert moves that this Bil] be sent back
to the committee. At thîs stage o! the
Hon. Mr. WILSON.

session, it would flot be fair, in the interest
of the public, to send tbe Bill back again
to a Committee of the Whole and thus
defer Its final passage here by at least
two days. It is our duty now to pass the
Bill in the way in whlch we wish to have
lt, but flot to send It back to, a Committee
of the Whole. If the ameudments which
bave been dlscussed meet with the approval of the other Chamber, who are at least
as mucli responsible to the fariners of the
Northwest as the members of this House
are, well and good ; we shall accept the
decision of the other Chamber; but I do
flot think we should furtiier delay the progress o! this Bill through parllament. If
the senator !rom Prince Albert feels
that the sentiment of the House is really
with hlm lie can test that sentiment without
referring the Bill back to a Committee o! the Whole. The motion before
the Hanse Is that the House concur
In the amendments made ta the Bill lu
the Committee of the Whole yesterday.
who
gentleman
hon.
that any
Ail
does flot wish these amendments to pass
need do is to -nove that tliey bie not
concurred In, and if the House decides not
to concur la the ameudmenits, the Bill
wlill be In the samne position It wvas In
wlien lt was sent to the comimittee yesterday, and It w]]] go down ta the House
o! Gommons embodying the amendment
which the senator from Prince Albert secured at a prevlous date. I thouglit it only
riglit to give the reasons why I do flot propose to vote for the amendmnent.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Everybody knows the
reason.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-To give the bouse
an opportunity of considering the amendmient proposed by the senator f rom W'olseley, I shail move as an ameludment to the
amendentThat the Bill be not now read the third
but that it be referred bacl, to. the
tie,
Commlttee of the Whole to consider the
making of a grade for No. 1 rejected wheat.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The Bill is not at
the third reading stage.
The SPEAKER-If the motion to refer
back the Bi]] to a Commlttee of the Whole

JULY 8, 1908

1429>

1429~
JULY 8, 1908
tbey would be tempted to do wrong wlth
one hundred and twenty-flve million bushele.
I remember before hearlng such an argument, that a man would be bonest la deallug wlth one bundred and tweuty-five million bushels, but dishoneet ln deallng Wlth
one million busbels. Tbe bon, gentleman
rend some telegrame. It wouid be lnterestlng to see the telegrama that were sent
Ilke to to those gentlemen lu tbe Nortbwest.
H3on. Mr. BERNIER-I wouid
change the amendment to rend:
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThat the report be not now concurred in. I bave told the bon. gentleman tbat no
but that the Bill be referred back toas coin- telegranis wvere sent.
mittee of the whoie iu order to provide a
grade for No. 1 rejected wheat.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I did flot accuse tbe
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I do not see bow lion. gentleman of sending telegrame, or
of having any knowledge of the telegrams
you eau grade wvheat If It le diseased.
that were sent; but 1 bave a shrewd susHou. Mr. DAVIS-The sub-amendment
picion that telegrames were sent without
deals witb the sanie question as the amendtbe knowledge of biniself or' perbaps of
ment. It 'would be bard to separate them.
Tbe very fact
bis frieuds arouud bum.
During the discussion of this question,
that the Davis
some hon. gentlemen bave expressed the of the telegrame saying
put smutty wheat
opinion that perbaps it would be better amendmeut wants to
grade for this wbeat. into the No. 1 grade, sbows that Informato niake a special
sent to mislead tRie
Provision bas already been made for a tion muet bave been
wrIters of those telegrame. The telegramea
grade of bleacbed whcat, and 1 amn under
ameudment. As
the Impression tbat most of tbis wouid go have no bearing on my
to the standing of tbose gentlemen lu tRie
Into tbat grade. Wben bon. gentlemen taik
beard
about smutty wbeat and damp wheat they agrîcuituraI community, I bave neyer
much said about Mr. 8aunders; but I know
are simply trying to misrepresent what I
bave been stating to the House. We do as a matter of fact the farming community
not propose to deal wlth tbat class at ail have very littIe confidence In Mr. Miller.
I do
but If It Is the wish of my bon. frlend froni Wby be .was put on tbe commission
because
Portage La Prairie -(Hou. .Mr. 'Watson), not know. I uuderstand it.. was
Grain
opposed to tbe farmers' interests, wbo at the time he beld a position lu the
be tbe master spirit ln tbls House Growers' Association, but I bave neyer
seems to
biad
tbat w-e sbould bave a grade made, I do beard any one eny that the farmers
asslst the far- confidence ln hlm. I bave stated tbat 1
not objeet, because it will
mer. 1 air alvays prepared to take haîf waut to get aIl I eau fof the farmer,
and, as the bon. gentleman froni Portage
a loait lu prefereuce to no bread.
La Prairie suggests that my ameadment
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Even If lt la be cbanged, I am wlhng to change it to
smutty.
meet bis view. I wouId be wiliing to go
further and accept tbe proposition of the
Hou. Mr. DAVIS-Tbe right bon. Minissenator from, Lindsay and the hon.
ter of Trade and Commerce lu answer to bon.
senator from Portage La Prairie If tbey
uiy question, why when we are prepared
at ahI for the fanmer:;
to trust the inspectore wltb tbe gradlng of wilI do auytbing
of
busees but thie rigbt hon, gentleman lu charge
one hundred and twenty-five million
the Bill wante us to seed this Bill ta the
be is not ililing to trust tbem witb
the grading of one million bushels of smut- other House ln Its present shape, promising
ted wbeat, eaid la reply that he dld not ta ceuIiider my resolution. I bave made
wisb to put temptation lu the way of three or four suggestions, ail of which
the lnspectors. If tbey eau be tempted to baye been treated lu the same way-I bave
do wrong witb oae million busbels of wbeat, been told tbey 'woul'i be consldered lu the

should be carried, the bon. gentleman could
move bis ameudment then.
Hon. Mr. PONYEl-No, because the Bill
Is being referred back for a speciai purpose.
The SPEAKER-At ail events, if the
amendment le defeated the bon. gentleman
May move his motion ln turn.

1430

SENATE

1430

SENATE

other House, but tbey were nlot given any
considerntici' bere. In discuSsing one of
those aluendrnents with the parties coucerned, there was nlot a word against IL. I
fancy It.would be the same tbing lu this
lnstanci, We are complaining ail the Urne
that we hanve not enough work to do in this
House. We adjourned over Saturdays and
Mondays, and from tirne to tirne. As a
matter of fact, the principal part of our
time Is taken Up wlth adjournments.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Yes; but when we
corne down wlth a proposition to Improve
legislation lu the interests of the taxpayers,
We are told to let it go to the other House.
The other House ls overburdened wlth
work, and any amendrnents to be mnde to
the Bill sbould be rnade bore. My bon.
friend frorn Portage La Prairie bas toid us
that he is a miller and knows a good deal
about this arnendment of mine, but ho and
the hon. senator frorn Lindsay say they are
prepared to do a certain tbing. Now, I arn
willing te accept their suggestion, and It
-would nlot take mucb tirne to carry It out.
I leave It to the bon. gentlemen to do what
tbey suggest.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-For a tirne I
was rather perplexed as to bow I sbouid
vote on this question. If this were a matter relating to the Inspection of fIsb, atter
my 26 years experience among fishermen, 1
woud be as good an authority as the
rlght bon. gentlern who bas charge of
this Bill. I was rather irnpressed yesterday witb the representative of the farmers, a man ln tbe local House, a sturdy
bonest Englisèiman, and I amn happy to say
there are sncb people ln this country as
bonest Englishmen. He carne down bere
representing the farrning interest and bis
own constituescy. The opinion of that man
and of other practical men Is worth a good
deal, and, therefore, I have decided te
vote for thls ameudrnent. It Is favoured
by practical farmers whose interest is that
their wheat shahl classlfy the bigbest grade
ln the Britisb market The lnterests of the
farmers are botter represented by farmers
than by anybody.else, and, therefore, I feel
It my duty to support the arnendment.

bert had been offered tbree weelrs ago, we
would nlot have had this trouble. He says
be bas no objection to bavlng scoured, srnut1
ty wheat put ln with bleached wheat.
have as strong an objection to putting
srnutty wheat in with bleached wheat, as
1 would have to putting It In with No. 1 or
Everyone knows that
No. 2 Northern.
bleacbed wheat for mlling purposes is as
good as No. 1 Northern. The amendment
rnoved by the bon, gentleman from St. Bonlface would have no seuse ln It at ail.
Hon. Mr. BERMNER--Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The hou. gentleman sbould explain wbat he ineans by a
No. 1 rejected. He does nlot say whether
It Is scoured wheat, smutty wheat, darnp
or bleached wheat, but simply No. 1 reJected.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Hle says he wants to
make a proper grade for No. 1 rejected
wbeat.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I suggested a grade
the other day for No. 1 or No. 2 scoured,
because treated wheat is known as scoured
wheat. I arn interested in this Bill going
through. I arn in favour of making a
grade for scoured wheat, but we sbouid nlot
delay the Bill, because there ls a conference
going on now and bas been goiug on for
sorne days ln the mlnister's office over this
measure and the Grain Bill passed two or
tbree weeks ago, and my hon. friend knows
that It Is the intention of the Minister of
the Interior to have those two Bis go
through concurrently, and it is quite possible that there may be a consolidation of
the two. I believe they should be conseldated.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Hlas the hon, gentleman the rninister's autbority for saying that
the Bis will be consolidated ?

Hon. Mr. WATSON-No, but I believe
tbey should be. It would be better thau
-to have two separate Bills. 1 belleve that
as a resuit of the conference that bas been
going on for some tirne over those Bis,
that an agreetnent wllI be reacbed to have
grades known as No. 1 and No. 2 scoured
Hon. Mr. WATSON-If the suggestion wheat. If that is the case, what Is the use
1 made to the bon. senator frorn Prince AI- of holding the Bill Up bere?
Hon. Mr. DAVIS

JIZLY 8, 1908

Hon. Mr. DAVIS--The Bill sliouid have seeds, and the way to prevent it, as laid
States government, Is
been put through quicker by acCepting MY lown by the United
o have clean seed, sow it ln clean ground
amendment than ln any other way.
and have it weli covered. In the whole
because the of this debate I did flot learn as mucli on
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-No,
hon. senator from Stadacona 'would raise the subject as I learned ln a few seconds
a point of order and block it as be did yes- from this book.
terday.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I want to thank
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-When nobody was
the hon, gentleman from Portage La Prairie
bere to oppose it.
for the courtesy he has showx me, and
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The hon, gentleman to say also that the only object of my
was flot here; but lie should have been amendment la to give the House Rn opporhere attending to bis business, and the ex- tunlty to consider the suggestion of the
planations -made here by the hon. Secretary bon. sexiator from Wolseley, with which I
of State, which have been commented on was favourably lmpressed.
to-day as a reflection upon the Minister of
Hon. Mr. McHUGH-I accept in good
Trade and Commerce for bis conduct yesfaith the statement made by the riglit lion.
terday, la entirely uncalled for. The bon.
and,
if tbis Bui,
Secretary of State said that the Minister gentleman in charge
knowing bis desire to get it put througli
of Trade and Commerce was not here, but
1 think
lie expected he 'would be here before the the House as speedily as possible,
without further
House rose and he would take up that Bill. we should pass the Bill
amendment. He bas promised that the
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The hou. gentleman proposed amendments will be falrly conwill flot find that in the 1Debates.'
sidered, and if the other House think well
HEon. Mfr. WATSON-If the hon, gentle- of them they wili be Incorporated. in the
man bad been In bis place lie 'would have Bill; If not there ia no use la puttlng themn
heard that statement made by the hon. into the Bill here. 1 make that statement
Secretary o! State, but evidentîr he was ln justification of the vote I am about to
it give.
not here when the Bill was called.
be a mistake to hold up tlils Bill.
would
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-The rigbt hon. MinIt la Important to have it pasa this House Ister of Trade and Commerce takes a rabetore the conference whIch is now going ther strange position. A member of this
on ends, and have the two Bis go tbrough House moves an .amendment. The promothe House o! Commons conciirrently. I ter of the Bill says : 'Your amendment may
liope an effort wiil lie made to consolidate be very good, but as I do flot understand it
the two Buis ln the House of Gommons we will send it to the other House, and It
and for that reason 1 oppose the amend- will be taken into coasîderation there. Are
mente. The conference is attended by al we here to study the questions submitted
parties interested, and they are trying to to us, or are we to send them. to the House
arrive at the best possible solution of this or Gommons to be considered if we do not
matter and have the best possible legisia- understand tbem ourselves? la it for tiiat
tion on the statute-book. For that rea- we ivere made senators ? I do flot see wçhy
son, the Senate sbould pasa this Bill ani the minister should stand Up and say we
send It to the Hlouse of Gommons where it are in too great a hurry to consîder an lImcan lie deait with along witii the other Bill. portant question, and so we must raiiroad
Hon. Mfr. SULLIVAN-The reason I sup- the Bill through this House. Ii la a monport the riglit hon. gentleman's contention strous proposition whlch we should flot
is because smut ls a disease. 1 flnd on accept. We sbould be able to consider tho
looking at the Century Dictionary that it amendments ourselves, and discuas the Bll
la a fungus, and how you an take dlseased s0 that we may understand It.
grain and put it witii other grain and make
Hon. Mr. POWER-We have discussed
a first-ciass grade I cannot understand. It
it nt considerabie lengtb.
la spread not froin plant to plant, but from

1432

SENATE

SENATE
1432
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Tbe more we dis- getting away froni that.
And if our mincuss it, perhaps, the less the bon. senator utes are correct, the bon. Secretary of State
from Halifax will understand It.
That is not correct.
In these minutes, the quesseems to be the conclusion we are to draw. tion has been treated as the first order 0f
The hon. senator from Kingston only now the day. I think If snch a thing happelns
understands the question, and It Is flot again when the minister asks for an Item to
because of explanatlons given by the min- stand, it should be marked in the minutes,
Ister, but because lie went to the library 'The order of the day bein.- cniied on sucb
and consulted a dlctionary and found out a question. The lion. Ininister moves that
the meaning of the words we are using it stand on the orders of the day.' -It is
here. He says smut is a poison, and really a -motion.
It is an Act o! this
we shouid flot put the people in danger. House and should be entered as sucli. So
But I would suggest to hlm that it imay be that when lt comes np again -çe can refer
a fungug or a disease without being poi- back to sucli an order bein.- cailed again.
son. The proposition of the rlgbt bon. Min- In that way our minutes would couform
Ister of Trade and Commerce shouid not be with the facts, and would not be a coniacecpted. We should go into commlttee plete dental o! the statements made by the
and study the amendments, and, If we find hon, leader of this House.
I suggest timat
theni goocl, accept tbem; If not, reject them. the minutes be altered ln that w-ny, so that
It Is a part of our duty, and we should flot ln the journals It would appear that the
rely upon others to discliarge that duty for first order being called, it was not proceeded
us. The hon. member from Portage La with; but on motion of the hon. Secretary
Prairie said he was astonislied that I shouid of State It was allowed to stand until a
have risen yesterday and made an objec- later iiour la the day, and that hour having
tion to the proposition off ered by the pro- come, and the Minîster of Trade and Commoter of thîs Bill. In doing so, I was do- merce having returned 'to this House, the
Ing my duty, and I do flot see why the question wns TeaIly put and the House took
lion. member sbould be astounded wben 1 action ln the matter.
I shahl vote for the
do my duty.
amendment of the hon, gentleman fromn St.
Boniface, *because I think It is our duty
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Oh, no0, we expect to
deal with this question ourselves and not
It.
suggest that this work be performed by
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Every man expects people of the other House.
that 1 shall do my duty. The bon. senator
Hoa. Mr.' FERGUSON-I was ratber
froni Halifax said, that at the opening of amused ut the illumination which my hon.
the sitting yesterday the hon. Secretary of friend to my rîght derived from the 'book
lie
State stated that the riglit bon. Minister consulted la the library with regard to this
of Trade and Commerce wouid be biere question. I would remind my hon. friend
about five o'clock. According to the re- of the Unes of Burns:
marks made by the bon. gentleman from
Sortie books are lees f ra end to, end
Prince Albert, and from the way the
White some great lees are neyer penned.
Milnutes read, it does flot appear that the
Honl. 'Mr. SULLIVAN-Does the hon, genrIglit bon. Minister of Trade and Commerce
tleman mean to attack the veracity of the
was absent, because It Is recorded that the
flrst order o! the day heing- called we find book 9
that on niotion of the right bon, gentleman,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I amn fot obliged
seconded by the hon. Secretary of State, It to go to a book for Information about
was ordered t4iat the Bill be corgmitted smut in wheat.
I have had 60 years exto a CommIttee of the Wbole House to-day. perience with it, flot on the large seale of
I want that question settled.
I want to our western friends, or on the commercial
know If It is true he was absent. If the aspect, but in its domestic featurp,.
We
hon, leader of this House says-and he is have had smut in wheat in Prince Edward
correct in saying- that be was absent, then Island for a long time, a littie -bit of It and
our minutes are not correct.
There is no we treated the seed withi biue stone or su]-

Jury 8, 1908
phate of copper to prevent the recurrence
But if
of arnut, and it la very effective.
these precautions are neglected a arnLail proportion of amut la removed in our grist
The condition of
milis by smut machines.
smutty wheat may be one, two or three
per cent of srnutty grains, and yet if il ls
flot fixed ln Borne way, the flour wlll be al
dark. The smutty grain when crushed, wll
darken the surrôunding grain, and when it
gets into a bîn It will darken the whole lot,
and the flour wlll not be at ail of the first
quality. By a process of dustlng and blowing and rubblng the smut la gotten rid of lu
our wheat, s0 that It will be turned out of
the smut miii as dlean as if there hiad been
I arn not taiking of
no samut at ail la It.
smutty wheat ln a moist condition. Of
coursi- thlat la bad; but whiere thiere is oniy
a smaIl proportion, it is and can be gotten
out by a smut machine, and niy bon. frlend
from Middlesex tells me the saine process
was used la Ontario for a long time, and 1
tiierefore bave a atrong feeling, f rom rny
èwn knowledge ln thîs respect, and froin
what I have heard la this House, that
where the wlhent has only a amaîl proportion of sut la It, that the cleaning procesa
can be used to expel It and leave 95 per
cent more of It lit to go into any grade
that it could go lnto If there hud been no
For that reason I think there
arnut ln It.
la a good deal in the argument witli regard
to admittlng the proceas, then let the lnspector decide after the procesa whether the
wheat la entiled to go Into the biglier grade.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-There la a good
deai of dictatlon ln this flouse as to a rnan's
I arn told to do s0 and so. If
vlews.
the Idea la to stifle anybody's opinion sny
so. I arn not prepared to say that the riglit
lion. gentlemnan's Bill is wrong. Stili it la
a perplexiing thing to know what vote to
give.
There are farmers outaide of the
West.
'Sornetirnes I think there are fariI
ers ln the east, ln New Brunswick.
think we should bave more time to examine
a question like this and fori au opinion.
If I gave n vote for my hion. friend fron>
the west, my conscience miglit accuse nie
If I snpportedl
of givlng- a wroug vote.
my righttlhon. frlend, I niigbt also make a
mistake.
It is therefore a difficult thing

1433

for men who are pubiicly lnterested, but
not prlvately lnterested to know whnt to do.
I arn free to admit I do not understand tue
Bill, and how can 1 recoucile my vote ? I
do not know what smutty wheat la, aithougli I k-now what smut ls according to
I know w hat darnnaged
the dlctlonary.
We bave to uphold the character
wheat la.
of our grain on the British market, and we
should not be n party to any legisiation thuLt
would enable the deniers to seil a bad qaiIn Nova
ity o! whieat on the other sîde.
Scotia, we have a law wlth respect to apOne shipper loat $75,000 on a sliippies.
nient of apples tlîat were niot proI)erly
Thiat lias put a
packed. and branded.
damper on the ivhole question of s!hlppiing,
Lt ruiniappluýs from the lower provinces.
e(l the whoie business o! appie shipiuing.
Perliaps we iugt be able to corne to sonie
arrangement with regard to this luatter.
Some of our farmer frlends miglit say 'Wh1y
0f course we
did yon give that vote.,
couid say 1We dld not understand it.' They
would say 'Are you there as a representative man, not as a politician hiavlng any axe
to grind, but there to do your duty, rernoved
frorn the political arena as a commonsense man, and was It your duty to give a
vote on sornething you did not understand?'
Thiere is nobody for whom I have a greaier
respect than rny right bion. frlend. Af ter
36 years of acqualatance, I admire bis action.
WVithout *douijt on commercial matters, and perhapa ail othier questions, hie la
the ablest man in Canada to-day, and 1 appreciate hlm; but lu a case lîke this perhaps lie has haed evîdence put before ]iini
that hie lias not been able to entirely tbreslh
out.
Is thîs a Bill that shouid be adopted,
or shouid we rather say we cannot accept
it becanse we do not thoroughbly understand
it? There must be sorne dlfficulty about it,
or there would not bie a division ln the
House.
Thlrty or forty years ago thiere
were many antediluvians around who were
not able to cope withi the contingencies of
the hour.
They neyer could perceive the
future o! Canada, and they could neyer
see that the great west was golng to be
popuiated, or that we ivere going to buiid
ail these canaIs and rallways. WTe grnnted
a charter for the Hudson Bay Railway.
Everybody laughed ah me because we

1434

SENATE

1434

SENATE

They sald: 'Yeu are braced in one without any detriinent to
the Bill generally. I have no objection
particularly to any one of the motions. A
The SPEAKER-I would draw the atten- certain lion, gentleman here' liad s0 much
tion of the hon, gentleman to the fact that to say about dlseased and smutty 'wbeat
hie Is getting somewhat far afield from the that lie talked persistently between tbe
question -before the House.
lunes of tbe motion that ls before the
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I amn aware of It, House, and not la strict accordance wlth
but I arn trylng to advance wlth the ad- tbe expression of the Englisb sentences
vancement of Canada, wlth the change of therein Involved, and then lie spoke of my
operations In England and ail over tlie being- Inconsîstent ln supporting the moworld. -At the present time there may be tion. I should certalnly be Inconsistent If
Certain tblags I supported the Ideas lie advanced ln the
a difference of opinion.
may be condemned now, wbich later on discussion. Ia the motion before us, we
The miller may take a are not seeking to place dlseased wheat Into
wili be upheld.
very different view f rom the grain growet any bîglier grade. We are guarding agalnst
He is look- that. I go back to tbe old argument:
wlth regard to tbis question.
lnterest alone. Tbe What became of that class of wbeat ln
ing to the commercial
West are looking -to the commercial lnterestsj the days gone by, and the gentlemen who
aise. Their living and prosperity rests on are seeklng to Influence the governmenit
what Is produced by their labour, and they botb la this Blouse and no doubt ln the
must certainly know something iu regard House of Commons, are the very men who,
to tbe ralsing of wheat and tbey are en- ln former years, endeavoured to doctor'
MWe should slck wheat and put it on the market,
tItled to sorne consideration.
gîve this measure tbe best cousideration where and how? Do they tell us?~ Did
In this Blouse* the bon. gentleman from Portage La Prairie
free from party interests.
we will soon be asked to ratify an expendi- tell us 'wbat lie dld wlth sucli wbeat la
ture of frern fifty to one hundred million past years? Would lie be wllling to do
dollars wlthout bavlng considered It and wltb it ln the future as lie bas done tu
the past?
without knowlng -wbat it Is for.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I Ilever advocated
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-I see no great difficulty, If we have time and opportunitjs, putting scoured grain Into sound 'wbeat.
in combining tbe three amnendments Into The bon. gentleman sbould not state tbat
I have I said thàt.
one, whlch would -cover th'e case.
no syrnpathy with the ldea of lettlng It go
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-Neither bave we.
over to the other House. It rnay bie ail The bon. gentleman seems to bave diffirlght, but the results from the other House culty la understanding Engllsb.
are, very dubious. A bird ln the band Is
Hon. Mr. WATSON-You said an bon.
better thon a bird la the air, and If we
gentleman had advocated placing scoured
send the measure to tbem jiust now we put
wheat lato sound wbeat, and then you re-.
it out of our own bauds. and fail to disduties. We sbould ferred to me.
charge our Individual
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-Tbie bon. gentledo wbat we believe to be for the best, and
There man may have liad bis share la dolng It,
not band It over to the Commons.
are mnny men *ln the Blouse of Commons and his -share of the profit.
who have bad experience, and wbo bave
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I say that is not
had a good deal to do witb the grain busi- true.
ness. But there are a great many youthful
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I think the bon, genmembers there wbo know very little about tleman should be made to withdmaw that
it, but la view of a general electlon belng expression.
nt hand tbey wlhl bave a great deal to say
Hon Mr. YOUN-Thie bon. gentleman
about It so tliat I tbink that If we bad an
opportunity to corne togethier la this Blouse from Portage La Prairie made a statement
tbese tbree motions could easily be em- which, the bon, gentleman f rom Assinîbola
Han. Mr. DOMVILLE.
pressed sucli a Bill.
ail crazy.'

JULY 8, 1908

1435

1435
JULY 8, 1908
did nlot accept, and the point of order now in bis purpose, _why should he hand this
ls wbether the hon, gentleman trom Âssi- question over to another Blouse and allow
nibola sbould be asked to accept the state- them to adjudicate it, while lie ls tied hand
and foot for the next twelve months. Juat
ment.
as sure as I Stand On the floor of the Bouse
The SPEAKER-The principle is that a I feel that this
law -wii not st more- than
atatement bas been made by an hon. gentleaine months or a Year, and you will have
man, but If that atatement la controverted,
this work to do over agalu. If ln God's
the furtbest the hon. gentleman can go is
providence I am allve, justice will be doue;
to aay it is Incorrect.
some measurea empioyed.. If we live to see
Hon. Mr. DOUGLÂS-I think I have a tbe next meeting of the House, justice
right to correct a statement whlch the hon. wlll be doue along these Ilnes. The men
gentleman made ln debating this motion specially ideutified with the miiiing busiwhlch -we are advocating ; lie persistently ness do not like it. O! course they do not
accused us of making statements whichi Ilke it, but If tbey are purchasing the grain
had no existence and were neyer made. upon is merits with their eyea open they
The hon. gentleman is perhaps under a de- ueed not buy ItL If they get it at a reduced rate they can keep It ont o! their
lusion.
best grades of foeur and need not deceive
Hon. Mr. WATSON-What statement did the
people. I have no objection if It be
1 make thnt was not correct?
marked according to its value and put upon
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-That we -were the market upon that basis. I cannot see
going to put diseased grain luto the higher that the motion proposed by the hon, genstandards and so lower the whole standard. tleman from Wolseley, the suggestion
I deny It in toto. That is the ouly plea the made by the hon. gentleman from Lindsay
opposition can raise with a view of throw- and the view that we coming from the west
ing dust ln the eyes of this honourable hold, miglit not ail be presented lu a simple
Ilouse, the ouly argument that tbey cau motion tbat would give satisfaction to ail.
command to deceive the House and gain I hope the honourable House wiii consider
a decision ln their favour.
It more fully and give us a Ilttle more tinie.
The bon. gentleman from Portage la Prairie
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Order, order.
la willing to accept a grade for that 'wheat
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-And they wiil do of which we have spoken so mucli. I do
the same thing in the House of Commons. neot think the mover -bas any objection to
We deny ln toto that wé have any sucli that. The hon, gentleman from Wolseley
design or that we. have expressedl anything
lu this motion that looks ln that direc- is lu faveur of it and so am I ; therefore
tion. If you want only one grade, a Sep- why can we not settie it at once. It would
It would lie kept'
arate grade, we bave no objection, but we not deceive people.
bave ieft lt to the discretion of the chief out o! the other grade, and the reputation
Inspecter. We believe we are acting la the o! our wheat standard on the British marinterest of the country. We believe we ket would be secure.
are taling ln the intereat of the trade
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL.-Does the hou.
and of sound justice to the people, and that
the beneflt, If there la anythiug lu this class gentleman say that he will aae a motion
of wbeat, ouglit to fali back into the hands on the thlrd readlng?
and pockets of the men who have produced
Hon. Mr. DOUGLÂS-I Say that can be
It, and not have it pitched away by legislation into the banda o! other men. There doue. I think these amendmients could lie
la no reason why the farmers sbould not harmonized and settied laside o! nu hour.
have the resulta, and by this motion we
The Bouse divided ou the sub-amendbelieve we are doing justice between the
ment, whichi was loat on the following didenier and the farmer and we 'wisb to hoid
on to the Idea. If a man feels he is riglit vision :
and lias justice on bis side and 19 honeat
Yýeas, 18 ; nays, 30.

136SEN-ýATE

1436

CON-TEISTS:
The Honourables Messieurs
Louigheed,
Baker,
McDonald (C.B.),
Bernire,
Merner,
Bolduc,
Montplaisir,
Bowell
Perley,
(Sir Mackenzie),
Biley,
Com eau,
Ross (Halifax),
Davis,
B'oy,
Douglas,
Talbot.-18.
Ferguson,
Landry,

Hou. 'Mr. DAVIS--I wanted. to know If
I bad a rigbt to speak.

The Honourables, Messieurs
NON-CONTENTS :
B4ique,
Jaff ray,
Beith,
Kerr.
Campbll,
Melugli,
Cartwright
MeMNullen,

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Not
necessarily. The memnbers were not cailled
in to vote upon the anaendment moved by
tbe bon. gentleman fromi Prince Albert.
Tbey were called la for tbe purpose of
voting upon tbe amenciment to tbe aniendment mioved by tbe bon. gentleimani frorn
St. Boniface.

(Sir Richard),
Coffey,

Cox,
David,
Derbyshire,
DeVeber,
Ellis,

Fiset,
Frost,
Gibson,
Gilmour,
Godbout.

MceSweeniey,

Mitchell,
Poiver,
R obertson,
Ross (Moosejaw),
Ross (-Middlesex),
Scott,
Thomipson,
Watson,
Wilson,
Young.-30.

Hou. Mr. DAVIS-Cali It six o',clockz.
Hon. Mr POWER-It cannot be done
wbile the vote is beiag taken

The SPEAKER-Tlbe lion. gentleman lias
exhausted bis riglit to speak-.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I cali attention to
the fact that It is now six o'clock.
The SPEAKER-Accordiug to xny un(lerstanding of tbe rule, the vote goes on
if there is no Interruption.

Hon. '-Ir. POWER-I rise te a question
of ordèr. If tbe lion, gentleman proposes
to appeal to tbe House lie hias a riglit to
speak-; If not be bas no riglit.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
wvas nlot aware that tbe Speaker bad given
any decision.
Hon. 'Mr. POWER-He bas.

Hon. Sir MACKEN\ZIE BOWELL-I
The SPEAKER-If thiere is no other suli- wvilI take the Speaker's word for it, no
amendmient proposed, thon tbe vote is on matter wbat ex-Speakers lnay say. I arn
the amendment of the bion. gentleman froin not bound to accept the statement made by
Prince Albert.
tbe hon, gentleman wbo bas called me to
order. Hon. 'members were called in for
Hon Mr IiANDRY-I wanit to Lave this one purpose, and not for the other.
question settled. The vote is taken. That
We bave a riglit to
Hon. Mr. POWER--Cbair, chair.
vote is completed.
move any amendment now, and we may
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbis
discuss it, so I think it migbt lie beld that
is the point whlch I arn now discussing,
It Is six o'clock-.
and I would lie Incorrect if I proposed anny
miembers bave amendment to the amendment.
The SPEAKER-The
been called to vote on tbiese motions, and
The SPEAKER-Perbaps I did Dot give
if there is no further procedure to arise, the time to tbe bon. gentleman to express
the vote is taken on tbe amuendmuent.
bis opinion before I spoke. Possibly I was
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We are nlot oblige(] somiewhat previous in giving my opinion.
But tbe opinion which I bnd given. wbicb
te do that at ail.
is no motion
want to ask the 1 stili adbere to, -is tbat there
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I
to iaterrupt the vote-tbat it goes on as
Speaker's ruling.
one proceeding. Tbe rnling of tbe chiair,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Nobody called for wbicb can bei appealed from. Is that the
vote will now lie takea on the amendient
a division on tbat amnendmenit.
Hon. ',Ir. YOUNG-Tbere is no point of by the Hon. Mr. Davis. Hon. memnlers in
favour of tbe amendment wlll please rise.
order.
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS.

JULY 8, 1908

1437

1437
8, 190S
legislation may be rusbed througb tbe
House. The object of the rules Is to give
us timte to think over measures s0 as to
have a clear Idea of wbat we are doing ;
but If we are going. to suspend theni wbenever nnybody wishes to railroad a Bill
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No.
througb, we nuight as well bave no miles
The House divlded on the amendment, ut ail. I sbowed the effect of suspendlng
wbicb wvas iost on the sanie division.
the rules last session ln the case of a Bill
The SPEAKER-Thie question Is on con- whiclb an hon. senator wnnted to get passed la a hurry. It was carried througb both
currence in Vie amendment.
Houses and assented to ten days beforp
Hon. Mr. DAVIS--I have flot spoken on the notiees required by la'w were conithis.
pleted. I couid understnnd that there are
The SPEAKER-The bon. gentleman bas occasions ln the closing bours of a session
exbausted bis rigbit to speak..
wbeu the rules sbouid be suspended, but
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I will speak on the we bave flot yet commenced to sit on Saturdagrs and 'Moudays, and nobody can conithird reading of the Bill.
plain that we are overworked. I bave calTbe motion for concurrence in tbe amend- culated that this session we have flot sat
ment was declamed carried.
more ithan five or six bours a week, and
It being six o'clock, the Speaker left we bave been pald at the rate of $100 an
the chair.
hour fur tbe tIme we have given to the
public service. We meet and discuss ad. After Recess.
journments and points of order and adJourn
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT .and meet and ndjourn again. This Is the
moved tba't rules 24 a and 24 b be -sus- first nigbt we bave sat tbls week, and perpended insofar as they relate to Bili (CC
liaps %v1i be the last niglit It wiI be neAn Act to amend the Inspection and Sale cessary to slt. and wve can afford very
Act as regards grain.
well to let this Bill stand over for anHon. Mr. DAVIS-I do flot see any good other dny. I arn satisfied If it is allowed
objeet to be gained by suspeuding tbe to stand until to-morrow, time will be
miles. As I Fnid this afternoon we have saved ln the end. We have disposed of
another Grain Bilknown as tbe Manitoba the first order, and are now on tbe second,
Grain Act tbnt wnu corne befome Vie House and there remainq enough on tbe order
of nommons very soon. We bave bad a paper to gîve us a long evenIng's work.
conference on this Inspection and Sale Act. Take tbe thIrd Item. The r eport of the
and the western members this morning ad- Standing Committee on BankIng and Comjourned Xintii to-mormowi xnorniag and it merce on the Traders' Life Insurance Comwnul take two or three days before we qcan parties Bill. There is materiai .enough there
decide on the different clauses 0f Ibis Bill, f0 keep ils busy the balance of this evenIn-.
80 there is absolutely no necessity to suspend Vie mules. There is a differeace of
Hon. Mr. POWER-Ob, no. Does not
opinion as to bow Vis question sbould be the bon. gentleman know that the recoindealt wltb, but there Is a generai opinion mendation of the committee Is tbat tbe prothat If the Bill is not railroaded through moters be aliowed to witbdraw the Bill.
to-night, we may be able to agree upon an
Hon. Mr. DAVIS--I did not know it. I
amendment whicb couid be Introduced into
amrn ot a member of the Banking and Cointhe Bill before it goes to tbe otber House.
*On genamni principles, this Idea of suspen- merce CommIttee and do flot attend Its
Ing the mules Is not a good one. If aaybody meetings.
proposes to change a mile of tbe House,
Hon. Mr. POWER-But the report of
there is Immédiate opposition, yet day after the commIttee appears lu the 4'Minutes "
day Our ruies are suspended in order Viat at page 1056. The bon. gentleman -Is very
JULY
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Nobody asled for
Vie names. I protest against that.
The SPEAKER-The niembers have
been called lu to vote on thîe amendments
whicbi are before tbe chair.

1438
1438

S EN-A T E

SENATE

The SPEAKER-Provided the hon. senator does flot go on discussing the merits
of a Bill fot now before us.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I arn pointing out that
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The hon. gentleman ls this proposition rnight develop a great deal
an expert at reading the 'Minutes,' and I of opposition. I arn claiming that even
would advise hlm to keep on reading the one Bill migbt occupy the wbole of this
'Minutes,' but bon. members who have evening.
sornething else to do cannot devote much
HIon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-In the Interest
tirne that way. Although the BankIng and
Commerce Cornmittee have recommended of the farmers, I supported the hon. gentlethat the petitioners he allowed toL wltbdraw man's amendment. I thlnk common sense
the real business
their Bill, the Item may Involve a good deal should guide us and allow
of that Zbfthe Senate to go on. The hon, gentleof discussion. If we could dispose
frorn the subject
order however, In ten or fIfteen minutes we man is wvandering away
altogether. It would be better to appeal
corne to Item 4 whlch is consideration of
and let the work of the
the aniendmen-t made by the Commons to to common sense,
Senate go on than to be rambling frorn Dan
the Dominion Guarantee Companles Bill.
to Beersheba as the hon. gentleman .Is doHon. Mr. BAKER-Whicb wlll take es- iug now.
aetly.tWo and one-haîf minutes.
Hon. Mr. I}AVIS-Cornmon sense Is flot
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-How doès the hion. commion, and there 15 no use of appealing
gentleman know thiat I would not speak to IL In this case, we have already given
tbree hours on that myseif ? I do not know our reasons, and I think we would arrive
what the arnendrnents are; they rnay be at an undestandlng wblch would be satisvery Important. Possibly they might oc- factory to ail parties lnterested before tocupy the whole of the balance of thîs morrow; but the rlght hon. Minister of
evening. We know that sornetimes a dis- Trade and Commerce Is trylng to railroad
cussion will arise out o! alrnost nothîng.
his Bill tbroughi the House to-nlght. If anY
for rushiug
Mr. ROSS (Halfax)-That is the one could show a good reason
Hon.
the Bill through now, I would be quite prccase now.
pared to submit, but no0 reason eau be
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Sometimfes a question shown. .As a matter of fact, nobodly can
is arsked whieh lends to a discussion, and I show a good reason for sitting here to-nîglit.
have known sucli occasions when the House The fifth Item on the Orders is the Bill to
has sat for hours. The discussion o! tlie restrain the use of tobacco by young perDominion Guarantee Company«s Bill might sous. The whole evening could bave been
lead to n discussion of the Union Trust properly devoted to discussing that Bill. Lt
Company, nnd there is no knowîng wbere is a subject of great Importance. -It opens
Then we
up a wide door 'for discussion.
we would stop.
to
is corne to the sixth Item which proposes
The SPEAkER-The lion. gentleman
anend the Railway Act and place telesomewhat previons in diseusslng this ques- graplis and telephones under the jurisdiction. He is travelling far fromn the motion tion of the Board of Railway Commissionbefore the House.
ers. Hon. gentlemen will remember that I
Mr. DAVIS-The right bon. Miniis- broueht up this very question about a year
Hon.
ter of Trade and Commerce bas moved to ago, andi if the subject >vere entered upon
suspend thle miles. He wants, I assume, to now it would take me probably an hour to
put something through to-nlght contrary to say what I have to say on that very imporover
the rules, and I arn trying to show that tant mensure. But if we wish to pass
Bill
is absolutely no necesslty for It, that that, we corne to Item No. 7 which is n
there
When we
the Customis Act.
WC to amend
there Is somethlng else to be doue.
customs, YOu
have enough business to keep us here al toucli anlything affecting the
dispose of Lt In a short time. It alevenlng, and I have a perfect rlght to show cannot
ways invoives n discussion lasting a conthe rarount of work we bave before us.
fond of tellng other bon. members wbat
tbey should do ; before he undertakes to
lecture us he sbould read the 'Minutes.'

JULY 8, 1908
siderabie time. We do0 not kuow wbat a very Bill a short t'ie ago, It w-as put over
large field that Bill migat cover, and it until after recess, and when w-e reassembled
rnight keep us for clays. But even if we at elgbt o'clock the miht hon. member lu
hati noue of these ineasures on the Order charge of ^the Bill did flot put In an appearPaper, there is the Stb and last Item, whicb fluce. He did not take luto consideration
is resuming the adjourned debate on the the fact tbat those of us w-ho >dld corne bere
W<ý
motion relating to an export duty ou pulp- had to give up other arrangemnents.
wood. It has been before the House on dld flot grumble at that; no doubt the hou.
two or tbree occasions, 'and eacli time lias gentleman had a good reason for absentiug
led to a good deal of discussion, and as yet himself, but I think we w-ho ask for an exwe have ouiy toucbed the fringe of tbe tension of tirne now are entltled to a littie
question. It wiil be seen that we have consideration. 1 amn satisfied If w-e are given
quite a bill of fare before us, enougli to, oc- a littie tirne w-e wll agree upon somethiug
cupy our tirne so that there is no uecessity for the protection of the farniers, an arndof suspeuding the miles to railroad thisplar- -meut whicb w-hI satisfy everybody, except
ticular mensure tbrouglh. '%%e have work- perbaps the riglit hou. gentleman lu charge
ed bard to-day to put our views before the of the Bill. We are lu a fair position to
à.-ouse and the country, and, whetiier w-e *get a compromise If the Bill Is not forced
are rlght or wrong, we have acted couscien- down our throats. Ail w-e ask is a littie
tiously and deserve courteous treatment ; time for furtber discussion and considerbut some hon. gentlemen w-heu they g-et ation, and although w-e ask It in tbe Intertheir baud on the lever run the car right ests of the people we represent, yet
through regardless of everybody. There is we are told w-e must go on. We are
nothing to, be gaiued by trylng to force this perfectir justlfied in dhscusslug this quesmeasure tbrough wlthout proper consider- tion to show there can be absolutely 'no
ation. We only ask in common fairnes good renson for tbe suspension of the mules.
that tbe Bill be allowed to stand until w-e If I asked to iay my sacreligeous bauds ou
bave a breathing spell and time to arrange one of the mules of the flouse, the hair
a compromise. We bave been tçld by the would stand ou one bon. gentleman's bea4j;
hon. senator froin Portage la Prairie that he w-ouid expect the next tbiug I w-ould
this Bill and tbe Grain Bill w-i probab]y be do wouid be to make a motion tbat the
it miglit be a very good snuff box be remioved f romi the table. W%%hy
amnaigamated.
idea. but it bas uot been done and the Grain suspend the rule?
I bave ou one or tw-o
Act Is not yet before the Commons. In the occasions trîed to amend rules of the flouse,
meantirne the Commons bas more work to but I do not kuow that I have ever tried
do than it can properl-y attend to. The to suspend a mule, and I am bouud to say
northw-est members have not yet fiuished that wlien I attempted to ameud the mIles
We bave
the consideration of this Bill.
I w-eut against a very tough proposition.
only gone tbrough tliree or four of the
Hon. gentlemen sbould bave seen the bon.
clauses, so that it w-i take us two or three
member froum Halifax mise in bis might aud
days yet and there is plenty of time to atobject; ou the grouud that these rules bad
tend to It hiere without forcing it through
been ini force for forty years and w-ere we
to-night. Wben a decisiou is meacbed. w-e
some
anythi.ug going back- ou themi simply because
-are prepared to stand or faîl by
socialistic cbap had made a motion to do so.
agreed to by the conflicting interests. I arn
uuassiimiug mernprepared to *tnke anytblng 1 can get for the If 1, a humble, common,
ber of the House couhd uot get a rule
If I
farmers of my part of the country.
can get any kind of an amendment or com- amended w-heu I nioved for It witb better
promise that wlli enable them to be paid reason than is urged for its suspension at
one cent on tbe bushel more for their w-beat the present time, I do not see w-by Its sus'than tbey are getting now, 1 arn prepared pension sbould be granted now? I couid
'to accept It ou their bebaîf; but w-e must uuderstand it, if It w-ere the case of a pribave time to accompiish anythlug. We are vnte Bill which perhaps wouid 'be delayed
flot very strong in number, but our verv until another session If w-e did not suspend
*weakuiess ougbit to entitie us to some coube legitimate meason
During the discussion of this the mule thei-e would
eideration.

144()

SENATE
1440

ve would discuss the other orders on the
ninutes. I thought J w-as keeplng to the
1!ne, that I w-as hewing to the line and lett in- the chips fali where they may. The
imendments proposed tbis afternoon weret
liscussed and voted down. Now this leis1ation may flot effect me or the bon. gentlemnan front Assinihola, but it may affect our
ebildren and our chidren's chiidren, and
we do flot know how long. When a motion
is made to suspend a rule to raiiroad tbrough
the Senate a proposition which affects huadreds of thousands of peopie, w-e have a
right to show te evil effects it niay have and
I have a right to refer to te tact that w-e
raise 20 or 30,000,000 of bushels of wbeat ln
the Northwest and that lu the near future
we may ralse billions of busheis w-hic]'
ight be affected by this Act and our desire
shouid be to bettèr the conditions of the
Nothw-est provinces. This law miglit affect
the price of wheat ln the future 10 the
extent of 20 cents a bushiel, and surely w-e
shonid give sncbi a measure proper consideration and not use brute force to rush it
tbrough.
Pow-erý-The
Acting SPEAKER (Hon. M%.
hion, gentleman bas used te expression
'raiiroad through the House.' Rt is flot a
parliamteutary expression. It Js a reflection
on the action of the House. aad the hon.
gentlemn shouid flot reflect on the action
of the House. I cal] attention to the tact
that titis Bill was introduced on the 22nd
of MINay, nnd one dan bardly speak of 'railroading' ia connection -with IL.
The SPEAKER-Wl] the bon, gentleman
Hon. M~r. DAVIS-I should mot like to
restrain his limagination and stick to the
transgress the rules of the flouse. If the
motion before the House.
lion. Speaker says rallroadiag is flot a proHon. Mr. DAVIS-It is the first time I
lier expression, I might use the word tobogknew 1 had an imagination.
g-an or trolley through. If the expression
Hon. 'Mr. ROSS (idex-TeSpeaker
i,, off ensive I wh not use il again. I have
has said so.
been accused of filibusteriug-. I do tiot
'uw wietiter titat is a pariiamenar3' exMr. ROSýS (Halifaix)-The Speaker lias
priession or not. To xnr mind a filbuster
discover.
made the
mens a pirate, and I take exception to beHon. 'Mr. DAVIS-I do not see that I ani ing called a pirate. There w-as no filidrnw-ving ou my imlagination. I subulit my bustering- about it. We eudeavoured 10 get
motion before the Flouse ?
the ineasure through by six o'clock, but
gentleman couid not do so. and we w-ere told that w-e
The -SPEAKER-The lion.
may inake these remarks at the third read- întist ruish it through titis evening. I object
to the suspension of the ruies, and I arn
lag.
posted on the procedHon. 'Mr DAVIS-We w-nnt 10 move soine sorry I arn not better
this mûI thought this evening tire of the flouse. However, after
more resolutions, and
lion. Mr. DAVIS.

We disposed of t-0
for It ia that case.
v-ery important ameadinents this afternoon
and discussedl several others w-bic]' neyer
materialîzed, and w-e made good progress.
The hon. gentlemen w-ho Lave gone after us
wll find that w-e are very nimble la getWe are flot askIng anytbing
tiag round.
I suggested several amendunreasonable.
meats and the hon. gentleman ln charge of
the Bill said lie would confer wlt]' sotebody about them; w-hether he did so or
whether it had no affect I could not say,
but I fiad the very ameadments w-hic]' lie
w-ould not accept bere are being passed by
I ara a great believer ut
the other House.
and prosperity, the watchpence, progress
If w-e
word of the grent Liberal party.
bad peace ive wouid have progress, and if
w-e bad prog-ress w-e w-ould have prosperity
-the farmers w-ould prosper t0 the extent
of tbree or four cents per bushiel on their
wheat. If this Bill w-ere laid over until
to-morrow w-e w-ouid have peace and pros'My bon. friead. from Assinlbola
perity.
and my bion. friend to my right represent
the greit province of Saskatchewan, the
greatest free trading- province ia the Dominion, a province larger probably titan nny
three states lu the Amnerican Republic,
w-bich w-iii be te greatest aud richest of
the Dominion in the near future, a province
that mav withia hiaif a centuiry bave a
population of at 4east 20,000.000 of people,
«and .as a w-heat growi-ia province, WhLty are
w-e not lnterested?

JULY 8, 1908

1441

JUIY 8. 1908
1441
make this demand. When a proposition of
this kind la brought up ln any legislature
-and hon, gentlemen ask for a few heurs to
consider the matter It is granted as a matter of courtesy. We miglit demanci It as a
rîglit. We have a riglit to take up thne
when we are trying to do wbat is rlght.
The question mlgbt be discussed for three
or four days yet, and we wouid nlot toucli
the edge of it. The hon. gentleman from
Kingston laughs. He opened a large subunder discussion this afterjeet which was%
noon, the question of smut. My lion. friend
wbo is aiways open to be convinced and ai*ways Iooking for knowiedge and insigbt ln
regard to anytbing before the House,
brougbt Up the question of smut and bas
not yet touched the fringe of the simut question let aloiie the fringe of this Bill. My
hon. f riend l8 a scientific man and hie taiks
saut-

tien Is voted on, we shahl deal with the third
reading itseif, and the Bill opens a great
avenue for thoult and discussion, whlch
might take a week. We were routed hip
and thigli this afternoon, and as the majority must rule we are prepared to submit to
the ivili of the majority and we bow gracef ully. We would like time to prepare a
resolution that would be accepted by the
House. We received valuable suggestions
from the oCher aide, and they said If we
liad rnoved so and so they would be with
us. We were prepared to go on and accept
the suggestions of these gentlemen, and
then an objection was thrown ln the way.
I thiuk everybody is actuated by proper motives lu tbis discussion and I amn sure it
wili lie admitted by the. other aide tjbat the
hion, gentleman f romn Assinibola and myseif
are honest lu regard to it. We must meet
If we wish to compromise. We have had
expressions f rom the lion. gentleman frorn
Lindsay, who Is a practical farmer, no
better ln this House, and no man knows
tlie requirements of the agricultural community better than the lion. gentlemn.
He lias made the statement that If tbey
wouhd put la a certain dlaim it wouhd matisfy him, and it would satisfy the hon. gentleman f rom Portage La Prairie, and it
could go through tomorrow. But. the bon.
minister says it must go through to-night.
It Is easy to say that, but there is notbing
to lie gained. by it. The resointion of the
lion, gentleman from -St. Boniface was objected to by the hon. gentleman frorn Portage La Prairie on account of the phraseology. At first blush It seemed to me to be
right, but I desire tIme to consider that Motion. The Ides. was a correct one, although
the wordlng may not have been proper. We
are not going to give Up the -figlit. We are
not buUlt like that, and wlien we know we
are ilghting in the Interests of the people
,we will keep nt it. ns long as we have n leg
to stand on. When we are defeated on one
motion, we shahl retreat to the next sud
wli keep on moving until satlsfactory arrangements are made. We have a lot of
bon, gentlemen sitting here wbo are not as
well posted on the subjeet as giy hon. frlend
f rom Assiniboha and myself, but they are
sIttlng wlth tbelr eurs open drinkhng ln and
trying to learn, and I arn sure It wIhl appeal
to their sense of British fair play when ire

The SPEAKER-I think we have taiked
enougli emut this afternoon. The hon. gentleman la ont of order and lie shouid speak
to the question before the Chair.
Hlon. Mfr. DAVIS--I tbinik I 'have shown,
as far as my limited abiiity goes, good reasons *why the request should lie granted,
and I bave given reasons wby this Bill
should nlot be-I was going to say railroaded, but I wili say pusbied through the
House quicker than It sbould go. I do nlot
dlaim to be an orator, and perhaps my remarks have not been as entertaining as they
-might be. I dlaim to lie a practIcai business man who deals with subjects as they
corne before us day by day, and I contend
that we must consider this measure calmly
nnd cooiy. If anybody was to ask me to
go into any kind of a business proposition
nnd tell me it was a bargain, It might only
amount to $10,000, but do you thinli I would
do it at once? I would wî%ant time to consider. Yet here is a matter effecting hundreds of millions of dollars and we désire
time to tbink it over. I have oniy occupied
an bour and twenty minutes ln placing
these facts tiefore the House, and I thInli
that is n very short time indeed to discues
a matter of tis magnitude. I have sme
extended rernarlis to maire on the third
reading of the Bill, and If this vote la taken
to-nigbt and the third readIng proposed i t
will, no doubt, brlng on a general disdus-

REVISED EDITION

1442

14-42

SENATE
SENATE

sion. 1 do flot ivant to touch any of the
grounds now which I may want to cover
ln discussing the third reading. If the ruies
of the House would only permit me to explain the different phases of t'bis question,
I would do so. I have flot yet attempted
ta show the amount of wbeat which wouid
be affected by the proposed amendment, xior
-the acreage under cultivation nor the character of the land on which the wheat ls
grown.
The SPEAKER-Surely the hon. gentleman knows that lie Is out of order, and
if he has no regard for bis owu dlgnity
he should have for the decorumn of the
House.

agree with me that if I were to talk long
enough to bring about such a desirable
change It would affect others more tian
uiyself. I seldom speak, and only when I
-have something to say on matters affecting
the people I represent. I have neyer ohstructed the House or needlessly taken up
tinte lu discussing questions that I did not
uuderstand. The people I represent must
judge whether I am riglit or wrong. If I
violate any rule o! the bouse I expect to
be called to order, and until I am I have
a right to go on speakiug as long as I have
anythiug ta say on the subject. As long
as I keep within reasonabie bounds I bave
a right to discuss the question.

The SPEAKER-The bon. gentleman
Hoa. Mr. DAVIS-Iu what way arn 1
knows lie bas no riglit to repeat the saute
offending ?
words fifty times; for Instance lie has asked
The SPEAKER-lu brIngiag lu new for n 'breathing speli ' very frequently,
forais of obstruction in this House which and he shouid be wllling to give tbe House
are against the practice of the bouse, to a breathlng speli now.
fiay the lest.
Hou. Mr. DAVIS-I have asked for It
Hon. Mfr. DAVIS-I do flot think Impli- fifty times and have not got lt; perhaps
cations of obstruction should be made If I ask for It fifty-one tintes I may get
agaluat any member of this House.
IL Ask aud ye shall receive. I have kept
The SPEAKER-The bon. gentleman on asking and expect to receive lu tbe
lias been taiking manifestiy against tinte fuliness of time. In the fulîness of time
for the asat hour aud a hli.
I expect to be able to cortvince my riglit
Hou. MYr. DAVIS-We are now discus- hon. frlend lu charge of this mensure that
sing the ruies oif the bouse, and I do flot I am right, aud that he sliould grant wbat
kuow of auy ruie whicb prevents discus- I ask. I have hardly broken the crust of
sion ou a motion, so long as one keeps with- tuis question.
lu the range of argument relating to the
Hon. Mfr. POWER-Hear, hear.
resolution.
Hou. Mfr. DAVIS-I arn glad I have
The SPEAKER-Unfortunately there ls
sald something that my bon. friend apno ciosure in this House or lu the other
brandi. Nothing but rule 16, which pro- proves. It makes me feel good..
vides that the Speaker must preserve order
Hon. Mr. POWER-I understood the
-and decorum, aud I think the conduct or hon, gentleman to ssy lie bas not appronchthe hon. gentleman Is against the decorumn
ed the question, sud I agreed with hlmn
of the Senate.
there.
Hlon. Mfr. DAVIS-If I have said anyHon. Mr. DAVIS-I said I had bardly
thing offensive to auy member o! the House
or not within the reasonabie limits o! de- broken the crust o! the question. It la
bate, I shall certainly withdraw it, but 1 sucb a big question, that I miglit talk until
am not aware tint I have said anything morniug but I do not inteud to. I have
offensive or broken any mile of debate. I given good reasons wby we shouid flot
may not use as eloquent language as soute suspend tie rules. I hope thQ promoter o!
of my colleagues, being n self-made man, the Bill will let the third rendiug stand until
but I try to speak plainly. It may be de- to-mormow and give my hon. frlend from
sirable to have closure ln this Bouse, and Assinibois and my'self time ta consider It
I amn sure that many bon. gentleman will thoroughly.
Hou. Mr. DAVIS.

JULY 81 1908
JULY
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want te cali the
attention of His Honour the Speaker, te
the t.raming of this motion. It Is that
rules 24 a and 24 b be suspended insofar ns
tbey relate te, Bill (CCC) An Aet te amend
the Inspection and Sale Act as regards
grain. Rule 24 a reads as follows :
One day's notice must be given of any cf
the following motions: (a) to suspend any
rule or standing order or any part thereof;
(b) for the third reading of a Bill.
The motion au framed asks the suspension of the power to suspend. If yen ask
the suspension of 24 a you cannot suspend,
because the suspension ef the power te
suspend deprIves u-s of the power of suspending. I cail the attention of the chair
to mile 30, wbich snys :
No motion tto suspend any ruis or standing
order or any part cf a rule or order may be
ruade except on aone day's notice, specifying
the rule or order or part thereof proposed to
be suspended, and the purpose cf such suspension.
The ebject cf the rule Is te force the
party applying for the suspension te give
a day's notice, and te specify the mules
te be suspended, and the purpose of sucb
suspension. I dlaim that ln the present
instance the motion te comply with our
ruies shouid have been framed ln this way
-that mule 24 a be .suspended se as te
permit of the third reading of the Bill
to-day. That le the object of the suspension. Even If the. motion were ln compliance *'with mule 30, 1 contend -that we
cannot ask the suspension ef 24i ; we can
only asl. the suspension of 24b.
The SPEAKER-The bon, gentleman la
probably rlght, nnd I believe the better
pmactice te be followed weuld be to state,
as clause 30 mentions, the object of the
suspension; but the practice cf the Houe
bas been te sImply ask for the suspension
ef the rule which Is an impediment to
movlng the Bill forward. In future, It
wouid be more correct toe tate tbe purpose. Tbe reason Is generally obvious, as
ln this case fer Instance; but there ls no
difficulty ln the way ef adding 'for the purpose of nîoving fortbwith the third meadIng
ef the Bill.'

1443

1443
8, 1908
The SPEAKER-Practice does net override the law, but wben practice fehlows thse
spirit of the law sufficiently, I weuld net
upset a. notice when it bas been aanctioned
in the iSenate by leng practice.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-WIhl
the Speaker tell uswhat thc effect of suspendlng subsection (a) of mule 24 is? If
we suspend that, where le the power Ieft
for suspending the other mule?
The SPEAKER-I stated I did not sec
thse object of mentloning subsection (a) ln
thc present Instance. This is a general
declaration whlch cevers thc suspension of
any mIle or standing erder, and I weuld
tiink lt Is only r'eccssary te mention thc
muie one wants te suspend without mentioning subsection (a).
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.-Lf
we pass this motion we suspend subsection
(a) and bave ne power te, suspend subsectien (b).
Hon. M. POWER-Thc mile says that one
day's notice -must be given of any of the
following motions--to suspend any mule or
standing order or any part thereof.
The
propositien was te suspend a mule whicb
required a day's notice of Uic Srd readiDg
atter Uic Bill was reported from committee. That seems reasenable.
Tben with
respect te rule 30, I wish te direct the attention ef Uic House te the tact that Uic
righit bon, gentleman yesterdiy, when Uic
question of order was raised, gave notice
that he would move te suspend Uic mule,
nnd stated tbat it was ln otder Uiat Uic
Bill migbt be read the 3rd tîme. Rnle 30
dees net sny that that part efthUi notice
muet be In writing. [t muet mefer te, this
Bill, because that was the matter under
consideration.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
weuld suggest to the right hon, gentleman
who moves It, that he ask te be allowed
to drop the first part and meve Uic. latter
part.

The SPEAKER-The peint of order le
ef a semewbat tecbnical character. The
notice given bas foliewed Uic practice. I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Do I cenfees en readlng subclause (a) of mile 24
understand tbe henourable the Speaker te Uieme dees net appear te, be any necessity
say tbat practice over-rIdes the iaw?
for mentioning ItL
911

SENATE

1444

SENATE
Hon. Mr. POWER-With aIl huillitY, I existing grades.

1444

We have met the opposite
views of those gentlemen wbo are so -verv
touchy upon interferlng wltb the blgh standard of the grades ln the fo'reign market
That ls: ln accord witb my own view. There
ls nothlng here that cau be construed linto
We
any deterloration of these grades.
slimply create a grade for this grain under
The SPEAKER-,Clause 24 can be read dispute, and have lnvented bere a new
separately. There are differeut subsectiens; naine by whicb it shahI be iknown ln the
as It rends, one day's notice must be given future, aad it will be sold under the naine.
of any eue of the followlng motions, se yen Nebody wlll be hurt or lnjured, but denlers
can taire any eue paragraph, but the prac- wlll be called upon to pay the proper price
tice bas been te take botb. On the whole, for It, and the profit will go to the parties
I declare the point of order net well taken, iuterested. I hope It wvill meet with the
because of the practîce of the Seate. Per- approval of the riglit bion. gentleman lu
haps we should ndhere more clesely te the charge of tbe Bill.
letter of clause 30, because in this instance
lion. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-l
the right bon. gentleman did declare the
purpese for whielh he meved the suspension have no' objection to state wbat I have decided to do. I have the greatest possible
of the rude.
objection, and for very good rensons, to
The motion was agreed te.
allow nmendmniets wbichl require serious
consideration aînd consultation wvith experts
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWR.IGHT
on tlîe subject, to be tuirown at the bead
ineved the ithird readlng of the Bill.
of the Senate or at niy ewn bead at the
Hou. Mr. DOUGLAS moved in amend- stage of the third readlng. This Bill bas
ment, that the Bill be net now rend n 3md been before the House for seven mort ai
time but that it be amended by addiug te lt weeks, and four turnes, eltber ut bis Inthe followlng :
stance or at the istance of Cther parties,
That ail Manitoba rejected wheat after pas- netably the hon, gentleman whio addressed
sing through the terminal elevater and %tfter the Hlouse at sucb enormous lengtb and te
being propemly treated shall be graded by th,3 se littie purpose this evening, four ivlio]e
inspecter aud put into special bina as No. 1,
2 or 3, te be known as cleaned rejected wheat. days were given hlm te censider. If tbe
boa, gentlemen wanted te bai-e laid these
He sald : I1do.not subit this with ny
things belore us, tbey bad ample time. I
,desire te obstruct, but wlth a desire te bring
cannet accept any amendinent at this stage,
the parties together and carefully cousider
if tbe lion. gentleman wlll place that
the dlfferent views that were advocated this but
amendient lu my hands It shall bave full
afternoen. It can easîly ha seau that under
I eau
this phraseelogy the parties can ail agree te and fair consideration. That Is ail
thîs amendmient wilbOut auy difficulty. My p)romise at the present. I 'iill see tbat it
lion. fmiend frein Portage la Prairie advo- is submitted and considered, and hie knews
Cated a special class of grain for this ini- rîght wcll that at this stage of the session
proved wheat, and we lad suggestions from it is only fair te tbe Heuse of Commens
the bon. membar frein Lindsay lu the sanie tbat tbey sheould bave tbis measure befere
We lad valuable suggestions thein witheut further delay. 0f course, if
direction.
submltted by my hou. fmiend frein Wolseley, hie wishes te proceed withi this ameadment
and la view of the motion made this after- I du net object. The motion is fair enough
neon, we have ne objections te tbese su-- if bie chooses te preceed, but bie -will merely
gestions. We yield because we bave netli- prejudice the case, because there will proIng te yleld. We were ready te agree nt bably be a decision against it on the part
auy moment that tbere should be a speclal of the majority of tbls House. If lie negradlng for this grain. We have met tbe cepts my offer, on the other band, hie wll
views of the millers wbo do net like grain get a full and fair censideratien fer what
that bas been scoured te enter any of the hie bas offeredÈ.

beg te differ frein the Speaker on tbat point.
-Rule 24a says that a day's notice must be
given of a motion te suspend the ruie, and
aise te rend a Bill the 3rd time. In tbis
case, you are suspendiag tbe ruie for a
day's notice at the 3rd reading.

The SPEAKER.

JULY S, 1908
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-I do not know that
we are just la a position to accept the
proposition.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThen I 'would suggest to the hon, gentleman to move the adjournment of the debate. I do not waut the House to have
toc listen to such another diatribe as we
have lstened to to-nigbt. I wouid point
out to the hion. gentleman that he 'wiii preindice the motion hie bas made by taking
thiat course.
Hou. Mfr. DOUGLAS-I em confident
that ail the views that have been contended for in the discussion this afternoon are
fully met ln the phraseoiogy of this motion.
Hon. Sir 11IHARD CARTWRIGHTThe lion. gentlemian may be correct, but I
w-i prejudice his case by
M-arn lm huile
the course hie is taking.
Hou. Mfr. DOUGLAS moved the adjourament of the debate.
Hon. Mfr. XERR-I do not think the bon.
gentleman understands the effect of adjourniug the debate until to-morrow. I
think hle would serve bis own purpose by
letting the Bill be read the third time,
and hand the motion to the hon. member ln
charge of the Bill, on bis promise that the
matter w-i be carefuliy considered.
The SPFAKI-ER-DO, I understand that
before tlue hon. gentlemhan moves the adion rnmient of the debate hie puts In my
baud a motiou lu amndment?
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-I hope that the bon.
member for Assiniboin wiil accept the
minister's proposition. -He bas submitted
bis amendment and, the minister bas
promnised to gfive It favourable consideration.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
said full consideration-not favonrable consideration.
Hon. Mfr. WVATSON-I would suppose that
something along that line should receive
favourable consideration, . because I am
satisfied that there la a desire to place
smut wheat lu some position to make a
grade for it. I wili not say that my Idea
la right, but some three weeks ago when
this matter was being considered ln the

14

House I suggested that a special grade
should bie made for scoured -wheat, which
means smut wheat; after being properly
treated.
Hon. Mr. -LANDRY-What la
tion before the House?

the mo-

Hon. Mr. WATSON-The motion la on
the adjournment of the debate.
Hon. Mr. FFERGUSON-The hon, gentleman cannot discuss that.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I was remarking
that I thought it would be weli, ia the
interests of the Bill, and In the interests
of the ameadment proposed, not to adjouru
the debate, but to allow the Bill to have the
third reading. The hon. gentleman knows
there are a number of gentlemen here,
representatives of the Grain Growers' Association and other representatives who
have bad several conferences with the Minister of the Interior, who has taken charge
of the Bill lu the House of Commons, and
hie knows very weli that these gentlemen
are suggesting amenumeflts to the Bill
whicb bas been already passed, and no
doubt wili make ameudments and suggestions that whi bie introduced lu the House
of Gommons, and surely the bon. gentleman can trust the representatives whio are
meeting the Minister of the Interior day
after day, to framne some clause that will
be acceptable to the Miinister of Trade and
Commerce, who has charge of the Bill, and
which wili be acceptable also to the flouse
of Commons. I wouid ask therefore, that,
in the Interests of the Bill, and In the
interests of legisiation at this stage of the
session, when the Minister of the Interior
and the House of Commons representatives
are anxions to -have those twvo Bills passed
through the *House of Commons practicaily
together, because the Grain Inspection Bill
and the Standard Bill are kindred Bis and
ought to go together, and IL would ask the
hon. gentleman f romn Assinnibola, in the
best Interest of the grain growers that hie
represents, that hie shouid not press for an
adjournment of this débate, but will allow
and be
the Bill to be read a third tie,
sent to the House of Gommons so as to
permit this couference to take place with
the Minister of the Interior.

1446

SENATE
SENATE

1446
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I should like to say,
wltb respect to the adjournment o! this
debate, that I tbluk It is a wlse course to
adopt. We have discussed tbis question,
aud I do not thlak there là; a bair's breadth
of difference betweeu tbe hou, gentlemen
wbo have been opposlng the proposition and
ourselves. I do flot see why we caunot
adopt this ameudment in tbe ISenate as
well as lu the House o! Commons. Have
we not abllity enough to put It tbrougb?
If -we decide that thîs provision is. a good
oue, 'we eau Insert It lu the Bill, and If
the House of Commons -do flot want It,
they eau strikze it out. If the debate Is
adjourned, we shahl have a conference of
the Nortbwest members, and tbe proposition of! my bon. frlend from Assinibola can
be consldered by the members at thie conference, and If it Is ail rlgbt, wby cau It not
be lnserted a! ter the conference to-morrow.
Let us see If we canuot to-morrow arrive
at some common ground that wlll be acceptable to ail. There Is no difference praetlcally between us-

gestion lu the luterest of the object that
these two bon. gentlemen bave lu view, and
I think my bon. friend Is mucli more likely
to accomplish his object by accepting the
suggestion the Mlnister hais made.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTMy hbon. frleud who bas just spoken has
quite correctly lnterpreted the position of
the government on the point.
second
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-Upon
thought, and, hoplng that we shall bave
this matter dlscussed to-morrow muorniug,
perbaps, ln the Interests of ail concerued, It
is better I sbould flot move the adjournment of the debate, -but place the inatter
iu the baud of the Mlnlster.
The motion was allowed to be witlidrawn.
The SPEAKER-The question is on the
motion for the tbird readingé of the Bill.
Hlon. Mr. DAVIS-I move that we adjourn tbe debate.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. If the bon. gentleman Is golug to set himself UP against "Il
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Wlth the exception tbe rest of the House and defy the sentithat the bon, gentleman wants to delay thie ment of both sides o! the House, hie caunot
Bill, and I want to bave It passed and sent expect the House to accept anY sucla Proposition.
down to the Commous.
Hon. ',%r. DAVIS-We are not delaylug
lt. Tbe bon. gentleman knows very well It
cannot be dealt -wltb before to-morrow
uiglit. Just give us an..hour and we wll
fix It up.
Hon. Slr MACKENZIE BOWELLý-I
voted witb my bon. frlend to my left
(Hon. -Mr. Douglas), because I thouglit his
motion was In favour of the grower and
the farmer, but a!ter the declaration made
by the Minister of Trade and Commerce,
who bas this mneasure lu charge, if I mîglit
make a suggestion, 1 would say to my
frlend n-ho bas moved the adjourumeut of the debate, tbat It would be
advlsable to withdraw that motion, aud
accept the declaratlon made *by the
Minister o! Trade and Commerce that lie
-wlll give this question tbe f ullest consideration; and, after that consîderatIon, and,
I presume, consultation with those wbo are
lnterested la this question, that lie n-ll use
bis Influence, wbatever it may 'be, with hîs
colleagues, to bave tbe motion adopted by
-tbe House of Commons. I make this sugHon. Mr. WATSON.

Hion. Mr. DAVIS--I do not draw my Inspirations from the ex-leader of the opposition.
Hon. Mr. SCOTt-Tbe bon. gentlemlan Is
not serviug the cause lie professes to advocate; lie Is rather damaging the cause.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-That is n matter of
opinion between my bon. friend and myseif.
I amI responsible to the people for thatflot to my bon. friend. Wby could wve ilot
consider the proposition at the conference to,-morrow morning ? If the memibers
o! the conference say, 'We shall not accept it,' I whll drop the matter and permit
the Bill to go tbrough nt 3 o'.clock but if
tHe majorities say that the clause sbonld
be lnserted In the Bill, I want to L-eep the
matter open until sucli time as w-e can
make, the motion to add this clause. Why
sbould the Senate not deal with this question as well as the House of Cominons?
It ls a reflection upon us to say that we
cannot deal wltb It. As far as we have
gone lu the argument. the majority of the

JUTLY 8, 1908
that the carde
members from the west are with us, and I point out to my hon. friend
the for prorogation are out to-day. and maY I
I think ln five minutes we could convince
have decided on
others. We have aiready convinced one isk If the government
have 'he date.
doubting Thomas. I think we shouid
fair play. I do flot desire to obstruct, and
Hon. Mr. 8COTT-There le no date on
I propose to place my position before the the carda.
House In a nutsheil. In tbe Interests et
Hon.M1r. LÀOUGED-From the rumors
the producer, we wish to bave sometbing
dlams of wheat, and I de- circulated ln the press, which I presume are
dune with this
parliai
sire to bave the debate adjuurned lu order well founded, It would seemn that
rnay be agreed upon. But ment is to be prorogued. a week from Saturthat surnetbing
to
we are told we cannot adjourn the debate day. When does my bon. friend. intend
It is a weii
ait during the mornings?
the Bihl must be forced. through.
and that
known tact that at a very early date we
Hon. Mfr. SULLIVAN-Supposing the
will recelve the Civil Service Bill-ln act
Senate dues not comply with the bon. genwe should have bad it to-dey--and that wiiI
tleman's request ?
occupy a very great deal of time and attenHlon. Mfr. DAVIS-Ail right. Perliaps the tion.
people will. It le a good thing that surne
Hon. Mr. iSCOT'r-That Bill bas not come
lion, gentlemen do not bave to go to the
for election. Perhaps a great many up yet.
country
of them would neyer corne back. Tlhere le
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHI)ED-A great many
one thing sure : I do not bave to stay In most Ime~ortant measures will be dowfl In a
this House. I eau go back to the Hou se of few days, and It seeme to me that rny hion.
Communs, and that Is sometbing that a friand as leader of the governrnent ln this
great many members ln this Chamber can- House shouid. adopt smre measures whereflot say. It le evidence that I arn doing the by we -can give more consideration to those
beet I cou for the country. 1 sbould like Bille tixan we are doing, because during the
smre hon. gentleman to run for any of the next few days we wll be deluged with the
rldings lu rny part of the country and cee most Important measures of the session, and
where they would be. There ts no use my It seeme to me that ln order to give proper
teylng to force this proposition If the Sen- consideration to them my hon. friand. shouid
ate Is flot going to accept I. There le a take the necessary stepe to provide for
press In the country, and they wili know murnlig sessions.
about It and deal with It, and there are
Hon. Mfr. SCOT'T-I puiposed doing se
platforme ln the country, and the people
have
It from the platform. 1 du not wlieu the necessity arome. As the Bill
will hear uf
flot corne up to us yet I tbought it was
propose to talk any longer; the Bill eau
change as
take the third reading. I bave asked as a ratier premature to maize any
yet
favour that it should be postponed, but
the request le nut granted. Pase your Bill.
Hon. Mr LOUGH[EED-There le no reaagreed to. the Bill was no wby we should not have the Civil SerThe motion was
vice Bill bere.
rend the third tirne and passed.
BILL.
,Hou. Mfr. SCQI'T-It wae rend a third
AGRLICULTURAL F'ERTILIZERS'
trne yesterday; there were a number of
READING.
FIRST
arnendmeuts made, and I presumne tbey are
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT introduced Bill (LLL)
having them reprinted.
'An Act respecting Agricuitural FertIlIzers.ý
le flot to pase tbis Bill
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLr-I
Ha sald: The ubjeet
thîs session, but simply to have it printed wouid suggest to rny bon. friand the Sacreand circulated.
tary of iState that ha should give notice to
suspend the rule of the Senate by which we
the fir st time.
The Bihl was rend
adjoura frorn Friday until Tuesday, to anPROROGATION.
able the Houee to meet on èfunday.
Hon. '-%r. LOUGHIEED-Without any deHon. Mr. -SCOTT-I Intend doing that.
sire to occupy the time of the House, rnay

1448

SENATE

SENATE
1448
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEILL-&s Act, the Election -Act, this Land Bill, and
to the intention of the government upon the one or two oViers of wvbich notice bas been
very volurninous and Important BIIh called given by the Premier. I hope the hon.
the Land Bill, I notice ln the *House ot Secretary of State wiIl consider welI the
Commons after they bad discussed the mat- suggestions I bave made to hlm, and If he
ter for some time, tbat the Speaker ruled desires prorogation to take place at an
it out of order ; that it being a money Bill earIy date he bad better postpone Vie conIt sbouId bave been in'troduced by resolu- sideration of these measures until Vie next
tion, and after the resolution was adopted session of parliament.
the clauses of the Bill1 should have been
Hon. MI,. iSOOTT-Tbe number of Bills
consldcred, but atter the Bill had been lnyet to corne up Io raVier limited, very much
trodnced, and some 150 clauses discussed,
iess Vian usual, although, as the hou. genthe Speaker took exception to a inostion
says, Viey are of very great immade by Mr. Lake on the ground that it tleman
portance. The land Bill Is, I understand,
wns a money Bill and bis -motion could
îlot be aiccepted. Then thbe leader of the a consolidation of the present law. Froni
opposition, Mr. Borden, ra&sed Vie saine the debate ln Vie other -House 1 gathered
question ln reference to the Bill itself, and that the principal change was ln reference
the Speaker took it into consideration. to the sale of land ln a certain area for the
I have flot yet seen what decision he lias purpose of creatIng a fund towards the
given ln reference to the Iast objection construction of the -Hudson Bay Railway.
taken to L.ie Bill1. If the Speaker decIded That, I think, Is really Vie principal feature
that Vie m-bole Bill was improperly Intro- of tbe Bill. There may be other points.
duced they would have to begin de I bope when the Bil11 cornes before us to
novo by resolution, *and
If that Is be able to point out anythlng new; but I
done It wlll take another three' or four tbink four-fiftbs of it must be the present
days to complete It. But even If we meet law. I presume that by to-morrow sorne of
la the inoring-and I do flot see any ne- the important Buis -wIil be here. ,I will
cessity for It untIl we get Vie important make Inquiry.
BilIs-the business to corne before us is of
IDXTENSI0N
0F 31ANITOBA
sufficient Importance to fulIy occupy the
BOUNDARY.
ti-me of the Senate if tbey propose to give
Hon. Mr. EERGUSON-Is it the intenIt any consideration, -a much longer period
than is to be ailowed to us, if prorogation tion of the goverunent 'to introduce a Bill
ls to take place on the 18th, and I tbtink It for the extension of the boundary 0f Maniwould be a very good lesson to the govera- toba?
ment if Vie -Senate would move to delay
the consideration of those Buis until neit
session, following the precedents set by
the late Sir Alexander Campbell at the begiuning of confederation when very Imnportant mneasures w'ere sent to the Senate
for cousideration n few days before prorog-ation, then the Senate stood upon Its
dignity and asserted its rîght to have sufficient tinie to consider questions of s0 vast
Importance, and delayed the consideration of aIl the Buis sent up unitil the iiext
session of parlianient. If the Senate would
adopt the sanie policy now, they would be
asserting a right to have sufficient time
given to them to consider ail measures of
sucb vast importance as those which are to
be sent UL) to us-that is the Civil Service
Hon. Mlr. SCOTT.

Hon. Mr. 8COTT-1 think an announcement was made la the other Honse that it
was. It wns mentioned la the ýSpeech froin
the Throne, and by the Premier la the
other House. Many difficulties bave been
sugg-ested as to ternis, and a variety of
questions that could flot be soived at -an
early period had to be postponed.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-M-%ay I ask whiat
the Prime Minister meant by inforrning
the H.ouse that such a Bill wouîd be brougbt
down?
Hou. 'Mr. SGOTT-I arn not controverting
that fact.
Hon. '.\r. LOUGHEEED-The bion. g-entleman should have knowiedge ou so important a subject.

JULY 9, 1908114
FERGUSON-I asked the que sHon. M-Nr.
tion, because an evening paper to-day anxxounced that it was flot the intention of
the government to introduce a Bill, but to
Introduce a resolution declarink what the
additions to the varlous provinces should be.
I think the Prime Minister stated yeaterday
that the Bill was ready; but this would
seem to be rather a contradiction of that
statement.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
A Bill of that kind would have to be preceded by and based upon resolutions that
were passed. Ain I rlght ia that vlew that
I take o! the land Bill ? It is a consolidation, as 1 understand, of fihe laws now governing the dealing with the lands lu the
Nortbwest and Iucorporatlng In the Bill,
the different orders lu council *wbicli have
been passed, and upon wbich the (Minister
of the Interior have been acting lu the
past-crystalzing tbem into clauses in the
law. Tbat la the view that 1 -have taken
o! that Bill-ot merely an ameudmeut to
the present law as It stands, and an incorportation of ail the different acta into one ;
but also makiug law of that which la thxe
past bas been deait with by orders la council. If that be the case, to my mind it
would be an advantage In dealing with so
Important a question; it -would prevent the
luister doing wbat it la ahleged lie bas
done, .having. orders lu coVncil passed relating to lands ln an Improper way.

the government, and many of them have
been disposed of by the House, and they
certainiyý should be here by this time, and
Ir tixis House sbould not dispose of thein
during the present session, my hon. friend
will scarceiy be able to biame those wbo
desire to give proper consideration to theni.
QUEBEC BRIDGE DISASTER.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-WlIi rny hon. friend
flot forget our tenaclous dlaim for the papers relative to the Quebec Bridge Company.
We have the report of the 'Royal Commission on the accident that took place, and
that report Io accompanled wlth a number
of maps; but there la a volume that is missing, probably another volume that Is being
prInted or Is la the presa, but it bas flot
been given to the public yet. 1 hope we
shall have that before we discuss the policy
or the government on the bridge question.
It compietes the report, and 1 hope thxe minister wlll be good enough to see that it Is
placed In our hands ilu opportune time.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot thiak thxe
printing will be ready before the end of the
session. I do not think It will be possible.
-Hou. Mr. LÂNDRY-That wili go with
the repairs of thxe Dufferin Terrace.
The Senate adjourfled until tbrec o'cIock
to-morrow.

THE SENATE.

Hion. Mr. LOUGHEED-Ca'n the bon. genOTTAWA, Thursday, July 9, 1908.
tleman also say when the Que'bec Bridge
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree
Legialation wili be brought down ? Tbat
la a subject which wiil create a lengtby o'clock.
This House
and Important discussion.
Prayera and routine proceedings.
would be recreant to Ita duty if the matter
WORKS ON DUFFERIN TERRACE.
were not discussed at great length. Reverting to what n-as said about thxe boundINQUIRY.
ariea of 'Manitoba, I wouid refer ny bon.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
friend to the stateuxent of thxe Premier, finit
By increasiag the number of worknien to
resolutions extending the boundaries of
limit, can the governlianitoba, Ontario aud Quebec would be the utmost possible
aient complete the works whioh it is actually
brought down yeaterday.
Terrace, so as to permit the
doing ut Dufferia
opening of that promenade to the public et
Hou. Mr. SCOOT-I have ur had time to the celebration of the tercenteaary fêtes?
rend ail those reporta.
SCOTT-AIl the worknxen, that
Hon. MxxIr
LOUGHEED-Those are mat- lt is possible to use to advantage, are uow
Hon. MvNi
ters deait witb by council, witb wbich my on tbis work, and it 1,3 not possible to
bon. friend should be familiar. Ail those complete It, to permit of tixat portion of
measures appear to have been prepared by tue terrace wbichi bas been closed to the

1450

SENTATE

1450

SE~ATE

public being used, betore thse Quebec cele- Balance clalmed by Bank of
Montreai on bond account
brations.
$3,7î3,223 7-7
April 30, 1908.. .. .......
DEBENTURES 0F QUEBEC BRIDGE
The bank aiso dlaims f rom the coxnpany
AND It7ILWAY COMPANY.
on account of temporary advances, inciudlug lnterlm Interest to May 31, 1908, $174,INQUIRY.
431.36.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inqulred:
The wboie Issue of bonds above referred
1. Ulp ste whlat amount was the Quebec to was pledged to the Bank of Montreal
Bridge and Ra.ilway Company authorized te for the said advances amounting to $5,issue debentures?
2. What amount of debentures has thse 016,453.66. On repayment of the $2,000,000
ccmpany iasued?
on February 8, 1908, the Bank of Mou3. For what arnount has thse gvernment
gua ranteed the debentures issu~ by thse treai transferred to the government ef
Bridge Comapany?
these guaranteed bonds £478,700, approx4. What is the amount which thse Bank of
Montreal claime from thse Bridge Company lmateiy $2,3W0,000, lu accordauce with the
fer advances in monev -made th e company, provisions of cliapter 35 of tihe Acts of
aLd what amount of debentures has it re- 1907.
ccived as a guarantee for repaymnentP
5. On February 8, 1908, thse goverument
5. Apart f rom this claim of the Baak of
Montreal, has thse Bridge Compsany borrowed advanced by way of lann to tise Bridge
direotiy from the geverameat a sum of $2,000,000, by -a discount of $1,000,000 upon 'La Company thse sum of $2,000,000 under thse
banque de Paris et des Pays Bas,' and of statute referred to. Thse discounts by thse
$1,000,000 on the ' Credit Foncier Franco- Banque de Paris et des Pays Bas and the
Canadien,' repayable àu one ykear cat Ithe
Crédit Foncier Franco-Canadien referred to
Bank of Montreal et 4 per cent?
6. How muoh altogether does the company ln thse question are distinct and separate
now owe:,
thse
(a) Tc thse goverament for advances of transactions froxa the loan made by
Money?
goverument to the Quebec Bridge Coma(b> To the Bank of Montreal?pany.
(c) To other financial institutions?
6. (a) Covered by former answers.
(d> Tc the Department of Customns?
(e) To thse Phoenix Company?
(b) Covered by former answers.
(f) Tc any other persons whatscever?
(d) The unpald duty on bonded materiai
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers to tise at Cisaudiere thse greater part of which
bon. gentleman's ixxquiry are as foiiows:
went dowa witis the Quebec Bridge. ls
1. By chapter 54 of tise Acts o! 1903, up $32,682.00--secured by material lu bond at
te an amount of $6,678,200.
Bel-Air valued at $286,776.00.
2. Thse company under tise said Act bas
(c), (e) and (t).
issued bonds to tise amnount autisorized,
Ou June 20, 1908, befere thse Select Coin$6,678,900, whIsch were piedged with t'e
mittee appoluted te Investigate thse conBank of MoutreaQi for advances.
ditions and guarantees under wbicb thse
3. Thse goverument bas guaraateed thse
Dominion gevernment pald money to thse
payment of d'e principal and Iuterest of
Quebec Bridge Company, the president er
tise issue referred te. as authorized and
thse company testified as foleows:
empowered by said Act.
Wheu asked wisat thse liabilities; of thse
4. Thse Bauk of M.Nontreal dlaims on guaof tise liabilities to
for advances of prin- company were outside
raxiteed bond accounlt
the Bank of Montreal and to thse goverui66
cipal..............$5,016,453
February S,
156,770 11 ment for $2,000,000-before
Interest to April 30, 1908..
1908, a Ilability et thse company to thse
Tisey owe salaries for thse
77 bank-hbe said:
Total............$5,773,223
iast montis.'
Less $2,000,000 loaned by tbe
Thse Cbairman : 'Is that ail you owe ?'
government te t'e company
Mr. Parent: 1Yes.' ' Is tbere no floating
and repaid to thse banir undebt ? ' Mr. Monk asks.
der chapter 35, Acts et
0
Mr. Parent: ' No, and tisere never bas
1907.............$2,000,000
been any floating.'
Hion. Mr. SCOTT

RTLY 9, 1908

1451

JULY 9, 1908

1451

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Put it on the paper,
*Mr. Barker : ' What about your liabiiitY
and I wiii try and g-et an answer.
to the Phoenix Bridge Company V
Mr. Parent: 'That le a question of law.'
DEPLETION OF GOLD RIDSERVE.
REýCONSTRUCTION 0F QUEBEC
INQUIR_?Y POSTPONED.
BRIDGE.
-Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I desire to eall attention to a question 1 asked the lion, minister on iuesday last, whicb reads as follows:
1. Since the. fali of the, Quebec bridge, bas
the company which had undertaken t he conettuction of it, applied to the government for
any assstance whatever?
2. WhenP
3. 0f what nature was the assistance asked
for P
4. What was the repiy of the government?
The followlng debate took place on tbat
Inquiry:
Hlon. Mtr. SCOTT-The Phoenix Bridç'. Company, wieh had the contract for the construction of the. Quebec bridge, has not appiied to
the government for any assistance.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Does the. hon, gentleman say the. Quebse Bridge Company kus not
applid ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-No. The Phoenix Bridge
Comapany haas flot applied.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-I.was not aeking «s to
the. Plioenix Bridge Company. I was asking
as to the Quebec Bridge Company, and that
answer is that the Phoenix Bridge Company
had not applied.
Thse Phoenix Bridge Company hias only
taken a part of the construction of the
bridge ; thnt Is the superstructure ; but the:
substructure bad been contracted for by
It Is the company tint gave
Mr. Davis.
those two coutracts, one to the Phoenix
Bridge Company and one to Mr. Davis. 1
hope thse hon, gentleman wiil reconsider
tiat question.
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-I must protest against
being catechized lu the nianner lu 'which I
We are rushed withi Important paramn.
liamentary business and thse hon. gentIeman considers thnt ail my time must be
given to answering questions 0f that nature.
That question wns answered as fuiiy as I
was able to answer It, and 1 can get no
He does not seeni
furtiier Information.
to, be rensonabie.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I arn net speaking
1 arn speakof the answer given to-day.
ing of a inisunderstanding the day before
yesterday.

The order or the day being caiied:
By the Hon. Mfr. Ferguson:
That h.e will cali the attention of the Senate
to the depletion of the goid heid by the, goverament durîng the mo.th. of November and
December last, and will inquire of the goverament1. Was specie amounting to $5,115,000 withdrawn from the federal treasury in November and December lest in coasequence of an
order in council made on November 12, 1907,
as amended by another order in council made
on -the 26th of the, saine -monitii, autiiorizing
an issue of Dominion notes, without a corre3ponding increase in the, circulation of Doiniinion notes?
?. Did the, goverament when they made the
said order in council, contemplate the issue
and circulation in Canada of Dominion notes,
or the withdrawal fromn the treasury and exportation of specie P
3. If such withdrawal and exportation of
sePecie was not coatemplated by the. gcvernment, was it not their duty to guard against
the depletion of the. gold reserves of the. treasury by providing tint the notes issited, without lawf ni security, should not b. presented
for redemption, until the loans they were
intended te facilitate had been repaid P
4. Did the, specie mentioned la the first
question or part thereof form part of the
exportations .of golà made te 'the United
States, in November and December, 1907, .imounting to $7,297,778?
5. What were the cu rrent premium rates un
gold, stated weekly, in New York, in November and December. 1907, and did the, government cf Canada participate in the, profits accruing f£rom premîums on gold, *withdrawn.
from the treasury, and soid in New York
dnring the, said montiis? If se, how mucli?
6. Ia wiiat way did the~ withdrawal of the
goverament gold reserves during the. months
cf November and December.. 1907, and the.
exportation in the saine period of a correý.ponding amount of gold, to the, United States,
iresuitiag f rom the said order in council,
reliev. the financiai stringency in Canada and
facilitate the movenient cf the western grain
crcpP
7. What portion cf the loans, etated beiow
(ses retura submitted te thie Hanse of Comnmons on Aprril 8, 1908), made by the, be.uk of
Montreal, on account cf the Dominion government for fnciiitating the, movement cf the.
western grain crop was used1. In tiie purchase cf grain direct from the.
producers P
2. In the movement of grain aIready in
elevators. te the seaboard or points of consumption, before the close cf lake navigation
in 1907, giving the. date cf the, lateat siiipment
by the. lakes rou"??

SENATE
145~

1452

Date of
November
November
November
November
December
December
December
Deenber
December
December
January

lban.
21, 1907..
26, 1907..
29, 1907..
30, 1907..
13, 1907..
24. 1907..
26, 1907..
26, 1907..
30, 1907..
30, 1907..
2, 1908..

No. of loan.
1 $
2
3
4

5
6
7
8

9

10
il

Arnount.
500,000
500,000
500,000
500,000
150,000
165,000
300,000
1,000,000
750,000
750.000
200,000

¶Ion. 34r. SCOTT-I mnust ask the hou.
gentleman froni Marshfield to let this lnThe aaswer was prepared,
qulry stand.
but the iMinister of Finance would not let
He is
It be presented until hé saw IL.
ln the House for 15 hours during 24, and
it is quite Impossible to get near hlm.

aind I think the eoaduct of the hon, gentleman is against the decoruni of the Senate.
I do flot know whether the Speaker ls
properiy reported or not. if lie has been
improperly reported, I would like to have
this set rlght. I arn a public man, and do
not want It spread abroad that 1- bave
conducted myseif contrary to, the decorum
of the House. I arn ln the judgrnent of
the Senate to say whether I expressed myself la any way to warrant such a statement. Had I been cailed to order, I should
have bowed to the ruling of the chair,
as I always do. I think the reînark attributed to His Honour the Speaker ls uncalled for, and should be expunged.

The SPEAKER-If Engiish were my
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I feel quite dis- mother tongue perliaps I would have used
appoiated, because I have been ready ail «a more subtle terni to convey the sanie
Now it will go over until next i(lea that I expressed ln, perhaps, someweek-.
week, I suppose.
But I confess the
whiat abrupt ternis.
words I dld use f ully conveyed niy thouglit.
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-I had the first auswer
the other day.
Some hou. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Two days ugo.

gentleman
bon.
The SPEAKER-TJle
involved looking ul) perhaps belleved that the rnethods followed
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-It
I spoke to Mfr. Field- elsewhere should prevail ln this Chamber.
a lot of accounts.
I wil try My understaading of the practice aud eus1l1g, and he was quite wllling.
tlie
and see hlm before to-rnorrow. I under- tomus of the Senate Is otherwlse, aud
I wanted to couvey w'as that the
stand the paper Is ready, but tliey said idea
they could flot give it to nie until Mfr. lion, gentleman could not violate for au
hour or tWo the whole spirit, and, l very
Fieldinîg lad seen it.
nifny Instances, the letter of our rules
The SPEDAKER-It wili stand until1 towithout being *called. to order.
rnorrow.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I amn very sorryHon. Mfr. FERGUSON-I wouid like to
orhave it stand first on the motions.
Hon. GENTLEMAN-Chair, chair.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT--Oh, yes.
A QUESTION

0F PRIVILEGE.

Hon. Mfr. DAVIS-Before tlie orders of
the day are called, 1 wish to rise to a
question of privilege. Iu the report of tlue
His Honour the
debate of yesterday,
Speaker called nie to order for obstructiug
the proceedings of the House. I find thue
following ini the officiai report :
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-We are aew discuss',ng
the miles of the House, and I do not know
of any rule wbich prevents discussion on a
motion, se long as eue keeps within the range
cf argument relating te the resolution.
The SPEAKER-UnIortuzm.tely there is no
ù1esure in this House or in the other brauch.
Nothing but rule 16, which provides thit the
Speaker must preserve erder aud decoruin,

der, order.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-

Why not?

Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The chair lias given
bis rullng.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It
ut ail.

is flot a ruling

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He has givenl a decision as to what was said, aud the Speaker's
statemefit Is called lu question.
question
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I do not
ilglit have been in the niiind of
what
the Speaker. I have beeu under the hinpression that the Speaker is the cliairman
of the House, and I thilk he lias no riglit
to jump to tlie conclusion that a member

1453

JIILY 91 1908

Is obstructing ftxe business or doing anytbing contrary to the rules of thxe House.
I know of no regulation wbich prevents
a senator from discussing any motion or
any subject la bis own way. I may not
bave put my arguments before the House
In a manner f0 suit the views of many
hon. gentlemen, but I was trying to do
what' I thought was riglit ln tixe Interest
of the people I represent. I amn satIsfied
that nothlng I bave said could be fairly
or
construed es violating ftxe decorum
dignity of thxe Senate.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I wi sh to direct ftxe
attention of fthe Speaker to another opinion
expressed by lta lu the paragrapx quofed:
Unfortunately there is no closure in this
Blouse or in the other brandi.
Is tixe country f0 uuderstand taf fixaf
Is an officiai expression of opinion from
the Senate?

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Thaf portion of the
report lias been prinfed; but there le au
appendix confaining ail the minutes o! ftxe
proceedings o! tlie Quebec Bridge Comipany that* were given f0 fthe Royal Commission and embodied la theil report. Tise
tiret volume states that that volume bas
goneto press, and I wanf to know when w-e
are to have if. If is necessary to icomplefe the report o! the Royal Commission.
Will the hon. gentleman be klnd enougu
to make InquIry about that particular volume.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I wlll Inquire.
BILLS INTRODUCED.

Bill (89) An Acf f0 authorize the sale
f0 fthe Grand Trunk Railway Company of
Canada o! a portion o! Major'-s Bill Park ln
the city of Ottawa as a hotel sIte.-(Hou.
Mr. Scott.)
Bill (120) An Acf f0 authorize tixe Issue
The SPEAKEIt-The lion. gentleman of Goverament Annuities for old age.wiil, I suppose, fake if for granted that (Hon. Sir Richard Cartwriglif.)
that was my persoual view of the inatter.
Bill (189) An Act f0 ameud the Civil -SerHon. Mr. CLORAN-But if is a very vce Act.--(Hon. Mr. Scoftt.)
Bill (191) An Acf respectiug fixe bounfies
serlous opinion to put before the country.
on lead contained in lead bearing ores
The SPEAKER-! hope it wIll be shnred mined la Cauada.--(Elou. M3r. Scot t.)
by the majorlty.
RAILWAY ACT AMENDMEDNT BILL.
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Hear, hiear.
THIRD READING.

THE QUEBEC BRIDGE.
-Hoi. 3fr. LANDRY-Before
of the day are called, I should
whether the second volume o!
on the bridge question Is now

tise orders
Ilke f0 ask
the report
ready.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot know.
have no way of knowing that if le.

I

Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved tise fixird readîug
o! iBilh (112) An Acf toi ameud fixe Railway
Acf as respects ftle construction of ftxe
Board of Railway Commnissioners, as amended.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I lie.- f move:
That fie said Bill be flot now read a third
time, but thaf if be further amended by addHon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose thaf wlien ing the following to subsecfion (c) of section
if is ready if will be immediafely liRd.on 2 :
And whenever he -bas acfed if shali be confixe fable?
olu.sively presumed that ho so acted in jthe
ciief commiseHon. Mr. SCOTT-Wlienever if Is print- absence or disability of the this section.
jouer within tie meaning o!
ed, if wIll be placed on the table o! tise
H-on. Mr. SOOTT-I accept fixe amendHouse.
ment.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Can ftxe hon, genHon. Mfr. LOUGHEF)D-Whiie I do not
tleman fell us If if Is ln press?
wisli f0 oppose the Introduction of fuis
Hon. 3fr. SCOtT-Txere Is no possible amendment, I think It Is a very bad precechance of those reports being printed for dent f0 establisx, inasmucx as if Is a wel
mont hs yet. There is a great deal of knowa canon of construction la the Interlithographie work f0 be done.
pretation of statutes thaf fixe law will pre-

1454

SENATE

1454

SEINATE

sume the statute bas been comiplied -with
until the contrary has been shown, particularly lu the construction of a statute of
this nature. This Is equlvaleat to saylng
that hereafter, lu ail statutes, you must
state really wrhat the presumption of law
That, it seems to
sbould be, or would be.
me, is the objection whlch lies against the
Introduction of this amendment.
-Hou. Mr. BEIQU-I do not think the
presumption extends as far as the bon.
gentleman states, aad, at ail events, this is
applying to subsection 2 the very same
prînciple that la applled to subsection 3, and
It Is a sufficient reason, because if parliament deems It necessary lu section 3 to
make a declaration of that kind, it becomes
necessary to make the same declaration as
regards the assistant chief commîssioner
which is deait witlî by thia subsection.
The amendmeut was adopted.
Hon. 'Mr. FEB.GUSON-I beg to move
that the said Bill be not uow read a third
time, but that It be amended as follows:
Section 62 of the said Act is repealed and
the following is substituted therefor62. The board shall withia three uionths
after the thirity firet dey of March dn ench
year na.ke to the Goveraooe in Counoil through
the niini6ter, an ennal report, for the yeur
next preceding the thii*y-first day of March,
showing -briefly:
<a) Application to the board and fandings
thereon under this Act.
<b> Findings of the board in regard to any
matter or thiag respecting which. the board
bas aeted of its oWn miotion, or upon the request of 'the miaister.

(c) Such other inatters as appear te, the
board to be of public interest, ia connection
with the persous, companies and railways,
subjeet to this Adt; and
uhmatters as the Governor in Coun(d
2. The said report shall be laid belore both
Houses of Parlie4nent during the first deys of
the next session of parliament.
I thîak I made my notice comply entirely
with the suggestion made by the hon. SecreThe objection was entertary of State.
tained to requlring a statement of the expenditure of the board belng furnlshed, and
I have struck that out, although 1 notice
tlhat that is already la a manner being supplied lu a report of the commissioners, not
a full statement, but a statement of salaries, and such thinga as that Is givea ln
I think that is quite Immathe report.
terlal, because 1 think they wili ail have to
lion. Mr. LOUJGHEED.

appear lu the Auditor Generai's Report, and
anybody -who wants to look for it eau ohThe oully
tain the information there.
changes which thîs makes in the law as it
stands ai present, are that II: requires tbat
the fandings on the applications shall be
Accordlng to the words of the law
given.
at present, the board is required to report
and applications. I
their proceedings
find they have published hundreds of
applications wlthout the fandings. 'What is
proposed here la, that they shall not ouly
publlsh the applications but the findiugs,
aad I have lntroduced the word 'briefiy,'
ln order to cover ail this information
and to inslst on their maklng It quite conAt preseat the report publishes lincise.
dreds of applications wlthout a word about
The ohwhat their action on theui was.
ject of this la that they shall publish briefly the applications aud the fIudings. Theu
paragraph B is a new feature, aud provides that they shall also give their findiug
briefly, statlng -what they do under section
28 of the Act that is wheu they proceed ou
their own motions or on the request of the
minister. These are two changes. I do flot
say that they are not important, because
tbey will lead to very full information.
Then we corne to subsection 2. In that
section as It stands at preseut, the report
is to be made to the House of Commons,
we should certaluly not allow it to pass
in that way, Ignoriug the Senate.. The
ameudment there is that it shahl be made
I think my
to both Houses of parliament.
boa. frîeud will fiud that ail his suggestions with regard to this have been coinplied with.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I should have preferred that my hon. frleud confiued this to
cases of Importance, because there will be
hundreds and thousauds of cases that the
public won't take auy iuterest in wbatever,
and I thlnk It sbould be lef t to the diacretion of the board to report only sncb cases
It is a mistake to
as wlll be of lnterest.
load down these reports with imniaterial
matter, and probably nine-tenths of aIl the
questions that come before them will not
have the slightest lnterest to the public.
There must be lots of cases that are simply
a repetition of former decisions, and. therefore, I would be very glad to accept aIl

JULY 9, 1908

1455

JIJLY 9, 1908
1455
tbese amendments as f ar as I can, but there mission Is Dot equipped for that work;
will be a remonstrance in the other why should it be carried on in two places.
The experience we have bad ln this House
Ubamber about tbem, I arn quite sure.
wben the Railway Commission supplied In'Hon. -Mr. rERGUSON-.No fear of ItL formationb was that it was very Incorrect.
Tbe commissioners now make a. much more I could occupy a good deal of time to
voluminous report than I tblnk is at ail show f rom thîs report that tbe statistical
necessary, and two-tbirds of It at least con- department of the Commission is on a
For Intains no Information wbatever.
very bad basis. I thinc my bon. friend,
stance, 500 or 000 cases of applications after bearlng these observations, and lookwithout one word of wbat is done 'witb
this report, will see that we want
What ing at
What la the good of that?
tbem.
more precise Information. I am flot calling
lu tbe good to the public to know these for a more voluminous report.
applications were made unless we know
'wbat was done wlth regard to them? And
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-I arn In sympatby
then tbey go furtber and gîve a long EIst witb wbat the bon. gentleman bas In view,
of some bundreds of Informai complaints but I must cati is attention again to
wltbout a word o! wbat was done on tbose the fact that bis amendment goez altogecomplaints at aIl. It Is not Illuminating. It ther too far. My own office bas filed witli
is flot Information for the public. We must the R-aiiway Commission Board ai. least
bear in mind tbat the Railway, Commission 1200 applications In connection witb a coinIs clotbed with very special powers. paratively suinîl raiiway within the iast
Tbey receive appolntments that cannot be year or 18 montbs. ard ont of those applicancelled lu the ordlaary way, and cations flot more than bai! a dozen could
from tbe experience we bave bad this be of any Interest to the publie. Most of
year, tbey decline to furnisb parliameat the applications were for leave to cross
wltb Information. A body that bas tbese streets or bighways with the consent of
great powers tbe beads o! wbicb are not the municipalitles concerned. The policy
]table to be removed, sbould. bave light o! the Board bas been to exact the consent
throwu on tbelr action. I amn asking for of the municipality, but If tbey coutl fot
speclfic Information. What Is the use of get it tbe parties were beard.
In every
publlsbIag a long string of application.; case tbe consent was obtained, the apwitbout a word as to wbat was done witb plication was filed witb the consent o!
regard to tbem. Tben tbere are redundan- the municlpality and the order was rencles In tbe report long judgments render- deréd by the commissioner or the assistant
ed, wltb the dlssentlng judgments of the commîrsioner privateiy, outside o! the
different commîssioners. Wbat we want Ie court. Where would be tbe necesslty o!
la a concrete !rom the decision of the com- encumnbering their reports with matters of
missioners and flot the arguments among tbat kiud? If a sinaîl rnllway entails sucb
tbemselves over tbem. A document o! a number of applications o! no Importance
tbe same sîze migbt be made to contain to the public, 'wbat may we flot expect
more yaluabIe Information tban this does. when we deal wltb large railways crossing
Tbe Railway Commission are overlapping tbe continent? Tbe bon, gentleman must
the work of tbe Department of Railways see that It would entail incorporatlng lu
In the matter of statIstica. I feel bound tbe report tbousands o! applications which
to say for tbe present deputy Minuster are o! Do interest wbatever to parliament
of RaUways, that after readlng bis evi- or to tbe public. Hc sbould limit It to
dence before tbe Civil Service Commission, applications of public Interest.
and baving bad a long conversation witb
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-The report nt
bimsel! and bis very efficient controller,
Mr. Payne, on the snbJect I know tbey present contains a list of ail the appliare startlng a work o! railway statistces cations and ail that remains to be done
far better tban we bave ever bad before, lu to state brieffy wbetber tbey were grantand wbicb wlll become of vast value to ed or refused. Witb regard to the work
the people o! Canada. Tbe Railway Com- of tbe Board, and rallway crossings espe-

1456

SE-NATE

SENATE
1456
and rail-level ordered to be procialiy, the Hlouse will Infer fromn the han. crossings
tected by the proper autbority lu each case
gentleman's remarks that the Board bas
ail railways flot uuder the coutrol of
deaît with almost innumerable cases of the ou
the board, including the Intercolonial Railklnd. I have returus from the Board in
way, and including orders made regairding
regard to Its deaiings witb raIlway crossa
Aiso,
under construction.
railways
Ings-simiiar return respecting all highway crossHon. Mr. POWER-The bon. gentleman ings at ral-levei whlch bad orders and
fromn De Salaberry referred to hîghway regulations in respect to tbem lu force, on
cross ings.
It appears
the lst day of February, 1904.
not ny lion. f rom this statement that everything is lu
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Dld
The answer Is as follows:
chaos.
frlend refer to raiiway crosslngs ?
Referring 'to the above, 1 now submnit a
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Amongast others.
partial list covering the period f rom October
24, 1906,. to January 1, '1908, ovnd affeoting 66
Hon. ".%r. FERGUSON-I meant highway leve1 crossings. The balance of the crossings
crossings. Although 'Mr. '-\ouutaiu, before affeoed by the above order are being prepared
will permit and
a committee of this House, stated that the as rapidly es circuýmstances to -time. I desire
NilU be forwarded from time
Board had inquired into 503 cases and mnade to 'point ont that in order to furnish the inorders for the protection of the public Iu formation asked for by the order it is iiecessary to, handie a very large nu-mber of docuregard to most of these. I find a statement ments. ,This can be. more readily underlu a rèturu, which is said to be a partial stood .when.I tato that the total number of
5,000,
to, date
one Up to January 1-that there were oniy orders issued many of la approximartelv
the orders relating to
and rthat in
2 electric belîs ordered, gates and watch- levai crossings, the question of the k-xnd of
mian 1, subwuys 6, overhead bridges 7, protection to be giiven has been reserved for
coasideradion of the board. The
diversions and subway 5, under crossings 1, f urtherhas no statisticai brauch attached to,
board
This la fromn it, no clerks who eould be available to 'be sot
viaduct 1, concrete arch 1.
a-ide for sncb pur-pose, and, therefore, wheu
their own return.
ii.formation of this kind is asked for, it nethe
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-It %vould not Include cessitates taking off several members of of a
board's 'staff, in this instance three out
crossings.
highway
total staff of eight, and devotiag their time
exelusively to this purpose.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes.
There Is no0 regular fyle of the judgments
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Every time a concesor orders and fludlngs. If tbey were fyIed.
sion Une Is crossed they cross a highiwzv. lu a regular manner, or inserted ln a ,book,
They-ecannot rua throughi a township wvitb- it would ;le easy to get themi, "but it apout crossing several higbways.
pears they are ail put iu promîscuously and
Hon. '.%r. FELIGUSON-It Is wvith refer- they have to examine ail those documents
It shows they are atence to protecting crossiîîgs already in exist- to separate them.
ance, not dealing with the openiug of a temptiug to do statîsticai worl. there whichi
I have here a returu lu re- they should not do, and with regard to this
new raiiroad.
spoase to a motion xvhicl .1 made for a work whlch they sbould do, it la being doue
bon. frieiud from
ý'MNy
Statemeut showing, separately, the higli- without any systemn.
at irail level on ail railways, De -Salaberry poiuted out yesterdny that
way crossings
except railways under construction, ivltl!n this wouid necessitate the -publication of
It will not do
the jurlsdictiou of the Railway Commis- matters donc lu chambers.
It only asks for cases on appicasion lu respect of which 1jighwaqy crossings, that.
protection bas been ordercd by the board tions, or where the board bas 'acted of its
Wbiere Informal matters
since Its organization, said returu to give own motion.
the character of the protection ordered ia come up, they may pubisb that, but It is
The
eachi case, the namne of the railway coin- not calied for by my amendmneat.
pany, the local desig-nation of eachi higli- Act is very lame without the ameudment,
way crossing, and the couuty aud province and if we aiiow matters to go on as at
lu which it Is situated, and the date of the present, we shalh always have trouble -getI do not tbink It should
order and regulation lu respect thereof. .ting Information.
Also, a similar returu glIving the, highiway rest wlth the board to decide whether a

JULY 91 1908
Hon. 3fr. FERGUSON-As it is 110w,
decision is Important to the public or 11ot.
What tlhey ifigt think uninljortant ig.ht t hley are publlshed fully.
be very important flot only to the parties
The amendment was changed by iuserttheniselves but to others.1
.ng ' sumamarles of' and adopted.
,Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The first is ' applicaHon. Mr, LANDRY moved that the Bill
tions to tie board '-that Includes all appli- be flot now rend the third time, but that it
cations.
be rend the third tume this day three
Hon. Mr. FERGUSOIN-The law requires montbs. He sald: 1 do flot want to give
that now, and proceedings on the applica- auy reasoni for Vils motion except that I
I do
tion, but It does not provide for the -find- arn opposed to tie Bill altogether.
I want tie findings given and the flot see why we should double a court of
lngs.
word ' briefiy' 1introduced, so that the sub- this klnd when nothing lias been shown to
stance of the application and the finding us to warrant It. We are adding about
$2.5,000 a year lu salaries to the expense
may be furnished.
are
of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Section G12 the Act already lncurred, nnd wheu new judges
Fior .my part I cannot apreport giving, ap- unnecessary.
provIdes for an annual
cf tie Bill.
plications and proceedings, and sucb other prove of the principle
to be
matters as may appear to the board
The ameudment was declared lost.
of public lnterest and sucbi matters as thle
Tue Bill was tlhen read the third time
Governor lu Counicil directs.
and passed.
Hon. -Mr. FERGUSON-The ouly differreport wltb regard to
TOBACCO RESTRAINT BILL.
ence la defining- the
applications and «requlrlng thle board to
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
give their flnding ln a inatter that they
The House resolved ltself lnto Committake upon the order of tbe Governor lu
de- tee of the Whole on Bill (173) An Act t0
We
4-ouncll or of their own motion.
fine what tbey should do wlth regard to restrain the use of tobacco by young- perWe do not require theni to Son.
applications.
(In the Commlttee.)
proceedlngs ns the Act does 110w,
give the
but to give brlefly the findings of tbe board
On clause 1.
and the applications.
1. Every one is gniity of an off ence and Eable
POWER-Would It flot be sufi- on auzn-mary conviction in -the case of a first
Hon. M1xr.
iflence to a penalty not exceeding tea dollars,
dient to have suiumarles of the fandings, and in them«te of a second offence to la Penalty
long de- flot exceeding twenty-five dollars, and in the
because the findiugs are just tbbse
cisions to whichi the lion, gentleman bas case of a tbiird or subsequent offence to a
p( naity nof exceeding one hundred dollars,
referred ?
who. directly or indirectly, sais or gives or
under the tige of eighteen.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Instead of 'brief- f urnishes to a person or cigarette *pa.pers, wheyears any cigarettes
ly,' we miglit say 'summarily.'
ther for his owa use or net, or eells or gives
or furnishes tn such a person tobacco in any
Hon. ilir. POWER--A Pplient ions to thle forrn other than cigarettes which tobicco lie
I knows or has reason to believe is for the use
the findings.
board and summaries of
do flot think suînniarlly would be any bet- cf that person.
lion. Mfr. POWER-As I understaud.
ter than briefly. You do not waut the decisions set out at length; you %vautjust this -Bill, as orlginally introduced, fixed the
summaries.
age at 16 years, and It is to be regretted
Hon. Mfr. FDRGUSON-I thoughit brlefiy that any change bas been made. Sixteen
would meet that, but I arn quite willing to Is the age which Vie criminal law generally
accept the word synopsis or -sunimaries. bas selected as the line cf demarkatiofl
up peoMy object Is te get something very concise between yeung persons and grcwn
ple. A yeuth under 16, If convictad cf an
that will be useful for information.
offenca, is sent te a raformatory or indusHon. Mfr. qC.OTT-The word 'applicatrial school. A boy of 17 or 18 Is sent to
tions 'ought to be qualified; those ef public
mil or othar prison witb adults, and 1 do
Interest and flot inatters of form.
92
REVISED

EDITION

SENATE
SENATE

1458

1458

cigarettes is more Injurions to the systein
than otbier klnds of smoking. Tben again,
I would point out to tbe chaîrman thiat any
youtb under 18 years of age acting as a
messenger, subjects the person wbo sends
hlm on that message to a fine of $100. 1
wouid refer bon, gentlemen to lines 9, 10
and 11. It wii there be seen tbat if a
youth of 18 years of age be sent as a
messanger, and a person may seil hlm tobacco or make use of bur as a messenger,
tbat person Is Ilable to the penalties incident to a contravention of the provision:
Who directly or indirectly sells or gives or
furnishes ito a person utider the age of 18 any
cigarette or cigarette papers, whether for
his own use or not.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (31iddleseo-WÇhieh be
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I sbouid regret If my knows, or bas reason to know, l'a for thebon. friend's arndment were adopted. If use of tbat person.
I were âxIng the age 1 would make it 21.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-No, tbat is nuIt Is admitted by ail pbyslologlsts tbat ne!- other clause. This clause says:
ther the mental nor pbysical part of the
Or sella or gives or furnishes to such a perhuman body 15 developed until tbe age of son tobaoco in any form other 0than cigarettes
20, and I should rather ralse It bigber which lie knowr. or has reason to know is for
than tu lower It. If. tb e bon. gentleman the use of that person.
There are two classes of offences there,
bad seen tbe maternai appeals that were
made by some hundreds of women of thîs uarnely a person givlng cigarettes or cigarcountry, wheu tbley met Sir Wilfrid Lau- ette papers to a youtb under 18 yenrs ot
rier and somne of bis colleagues ln the age, or -selling to a youth for is own use,
Raiiway Chamber of the House of Coin- tobacco ln auy formi otber than cigarettes.
mons, be would not bave uttered tbe senti- I think that is carrying tbe law to an abment be did just now, wbere tbese womeiu surdity.
pointed ont that tbelr sons were )belng
Hou. Mr. -SCOTT-Laws of this 'ldnd will
destroyed. rentally. and pbysically by the
be evad ed, I do not. care bow strong the
use of tobacco. Tbe testimony was abunWe know very well that lu
language.
dant, and tbe way those poor mothers pleadthe temperance legisiation bow far we were
ed for an Act of this kind, touched my
obllged to go lu order to make the Act
beart at ail events, and I feit tbat If ever
effective, and If you diminisb the Englisli
1 had an opportuuity to do so, I wouid
used, you sirnply make a farce of It.
favour their view of IL. They even agltuted
-Hou. 1fr. WiUGHEED-Tbat is equivato place it nt a greater age and lt would
be a very great blow to reduce the age lent to saying that wbile it is legal to sel]
to 16 years.
cigarettes to persons over 18, yet you have
throughi
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED--Can rny bon. to use an adult to carry cigarettes
This, ln rny judgment, Is
any channel.
frlend say wbetber there was medical tesabsurd.
timony before the governent as to the simply
cigarettes ?
Hon. Mfr. Me.%ULLEN-I really tbink the
inJurlous effects of 'smoking
1 blave rend articles ln tbe Lnncet, lu whill last paragraph, froni the word 'cigarettes '
leadiug medical authorities on tbe conti- l the tlîirteentb line should be struck out.
lient bave taken the ground that cigarette 1 arn fully ln accord wvitli fixing tbe age at
smoking Is flot more dangerous tban any 18, but wben you corne to make a convicother forni of smoking. It Is a very con- tion you wiil bave to prove that the man
troversial subject as to wbetber the use of you are seekinîg to convict, knew or bad
not think that it Is a desirabie tblng that
a young. man of 17 wbo violates this section by purchasing tobacco sbould be lhable
to be sent to consort wlth grown up
prisoners; and, further, there Is a difficulty.
A police officer or magistrate, or any
one ean generally judge whether a
lad la over 16 or not. He can form a
.pretty good idea of It; but wben you fix
the age under 18 it Is a dîfferent tbing
altogether. There are some youths at 18
who looki as old as othera at 20 and vice
versa. While I cordlaliy endorse the spirit of the Act I do thlnk we are going a
Ilttie too far lu carrying the paternal
spirit to the age of 18, and I move tbat 16
be substituted for 18 lnn hue 10.

nIon. Mir. POWEll.

JTJLY 9, 1908

1459

1459
JIJLY 9, 1908
of taste, take a cigar, because tbey can afreason to believe that the purchiase Was
the poor man takes bis
for the use of the person to whom the to- ford to do so, whlle
pipe; but the sin and the abuse are just the
A boy of 18 buys a plug
bacco was sold.
tobacco
He pays for It and same ln whntever metbod you use
of tobacco to chew.
If I bad my own way, there would
nt ail.
You summon the
pots It la lits pocket.
no son and no chlld using tomerchaut for selllng a piug of tobacco toI be no father,
because lI belleve,
boy. lu order to convict and fine hlmi bacco lu this Dominion,
that
next to the abuse of ardent spirite, it la
you muet prove that lie knew or had reason
we have to contend wltb
to belleve it was for the use of that boy. the greatest corse
to-day.
The boy may buy the tobacco, presumably
If
for his father or for somebody else.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSCrN-The bon, gentlethe seller says I I had no reason to know man would proliibit the anuif box on' the
that It was for himaelf,' you canuot con- table here I suppose?7
I say that It leaves the clause
vict hlm.
Hon. ýMr. ROSS (Mlddlesex)-When the
absolutely uugatory by addlng the last two
Bill was brouglit Into the House of ComUes, ' Which tobacco lie knobvs or bas reamoue the prohibited age was 16, and that
sou to belleve is for the use of that perwas advanced to 18 atter the *discussion of
son.' I certalnly think these words should
After the House of -Commons
the Bill.
be struck out, because If you leave themn
gave lt consideration, tliey advanced the
there, you will flot get many convictions.
I do not think we
age frôm 10 to 18.
I thluk It la
Hou. Mr. POWER-The question before sbould go back ou that age.
In Ontario, no person
the House is my ameadment, substituting a reasouable lit.
16 for 18.
la allowed to give intoxleatlug liqilors to a
18 or to allow a lad nder 18
Hou. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-I did not hap- lad under
We wll
was pase- years to boiter arouud a hotel.
peu to be present wheu this Bill
adopt somethlng of unlformity lu the matlng its second reading, but If I lied my own
of tobacco If we select the age of 18,
way, lustead of reduclng the age I would ter
uuiformity lu Ontario as to the 'matter of
make It 20 instead of 18. A boy at 20 may
and I think iinifority will help as
be more feeble minded and feeble bodied liquor
We do
the enforcemeut of both laws.
to
than a good many at 18, and the anomaly
uot need to discuss the physiological effeet
ls thîs: you punlsh a boy for using cigarThat question is
upon lads.
ettes; why nlot punlsh hlm for uslug to- of tobacco
We assume
not really before the House.
bacco of any description?
The umthat it la too well established.
Hou. Mr. POWER-So it does.
ber of petittons from ail parts of Canada
ls pretty clear
Hon. Mr. ]ROSS--I believe the one to be lu regard to this subject
waraing to this House that the smoking
just as injurions as the other. We are
very great evil,
not dolng justice to our young chidren or of cigarettes by boys is a
and If this Bill would correct It, I thiak
to our youug boys, by the example we set
A fatiier, after bis break- we would be doing nothlng less than our
them ourselves.
18.
fast,' takes bis plug of tobacco and with duty to adopt the age*of
lights
bis kuife cuts It, charges bis pipe,
Hou. Mr. POWER-The bon. Secretnry
up and sinokes away, fancying himself the of State rather Intimated that I was opigreatest man in the Dominion of Canada, posed to the principle of the measure.
sud is children are watching bim, and as
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-Hear, bear.
tbey grow up they will foliow their fatber's
Tie old saying ls:
example.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I took care to say
'As the auld cock crows,
I was flot.
The young cock learus.'
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon. gentleman ls
I tbink there should be no differeuce be- tnking the best way to show that be Is.
tween the uses of tobacco either lu smokHon. Mr. POWER-The bou. gentleman
Of course, men of Indeing or cbewing.
perbaps as a matter does inet distlnguisb.
pendent means will.

1460

SE_'L1ýATE

SENATE
1460
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-A man is uot a mil
library, they will find ample proof of the
statement I bave made, tlhat no race of
until lie la 21.
hiuman belugs bas yet been discovered whio
Hou. Mr. POWÇýER-The criminal law
do flot indulge lu some narcotic. Whetlher
fixes the age of 16 years as the dividlng
it is a natural Instinct of the human race or
liue between yonth aud mnaturity, or rather
flot, I ar n ot prepared to say; but that Is
betweeu childhood and youth. As I
an historicai tact. I see great difficulty lu
bave polnted ont, you run the rlsk of senenforcing so drastic a -provision as this
tenciug a youug man between 16 and 18
one. The difficulty wiil arise lu ascerto beiug put lnto the common prison wl,th
talnng the age of the person. There are
If he Is convlcted and does
aduIt prisoners,
some boys at 15 years of age who look ae
flot pay the fine under this Bill. That would
oId as others do at 19 or 20. You wlill
be a most regrettable clrcnmstauce, I thiuk.
aiways have the age difficulty presantlug
But ln the varions provinces-I suppose It
Itself, and whiie this Bill is lu accord with
wouid be the saine lu Ontario as lu the
the Ontario Act, 1 amrn ot sure that the
province from whichi I corne, they bave
Ontario Act has effected the reform that
byiaws which fix the age at 16; and If a
auticîpated wheu it was passed.
16, at was
boy does flot smoke before hë Is
Hou. Mr. ROSS (Mlddesex)-It has a
any rate lie bias to a certain exteut nttalued his growtb aud lie is uot so likely tendeucy to frIgliten boys away .from
to acquire the habit then. These extra- hotels, wheu they know it is contrary to
ordluary provisions which It Is fouud ne- law.
Hou. iSlr MACKENZIE BOWELL&,-I
cessary to put luto sumptuary laws,
show you are leglatlng to a certailn ex- should be glad to have ]iad some experience
Âny observations that I
tent againfit human nature, and you should 0f that klnd.
flot go too far. It la desirable that every have taken la the city lu which I Iive-and
man sbouid be virtuons; that he should be I presume it Is much the samne as almost
truthfui and honest and lu every way moral; auy towu or city lu the country, aud you
but you cannot legislate hlm luto that and 'will flnd littie boys ten or twelve years of
I
It la the saine way with regard to so- age with cigarettes ln thelr possession.
brlety, and to a certain exteut with res- have neyer yet knowu 0f any 0f them being
pect to excessive Indulgence lu tobacco. punished. I would like to see the iaws enI think the better way therefore, Is to forceed; but If you place drastic laws of this
pass a mensure wbvhi we eau reasonably character, however praiseworthy the object
hope to see enforced. -Tle policeman wlli' May be, ou our staute-book you wiIi find
I have
flot arrest young mien of 17 or 18 on tlue that they become a dead letter.
street, for smoking cigarettes, and I thlnk seen, to my surprise, ln a certain watering
the better way ds to confine the iaw ito boys place lu the province of Quebec, a father
and two or three of hiis sons, ten or twelve
under 10.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I do not ngree years old, ail of tbem as joily as you 1)]ease
smoking their cigarettes and pipe.
Does
that we are iegislatlug against naturai InIs the -fatlher
Instincts neyer lead this Act reacli those people?
stincts at ail. Naturai
The to be punisbed for permitting bis boys to
anybody to use tobacco in nny fori.
smoke ? They think there Is no harai in it.
taste Is acquired, and acquired with diffiThere Is a difference of opinion lu regard
culty; but whexî acquired as a habit it le
to the effect of smoking.
If the use of
I
very dîfficuit to break away from lt.
cigarettes is as deleterlous to the humali
support the age of 18.
strongly
race as it is represented to be, the best way
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There would be to prohibit the manufacture and
Is one thing very certain; history shows prevent the importation of them into the
that there Is no' country lu the worid, country, and thien yon would reach the obscarce]y any race of beings, no matter whe- ject you have lu view. But this law, whie
ther they are savages or cannibais, that do intended for good, and we liope it may efflot indulge lu some uarcotic or other. I fect some good, wiil be a dead letter on
thlnk If hon. gentlemen will seaqrch lu the the statute-book.
Hon. Mr. POWER

JULY 9, 1908

1461

JULY 9, 190S
Hon. iNr. LOUGIIEED-Clause 1 does not
It really
deal witli cigarette smoking.
deais withi persons furnisbing cigarettes or
tobacco to youths under 18 years of age.
A law to be effective should be reasonable;
it shouid nlot violate practical common
sense and ei-ery practice of commercial life.
We actually enact that an employer sending
a youtb under 18 years of age as a messenger to a tobacconist with a package of cigarettes becomes lhable to a penalty of $100.
Clause 1 deals, first of ail, with the offence
of an aduit furnishing a cigarette or cigarette papers to a youtli under 18 years of
age, and the second offence of the aduit
uÛder the sanie clause Is where lie furnishies
the persons under 1S years of age tobacco
for the personi's own use-not cigarettes
but tobacco iii soxue forrn or otlier. We
hiave those tw.o classes of cases.
Hou. Mr. BAKER-Wxetlier for 'bis own
use or nlot.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-But lu the othier
case, slmply as a niessenger a youth,
your son or any other person under
18 years of age, to carry for hlm
cigarette papers is made an offence, rendering the aduit Ilable, no matter whether
the youth Is going to use lt or not, no
matter whether lie ever opens the package
or bas any intention of opening It.
The
crime Is fIrst going to the tobacconist at
the Instance of an aduit persou to purchase
tobacco, that does violence to every principle of common sense and makes It a dend
letter.

1461
with regard to tobacco
Is qualified : 'Wlhen lie knows or lias renson to believe It Is for the use of that
person.'
The OHAIRMAN-That clause cornes ln
later.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The question ls on the
18 year proposition.
The amendmeut was declared leat.
it as the clause

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I think ail the
words after ' cigarette' should be struck
out: 1Whlch tobacco lie know3 or bas
reason to beileve la for the use o! that person!' You neyer can secure a conviction
wlth the clause ln that shape. The party
wlII say :'I bad no reason to believe It
was for the use of the person.'
think
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I
there is a reasonableness about that after
ail. There was no agitation ln the country serlously against the use of tobaccu
until cigarette smoking became common.
It Is a modern Invention. 1 knew nothing
o! it when I was a boy. When we were
at school we neyer knew what a cigarette
was. I was brouglit up ln the country
but even lu the cities the cigarette la a
modern Invention. Se the clause Is strictil'
drawn. As to the use of tobacco ln other
formis by littie boys, there Is' very little
It
danger. It ls Dot a menace at all.
may lie haord to secure a conviction under
the clause, but there wlll be very littie
occasion to prosecute boys for buylng tobacco for their own use.

HIEon. Mr. McMULLEN-How% does the
Hou. Mr. McSWEENEY-If they canbon, gentleman Interpret the last two Uines flot get cigarettes, wlll they nlot procure te'Which tobacco lie knows or bas reason to bacco ?
belleve is for the use of soine othier perHon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-The boy
son'?
thinks the cigarette is a liarmiess thing,
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-That person does and that to use It la smart. He neyer
nlot apply* to the cigarette. The first part thinlks of the pipe. The cigarette is smart
of the clause la as to cigarettes whetlier and tony, and appeals to bis taste aud lie
for bis own use or not. The tobacco Is on goes on smoking.
a different footing. The merchant is aiThe CHAIRMAN-I understood the first
lowed teoseil tobacco to a boy If hie does
clause was adopted.
nlot know or bas no reason to believe that
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I thought It was
It Is evident
it la for the use of a boy.
aimply the amendment that was adopted.
the clause was drafted In that way Intentionally. 1 thlnk it would be very diffiThe CHAIRMAN-I understood that 1
cuit to legisiate on that subject as far put the question and the clause was caras the cigarette la concerned If we quallfy ried.

1462

SENATE

1462

SENATE

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I more for a re- for smoking or chiewing tobacco? It wll
iead to aunoyance by over-officlous busyconsideration of the clause.
bodies wxvo wlll be looking to discover
Tbe OHÂIRMÂN-You bave a rlgbt to pipes aud tobacco on young men. 1 thlnk
do that.
tbe age of 16 la old enougb.
The motion was declared lost.
Hou. Mr. McSWEENEY-That bas beeu
Ou clause 2,
2. It shall be the duty of any constable or
person having the powers of a conebable, or
persan autharized so ta do by any by-law in
that behs.M made by any anthority or person
having -power to make auch by-law, to seize
auy cigarettes, cigarette papers or tobacco in
auy forin other than cigarettes in -the possession of any persan appareatly under the
age of eighteen years whom he finds smoking
or about ta sinoke in any street or publie
piace.
Hou. Mr. McilMULLEN moved to add
after the word '-amoke' the words 'chew.'
He said : In every city or towu you wiili
find a nuxuber of boys standing around
street corners, flot smoking but chewing
tobacco and spitting ail over the sidewalks. 1 know of a case where a maxi
was rldlng pat a school just at the hour
of recesa. Some 12 or 13 boys came out
and asked blm for n chew of tobacco. He
hauded thexu the plug, and baîf of those
boys -bit off portions of it and chewed
the tobacco. Chewiug la even a dirtier
babit than smoking, and sbould not be
permitted.
Hon. Mr. ROSS <Middlesex)-M%,y bon.
frlend should add ln the same clause -or
about ta smoke or chew.2
Hou. Mr. McM£ULLEN-I
amendment.

accept

the

Hou. Mr. WÂTSON-How are you ta
know whea a boy Is about ta chew ?
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-AIi the bon, gentlemen wbo bave taken so mucb interestiIn
I have
the Bill do not taste tobacco.
been in Hollaud sud bave seeu bildren
cf six or eigbt years smoking cigarettes.
I bave seen ladies handlug around cigars
ta tbeir daughters. It is a ridiculous thiug
ta Put such legisiation as this on the statute-book. The greater the restrictions, the
greater the desire of those wbo are restrlcted wlll be ta get tobacco. ,Surely the
Committee la not going ta pass sucb an
arbltrary Act ns this which would reudèr
a young man of, 18 hiable ta be srrested
The CHAIRMAN.

settled.
,Hon. Mr. 4GIBSON-But you are maklug
this more drastie by the ameudments.
Wheu It comes to a question of searchlng a boy's person to find If he basa tabaccb on hlm, 1 thluk the committee Is
going too far. No one wants to see our
young men golng to the bnd. from 11w~
eff ects of smoking at too early an age ;
but If an attempt Is made to searcb young
men of 18 for tobacco there will be trouble. 1 know wben I was 18 if a man that
1 tbougbt that I could lick bad attempted
to searcb my pockets there would have
been trouble.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Mlddlesex)-Thls only
applies to smoking or chewixig in public
pinces. A youug man can smoke at bis
own fireside, or ln the stable, or in the
outhouse, or in the ivoods, but flot lu
public places. This Is a protection of
Altbough I have been a
public taste.
smoker for 40 years, I have neyer smoked
ln a public place ln my life, or while walklng w-ith auybody else.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The h7ou. gentiefian.
like myseif, ls an i nveterate smoker, and
whether he smakes at bis own fireside or
ln public places should flot be a question
for this commlttee to decide. If It Is bnd
to, smoke ln n public place it certainly
would be no better to smoke ln a private
place.
the
Hon. Mr. ROSS (M.Niddlesex)-But
boy Is not subject to laterfereuce If be
smokes in a private place.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Did the hon. gentleman begin to smoke before or nfter he
was 18 years of age?
Hou. Mr. ROSS (lddlesex)-I
smoke untîl I was 26.
Hou. Mr. GIBSON-I
I was 13, and I am
measure is altogether
was a practical mensure

dld flot

bave smoked since
stilI on top. This
If it
too drastic.
wbicb could be put

JIJLY 9, 190S
In force, there Nvould be sometbing la it;
'but yon are golng to create unnecessary
trouble. How are you to decide wben a
young man is about to smoke? Only the
otber day, I rend of a case wbere a manl
haed a pipe [n bis mouth on thse street car,
and a lady fonnd fault with hum, and
said 1You are flot allowed to %moke on
this car.' He replied: II am., net smok'You have a pipe
ing.' ' Weil,' sald she 1
Ia your mouth. ' 'I have,' lie sald : 'And
I have boots on my feet but I am not
walking.' Now, hoxw le a constable golng
to arrest a young man who may have a
cigar la bis mouth on the pIen tbat hie Is
going to smoke? I know men who are
wvhat are called dry smokers, who are never withiout a ceigar in their mouths but
who have neyer suîoked la their lives.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Trying te break theniselves of the habit.
I
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Not necessarlly.
quit smoking for five years nt one tîme,
and could quit lt now, but 1 do not want
to. This legisîstion will lead to trouble
ln our towns and villages.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL'L-I
know a gentleman who is.what my hon.
friend. calis 'a dry smoker.' He is scarcely ever wltbout a cigar iu bis moutb;,
but this clause 'would not apply to hlm:
he Is over 40 yenrs of age.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-What I object to, ls
that a man can be arrested because hoe ls
suspected of hein.- about to emoke.
The clause was amended and adopted.
On clause 3,
3. Every one is guilty of an offence and liable
on) snm-mary conviction in the. case cf a first
ofience te b. reprimanded, in thie case o! a
second offence to a penalty not exceeding one
dollar, and in the case of a third or subsequent oflence te a, penalty not exceediag four
dollars, who, being under the. age o! eighteen
years, smokes in a street or publie place, or
purchases or ha in bas posseseion, whether
for bis. own use or not, any cigarettes or cigarette papers, or purohases or lias in bis
possession for hie own use tobaco in eny forim
jother 4shen cigarettes.

1463
46

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That is provided for
lu the other -clause.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-BOYS are very
apt to congregate at thse corners of streets
and indulge lu this filthy habit, and 'we
sbould legislate against it quite as mach
as against smoking.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The. bon. gentleman
is a chewer bimseif.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-I arn over 18.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I should like the committee to gîve some consideration to the
fact thiat aiiybody under 18 years of age
ls liable to the penalty provided here. My
observation of police courts is that parents are often called upon to puy fines
for their children's offences, off ences wbichi
tbey do nlot desire their cbildren to comnmit, and really you are putting a penalty
upon tise unfortunate parent who may do
aitluintbs power to prevent bis chuld from
I reaily think that ouglit
wrong-doing.
to be ieft out altogether. I amn quite lu
sympathy witlb thse Bill, but it should
apply only te thse persons who furnish the
tobacco. A man of 18 is no doubt able
to suppiy himself with tobacco ln most
cases, and probably, to pay bis own fine;.
but if a child of ten or twelve or fourteen violates this law, thse parentis rnulcted
for IL.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It ls a reprimand flrst,
and tise fine cannot be over a dollar for
tise second offence. It-lacreases ln a very
small degree.
The nmendrnent was agreed to, and the
clause as arnended was adopted.
Bloa. Mr. ROSS (Mlddiesex)-I wish to
ssdd the foilowing as a subsection:

' Clause A.'
'.It %hallle the dnty of the Justice to examine upon oath or affrmaion ail pereons
brouglit before hirn 'who are foumd quilty of
violation of thie section, es to .where ore from
whom snob persons .purahased or obtained. thse
cigarette or cigarette paper or tobacco found
in lis possession, andl the refusai -te give anch
information to the satisfaction of -the Justice
sh-ah lie deerned a contexnpt oi the. Court.'
This ls mutatis mutandis, with slight
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN moved that thc"
variations, a copy of the clairae ln the
words ' or chews tobacco' be lnserted after
Prince Edward Island Prohibition Act ln
thse word ' smoksi.'

1464

SENATE

1464

SENATE

Hou. Mr. WILSO'N, frein thé committee,
regard to liquor, under wichb a person
feund uuder thé influence of liquor may reported the Bill withi amendinents which
be made to testity where hé got the Il- were coucurred lu.
quor. The samne principle ia lu thé OntaRÂILWÂY ACT A'MEND-NENT BILL.
rie Act as te pérsons Iuterdicted troin the
vice of liquor at thé requést ef parent,
THIRD READING.
I made a remark the
husband or wite.
The House resolved ltself Into a Coinother day ln the House, that If a person
mlttee of the Whole on Bill (118) An Act
found guilty of an offeuce under this Act
Act with respect te
la required te tell wheré hé got bis te- to amiend thé Raflway
Telegraphs and Telephones and the jurisbacco, tben thé sellers ot tobacco wili
of the Board of Rallway Commisbe rauch more carétul as to whom they diction
sioners.
seli this product.
(In the Comm ittee.)
Hon.- Mr. GIBSON-I ask, thé committe
te serlously censider thé effect this amendYou are simply' enceurment wlll have.
aging some young fellow te bé sent te a
grocery store te buy tobacco fer thé purot getting the grecer Into trouble.
poe
You cempel thé boys, who may houestly
purchase thé tebacco, te say trom whoui
hé got It. Wé know the effect that had
In regard te thé Scott Act, hew many
People made taise statements as te where
tbey get liquor and how mîîch trouble it
brought Into every community where thé
Act was ln force. Men denied that they
had ever got It, and made aIl klunds et taise
statements, and yen are going te create
thé same tblng among beys by thé preposed
state
thein te
compelling
amendment
wheré tbe3- get.thé tebacce.
Bon. Mr. SCOTT-It helpeà te' cure thé
évil la Prince Edward Island.
Thé amueudment was agreed te, and thé
clause as amended& was adepted.
On clause 5
5. Thé provisions of this Act, other than
those which maké it an offeuce for a person
undér thé age of eightéen yeérs te arne or
use cigarettes or cigarette papers. or tobacco
in any form, shahl net apply te any casé
where thé miner is émployéd for thé purpeses
of bis business, by a dealer in tobacco, eitnéer
wbolesalé or rétail.
are mnking
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-You
this véry stringént if yen will net ailow a
boy undér eighteen te use tebacce lu any
torm ln public places. Yen allew a boy
under éigbteén te be empieyed lu a tobacce
tactory ; It seems te me If yen restrlct that
boy frein uslng tebacco, you should net
permit hlm te work ln a tobacce factery.
Thé clause was adepted.
Hou. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

on clause 8, subsection (3),
S. The Raiiway Act is amended by inserting
the following section after section 26:26a. Where it is complained by or on behaîf
of the Crown or any municipal or other corporation or any other person aggrieved, that
any company has violated or committed a
bréach of au agreemeut betweeu the complainant and the company-or by any company that
auy such municipal or other corporation or
pérson has violiited or committed a breach of
an agreement between the company and such
corporation or person,-for thé provision,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, installation, opération, use or maintenance by
the company, or by such municipal or other
corporation or person, of any structuré, exppliance, equipment, works, renewals or repairs
upon or in connection with thé railway of
thé company. the board shall hear ail matters
rélating to such allégéd violation or breacli,
and shall make snob ordér as to thé board
may séem, having regard to ail thé circumstances of thé case, reasonable' and expedient
and in such order may in its discrétion direct
thé cempany, or such municipal or othér corporation or pérson, te do such things as are
necéssary for thé proper fuifilment of éucb
agreement, or to refrain fremn doing sucb acts
as constitute a violation or a breach thereof.
2. Thé board may také such steps and employ snch pérsons as are. nécéssary for thé
propér enforcémént of such order, and in pursuancé théréof may forcibly or othérwise enter
upea, seize sud také possession of thé wholé
or part of the raiiway, and thé réal and personal propérty of thé company, togéthér with
its books and offices, and may, until such order
bas béen énforcéd, assume and take oer ail or
any of thé powers, duties, rights and functions
of thé directors, and officérs of thé cempany,
and supervise and direct thé management of
thé company and its railway in ail respects,
inciuding thé employment and dismissal of
oficers and servants of thé company for such
time as thé board continues to direct euch
management.
3. Upon thé board se taking possession of
thé raiiway and propérty cf thé company,
it shall be thé duty of evéry officér and employée of thé cempaily to obey thé ordérs of
thé board or of sucb person or persons as it
places in authority in thé management of
any or ail departments of thé railway.

JULY 9, 1908
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-May
I as], the hon. Secretary of State, the extent to whicb this clause ean be appiied.
Supposing bonuses had been given by the
znunicipaIitIes> aud aise by the goverument, for the construction aud repairs of
a rallway and the raiiway bas been put
into operation and worked for a certain
trne, aud the company owning the road
ceasing to w-orl it, and aliowing the whole
road to go into disuse, permIttlug it to
remain that way for years and years,
would this clause empower the Rallway
Board to insist upon that comnpaur carrying out the original Intention and the
terms of the bylaws passed by the municipalities granting the bonuses ? 1 know
thut lu the country where I live, a case of
precisely that character. The corporation
of Belleville, the corporation of the towu-'
phip of Madoc, and the Ontario goverument ami the Dominion goverument grant.ed subsidies for the construction of a certain road. True, It was a counection only
of about 6 miles. It was operated so long
as certain bematite Iron ores produced
trnffic for the rond; but just as soon as
the mnes w-ere ciosed, the raiiway was
aise ciosed.' Was tbis clause intended to
meet cases of that kind? It ls true it is
one of the great corporations who obtained
tbis rnoney. It was the time I was In
offic.e myseif, sud, partly through my owu
Influence, tbe Grand Trunk Raf lway was
given a certain bonus for assisting lu the
construction of tbis short spur which would
conuect tbeir road at LMadoc and northThat
ward with the Ontario Central.
uioney wss speut. They applied for the
difference betweeu the arnount which they
were first granted sud the $3,200 a mile
which was given to assist lu the construction of road-s, lu order to complete ht sud
put ht lu running order. They received
tbat money. For part ot that road, the
city lu which I live, grauted a bonus of
$50,000, the township -of Madoc a bonus
of $3O,OO0. I forget how much the Outario government gave, but I think- their
usual subsidy of $2,500 per mile. I speak
subject to correction as to that. That road
bas been allowed to remain a dead letter
for the hast elght or ten years, snd the
ouiy answer the Grand Truuk Railway

1465'
16

authorities give to those who complain of
In
their action is, that it dbes nlot pay.
the interview which tbe warden of the
county aknd myseif had with Mr. Hays,
he poluted out this fact. He said : ' My
duty ls to make the road pay, and If it
does flot psy, 1 amrn ft justified In running
it.' My answer was : 1We are now paylug the taxes for the bonus.'
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHave they made- application to the Railway Commission?
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No.
I have been informed by Mfr. Nortbrup,
the niember for Hastings lu the House of
Cominons, w-ho stands high lu bis profession, that there la no clause Iu the Railway Act giving theni power to deal witli
a question of this kind. We discussed
that matter repeatedly, and so did the
municipalities, to compel the Grand Trunk
Ralway to fuifil the conditions on which
these bonuses were granted, If there was
power to do It. Would that clause meet
the case I have cited?
Hou. Mfr. SCOTT-The same question
was put by Mfr. Nortbrup lu the House of
Commons te the Minîster of Justice, and
I think the minister lntirnated that he did
neot thInk it would cover it. You will obgerve as you go on with this measure, that
it coutemplates a case where the Board
would be justified lu taklng up a property
and working It. The. Board would scarcely
make it pay, If the company eould not make
it pay. Under tbe clause, In enforcing the
order of the Board they msy takre possession of the rallway, but that would not
help matters as far as I can see.
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-If I understand the
case put by tbe hou. gentleman frorn Hastings, it is one where the bonus was voted
for the building of the rallway, but without any obligation on the part of tbe
company to keep the raiiway lu operation
for a number of years. I bave known a
number of cases of that kzind where thg
bylaw voting the bonus does not go far
enougb. It mereiy votes the bonus for
the purpose of alilg the construction of
the railway, witbout stlpuiating that the
company shall keep the railway lu ope-

1466

SENATE

ration for a certain number of years, or
A case
attaching nny other ýcondition.
of that kind would Dot fail under tise
provisions of this Bill; but If there were
nny agreernent, or If Viere were a provision for n given number of years, tisen It
w-ould corne within the provisions of Vhis
section. Under section 26 of the Railway
Act, the Board Is empowered to, Issue orders ln connection w-ith Vie compliance
w-ith any of the provisions of Vie Raiiwny
Act of n special Act; but section 26 as
ernbodied In the law does not extend to
any agreemnent betw-een thse rallway cornpany and the municipality, or corporations
or any other cornpany, and Vie recoursé
lu snch cases is left exclusively to Vie
court. It is Vie conimon law recourse- The
effect of this provision Is to add to the
common iaw recourse a recourse to Vie
Railway Board, w-ho, under this Bill, w-lI
have power to take. up the question and
compel. thse railway company or'tise municlpallty or Vie corporation to enforce their
agreemnent or amy agreement under tise
Raillvny Act. I mlght draw attention to
thse w-ords ln connection wltis subsection
2 0f'Vie same section, wilch go very far.
It wll be seen tisat for Vie purpose of
euforclng any such order, tise Ralway
Board Is entitied to take possession of tise
railway and to w-ork It nt the expense of
Vie- cornpnny. At first glance, I1 tbougist
that sections 2 and 3 were ratiser exorbitant, but on reflection 1 tisiuk they are
fair provisions, and are necessary for'Vie
purpose of exercising Vie powers mentioned lu thse Act.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
afraid there Is wliere the difficulty bas
If I understand, there w-as in
arisen.
one of the agreemnents n condition that the
rond should be operated; but 1 arn not
sure w-hether It w-as a continuons operation or not. How-ever, tisere Is no question
impon Vhis point I thlnk; Viere are %orne
techuicalities la tise taking over of thse
rond by Vie Grand Trunk lu connection
w-ith Vie company tisat undertook to build
thse rond Vint they claimed relieved thern
But npart from
of that respouslibiiity.
that, and ln Vie subsidy Acts pnssed by
tise governmeat, 1 arn not nwnre Vint there
ls nny condition la the ternis upon wisich

the subsidy was granted, to compel the
company to operate Vie road. We know
that very large subsidies were granted for
the Baie des Chaleura road, and we know
it was flot operated, and that the goverilment took It over and put It ln repair. 1 arn
not prepared to say what position It is ln
now, but I do say that wbere n company
has obtalned nid to, construet a rond, ns
the Grand oerunk Rallway and the Grand
Junction Companles did ln Vie case of that
road-and used It for Vie purpose of coinpieting the road, the lnw shouid compel
them to operate It or band It over to, somebody else. 1 know Vint ln connection wlth
Vis rnatter other offials walted upon Vie
late Sir Joseph Hickson and made this
'Transfer tihe road
proposition to hlm :
to certain people ln the riding, and we
wiii guarnntee to put It lu repair and run
It ln connection with your rond,' and his
answer wns : 1The Grand Trunk Rnllwny
neyer gives up any of Its property.' The
result is that onie rnunlclpality pald out
$50,000, weil not all, but a part of it.
and the township paid to thse extent of
$30,000, for which they get nothlag.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I ar n ot, for rny
part sntlsfied Vint under Vie Act thse Railway Board has not the right to compel the
c.ompany to operate the road. I arn inclined
to think the Board Is vested with Vint
power, because railway companies, are
quasi public corporations, and they are
obliged, ln virtue of their charter, flot expressiy but irnpliedly, to keep thse rallways
ln operation, and wlthout going too far, I
would be very strongly lnclined. to the opinIon that the Rallway Board Is vested wlth
thse necessary power in a case sucb as Vint
rnentioned, by Vie bon, gentleman, if they
applied to the Board ln the proper w-ny.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I wlill
call the attention of Viose wiso have hnd
Vie matter under consideratlon to thse ôpiDion of Vie bon. gentleman, nnd If tisey
adopt bla opinion Viere wll be a lawsuit.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Was the original charter granted to tbe Grand Trunk Rniiway or
to n local company?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-N'o,
to the Grand Junction Railwny Cornpany,
-rnnng from Beleville to *Macbedasis bay,

JULY 9, 1908

1467

JULY 9, 1908

1467

and then an extension from the village of
Madoc northward and it was afterwards
taken possession of by the Grand Trunk
Raiiway wbicli, we suppose, assumed ail
the responsibillities for the rond.
The subelause was adopted.

He snld: This measure ls for tie purpose of nutliorizing the collection of the
duties and repairs made to vesseis outside
of Canada.

Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL, from the comittee, reported the Bill witli amendments,
whicli were concurred la.

After E ecess.

It being six o'ciock, Vie Speaker le! t the
Chair.
CUSTOMS ACT AMENDMENT

BILL.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the suspension
of the rules to permit the Bill to be rend
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT moved the second readthe third time to-day.
lng o! bill (194) An Act to amend the CusHon. Mr. ROSS <Mfiddlesex)-Tlie hon. toms Act.
He said : This Bill consists of tliree
gentleman from Toronto spoke to me la
reference to some amendments whlch miglit clauses only. The first gives the conductor
be proposed to the Bill, and I think we o! a railway train crossing the border additional powers to what lie lias at premîglit let Vie tliird reading stand over.
sent. He is obiiged at the time o! makingHon. Mr. SCOTT-There ls a case behis report, If required by Vie offlicer, to
fore the courts. The Board bas made an
produce to hlm die weigb buis o! aIl goods
order ln reference to a particular crossing
on board his train. The next clause aula Toronto. The companies have appealed
ngalust tbat, and I understand that cer- Viorizes a duty on Vie equipment and repairs made on a Canadian vessel la a
tain parties desire an amendment which
United States port, except where Vie vessel
would take the jurisdictlon away from
bas gone la Virougli stress of weather. My
the Board. An officiai from Toronto saw
me ln reference to It, and I asked him lion. frlend opposite said that lie was not
time wlien those repairs were
' Does thîls affect aay other lnterests than aware o! a
mere crosslng ? ' and lie said: *Yes, free. I Inqulred from Mr. McDougal, Vie
the
assistant commissioner, and lie said Vint
there is a case in litigation ; It là an apThe during aIl bis time, and for some period
peal from decision of the Board.'
Board decided that they bad. autliority un- before that, repairs did not pay duty, and
lie sent me over a letter dated April 17,
der the Act. The companies appeaied, and
la order to hear the parties opposed, or 1890, from the Department of Justice, reparties agreeing to the decision of the latlng to Vie subject. The ietter ls from
Mfr. Sedgewick, wbo was then deputy MinBoard, appeal was taken. It would neyer
do for us to Interfere la a matter of this Ister of Justice. In Vie letter lie sald that
the Minî-ster of Justice ls of opinion Vint
kind.
duty cannot be ievied on the repaîrs to a
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I observe ship under Item 468 o! the Tariff, whIcli
the bion. gentleman from Toronto là not Imposes a duty of 25 per cent on wood
present.
and manufacturers o! wood. He adds :
Hon. Mfr. KERR-I thInk the Bill 18 'The Act and the tariff had been carefully
ail riglit, and contains ail that cau rea- examined but I have not been able to find
anythIng under whlcb duty could properly
sonably be asked ln reference to ht.
be ievied.' Mr. McDougal says Viat since
The motion was agreed to.
lie went Into Vie department whlch was
The Bill was then read a third time, and somewbere ln Vie beglnnIng o! 1896, repassed.
pairs have not pald duty. The object of
the Bill là to Impose a duty of 25 per cent
CUSTOMS ACT ÂMENDMENT BILL. ad
valorema on expenses of repaîrs, and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read- Vie same rate o! duty on equipments, InIng o! Bill (194) A Act to amend the Cus- cluding boat. as If the articles were lmtoms Act..
ported Into Canada la Vie ordinary course.

1468

SP'ýKATE

146S

SENATE

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED- Can my hon. built lu thc United States, would be admitted to the coasting trade and to thc
friend say w-bat a foreigu country is?
privileges of a Canadian vessel lu CanaHon. Mr. SCOTT-Anywhere outside of
dian waters. Of course that extends to
Canada or the British empire.
ail other vessels. If there were no other
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. frieud Act goveruing the shippiug, my hon. friend
wilI remember that he la amneuding the certainly would be right, but under the
Customns Act, and, consequently, that a circuaistances, I thlnk there Is no question
foreigu country under the Customns Act but what a British vessel would not be
would Include any eountry outslde of Can- taxable. While ou that point, I must conada, and a boat repaired lu England would fess I have no recollection of that decision
be ln preclsely the same position as any of Mr. Sedgewick aud any one hearing the
other comaiodity Imported into the Dom- letter rend and thc clause te which le
Iion. The question is whether we have refers would know at once that repaira
authoritv, under the Imperial Shipping Act, to a vessel could net be charged; but if
he will turu to other clauses of flic Custo do that.
will find that provision la
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-I know that up to toms Act le
made that ail goods Imported from any
recently no duties were charged on Britcountry must puy a certain duty, and thc
ish bottoms coming to Canada.
practice durIng flic time I was lu the
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-You are puttlng Custonms, xvus, tînt If you desired to bave
repairs ln the saine category as ail other auy article, It mattered flot what it was,
commodities under tlie Customns Act; you sent to thc United States for repaira, whcn
are not amendlng the Shipping Act. You It came back inte Canada the calculatiou
. wa:s made at once as to the cost of reare amendiug the Customns Act.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-M2\y Impression ls that pairsansd duty was lmposed upon whatBritish bottomsý have not been paying ever umount tbat mîght be. It might be
10 per cent, 25 per cent or 35 per cent,
duty.
just lu accordance with what tic article
Hon. Mr. POWER-Neltber have any was tînt was lmported, and I must conother bottoms.
fess that whieu I suw thîs proposition, I
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-Yes, foreigu slps thought there must have beca an error
coming lu pay .dnties. Âny foreign veq- ln the past, or tînt they were Icgisiating
sels built outside of the British Dominion. for somethlug tInt was flot uecessary. I
comIng to Canada to be used ln Canada know very well what lad been thc practice, and If my recollection serves me, we
pay a duty.
must have claarged duties ou repaira to
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELII
rnlsed by the hou, leader Canadian vessels when they were brougît
think the point
to be uscd lu thc coastof the opposition la covered by the mer- back into Canada
Iug trade. The duties have been coilectchants Shipping Act. Ail vessels coming
tIc question was reluto Canada are not dutiable. If a vesse] cd, aud thc fact that
fcrrcd to Uic Minister of Justice la cvila bought ia Englaud, or lu any other porwhat I am saying.
tion ûethei British Dominion, It comea dence ef tic truth ef
Whethcr atter thc receipt of that letter
lu without paymcnt of duty. If a vesse]
contlnucd, I amn not prebe bought lu the United States, or ln ny tic practice was
that when reforeigu couutry, then It Is dutiable. That pared to say; but I repeat
pairs wcre made, Uic duties were pald
la the practice, and I tiink that la the
I somelaw. 1 know It bas been carricd to this upon the value ot the repaira.
what regret that Uic Minîster of Trade
extent; parties would purchase a vessel ln
because I prothe United States, perbaps a dredge and Commerce is net here,
poscd to compliment hlm on the advanced
or a tug, and they wou]d take It dowfl
to iNewfoundland, and there register lt stage ut whici he hbas arrived on thc quesand get a British register and under thec tion of protection, because tus clause la
Merchants Shipping Act, that vessel, thougb as direct a part of Uic protective pollcy as
Hon. Mr- SCOTT.

J ULY 9, 1908
could possibly be put upon a statute-book,
providiug protection to the shipyards, sbipbuldera and shipwrigbts ln tlxîs country.
It la tantamount to saying: * You shall not
go to the U nlted States and bave repairs
to your veasel maide wltbout payiag the
duty upon the repaira wben the vessel la
returned to Canada. 0f course, I need flot
aay tbat I fully approve of the proposedl
ameudment to the Customns Act, and of
that principle, bowever much lt may be
objected to by the sbipowner. Can my
hon. frlend tell me wbat has occurred to
neeaitate the placing of thia second paragraph ln the Bill:
The said conductor shall at the timie of.
ma-king hie report, if required by the officer,
way bills
hirm
produce totrain the two copies of ail good-3; on
board his
or
thereof.
I suppose It bas arîsen fram the fact that
wlien a bonded car enters the country, there
la notflxng to compel the conductor ta produce the luvoices or buis of lading whlch
may be ln bis possession, and thîs la made
a portion af the law ln order to compel hlmi
to do so when requlred. The-next clause
la partlcularly lntended ta refer to veasels
employed ln the coasting trade of Canada.
It wauld flot apply to any other vessels
except Britishi vessels and Canadlan veasels
for the reason that United States vessels are
net entltled ta thxe prîvilegea of thxe coastlng
trade. The next clause la merely a penalty
clause, and the exception of thîs Act is preclaely the sane principle - upon. which the
Oinatomes Department bas admlnlatered thé
law lu the past; that la If a veasel la stress
of weather or anything of that klnd had to
rua Into a port of thxe United States It was
permltted to make such repaira as -would be
necesaary to enable the vessel to reacx lts
destination ln Canada wlthout beiag liable
to duty.
Ail of tis may have been dtoule
tbrougb courtesy ln the pat, for augbt 1
kaow. but uow it is ta be made the law.
Railway coiupaniès are obliged under this
Bill ta carry the customa officers free when
tbey travel upon rahlways for tbe purpose
of examlning baggage and so on. Whlle
this makes If coinpulsory, during ftxe fîme
that I was administéring the customs, the
railway conipuales neyer refused that privihege -because If la an advantage, to the
traveller aad prevent delays of the trains
at the different stations.* Ifowever, there

can be no objection, 1 think, ta that clause,
xior do I fiad aay objection, with ftxe little
pracetîcal k-aowledge I have afi t, to thxe
Bill as a wboie.
It Is onhy really making
law fbat whlcb was 10, 15 or 20 years ago,
the practice of fthe departaxent, and It la
givlng ftxe customs autborlty more power
to enforce certain portions of fthe haw than
tbey bad lu the pasi.
Hon. 1Mr. LOUGHEED-WiII my bon.
f riend point out in fixe Customs Act wbere
duty la now hevled upon ablps?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I bave looked over
the Customs TarIff, and bave ixot been
able f0 find ItL
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wbere does my
lion. frlend. get authority for bis opinion?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The cu.stoms authority aay tbey have- no power, and fbiey
have flot been charglng >duty.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Hallfax)-If you buy
a ahip lu the United States you pay a duty
of 25 per cent on tbe'veasel, and ln tIxe
case of a steamer 35 per cent on fthe mnchinery.
Hon. Mfr. GIBSON-I abould hîke to cali
attention to the condition of tbiaga wbicb
exlsted soine time ugo lu Britlih Columxbia. Last aummer 1 happeaed to meef
Mfr. Richardson, auperinteadeut of thxe ACanadian Pacific Sfeamabip Company, who bad
charge of that compAny'a vessels on tbe
Britishi Columbia coaf. He lnformed me
flint whien a veasel came to a Britishx Cohumbia port for repaira, It wus luvariably
Ixeld up by a atrike eltber of painters, or
carpenters or shîpbuilders or somnebody
else, wfh tixe result that insfead of fthe
vea;sel being properly repaired durlug the
time abe was changing bier cargo, lie was
always detalned, and lu some cases hast
a trip or two. To sucb an extent bad flua
sate of affaira exlsted thaf 1fr. Richardson ln fixe laterest of fbe Canadian Pacific
Steamsip Company adviaed fixeax toaullow
hlm ta move has repaîr ahopa to Hong
Kong wbere the vessels are repalred by
Coolie labour, where tixere are no atrîkes,
and where thxe work la as etiicieufly doue
for bah fthe maney that it cost lu Britishx
Columbia, and lu a more aatisfacfary man-

1470

SENATE
1470

uer. The work formierly done ln Canada
was driven out of the country by the
strikes ln British Columbia. .Now it i.3
proposed to change the Customs Act, «and
Impose a flue practicaily on the Canadian
Pacifie Steamtshlp Company, because they
have been obiiged to get their repairs doue
abroad. I am flot suyiug tliat this Io doue
to strike a blow at the Canadian Steamship Companly lu particular.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hong Kong Is flot a
foreigfl couutry.
Hon. Mfr. GIBSON-You Impose a duty
ou goods comiug from Great Brîtain.

have to choose either one port or the other
as the only port of eall on our Pacific
Coast.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I cau assure the boit.
gentleman that the Pacifie trade neyer entered Into the mind of anybody who discu-ssed thîs matter, and I may say It bas
bceu very muchi dlscussed for the last
three years. It applies only to the Great
Lakes. We have been estabishiug barbours of refuge ourseives, and have establishments at Collingwood and eisewhiere
ou the Great Lakes where the vesseisa eau
be repaired. The subjeet bas been threshed out betweeu those lu favour of the duty
and the captalus and owners of vessels
trading on the Great Lakes. The Idea of
it applying to the Pacifie coast ivas neyer
dreamed of. It mny, but It oceurs to xny
nild uow for the first time. However, I
do flot ]ook upon Hong Kong as a forelgn
port.

Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-It la foreign, accordlug to, the Customs Act.
Hon. Mfr. GIBSON-Surey there ought
to be some conditions regulatiflg this traffie. If the hou. Seeretary of State decides
that repairs made lu Hong Kong are not
subject to duty, It; eau be put ln the Bill
*Hon. -Mr. GIBSON-My hon. friend
that this wUl uot apply. Theu we would
should make the Bill apply only to the
be denllng faIrly wtth our own people. No
The Pacifie between Vanlakes.
large Corporation lke the Cauadiau Pa- great
couver and Victoria is waters of Canada
cIfie Rallway- wouid wvaut to have their
Ir
just as much as the great lakes are.
repairs doue lu a forelgu -country If the
Act is nieant to nppiy only to the great
Tbey the
couditious were right lu Canada.
Iakes,ç why not say so and dispose of the
have beeu drlveu ont of the country by
question I have raised altogether ?
labour unions aud uow under this Bill
they are to be fiued 25 per cent on the
Hon. Sir MAqKE.NZIE BOWELL-Supcost of repairs which they would hike to pose the hou. gentleman is correct, whly
have doue lu Cauada, but whleb they were should flot the Canadian Pacifie Steamship
obliged to have doue in Houg Kong. I Company have the repairs to their vessels
brlug this niatter to the attention of theý made lu Vancouver or at Esquimauît, wlhere
House and the goverumnent, because I look we have one of the largest dry docks on
Why shouid they be exupou it as a hardship tbat thîs great coni- the continent?
be treated la -sucli a mauner. empt nny more than the shipowners at
pany should
If tbey require their vessels
Much of the repairs that would naturally Montreal?
be doue lu Quebee are 110w made lu Glas- to be repaired, let tbem have the repairs
gow and Liverpool; through strîkes th( made ia British territory unless they are
trade bas been driven away fromt our ow'r obiiged through stress of weather or absocountry and It Is unfair that the compaie, lute inecessity to have them made iii a forwhieh are obli.-ed to get repairs doue else elgii country.
'where sbould be puuished for it.
H on. Mr. POWER-The hou. gentlemnan
Hon. Sir MIACIKENZIE BOWELT--Thl' front Lîncoîn pointed out wýhy the CanaBill oaly appiies to vessels used la tii, dian Pacifie Railway people sent thieir ships
coastiug trade.
to Hong Koug to be repaired. It was
as thîs gentleman toid hlm, of
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The vessels of tIp c because,
I strikes sinong- the workmen empioyed on
Canadian Pacifie Steaaîship Company £al
The expense and
sbips la Victoria.
at Vancouver and Victoria, and that 1s the
Il the delays had got to be so serious that, la
eoasting. To avoid this duty they wil
Hon. lir. GIBSON.

JUIY 9, 1908
seif-defence, the compauy were obliged to
bave the repairs made in Hong Kong.
i
do flot know anytbing about the circurnstances in Victoria, but I know that in the
city wbere 1 live, ships, wblcb should have
been repaired ln Halifax, where we bad a
dry dock ampiy large for tbem, had to ie
sent to Now York for repairs just on account of the saine circumstances that the
hon. gentleman has referred to, as exIsting
in British Columbia.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do flot profesa
to have an extended knowledge about
ping, but I feel reasonably confident slbipthat
the Bill as drawn would Include British
vessels.
Foreign country, under the Customs Act, includes every country outside
of tbe Dominion, and I bazard the opinion
that we wouid flot have autbority to levy
a duty upon repairs on Englisb ships. The
poiicy of the government bas been to extend
to foreiga vessels the priv'ileges of our
coasting trade. I notice that even durlng
the present session of parilament the extension of those privileges bas been serlously
discussed, and an order ln council bas been
passed extending coasting privileges to Norwegian vessels.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-The bon. gentleman la
entlrely wrong.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEIED-We eujoy reclprocal rights, I understand, on the coast of
Norway, but certainiy the prIvIleges have
been extended to Norwegian vessels.
Hon. Mr. FERGU90ON\-It bas been withdrawn by order ln coundil this year.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Let us assume
for a moment tbat a United States vessel
engages in the coasting trade of Canada.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Shie cannot.
Hon. Sir MACKENZI.E BOWEU,--She la
liable to a penalty.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Assurning tbat
by order ln counicil she Is engaged in the
coastlng trade, how could you enforce the
collection of this duty?
Hon. Mr. ELLIS--I amn always sorry
when the lhon. senator fromn Hastings is
able ta rise ln bis place and taunt us with
adopting the policy of bis party. I arn a
free trader, and 1 arn conscious of the fact

that the tendency of our legislation for
sorne tirne past bas been ln the direction of
hiarpering the trade of tbe country by the
Imposition of duty which bail better be
lef t off, a*nd it is contrary to the poiey of
the Liberal party as formulated some years
ago.
There la no use denying that fact
or covering it up by any phrase or words
tbat conceal.
1 regret tbe absence of tbe
bon, gentleman frorn New Glasgow, wbo
underatanda tbe sbipping business very
well, and who wouid be able to give us
sorne Information witb regard to tbis measure. Âlthougb the bon. Secretary of iState
says that 'the abject of this Bill la ta apply
it to the lake trade only, It Ia applicable
to tbe wbole Dominion, and wiil be as effective ln Nova Scotia or New Brunswick
or ail tbe provinces of the Atlantic or Pacifie, as It is on the great lakes and therefore
we must regard the question as n wbole.
A great deai of the coasting trade ln our
own country we are not able to do--a portion of it at any rate-as cbeapIy ourselves
as foreign carriers can do it for us. Therefore, It is better, accordlng to my ideas of
business and the knowiedge which 1 possess
and the prInciples wbich I upbold, to bire
the foreiga carrier to do the work for us
than to psy hIgber prices to the monopoIlsts of our country.
I bave no hesitation
in declaring these as rny views and opinions, and 1 arn sorry indeed tbiat the goveranent bas assented to putting this tax
.on the carrying* trade of the country, for
that is what It Is.
My bion. friend opposite me may laugb if bie pleases at the prograss we are making la the wrong direction; bie is warranted -by the facts, and 1
arn very sorry for It.
Hon. Mr. McMUIiLEîN-I cannot aiiow
tbe remarks of the bon, gentleman from
St. Johin to go without reply.
The policy
of the Reform party to wbicb bie refera was
adopted under a condition of affairs that
does not exist to-day, and bas not existed
since that party came into power ln 1896.
The present government bas been forced by
tue attitude of the United States to adopt
tbe policy It bas puraued.
We were very
anious as a party to get a better trade
relation witb tbe United States than we
had, especlahly in naturai products, believing It would bave been a decided advantage

1472

1472

SENTATE
SENATE

to both countries; but after the Reform
party came into power, the McKinley Bill
was passed by the United States Congress
strlklng directly nt the trade of Canada
and sliutting out every comrnolty we were
then sendlng to them, even down to a dozen
Af ter that followed the Dlngley
of eggs.
Bill, shutting out everythlng we had to
Would rny hon.
send to that rnarket.
f riend say that under these conditions,
when tliey slapped hlm on one cheek lie
Would
sliould turn to tliem the other?
lie allow our neighbours to corne In and
destroy our market whule slintting our people out of their market, and gIve them ail
the advantages ? It would be neither wlse
nor patriotlc to do so. I arn anazed that
a man of the Intelligence of my esteerned
frlend from St. John sbould venture to express opinions so evidently out of keeplng
I
with Oie best lnterests of this country.
neyer was a protectlonist as a. matter of
clice; I arn a protectionist as a matter of
We cannot do wltliout ItL We
necessit-y.
have a perfect rîglit to adopt towards the
United States the sarne attitude that they
bave *adopted towards us. We cannot heip
If we allowed them to corne
ourselves.
In, as rny lion. friend sug-gests we shoul,
Canada would becorne hewers of wood andl
drawers of water for the United States.
.Hon. Mr. ELLIS--The hon, gentleman is
putting xvords loto rny mouth I did not
use at ail.
Hon. Mr. MeIMULLEN-The hon, gentlemann claimed to lie a free trader, and le
finds fauit with the Imposition of any duty
that would.protect any Canadian indnstry
iu repalring slips. He says this Is another
step iu violation of the principles laid do.wn
by the Reforu' party. 1My bon. frieadI
should try end think of the changed conditions under which we live now. We have
uot 110w sucli conditions as we lad before.
and we are driven to the necesslty of meetlng the United States people on their own
terrns. We cannot do anythullg else.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Was It just when
the Reforrn party carne into power tînt
the United States people becarne protectionists? One would suppose from the lion.
gentleman, that the United iStates were
ardent free traders in theory and practice
Hon. Mr. IfeMULLEN.

up to the 23rd June, 190W. They then liecame protectiontsts and as a consequence,
ny lion. frlend lias to change lis politics.
Hon. *Mr. MMLLEN-~Alth0ugli theY
were protectionists, they were protectionists after a moderate fasliion.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW9ELL,-No.
,Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-No.
Hon. 'Mr. McMTJLLEN-Yes, they were.
Up to the time lie mentions tliey neyer put
a dnty on eggs.
Hion. Mr. PERIGUSON-Oh1, oh.
Hon. 'Mr. Mc3IULLEN-Âfld under the
Cleveland governmeflt they put the duty
down to three cents. NVIll the lion, gentleman deny that?
non. Mr. FERGUSON-Yesý it is ail
wrong.
Hon. Mr. blcMULLEN-.Ny bon. friend
must lie a Rip Vau Wlnkle ; lie iust bave
falleu asleep.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Would His Honour the Speaker let us know wliat eggs
have to do with this discussion? What
would be the effect of this Bill on the two
classes of vessels %vbicb are permiitted to
engage in the coasting trade? For Instance.
under existlng legisiation No'rwegian sbips
which are British bult may become British
registered slips, and may then engage iu
coastwise trade lu Canada, çknd e0 onl.
Wliat would lie the effeet of the duty bu a
Norwegian sihlp, British bult, perrnitted to
engage dn the coasting trade in Canada.
and what would lie the effect of the provisions of this Bill on a foreign 'built slip
wYhili lias a riglit to engage in the coasting
trade end which bias been British registered since the lst of September, 1902? It is
calied upon to pay 25 per cent duty before
obtaining a license to engage In the coasting trade. If my hon. friend's interpretation of this Act lie correct, namely, that a
British slip would not be a foreigu ship
witlxin the rneaning of the Customs Act, ail
these ships practically would lie British
slips, because the Norwegian slip is British buiît and i, permrntted by our government to engage In the coasting trade, and
the foreiga bult slip is British reglstered
aud Is Iicensed by our governeat to en-

JULY 91 1908

1473

1473
JULY 9, 1908
speak ot are net British registered, but
those 1 speak of have flot enjoyed the
trade. Under a reciprocal arrangement
British vesseis were aliowed te enjoy the
coasting trade ln Norway, Bweden and
other counties, and at that time the Merchants Shipping Act appiied te Canada. It
was tbought, now we have a reapensible
gevernment that we ougbt to act independentiy, and we notified tbe companie, that
ln one year the privileges te these vessels
should. be witbdrawn and that i. the position It occupies to-day. There la a remonstrance with reterence to Norwegian vessels, wbere it le said they are a necessity for
the remevai et the Nova Scotia ceai. They
say they eau oniy get the Norweglan ves-sels te carry the ceai properiy.

gage ln the ceasting trade. In view et that
tact, I do net sec how this government cau
Impose a duty on repaira ot the klnd mentioned, because under the license the ship
bas a right te engage ln the tradte.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--The bon, gentleman
la quoting the tact that there are a certain
number of Norwegian vesseis engaged ln
the coasting trade. Some 40 years. ago,
net oniy Norway and Sweden, but a number ot other countries et Europe were perznitted te share ln the ceasting trade er
Canada. The British .Merchant iShipping
Act contreiied our legisiatien, and whiere a
fereigu ship had the priviiege et the Britlsh coaating trade, she had aise the cating trade et Canada. Tbat appiied te eighit
or ten countries. Elght or ten niontha, or
-a year ago, a minute et council was passed,
giving notice that atter a certain day, I
thlnk the lat. et January next, the privilege then 'existing sheuid be withdrawn.
That la open te objection.. Our trienda in
the lower provinces feel that those vesseis
are the oniy vessela that can carry ceai
econemicaiiy fer the mines on the ceast et
Nova Scetia te Quebcc and Montreai.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I was going te say
that the reai bottom reason for the Introduction ot thia legisiation is the tact that
certain gentlemen ln Ontario, who take
part in the business of repairing vesseis,
are auxiona that their business ahouid be
pretected trem the cempetition et the
United States shipbniidera on the other
aide et the Great Lakes.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Buff aie and Detroit.
Mon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Does the bon.
gentleman aay the priviiege has been withHlon. Mr. POWER-There la something,
drawn trom the Norweglan ships ?
If 1 may be pernxitted te say 80 ln a ChamHon. Mr. SCOTT-No; about six montha ber where there are se, many worthy repreago the erder la couacii was repcaied and sentatives et the goed province et Ontario,
.tbe British authorities were notified tha t a littie bit narrow abouxt some of the"peopie
tÉe priviieges ef our ceasting tiade which et that province, and ive had another Illusvesseis et a number of countries, enjeyed tration ef that narrowneas seme time age
equaiiy with British vescis ln British ter- with respect te the Bill regarding the serritory outside of the United Kingdom vices ef masters and mates. This legiala'wouid lie diacontiaued. On that, the shIpa tien 'wili net suit ln the lower provinces,
et a great many countries ciaimed coat- and the reasonabie thjng la te confine It
te the vesseis that navigate the lakes and
Ing trade priviiegea.
net extend it te the sait water.
Hon. Mir. FERGUSON-Inciuding NorHon. Mr. ROSS (Hlalitax)-Ot course the
way.
iaw on the ether aide is, say ln Nerway.
Mon. Mr. SCOTT-We decided we couid Sweden, Âustria and Italy, whatever coun-put an end te that, and I tli]ink the time try Great Britain gives the priviiege et
la fixed as the lat ot January next.
their trade te, sue enjoys the coa'stlng tradte
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-No, ne, it ls ef that country, and that priviiege extends
extended. They may become British ships te Canada mast the same as te Great Brit-and engage lu the coastlng trade aftr the ain.
I at et January, 1909.
Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No, No.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT -No. That lg If they 1Hon. Mr. ROSS--I am net geing te disare British registered. But the vesseis 11 cuss the principie et tree trade and protecREVI5ED

EDITION

1474

SENATE

1474

SENATE

tion, but 1 ana largeiy iu sympatby with
aiy hon. f rieud f romn St. John, even at the
risk of beiuig rebulced for beiug in sympathy with bis principles. Supposiug a HnIlfax ship cornes f romu Southi Africa or the
West Inidies and she la dismasted and carried into Boston or New York and ia repnired tbere. The repaîrs are very expensive, as everyone knows, that are donc iii
the United States. Thien she cornes into
Halifax, and she bas to pay duty on those
repaira. Do you not think that that would
be an extreme hardsbip ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If repaira reýquired because of stress of wbeather were perforrned in a foreiglu port, 'she w-ould flot pay
duty on them. The clause provides for
that. It la ouly intended ta apply wbere
the parties go out of Canada to have repaira performied at Buffalo, Detroit or other
places.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I do not understaad
what the trouble is about this Bill. If we
refer to the shipping Act, sections 953 and
following, we see the position. Section 953
reads as follows :
No foreigu built British shi.p, wh.ether registered in Canada or elsewhere, as a British
ship, after the first day of September, one
thousaad nine huadred and two, shall be entitled to engage or take part in the coastiag
trade of Canada unless sucli foreiga built
ship bas first obtained a licease for that purpose whicl i ay be granted by the Minister
of Customs.
Then we find that the Mialster .of Customs may issue a licence provided 25 per
cent ad valorem duty la paid. Then we
have a clause providiug for the reciprocity,
Clause 958 rends as follows.
The Governoi ýn Council may, frorn tirne
ta tiiue, declare that the foreiga provisions
of this parliaruent shahl not apply to the
ships or vessels of any foreign country in
which British ships are adrnitted to' the
coastiug trade of such country, and ta carry

section provides for a coasting license, that
the Governor in Council may grant coasting
liceuse to British vessels navigating Into
inland waters in Canada, and may direct
the payment of a fee 0f 50 cents and so on.
It is well known tbat ail the Impérial Acts
prevail over the Colonial Acts, and therefor tbis Bill If It becomes law could flot of
course, override but would be subject to Brltish legislation and to any treaty that bas
been made under that British legislation.
This Bill merely protides for this; that any
vesse] engaged in the coasting trade or Intended bereafter to engage In tbe coasting
trade, If repairs shahl have been made In a
foreiga country, within the year, that the
master of the vesse] wvIll have to pay the
duty mentioned in the Bill. It seems to me
tlis is a very natural provision, the object of
wbieh is quite apparent. It is evidentir for
the purpose of encouraging repairs to be
made in Canada instead of la foreign countries, and also for the purpose of protecting
Canadian vesseha agalnst other vesseha
which ore not entitled to the reciprocal
coasting priviheges. As was very well stated
by the hon. %ecretary of State, If any such
repairs are made on account of stress of
weather, then there is a provision In the
Bihl under whicb the owner of the vessel
la entithed to a refund of the duty wvhich
bas been paid. I fait to see that there la
anytbIng extraordinary about this Bill, or
that It . is hiable to conth ict tra. any form
with reclprocity arrangements*or witb prit]leges which are enjoyed by British sbips.

Hon. Mr. JAFFREY-I tbink this Bill is
admirably suited to meet a difficulty tbat
arises in our sbip building yards. I understand it bas been the practice to purchase
vessels at a comparatively low figure lu
the United States aud expeud upon them
goods aud passeugers fromn one port or place more money than the original cost of thie
to another in such country.
A vessel would be bought say for
vesse].
l'he next section states:
$5.000 or $10,000. and the purchaser would
-"Where by treaty made before the l3th expend more than that affount of mioney
May, 1S69, Her Maiesty agreed to grant to 111)01 it, and as far as that outlay la conany slips of any foreign state, such rights
and privileges in respect of the coasting cerned thiey have avoided paying diity, and
trade of Canada those nights and privileges only pay duty upon the compnratively smaîl
shah] be enjoyed by those ships so long as Hler
late Maje.sty agreed or His Majesty the King sum that tbey paid for the original cost of
may hereafter agree to grant thern."
Thenl they bring ln their supthe vesse].
That la the Shipping Act, chapter 113, plies sud everything necessary to fit up that
sections 953 and following-Then the next vessel whieh escapes the payment of duty.
Hou. Mr. ROSS (Halifax).

JULY 9~, 1908
1 tbink that is an unfair treatinent of our
own trade.
I do not pretend to be eitlier
a protectioniat or a free trader.
I believe
in trying to do wliat Is riglit under tlie conditions as tliey ex.lst, and 1 think the condltionms as tbey exist entitie our slip buildIng yards to the protection that Is proposed
in this Bill. Speaking of the coastlng trade
as between Victoria and Vancouver, 'I do
not consider any vessels trading between
Japan and Hong Kong and Victoria and
Vancouver ean ever be considered as engaged In the coasting trade or tbat this
b.11 can be possibly made to apply to tliem.
It would only be those tbat are trading lietween Victoria and Vancouver or other
Canadiun ports. and it is but riglit that
they sliould bave their repairs made in Canada, or psy the duty if they do not.

Hou. Sir M1ACKEYNZIE BOWE-ILI.ý-I was
about calling the attention of the Senate
to the clause whic> my bion. friend from
De Salaberry read a few moments ago. If
lie liad gone a littie fur.tber, lie would bave
learned exactly wliere the power exlsts to
extend thie privileges of tlie coasting trade
My bon. frlend read
to foreiga vessels.
clause 953.
That refers to a foreign vesClause 9-38 reads as follows:
sel.
The Governor in Couneil may, froni timne
to 'time, declare that the (foregoing provisionr. of thuls part shall not applv to the
ahips or vessels of any foreign country in
which Biritish ships aire admitted to' the
coasting trade of snch country, and to carry
goods and passengers from one port or place
to another in such country.t

Mien there is another clause whichi gives
power to the Governor lu Council to deciare that any country that wi]l give to
Canada tlie right to do a coasting trade, can
have reciprocal privileges la the Canadian
I know many cases durcoasting trade.
ing- the tiine I was Minister of Customs In
w-lich a forelgn country wonld open their
ports to Canadianl vessels to do coasting,
and we. as a rule-and I think It lias been
followed out under the present goverament
-passed an order In council admltting the
vessels of tbat country to the coasting trade
of Canada. My lion. frlend, the leader
of tlie opposition, spoke of; a Norwegian vessel. The moment a vesselI registers as British it Is no longer foreign, and
the moment it becomes Britisli, It Is en-

titled to ail the privfleges of coasting to
which a British vessel is entltled.
My
hon. f riend referred to the Bill introduced
by the Finance MInister at the present session of par-liaznent, in which lie makies a
provision for granting a privilege to a forelgn country to do a coasting business In
Canada; but under the law as It exists In
the Shipplng Act, once havlng granted that
p)ermission, there Is no power given to the
governaient to resclnd IL. Under the prolbosed anlendmeut iutroduced by the Minister of Finance, a copy of which 1 hold" In
my hand, power is given to the Governor
In Council In Canada to declare by an order
in council that any forelgn country, granting
sucli privileges to Canadian vessels that tbey
should reciprocate and that they can repeal
this order at any trne. When we get Into
comnlittee we can take these matters under
advisement.
I should lke to assure Iny
bon. friend from Halifax, that however narrow-minded the people of Ontario may bie,
they have an eye, like my friend from the
maritime province, to No. 1, and If there
is any change In the law or any law that
can be passed which is flot detrimental to
the wliole Dominion, and whicli Is In the
Interest of Ontario, I trust there wlll be a
sufficient number of representatives in botli
Houses to look after tbeir own Interests
as we know froni experience the maritime
provinces do, and I k-now of no gentleman
sitting In parliament who Is a greater stick1er for the rlghts and privileges of thé~ maritime provinces tban the hon, gentleman
who lias designated Ontario representatives
as belng narrow-tnlnded.
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHEED-Might I suggest
to my lion. frlend whether It would not lie
wlse to amend the Canada Sliipping .Act Instead of making this part of the Customis
Act. It is under the Shipping Act that tlie
authority is given to place a duty on shlpping, and it seems to me that, logically,
that Is the place wliere It sliould appear.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We miglit have to Invokte the Britishi authorities to use that.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Oli, no.
Tlie motion was agreed to, the Bill was
read the second time.

1476

SENATE

METAL SHINGLE AND SIDING COMPANY BILL.
SECOND READING.
lien. Mr. CAMPBELL meved the second
reading of Bill (HHH) An Act respecting
certain patents of the Metai Shingie and
SidlDg Companly.
He said: This patent was Issued lu
1902. It is fer some imprevements in metal
structures, and It was granted for six
years, and It could be renewed or extended fer a longer perled; but lu May et
last year the general manager ef the Company, Mr. A. K. Cameren, weut away on
a trip, and befere leaving bie made a4~ nifidavit that be sIgued a cheque and ieft It
wltb bis cierk te send te the cemmissiener
ef patents te renew the patents. It cost
hlm $40 fer the renewai; but threugb -soex
errer or careiessness on the part of the
cierk the cheque was never forwarded, and
the turne expired on the 8th et May ef this
year, and tbey therefere were obllged to
present tbks Bill wbich will cost neariy
$1,000 te get through the Heouse asking for
the extension et this patent for the unexplred portion et the term. Provision Is
made pretectiug anybedy and everybody
wheo iny bave eugaged lu the manufacturing of thîs particular nietai during this
time. Nobody Is epppsiug it, and I de net
tbink tbere can be any objection.

parliarnent. That bas been doue, but tbe
ainendments made- by the House ef Commous are not concurred ln by the compauy.
There bas been an Interview between the
promotera of the Bill and the Superintendent of Insurauce, and they bave corne to
an agreeument as te what these amendments
should consist of. The purpose of the promoters uow la to have the Senate pesa a
motion nlot concurrlug ln the amendinents
made by the Gommons, wlblcb would place
tbe Bill lu the same position It was ln wben
It went to the Commons ormiginally froin the
Senate. The parties there have agreed
upon amnients which wiII satlsfY ail
parties coacerued and satisfy the SuperIntendent of Insurance. I therefore inove:.
That a message b3 sent to the Housi of
Commons iuforming that body that the Senate does not; concur in the ameadmeuts mnade
by the House of Commons te the Bill entitled
an Act respecting the Dominion Guarantee
Company, Limited, for the causes set fortlh
in writing accompanying the motion.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Wouid It nlot be better te offer the amendmnt whicb bas beemi
ugreed te by the parties?
Hou. Mr. BAKER-I think not.

The ACTING SPE.AKER (Hon. Mr.
Young)-Tbe Senate la asked net to cencur
lu the ameudmeuts miade by the Gommons.
Rule 131 says that wheu amenduients are
made to a Bill ef some iimportance, the
course is te refer It elther te a commIttee
The metion was agreed te, and the Bill ot the' whole Heuse or te the committee
whicb erigIualiy considered the Bill; and
.was read tae seceud tume.
iuasmucb as yeu have here reasens whilch
DOMINION GUARANTEE COMPANY'S
yeu mnust decide upon, It igbt be that the
full precedure sbould be taken wltb regard
BILL.
te these ameudmeuts. I would suggest that
COMMOINS AMENDMENTS REJECTED.
for the censideration ef the House.
The Order ef the Day being calied:
Hou. Mr. BAKER-lt would be mnaniConsideration of the amendmeats made by festiy impessible for the Senate te make
the House of Gommons te (Bill V) An Act
respectîug the Dominion Guarantea Com- any ameudmnents te the Bihlu In ts present
pany. Limîted.
stage. The oiy way ef meeting the views
Heu. Mr. BAKER said: Tbe ameudments of ail parties Iuterested Is te get the Bill
couslst lu striking eut twe clauses of tbe back te the House et Commeus, and when
Bill which were net absoiutely Insisted they are notlfied that the Senate does not
upon by the prornoters. Tbey affect the concur lu their ameudments tbey will subThey bave
Jean of meney frei au insurance cempany stitute other ameudments.
ln Great Britain, aud tbe lenders of the power te de it wben tbe Bili gets back te
moneY insist upen gctting an uudertaking the Heuse ef Cemmons, but the Senate bas
en the part ef the dîrecters to bave that ne power te deal wlth It lu any way exxnortgage ratiflcd and couflrmed by Act of cept te reject or accept the ameudments.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

JULY 10, 1908

l4î7

1477
.TULY 10. 1908
ÂOCUSATIONS AGAINST MRI. J. MeHon. Mr. POWER-I would suggest that
GOVERN.
the bon. gentleman should move that rule
131 lie suspended so far as regards this
MOTION POSTPONED.
Bill, and that will leave the matter open.
The order of the day being called:
If that rule be suspended the bon. gentleBy the Hon. Mr. Landry:
man can take the course he proposes.
That he will 4!nquire of -the government1. le i-t true 4hat the govern'ment bas orHon. Mr. LANDRY moved the suspendered an inquiry in-to the conduot of Mr. J.
slon of mile 131 In so far as It relates to McGovern, foremen of the Initercolonial Railway between Lévis and Rivière du LoupP
thîs BIil
2. Has -this inquiry been ordered as the reThbe motion was agreed to, and mule 131 suit of grave accusations of peoulaition brought
being suspended, tbe motion to send the against this employee? neture of the accusa3. What is the precise
Bill baek to the House of Commons was tions the truth of which the .commissionerholding the inquiry bas been ordered to find,
adopted.
out?
The Senate adjourned until to-morrow
4. Who bas been appointed commissioner to
hold the inquiry? la ît Mr. T. C. Bu.rpee, of
at 3 p.111.
Monicton? If not, Who?
5. Wheu was the appointment made, axmd
w'hen 'is the inquiry to commence?

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA,

Friday, July 10, 1908.

Hon. M1r. SCOTT-I bave no answer to
I bave done ail I could to
this question.
obtain the Information.

The SPEAKER toolc the Chair at Three
Hon. 'Mr. LàANDRY--. Inat la the stereno'clock.
typed answer.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--Quite true; 1 cannot
answer any other way unless I tell a lie.
WATER-POWERS FOR INDUSTRIAL
PURPOSEIS.
Hon. Mr. LÂXDRY--Could we not change
the machine, and ln that wny, perbaps, ohPOSTPONED.
MOTION
We ought to be informed
tain an answer?
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I beg to move:
If It is true tbat the .government bas ordered
That an order of the Senete do issue ask- an inquiry. I amn simply asking If kt la
in
a of of year ini behalf of any pur- true.
in course copy laet the letters patent issued
thU for
.boomns
son ffsking authorization to construet
Hou. Mr. *SCOTT-I will obtain that iiion certain x'ivers or to use water-poweirs for
I will insist on an
formation, certainly.
industriel purposes.
a very answer to that.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat would lie
long proposition aud no eartbly advantage
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We niight get an
can lie derlved from it. I would be very auswer for that paragrapli this year, and
glad to give the Dames, sud If the bon. perhaps next year another partY will be
gentleman will select the ones lie desires, in power, and wve shaîl proceed a little
the Information caul le olitained this ses- faster.
sion.
The inqulry was allowed to stand.
Hon. '%Ir. I>AVID-Tbat miiglt lie suffiDEIAYED RETURNS.
cient.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-If the bon, gentleman
,will tell mie wbiat lie wants, 1 will try and
obtalu Information w-hich will meet bis
wisb.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I bave no objection to
It ulay stand.
wait.
The motion was allowed to stand until
Tuesday.

INQUIRY.
Hon. '%r. LANDRY lnqulred:
When does the govemniment think that it
wiil b. able to lay on the table of this Houe
the following documents, the production of
wbich. was ordered during the ýpresent session,
at the dates menlioned:
<a) The etatement indioating the amounts
spent on the Deschembault wharf-Fabruary I?

1475 *

SEN,ATE

1475

SENATE

(b) The correspondence exchanged botween
the Department of Militia and LieutenantColonel Davidson re -the 1atter's d-ismissal and
the promotion of Sir Henry Pellatt to, the
rank of colonel-Februery 14?P
(o) The details asked for on sthe subject of
the add'itional eubseription of $200,000 to, the
capital stock of -the Quebec Bridge and Railway Company-Jenuary 29?
-(d) lIhe statemeiat show&ng what was the
daily pay of the soldiers of the company No.
2 of the Ottawra F'ield Battery in 1865l
and 1866
-March 17?

Hon. Mr. LAINDRY-Statement D) showin- the pay of the Ottawa Field Battery
ln 1867)-66 would only take 5 -minutes to
prepax'e.
The offlcer 'would just have to
open one file and prepare an answer, unless there were somne explosives la that particular file and the employee of the department would fear to approach It; but If they
are uýp to date military mea they 'Will be
fearless and they wlll open that desk or
I hope the hou. genHon. Mr. SCOTT-I bave no answer to drawer and find ItL
that. I uuderstand that Is the printing of tleman 'wilI press that question.
the papers la connection wltb the bridge
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I -shalI.
disaster.
The Inqulry wus allowed to stand.
Hon. Mr. LAXDRY-Thie return was
ordered five months and a baîf ago.
REBUIILDING 0F THE QUEBEC
BRIDGE.
Hlou. Mfr. '$COTT-I quite recoguize it is
Indefensible, and I bave no apology to
INQUIRY.
offer on behaif of the government.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inqulred:
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-That was an order
given by the House, and It bas been coinplied witb, with a rapidity thiat is astounding.
W'hat departments could we bold
responsible for this biaste?

Has the Quebse Bridge and Railway Coinpany reoeived, end has it comrmunicated to
the govennment. any proposais wihatbsoever on
the subject of the rebuilding of the bridge et
the samne place as the ibridge which. has filIený
From whom did such'proposais come F
How imuch did they ask for the rebuilding
of tbe bridge?
Hon: Mr. SCOTT-Thie Publie Works.
Wonld it be a suspension bridge, a truse
bridge, or an arch bridge?
Honl. Mr. LANDRY--Could the bon. genWben wili the recoastruoted bridge be open
tleman ask biis employee to luquire from to traffic P
thiat department?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I can answer No. 6.
Hon. -'%r. SCOTT-I will iusist on the The answer is, no-that no proposais bave
been made-notblng bas been doue, practiminister giving some answer.
cnlly.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Aad if the hon.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-Is that the answer
gentleman would tell his employee that if
of the goverument?
bie did not furnishi a proper answer Le
would dismiss Lia, I am sure hie would reHon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, the bon. gentleceive the proper answer, and tbe same tblng man cau take that as tbe nnswer of tbe
would occur with the other inquiries. There government.
is the return asked for from tbe Mîllitia
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I am very glad this
Department: the eountry is at pence, no answer
bas been given, because Mr. Pawar with the States or any one else, and
rent gave a contrary nnswer the other day.
while we are enjoylng ail the ibenefits of
peace could we not take haff an bour of
MORNING SITTINGS.
the time of tbe department and trouble
MOTION.
tbem to have the correspondence between
The order of the day beiag cnlled
tbe M-%ilititi Departmient and Colonel Davidson produced.
If thnt is possible witbout
That when the Senate cadjouras -to-day it do
InJuring- tbe country and witbout exposing stand adjonrned untii Monday next eit 8 c'clock
la the evening, eud that; on Wednesday next
Onur fiank to the enemy, I would ask the there be a mornîing sitting begianing at elevea
hon, gentleman if hie could do it.
o'ciock and terminnting art one, unless the
Senate sooner adjourns.

Tha-t when the Sen-

it
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-I will do the best 1 ate adjourns et one o'clock in the afternoon the
.stand adjouriîed uni
three ô'clook on

can.

saine afternoon, sucd
flu__

as-.

T

*

fD

(itti1ug

to continue Untl

JULY 10, 1908
we substitute 16 for 18. The word 18, 1
tblnk, occurs lu every clause of the Bill
once or twice, and the motion is to substitute 10 for. 18. The matter was discussed
to some extent ln Commlttee of tbe Whole,
but there was a very thin commlttee and
hon. gentlemen had not had an opportuuity, 1 think, of conslderiug the question
fully, and I trust that the motion which
was moved lu Committee of the Whole
wlll meet wltli more favourable reception
fromn tbe House than it dld fromn the coinmnittee. The reasons why I think, we should
subatitute 16 for 18 are many. Iu the flrst
place, it is desirable that we shouid observe uniformity, If possible, lu our legîslation, particulariy legislation wbich deals
with crhiinal or quasi crixuinal offences. The age fixed. as 1 understand,
lu ail the provincial laws wlth respect to
It Is
the use of cigarettes, is 16 years.
desirable that the legisiation of this parlameut should harmonîze witb the provinIn
cial legisiation as far as priicticuble.
ail the enactmnents with respect to the criminai law, or nearly ail of them, the age
CONSTRUCTION 0F WATER-POWERS. of 16 bas been choseu as the dividing line
between juvenile offenders and adult off eiHou. Mr. DAVID-A communication bas ders, and 1 think we should preserve the
been hianded to nme about tlîe motion whicli saine distiniction here. That ls one reasou,
I made a few minutes ago lu regard to that we should try aud preserve uniforwnter-powers, and I have been asked my mity. lu the next place we bave recentiy
object lu puttiug the question I did f0 the passed a .'Bill respectlng juvenhle delinlion. Secretary of State. I desire f0 say
quents, and that Bill bas corne to us from
that my object is to ascerfalu whether the
the other Chamber coucurred lu with one
grautlng of such letters patent wns always trifiing amendaient, so that practically lt
lu accordauce . with the regulations adopf- rnay be regarded as being ait the present
ed by the Senate tu counection with pro- time iaw. That Act provides that ail pervincial rigbfs.
sons under the age of. 16 who are convIcted.
0F THE USE 0F TOBACCO o! offences, shahl be deait wlth under the
RESTRAINT
provisions of the Act lu question sud
BILL.
not under the general criminal law.
THIIRD READING.
So that an Important feature of the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT iuoved the third rend- Juvenile Delînqueuts Act is that the juvelng- of Bill (173) Au Acf f0 restrain the urae nule delinqueut is kept aloof from aduit
of tobacco by voung persons.
He Is not to be brought lnto
off enders.
He Is not to be sent to
to more the saine court.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I propose
No deau ameument. Hou. gentlemeu wIil no the *same place of confinement.
linquent under the age of 16 îe t0 be sent
doubt have observed thiat this Bill makes
prison
It a penal offence for any youug person to a common mail or f0 the ordiuary
lie would be brouglit into contact
under the age o! 18 years to use fobacco. wvhere
any lad
carry tobacco to another person or wiflî aduit crimnls, and surely
f0
offense of
to do varlous other ithinga-. The mo- who is guilty of the very trifliug
herd
tiou which I propose to make is that using tobacco s4ould not be sent to

six o'clock iu the afteruoou uliless the Senftel
be sooner adjourned, when the Senate ehah'
stand adjourued until eight o'ciock ini the
eveang; snd ithat eaoh of eneji three sittings
be considered -a distinct eitting.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I thought the Sente
was to meet at 3 o'ciock ou Mouday Iustead
o! 8 o'clock. I bave been told by a nuniber of gentlemen that they had made their
arrangements for Mouday, and they have
asked 'If I could not postpoue the sittiug
until Tuesday mornug. It wouid not deprive us of a meeting of the House, and
If hou. gentlemen wouid concur lu that
change, we -eau do more at the Il o'clock
meeting on Tuesday than we couid do at
the 8 o'ciock meeting on Mouday eveniug.
Therefore 1 wouid change the motion si)
as to rend that w-heu the Senate adjouras
to-day It do stand adjourned until Tuesday
ut il o'clock lu the nioruing, tbe remainder of the motion wiii be the -saine.. Thera
wiil be three sitfiugs *a day, il tili 1
o'clock, 3 until 6 o'ciock, and 8 o'clock until
the adjourumeuf.
The motion was agreed f0.

1480

1480

SENATE
SENATE

witb aduit criminals.
If we fix the age
at 18, we sentence ail youths betrween
16 and 18 who may be convicted under
this B11, If it becomes law, to associate
I feel that whiie
wltb aduit criminals.
some bon, gentlemen may thlnk It la melanchoiy tact that young men between 16 and
18 years of age sbould use tobacco, it would
be a much more unfortunate tact that young
men between 17 and .18 should be sentenced
to associate witx bardened criminals. In
the third place this Bill contains certain
provisions wbich are of a very unusual
character.
Amongst others, it Is provided
that the parents of the offender are liable
to a penalty.
Under the strenuous conditions of life whiclb prevail In Canada,
there are tbousands of young men between
16 and 18 years of age wbo are earningtheir own livings, and I contend that It la a
most tyrannical and absurd provision to
hold the father of the young man of 17 or
18 responsîbie for the tact that bis son
smokes tobacco. The father may know notbIng about lt, to begin witb. Then, again, the
young men of the present day are very
likely to smoke whether their fathers like
it or not, and the Idea of rendering a father
guilty of an offense ln that case seems to
me t0 be absurd ln the extreme. Again
I arn satisfied that it would be quite
impossible to induce the police authorities
to enforce a measure of this kind, per-.
ticuiariy ln dealing with young men over
16 years of ago.
Juat fancy a police officer going up to a young man on the street
who is, perhaps, aimoat 18 years of age axnd
taking away from hlm by force a package
of cigarettes? If is revolting to one's ideas
of wiiat is proper.
1 may say as an Illustration of the view that I fake, and f0
support it, tbat In the city of Halifax we
bave an enactment whica forbids the use of
tobacco-I tiiink cigarettes-by young persons under the ag-e of 16. 1 had notlced
numbers of boys, some of fhem not more
than 13 years of age, smoking- cigarettes on
the streef. Having some business with. the
mayor of the city, I caiied bis attention
to this fact, and suggested that he shouid
insfrnct the chief of police to see that this
enactmnent was enforced.
In my presence,
the inayor calied la the chief of police and
toid hlm whiat I bail qaid, and then -the chief
of police. as 1 thought, very improperly but

very naturaiiy said, ' I am not going f0 instruct any police officer t0 arresf a boy for
simply smoking cigarettes.
I mighf give
the boy a cuif on the aide of the Iiead and
let hlm go, but I amn not going to order bis
arreat.'
That spirit, hon, gentlemen wiil
find, wili preval f0 a much greater extent
when you corne f0 apply the la* t0 youug
men between 16 and 18.
And, then, In a
general .way, thils Bih la In advance of public sentiment, and If If became law wouid
therefore not be enforced. ,It wIli simply
.be a dead letter.
If you Jeave the lmit
at 16 years of age, there may be a partial
enforcement of the iaw, but If you appiy
it to ai persons under 18 years of nge I

amn satisfied the iaw will be a dead letter
as ail iaws are which are f00 far in advance
of -pubic sentiment.
This Bill, I understand, was introduced

by the governmeiit

la the House of Commons.
No doubt before iatroducing lt, the goverament had
considered It from nearly ahl points 0f vlew,
and la their wlsdoni they fixed the age at
16.
In the House of Commons some gentleman, acting no doubf with the very beat
motives, but still Irresponsibie, and iiiflueaced probabiy by sentiments that wbiie
credifable were not practicable, moved that
the age be changed f0 18 years, and mnasmucit as a number of weii meaning ladies
were anxious to bave the age fixed at 18,
the members of the H3ouse of -Commoas
were desirous of showing how gallant they
I
*were and they raised the age to 18.
think we had better go back to the place
where the goverament xvere when the Bill
was introduced, and I therefore move, seconded by the bon. Mr. Ellis:
That the Bill be not now read the third
time, but thet it be amended -by substituting
the word 'sixteen ' for the word ' eighteen'
where&ver it occurs.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I would regret very
rnuchi If the House were f0t adopf the
amendment. The analogy wbich the bon.
gentleman from Halifax bas given la not
parallel. They take cbildren absoiutely up
to sixteen, but Ini having secured a chiid
Up t0 16 the control ls not reliquished at
16, Dot until 21 is reacbed.
H.on. Mr. POWER-I did not say they
were not subjecf f0 control; 1 said tbey
couid nlot be sentenced.

.JITL'Y 10, 190814

1481

Hou. Mr. SO TT-Tbey are nlot eman- mizes the clause, wbicb, after a full discipated when they reach 16 or even -18. cussion, we adoPted yesterday and I should
Tbey bave to continue under control util hope Vie Bill will be allowed to be rend
tbey are 21. Tbe bon, gentleman points Vie third -time as we dlsposed of It lu the
out that 16 was Vie age flxed ln the Bill comilttee.
as originally introduced. From my starndHou. Mfr. DAVID-For the good reasous
point I would have the age 21, and I given by Vie hon. senator f rom Halifax, I
doubt If there la a father llstenlng to my shall vote for the amendment and I do so
wiords now who would nlot be glad to sea becau-se I arn lu faveur o! the law.
It la
the law was observed until bis boy was 21. because I thiik the law la a good one. But
If bon. gentlemen knew of the appeala If you want te have a law Viat wiiI be
made by tens of thousands of Vie best enforced you muet make it reasonable. If
mothers ln the country for Vhis legisla- It le; unreasouable, it wlll not be put luto
tien, they would not besl.tate a moment executlon.
There wIll Le ail kînda of
about accepting the proposition ln the Bill. mens used te evade It. Young men of 17
Year by year, for a long series of years, or 18 are men. lu the province of Quebec,
representative wvomen from Halifax to Vic- I may say without pride, young men o! 16
toria, have appeared at the beglnning of and 17 nre men, and are no longer under
parliament and appenled to the members the coutrol of their parents. I think the
of tbe goverument to pass a law of thia law la good lu this way, that lt -will heip
character. They put It that It wlll mean the parents to prevent their "cbiidreu from
In the opinion
the savlng of their boys.
smoking; but a youug man over 16 la net
pbyslologlsts a boy is not developed a child. He ls very ofteu earnlng bis owvn
of
mentally or physically untIl Le bas reached living, and outaide o! Vie control of bis
the age of 21. We read ln the press from parents, and If you apply the Bill to a
time to time of boys between the agea of young man under euch circumatances. be
16 and 19 being turned down from posi- will take ail klnds of mens to evade it.
tions of trust because they bave the to- I tblnk, therefore, Vint those who bave
bacco beart. 1 gave an Illustration of that confidence, as I bave myself, Viat Vie Bill
the other day, wbeu 1 mentloned that la a good oue and wlll have a good effçct,
about 75 per cent of the midshipmen were eught to vote lu faveur o! Vie ameudment.
turned down at Washington becau-se tbey
Hôni. Mr. LOUGIIEED-1 veututed to
bad tobacco beart from smoking cigarettes.
The age fixed In Vie Bill wns ehanged to express te Vie House yeaterday, sentiments
18 by some one hundred and fi! ty- or two somewhat similar to Viose expressed by
bundred fathers lu the House o! Commofle, the bon. gentleman frein Mille lises, and
wbo feit rather keenly on this subjeet, and wlth ail due deference to those hon. genI put the question practicalîs, is there a tlemen wbe seem te feel meat keeuly about
father 'wltbln the hearing of my volce wbo the Bill, 1 tbouglbt they approaclied it lu a
would nlot say Viat he would lîke bis boy spirit of lutemperance and eudeavoured to
not to smoke util Le hnd reached the age outdo what I regard as Vie very extreme
o! maturlty. It la a inucx more serions view of the Comumons, aud amnended the
matter thau those w'ho Indulge lu smoking Bill to such an extent that It wili be encan properly appreciate. It le a very Im- tirely ineffective. Ona ueed net lay dewn
portant social subject. It la xnelancholy Vis prîncîple, that If the la-i la opposed
now to see thnt our daughters are beglu- to ail common sauce, and the ordinary prncnlng to smoke, not to any extent as yet tices o! every day Ilfe, partlcularly where
lu Canada, but lu Great Britalu and some lt establisbes au artîficlal crime as this
other countries. It lsan melancboly fact does, it ivlll only result lu violatioua of
tbat girls before they are ln a position te Vie law wi lmpunity. Omie o! the firat
become mothers are smoking cigarettes, co- principles to Le observed by law-makers lu
pying from others. and as au assertion of pasaing a body of laws la te see that tie
The Senate will make a Iaw la reasonable. The whole'teudency of
ludependence.
is a sumptuary
very grave mistake if it lu auy way mini- sumptuary laws-nnd this

1482

SENATE

SENATE
1482
law-is to go to extremies. The tendency forced? It wili be a by-word and reproach
of legisiation within the last eight or ten against tbis Chamber and this parliamnent.
years bias been largciy lu the direction of 1 ask you If we are dolng ourselves jusreviving the old Blue Laws of New Eng- tice; If it la ln the public lutereat that we
land, and eadenvouring to goveru people sliah del iberately legisiate that men who
moraiiy by law instead of appeallng to are old enougli to go Into the field of their
thelr moral sense. Here la a case ln which country's wars shahl not be allowed to exive establal au artificial crime. It can- ercise their judgment as to whether they
flot be conteaded that there la any moral shahl use tobacco or not? Yesterday, we
wrong ln a youth of 18 smoking tobacco. deliberately amended this Bill so as to
A number of excellent women. probably provide that If a father sbould give bis son
amongat them a large perceutage of mo- under 18 a package of tobaeco, that that
thers, have asked the goverament to place son migbt be pilIoried by the magistrate
upon the statute-book a law which they and made to tell where hie got the tobacco,
regard as necesSflry to prevent juventie and that the father llkewise sbould become
smoking. So fur as I cnîî learn, they were amenable to this sumptuary law and hiable
Are w-e
satisfied with fixing the age limit at 16 to pay a fine of $100 and costa.
years. Some members of the House of a hysterical body? Does this body repreCommons, who are overcbarged with a de- sent the extreme sentiments expressed by
gree of anxiety on this point, ihcreased the the very excellent wonien's orgauizations
age to 18, and the Senate yesterday, flot to througbout the Dominion of Canada, or arc,
be outdoae by the mothers constituting thue we holding the balance of common sense
Women's Christian Temperance Union and and legIslating la a practIcal manner ? We
other organizations of a kiadred nature, or find ln this Bill the other absurd provision
by the members of the House of Commons whichi I polnted out yesterday, that If nny
anxtous to make dis Bill as sumptuary as citizen ln Canada should ask a messenger
possible, amended tbe Bill to such an ex- of 18 years of age to convey to some disteut as to mnke It absolutely ineffective. tant point not for bis own use, but for a
The Bill provides penalties for the artifi- customer, a package of cigarettes, be ut
clal crime of a youtb of 18 -smoking to- once becomes amenable to the law and subbacco. Have bon. gentlemen ever thouglit ject to a fine of $100.
of this, that a large percentage of tbe miiiHon. '.Mr. SCOTT-It does not apply to
tary contingents wçhlchý we sent to South
a boy employed la a tobacco factory.
Africa to fight on bebalf of thue empira
were youths of about IS years of age ?
Hlon. 31r. LOUG.HEE.D-That la another
One of those youtbs who Nvon the Victoria plhase of the question aitogether.
I an
Cross to the credit of bis native city. the referring to clause 1 of this Bill, under
city of Ottawa, was onlly 19 years of age which, if I send a boy under 18 years of
and yet this parliarnent deliberately pro- age to deliver a package of cigarettes for
poses to place upon the statute-book a iaw ine, I render myseif at once amienable to
wbich declares that youn.g men w-ho are tbe law as baving furnishied hlm witlj toold enough to figbt the batties of their bacco.
Now I am n sympathy with the gencountry, bave to be -sbadowed by police- eral principle of this Bill that w-e should be
men and corne witbin the pale of the cri- n a position to suppress evils to which the
minai law If tbey are found smoking. WIII rising youth may be subjeet.
But w-e have
hon. gentlemen in this Chamnber, men w-ho to tak-e this into consideration; you may
bave passed the mneridian of life, and are f111
youi- statute-book w-lUi sumptuary lau-s,
charged with holding the balance in this yet if 3-ou diveÈt the p)arent of that moral
Chamber of common sense, deliberately say responsibility wblch must necessariiy atthant men of that age shahl not bave the tacli f0 hlm, and let that parent reir on the
rîglit to exercise the moral responsibility iaw for bringing up bis boy moralîr and
-of smoking or abstalning- fronm smnoking reli.gionsîr, you strike a blow at the very
tobacco? It la absurd lu the extreme.- Do best principle of national and domnestic fife.
you expeet a law (J this lciTd will bte Pn- The parent cannot be divested of his reHon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

JULY 10, 1908

1483

1483
JULY 10, 1908
sponsibility.
Parents have begun to ne- whichi ls perf ectly iawfuni at the present tirne,
custom themscives to such ail exteut to out of which they take some eajoymeut,
soliitlllg parliament to pass sumptuary whether they -benefit froni it or not. I arn
laws, thant they are forgetting the responsi- speaklug as a uoa-smnoker, or as a reformned
biiity devoiving ou themseives, and neglect- amoker-one who lias givea up thie habit.
lug to tlirow around their chidren tbe pre- I qulte uuderstand that if I had not given
cept aud exampie so uecessary in the teacli- It UP of my own free wli, but had to give
Ing of the borne.
I speak ou this subjeet It Up because of an Act passed by the iSecreas the father of four boys, aud I hold those tary of State, I wouid have a liard feeling
views very strongiy and thluk parliameut towards hlm, and It is because 1 have that
is goiug too far lu passing this klnd of feeling, I would hîke to, remove fromn hlm
Ail
legislation.
I an lu favour of a Bill witli the odlum of fixing this age of 18.
au age lîmit of 16, and that shouid be the the iaws recognize the age of -tutelage of
the boy up to 16. After that lie lias passed
outslde age for wlilch we siîouid legisiate.
lato nother stage. You are depriv-lng hlmn
Hon. Mr. KERR-I hope the hou. Secreof doiug that whlch lie may have been
tary of -,'tate wiIl sec bis wiy to acceptiug
tatuglt by bis father, whicli lie iay have
Whien we coule to think
the ameudmeut.
practised lu bis home, aud iii wvich lie
about the mutter, this is a Bill in restrahît
may have been surrounded hy bis comnrades
of a habit w1ilch is usually formed before
It seems to me it is
and by lils friends.
the age of 18. Take the case of a person
a email concession, particulariy as it oaiy
who lias already formed the smoking habit
ajlples to tbose who are now over tbe age
and wiîo is over the age of 10, and you are
of 16, and flot over the age of 18.
obuliglug hlm to abandon tbe habit lie bias
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Mlddlesex)-W"e have ahaiready acquired. There lias been no prohibition lu the law up to the present time ready settied lu commlttee the age of 18
restralninug paersons from contractiug sucli and the House of Commous bas agreed to
I do flot kuow why w-e should
It is. lu other words, a perfectly that age.
a habit.
NO
Iawful thlg for'a pers6u to offer to amy unsettle wliat we bave already doue.
one under the age of 16 and by cousequence satisfactory reason lias been given to mie to
under the age of 18. tobacco.
It lias been unsettie what lias been decided upon aiThe whole object of the Bill-and
qulte withln the iaw that the boy shouid ready.
Take the case of one who lias that is largely wbat goverus my judgmeut
smoke it.
already acquired the habit, and w-ho Is be- -a to preveut young people uslug tobacca
youd 16 and uxîder 18 years of age; you are a tan age of -whicli It is, adm.Ittediy, very
Lt ls certaiuhy luobiiging hlmii to abandon the liâbit,. Nvhereas injurions physicaihy.
file true w-ny of dealing with the niatter jurious under the age of 16; lt may ha hess
Is to legîsiate for anl age w-heu lie w-Il! fot Iujurions between tlie ages of 16 and 18;
They
The stîli that is a callow age for boys.
probably ]lave formed that habit?
habit Is lu process of belng iearned before are flot xuatured; their fibre ls flot bardeued.
the age of 10.
If you stop that process Tbey are stili lu a state of growtb, aud Imat the age of 16) you are uot restraiuiug a mature, and the poisonous effect of the drug
habit so definitely foraned, at ail eveuts, at that age ls said to be debilitating menWe must draw the
as you w-ould be hctween the age of 16 sud talhy aud pbysically.
The hou, gentleman froni
18. and I think the law wll be resented *by lina somewhare.
a great many w-ho have learued to smoke Calgaryv regratted axceedinghy that the reand w-ho are practicixîg the habit betweeu stralut sbould be put upon young people
Lt seenis to me nt 18 yaars of age, because lie says at that
thie ages of 16) and 18.
that It is ouiy lu the flrst Instance the habit age people figlit the battlas of tliair country.
bas to. be broken, -but you are prohilbltlug Thare Is no analogy lu tha two cases at aIl.
the formation of the habit atterwards UP We bave to lumit the age of cltlzenship. A
The ouly differeuce is man la an infant, practlcaihy, until hie is 21
to the age of 18.
It Is not whatliar lie figbts
that tbose w-ho have already acquired the years of age.
He Is the ward of
ha-bit and arc beyond the age of 16 aud uot or whether lie smokes.
yet 18 will be obliged tf) abandon a practice soma one under the haw, of lis parents or

1484

SENATE

of the state, and because of bis immaturlty the Senate. It seems to me that this
and because of the deleteriofis effects of to- Cbamber is, after ail, the final resort savbacco at that age, we proteet the cbild as lng of course the sanction by His Excellong as we tbiuk we can reasonably do so. lency the Governor General, of ail legisia1 amn very averse to legisiation that may flot tion that passes the parliament of Canada.
be considered eff ective; but thîs ls the cry Now, like my hon. frieud tbe bon. Secrethat la aiways raised agalnst sumptuary tary of State, I arn botb a teetotaler and a
I rernember wbea we proposed non-arnoker, I arn opposed, and always have
legisiation.
to lirnit the age at wblcb children sbould been opposed to legislative prohibition, aiwork ln factories, there was an outcry, tbougb I bave committed the wrong of ai1You caunot prevent tbem; their parents ways voting for It I arn opposed to it just
wiil srnuggle tbem lnto factories under tbat so long as It Is legai to manufacture,
age; the law wlli not be entorced, and will imaport and seli the article. Under sucb
Weil It Is on the circumatances, I tbink lt la Iliogical to labe practlcaily valueless.'
statute-book, and It la reasonably weil en- terfere witb it and 1 arn opposed to interforced, and protection is given to children ferlng wltb smokers. Let tbern smoke If
Up to certain ages. The same way when they want to, just s0 long as it is legal to
we pro.posed to enforce compulsory attend- manufacture and seli tobacco. It may be
It wnas judiclous to deai to some extent witli the
ance at school at certain ages.
stated that that law could nlot be enforced. irrespousible youtb, but there la a limît,
It is reasonably well enforced, and 1 re- and I must say that I tbink deaiag ln this
member when we passed a truant BihI la way witb youtbs of 18 years of age la an
Ontario, requlrlng that cblldren sbouid flot absurdity. I arn a large employer of labour.
rua at large during scbool hours, -we bad Most of the men who labour for me lu
to appoint truant oficers and impose peÈai- the 'woods, to thei number of no less than
ties. *We dld this, and truancy bas been 2,000 or 3,000 every winter, are between
Ail that la la the form, flot of the ages of 16 and 38, and I. thiak every
reduced.
sumptuary legislatlon but of protective one of tbemn amokes. .The law wlill bave
It la an old story to have thUs a mighty big task on baud to preveat those
legislation.
outcry. 1 see, myseif, the importance of boys from 16 to 18 frorn smoking. Furprotecting cbildren during their growing ther, 1 tbiak If the law should go lato
They are not mature at 18. Wby effect, after tbe age of 16 it wouid be a
period.
flot protect tbemi tiil tbey are mature? Are dead letter.:" AIl tbe forces of Canada could
Ia deaiing
we to stop short at the point where the pro- iîot make the iaw effective.
can with this question, I tbink we sbould be
If we
tection ls the most valuabie?
prevent a boy forrning the habit of smok- reasonabie, and it la reasonabie. perhiaps,
ing up to the time be la 18 years of age, te make tbe age lirnit 15 or 1G. It is true,
AI- there are many young men who are pretty
perbaps be will nlot forai il at ail.
tbougb 1 bave been la tlie habit of uslag well deveioped at tbe age of 16, but 1
tobacco myseif, 1 tblnk on the wbole l cannot see bow my boa. f riend, Xvho, a f ew
would bave been better for others aad per- moments ago. said that Irresponsible youth
baps for myseif, if I bad refraiaed from the cxtended te 21, stops at 18. He should go
use of it. At ail eveats, we know that the to 21, or perbapa 70. 0f course, that would
It
use of tobacco la injurious to young people. be dealiag witb youths of another age.
It
stand as la unfortuate tbat any one amokes.
1 think we sbould let the clause
babit, a very reIt is, and the Iam' is strong euough to be la a wasteful aad ilty
enforced reasonably. It wiIl be violated, greèttable habit but It la legai to make and
of course, as ail laws are. That is no0 sel tobacco, and 1 regret that one of the
greateat institutions for the good thal
reason wby we should not pass il.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I amn surprlsed at will accrue from lt la Canada la the
founded by the tomy boa. friend f romi Middlesex questioning future, is an institution
bacco amokers of Canlada, and nlot by Sir
the propriety of tUis Chamber dealiag with
unfortunate
a inatter tbat has already been passed by W. McDonald at ail, for the
tbat
Gommons and by the committee of people of Canada. It la regrettable
the
flon.2dr-ROSS -(Middlesex)

JITLY 10, 1908

1485

1485
JITIY 10, 1908
&ick at firat. and then you wiil become acthis noxlous wvecd should be used at ail
by any one; but If we are to legisiate customed to fhem and cau continue the
against it. let us legisiate for the youtb habit of taking theni. Fortunately, tbey
Mfost ôf are not nsed to the sanie extent as toand flot for the full grown man.
our youths are men at elghteen as uiuch bacco. If lobacco wore n&o used, there
would be a tendency to use sometbing else.
as they are at 21.
I tbink tixat iaw la bad. I do flot tbluk It
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-The huma» body eau be carried out; the ago limit of 18 la
is flot fully formed at 21, so that it ls altogether too late. If you preveat the
merely an arbitrary age that la appiled. sale of cigarettes to youtbs up to the age
I thlnk there abould flot be any sncb ter- of 15, you wouid be dolng aomethlng to
rible leglalation as this. I thiuk It Is awful bolp reform, but botweea tbat age and 18
to punish the youth as weil as the seller. you cannot poasibly do anytblag to proIf a vendor sells tobacco to a boy of 13 vent tbe habit, because tbe habit Is formed
be ought to be punlshed, but froni over among thoso boys who are accustomed to
fifteen or sixteen tbe youth sboculd flot be go out to work oarly. Thoy acquîre the
punlabed at ail. Numbers of youths drink habit from seeing their eiders ualng toliquors, and If tbey drink after the proper bacco, and those are the ones most la need
hours you do not punish the boys waho of reforni.
The wealtbler clasa of people
drink, but you puniab the man whlo sella keep their chlldren at home and look after
and the otbers get off free. Why do you them properly; but tbe workiug clasa renot do the sanie %vith tobacco? Punisbi quire 10 let thoîr chîidreu go ont aI an
the man waho sells It. The only argument early age to work, and I thlnk It would bo
that conld be urged agaluat the use of to- a great shame to punlsh thom witb auy
bacco at an early age ls one that bas not penalty for Indulgîug la this habit whlcb
been mentloned bere, and tbat is It laduces no man lu the world cau stop. I do nol
a taste for drink. There is no doubt about think it la possible to stop IL We have
that. If you ask tbose who bave had ex- speut a tremendous amount of tIme and
perlence, law reformera and atatisticians, study on the cooperative Bill, and Il la
they wll tell you that there is a great nothing at ail In comparison wîth thîs Bill.
tendency to drink in those who amnoke. I thînk that If the Senate Nvere 10 appoint
Nevertbeless, I know tbat gentlemen wbo a commlttee to look Into the matter carodo flot smoke, often bave some other bad fully, hon. membera would be able o10gîve
habit ten times worse. There la that ton- an honest and Indepeudont vote.
Our
doacy In human nature, If tbey bave not object bore la to make laws that wiil do
one habit they will bave anotber. If any bon. moat good. I thlnk tis measure wlill do
gentlemen wlll allow me to doIve Into this no good, but wlil do barm. I wouid be
character or If men would expose tbe se- willlng to limît the sale 10 minora, and put
cret ways througb wbich they pasa wo wll tbat age at 16.
find another vice ten lmes more hoinoua
Hon. M~fr.
WIILSON-Whilo 1 amn lu full
and undermlnlng to the constitution tban
accord 'wlth tlbet. prnciple lntonded to be
smoking. Tobacco smoking ls not IncreasBill, to
ing; It la on the decIlne. Cigarettes are a luculcatod by the passage of Ibis
prevent childrea from uain.- tobacco or
bane to, a young man, but that can be prevented by flot ailowing the young to smoke. learning bad habits, yet I amn of opinion
I have smoked myseif and smokod at a that we should apply thal romedy aI an
ago wben It wil bhave eff ect.
If we do
very early age.
The habit la acquired Iu
not apply the remedy to that age, we are
school, and you cannot preveat It boing
placing upon tbe statute-book a law that
acqulred. One boy wlll corrupt a dozea.
wlll be a dead letter.
Il wll not have
As to the age nt whicb It wlll do Injury, any beneficlal effect.
As bas boon stated
il wlll do most barra at -the beginlng, It by the hou. leader of the opposition very
does flot mattor about the age, untîl tbe forcibly indeed, while we cali tapon a boy
boy gela usod to It. You eau, to a certain of 18 years of age to go to tbe battlofleld
extent, use deadly poisons. You will get to defond tbe rights of the empire"taad figlit

1486

SENATE

1486

SENATE

the battles of the people, aud at the saie rirevent if you eau the use of tobaeco by
I believe auy inan is foolishi
time to say that hie shial flot be permitted cbldren.
wbo shlows himself even at 60 or 65 years
to use tobacco, is to me a very absurd
He would say, 'You compel me of age to continue smoking tobacco. I may
thing.
for niany
to protect the country, to act the part of a say, by way of confession, that
face denth, but years I used tobacco and thought it wvas a
man, to receive bullets and
1 indulged ln the habit, but peryou will flot let me have a chiew of tobacco luxury.
I found it was no
Is haps flot to excess.
or an opportuulty to, smoke cigarettes.'
I found rather that it was
As far as the effects of to- benefit to me.
tt reasonable?
mlht be
bacco. are concerned, we ail admit that It injurions and that my example'
a certain exteut, though we injurions to ýounger people, and I thereIs Injurions to
and for 25 years 1
find plenty of people who commenced the fore laid the pipe aside,
practlced lt have flot toucbed auythlng of the klnd.
habit at 14 and 15 and have
show an
regularly until they are nearly 100? Why If hon, gentlemen here were to
not example to the rlslng generation perhaps it
Is It
does the tobacco flot kili them?
this legisilaunreasonabie that we should advocate the would have more effect thau
tion; but do flot use empty sounding words
placlng under this restriction a young main
people that tliey
of 18 years, capable of forming bis ownl to try to convince other
kind
opinion, capable of e-xpressing- bis opinion, should flot indulge lu n habit of that
right or when. we ourselves are indnlging iu it.
capable of judg-ing whetlber it is
wrong for hlm to have or to use tobacco,
The Hou-se dlvided on the ameudaient,
ivhile we who are 673, 70 or 80 years of age, which was carried on the following diviwalk over to, tbe table and take a pinchi of sion
snif, whlch Is more Injurions to the sysYeas 32, nnys 13.
tem thaa if they used tobacco lu their
CONTENTS:
Upon whom wlll the tobacco habit
pipes?
Upon the
The Honouraôble Mesgieurs
lnflct the greatest injury?
young man of 18 -years of age or the man Baker.
Frost.
Gibson.
We know that in advanced Béique.
of 65 years?
Godbout.
of tihe heart is more likely Bolduc.
tige, weakness
Jaffray.
Boucherville. de
Kerr.
And what would this man 65 or Bowell
to occur.
Louizbeed.
(Sir
70 years of age say If we should try to Cioran. Mackenzie)l.
mcSweenev.
prevent hlm from, smoking or using tobacco? Coffey.
Merner.
Perlev.
that we Comeau.
Would it not be unreasonable
Dandurand (Speaker), Power.
should make this prohibition;. yet with an David.«
ilev.
Sulivan.
apparent solemnlty and devotion for the Davis,
Thompson.
welfare of the people we find hon. members Derbvshire.
Wilson.
Douglaq.
saying to-day that up to the age of 18 Edwards.
Yeo.
Yonir.-32.
I amn strong- Ellis.
children should be debarred.
)y in favour of the amefidment nmoved by
NON-CONTENTS :
my hon. frlend, sud shahl feel myseif doing
The Hlonoureible Messieurs
justice flot ouly to myseif but to posterity,
MeMsillen.
Beith.
because 1 belleve you cannot enforce the Campbell.
Montplaisir.
Robertson.
would be an injustice to a Cartwright
law, and that It
Ross (Halifax).
(Sir Richard).
person of 18 years of age to deprive him of Cox.
Ross (Middlesex).
it muay be, Forizuson.
bis pipe or cigar, or whatever
Scott.
Was"on.-13.
while we of 65, 70 or 80 years of age are McDonald (C.B.).
permitted to use tobacco, and very f reThe BiIh was then read a third time and
quently, If you go Into one of our commit- passed.
tee roomns, you wfll find the fumes of toTHIRD READING.
bacco so thick that you could almost eut it
Bill (HHH) An Act respectlflg certain
Is there any reason or any
with a knife.
1 patents of th]e Meta] Shingle and Siding
justification for sucb a drastic law?
agree with the principle of the Bill, to Company, Limited.-(Hon. Mr. Campbell.)
Blon. Mr. WILSON.

JULY AO, 1908

1487

AGRICULTURAL FERTILIZERS BILL. saniple, but provîdes that the inauufacturer or agent shall require eachi brand to be
SECOND RIEADING.
sold, giving Its uame and guaranteed anaHon. Mr. SCOTT nioved the second read- lysis. The exlstlag Act requires ail fertiIng of Bill (III) An Act respecting fertîli- lizers offered for sale. to bear an inspection
zers.
tag, If the purchaser so desires. This Bill
He sald 1 may say It Is not the inten- provides certain details.
tion to pass this Bill at this session of
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I think the govparliarnent, s0 that I ueed flot go fully ernent la to, be congratulated upon Ininto it. It Is a Bill simplfying the Act, troducing a Bill of this klnd, rnaking procompelling the persons who put. fertihizers vision for a very rnuch dloser analysis of
In the miarket, to register la the depart- the contents of fertilizers;-but It seerns to,
ment tbe composition and to attach a tag. me that the gove.rnrnent miglit very well
That Is one of the principal features of have proceeded with tue Bill this seemion.
tbe Bill. The object is to give It a second If the Bill Is to be passed, the sooner It i
reading uow and have It printed and dis- brought into force tue better. I fal to
tributed by the departmeat.
appreciate w~by there should be aay delay
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.\-I understand my in lntroduclag a law so maaifestly neceshou. friend to .say that the Bill requires sary.
tbe manufacturers to register and show the
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Tliere is a law already,
composition of the fertîlizers that they are but it la thougbit not as convenient for the
offeriug to seli. I arn under the impres- purchaser.
The objeet of this Bihl Is to
sion that that provision is Ia the Act 'as sim.plify It and make the sale more easy
It stands.
and parties wlll know what tbe fertilizer
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-At the present time is conîposed of.
tbey furnish samples. The buyer could InHon. Mr. LOUteHEED-I should like to,
sist on baving- it analyzed before purchasknow what steps are being taken to circuThe party making the sale, furnishes
lng.
late the draft Bill amongst the agricultbe department with an analysis of It, 80 turists throughout the country?
inquire from the dethat the parties can
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Au extra large uinupartrnent what ut us composed of, witbout
going to the expense of analyzlng it, and ber wilI be prInted, and the parties Intera tag sbowing tbe analysls is attached, va- ested will circulate theni and obtain the
rifylng that the article sohd, conforrns witb vlews of leading agricuiturists over thie
tbe article already Indexed ia the depart- country.
ment.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I hope the deHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Tbat Is the pre- partrnent wiIi, ia the meantirne, look very
sent law, and bas been for a number of carefully Into the law of Great Britain wltli
years. Tbe vendor Is réquired to furnisb a regard to this subject.
The agricultural
sarnple and !It I analyzed In the depart- fertilizer business la Great Britain bas asment, and a" bulletin is issued, and not surned enormous proportions.
It lies praconly the manufacturer but the person wbo tlcally at the foundation of successfui agribuys frorn the manufacturer sends bis culture.
We bave not reached the stage,
sample, and that Is a test of tbe bonesty In Canada yet. but the tume will corne wben
I presume tbs la a we shahl reacli ut, aud, therefore, we sbould
of the transaction.
consolidation of the old law, 'wltb soine look carefully into the British laws on tlxe
Improvements.
1 bave Lad to Import considersubject.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The existing Act re- able quantities of fertilizer froni England,
quires a portion o! each sample o! a ferti- and I fouud that every sack coatalned a
lizer to be transrnitted to the minister for statement of Its contentq. how much phosanalysis, together with the certificate of phoric acid, bow mucb nîtrogen and howv
analysis o! such fertilizer. The proposed mucli potash. There are, under the British
Act does flot require the submlssion o! a law, severe penalties If these proportions

1488

SENATE

1488

SENATE

1
are flot reasonnbly well maintained.
hope that the departaient is looking curefully Into the British law on the subject,
and that when they consolidate our lnws
we shahl bave them us up to date as possible.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I shall eal the attention of the department specially to that
point.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was rend the second tilue.
CONTINGE)NT AOCOUNTS 0F THE
SENATE.
FOURTHI REPORT 0F COIIMITTEE
ADOPTED.
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved the adoption
of the fourtlh report of the Standing Comnmhttee on Internai Econouiy und Contingent
Accounts of the Senate.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do uuot propose to
I slmply wish
move agalnst this report.
to direct the attention of the Senate to the
fact that this report wilI make an Increase
la the cost of our staff, and a consequent
reduction of the funds ut the disposai of
With rethe -Senate, of $1,750 a year.
spect to the major portion of that Increase,
la my humble opinion, It was quite un1 wish to put my protest on
necessary.
record; 1 do not think w-e are justified ln
addlng unuecessarily to the expenditures
of the Senate.
The motion was agreed to.
GOVERNMERNT

ANNUlTIES
ÂGE BILL.

FOR OU>

SECOND READING.
_Hou. Slr RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
moved the second reading of Bill (120) An
Act to autiiorize the issue of governinent
-anauities for old ag-e.
He said: This Bill, whicb has been sent
up to us froin the Commons, is as probably
my hou. friends well kuow, a good deal
on the model of the draft Bill wfluch was
submltted and pretty extensively discussed
The miles
Ia this body a year or so ago.
of procedure prevented me froni bringing
this Bill forward ia the Senate, which I
very much regretted, because it was a 'Bill
whlch we would have discussed with as
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

much understanding as the Commons wvere
able to give to it, and I wouid have very
much preferred to have originated it here.
However, it is substantially the Bill presented and discussed lnformaiiy in this
amendments have been
House. 'Some
made, whicb eau be more advantageously
discussed In committee, but which 1 shall
The first
nevertheless brletiy enumerate.
important amendment made, Is aitering the
term nt whlch annuities eau be given, *Trom
60 to 55. This my hon. friend the -Finance
Minister has done on representations made
to'hlm on behalf of certain wage-earners
engaged lu certain. trades whlch are said
to be more or less deleterlous to life and lu
whicb lt w-as thaought advisable to aliow
annuities to be issued at a consîderable
earlier age than I had contemplated. To
that, I iaesuine, there eau 'be 11o objection,
because annuities granted at that age will
have to pay a proportlonately larger sum.
Also, the limit which I had suggested of
$400 is Increased to $600 with a proviso
that la no0 case shall the amount paid to auy
annuitant or to joint annuitants, or lu the
case of husband and wife to any two annuitants, shahl exceed $600 a year. That
will be the maximum even if two parties
Amendmeuts were luare put together.
troduced b .%Ir. Ralph Smith, whiclh we eau
The objects lntenddiscuss ln committee.
ed to be attained by these ameudments
could bave been attalued under the general
provisions of «the Bill, but I see no objection
to putting them lu the Bill la extenso. Auother amendinent has been introcluced to
It is held
guard against possible fraud.
to be uecessary, partleularly whea we decided to raise the sum to $600, to meet the
possible case-though I do not tbink It
would 0f tea occur-of a man about to go
into lnsolvency, and at the saine time havIt is
ing- coutrol of considerable f unds.
such a man mighit take money
possible that
from funds wblch properly belonged to his
creditors, and 1nvest them ia thé purchase
of an annuity. A limit, however, is provided.
Anything of this kind that is iaterfered
w-Iti must be appled for within a certain
limited time-at least that wvas the inten'We u-iil see to that wben we go
tion.
The other
into Conmmittee of tlue Whole.
clauses are, witb some sliit alterations lu

JTJLY 10, 1908
the verbiage, precisely as they were placed
ln the Bill whichi was laid on the table by
In conimittee,
mayseif about a year ago.
I shahl be happy te discuss any of these
clauses a littie more ln extenso with lion.
gentlemen who are interested.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-«Ia. we expect
a draft of the tables upon which those annuities will be based when we reacli the
committee stage?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI can give the hon. gentleman general
Information on the subject. The drafting
of those tables, particularly as the minimum teri bas been altered, wIil take considerabie turne, and I will have to employ
a speciai actuarial expert fer the purpose
of drawing thei up. I can give my hon.
friend a general Idea of thein.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I sbould iike aî
comparative statement, showing 'what an
ordinary annuity company weuid sell sumIunr annuities for.

1489

Central Bureau, which will disseminate Information and posulbly send lecturers
abroad to give the public Information on
the subject, and diffuse it as widely as possible among wage-earrers and other parties
concerned. I have already recelved from
varions societies requests to know on what
ternis the government would' be likely to,
deal wlth theni If they choose to purchase
annuities for their members. I refer more
particuiariy to religious corporations, some
of wbich, I arn lnformed, 'would be very
desirous of providlng ln> this way an
Runuity*fund for aged clergymen, and a
number of large employers of labour have
aise expressed their desire to be aliowed
to make provision for tbeir deserving workMy attention
men, after a certain age.
lias likewlse been called to a curlins and
interesting provision which ls made la some
foreigu countries, notably, I believe, ln
Denmark, where parties engage ln a sort
of tontine-that is deposit n certain suni,
either paid by Instalments or paid directiy
with the State, and wll receive a very
haudsome provision If they attain the age
of W0or 65; but on this condition, If they
die earlier the whole sain goes to the State
and goes to the benefit of others of that
class. In that way, any gentleman who
wouid choose te indulge ln a littie gamble
would get mucli better ternis if hie lived
long enough than we could give hlm on
theA.erms we expect to apply to the larger
portion of our insurance. That, however, ie
a matter of detail. 1 mention it to show,
wholly apart from the question of providing annulties for wage-earners ln the
way laid down ln this Bill, that there are
ether ways ln wbich these annuitiez may'
be made acceptable to considerable classes
of the population, and I bave reason te
hope frein the varlous communications I
have had, that after a littie time, and when
I have an opportunity of diffusing proper
information on this subject among the
public at large, and more particuiarly
ameng the very large number of depositors
in our savinga banke (who exceed two hunb
dred tbou»and) that thiaxnay le taken- advantage of to a very considerable extent.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTCertainly, I shaîl be able te give my hon.
friend ail the Information lie desires on
that. I may state, however, infermally
across the floor, that with semne very sliglit
modifications the rate et interest that we
would allow on the arneunt subscribed,
wouid bie substantialiy equivaient te that
given by the best anuuity companies. We
would ailow probably a small trifle better
Interest than they can do, and the gevernment wiil charge itself with the entire expense of the machiniery, in the first !Ilstance at any rate. We. have machinery
at our disposai ln the post office which
wIll enable us te give the purchaser of au
annuity a little larger sum than hie could
expect frein any ordiuary cempany. Aiso
hie knowa Nve expect te make ne profit out
of It.
Hon. Mr. LQUGHEED-Wiii the fund bie
self-sustainlng withort a vote by the goverament?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIt will be to this extent; our purpose ls te
make It perfectly self-sustuiuiug, with the
exception of a sinîli annual grant wbich I
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-I did net notice
estimate will net exceed torty or fifty
theusand dollars for what ls calied thé that this Bill was coming up to-day until
94
REVISED

EDITION

1490

SENATE

my hon. frieud rose to make his motion;
but as niy boni. frIend. has sald, thUs question was very tboroughly discussed last year
lu the Senate, although rather acadeinically.
It Is flot necessary, however, that we should
The
discuss it to the saine exteut now.
discussion at present, is one whlcb wilI
more properiy take place ln committee.
In a general way, I amn qulte satlafied that
this Bill wiil uot reach the people that
need ln oid age the most assistance, that
is the very poor people of our country.A
measure of thia kind based on contributions qulte substantial wll be really a
method of assurance agalnst old age on
the part of the weil-to-do or the mlddie
clnsses of the people. Nevertheless, that
Is no reason why it shouid not be passed.
I hold very strongly to the .vlew that -the
portion of our people wbo are ln the prime
of life and In good clrcumstances should
feel It their solemn duty to look after the
lnterests of cblldhood and oid age, and I
have no doubt whatever that this measure.
althougli a very conservative one, will contribute to thse amelioration of thse eonditioa
of a considerable nuniber of people In their
On that ground, I arn
declinlng years.
glad that It bas been lpitroduced, and shahl
do ail I can to assist In perfecting Its detals, If they require any, wbeu we go into
committee. I have looked tbrough the Bill
to. ascertain If thse rate o! Interest on whicls
tise computations are to be made Is provided, and I fiud that it is not. Thse whole
matter Is le! t to thse Governor ln Coun .cil.
W'bether there wlill be a ioss to thse treasury froin the operation of this Bill, depends altogetiser ou tise rate of lnterest
the government wili fix witb reference to
IL. I understand that as thse credit of
thse government Is entirely bebind this
scisene, it wl] not be necessary for the
government to do what the insurauce conspanles are coinpeiled under the law to do,
namely, to bold a reserve; but it will be no
less secure on that account. If a liberal rate
of interest la named ln thse order lu councl,
thien thse aiuity that w'ill become payable
at a given age wll be fairiy large ln proportion to tise amount fisat is contributedl.
lu our Civil Service Insurance Bill, passed
I tbink, lu 1893, we inake the' rate of luterest 6 per cent.
Hoii. MIr. FE1IGUSON.

Hlon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI may state witbout absolutely blnding thse
governiment, whlch as thse bon. gentleman
bas sald wiii reserve to itself thse power,
that it les not expected the rate of lnterest
lu any case would exceed 4 per cent.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That Is qulte
reasonable. I rather approve of leaving
-some degree of eiastlcity7 la thse law, because thse value of money may change very
rapidiy, and I rather approve of tisat featuire. I did not altogetiser catch my bion.
friend's observations wlth regard to tise
provision guardlng agaînst fraud.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTMy bon. frlend -will find that set ont ln
some detal la ýclause 11. It deais with
a possible speclal case o! n debtor attemptlng to defraud bis creditors by purcbnslng
an annuity wltb mouey tisat did not justiy
belong to hlm.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My view wltis
regard to that subject Is tisis, that thse
smaii contributions thse result of lndustry
and frugality througbout the entire 11fr of
a person, pald into a fund of his klnd
sbould not be attachable ln any shape or
form.
Hon.
I quite
at thse
at oae

Sir RLICHARD' CARTWRIGHTagree. If my hon. friand wlll look
clause he wll see that it Is aimed
particular case.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That ls a matter for thse committee. I have mucb pleasure in supportlng the Bill.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThsis clause, wiic was not ln my original
draft, was Introduced at the Instance of
thse Departmnent of Justice, to meet tis
possible case; a mian la allowad to buy in
annuity by paylng a lump suns. It would
take a matter of $5,000 or -$6,000 to purcisase an annulty o! $600 at the aga o! 65,
and It would ba a ratier unfortunate tising,
If ive taise the case of a tradesman, wlio
is about to go Into Insolvency, and wbo,
nevertheless, bias under bis baud a gool
deal o! money, If ha were to take $5,000
or $6,000 o! bis creditor's moniey and lnauity for
vest it ln an unattacisabia
h imself and bis wlfe.

Y
MU 10, 1908
FERGUSON-When 1 was disHon. ù%Mr.
cussing the Bill submitted to us last year,
I polnted out that sucb a possIbillty exIsted.
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGITI agree wltli the bon, gentleman, that ln
the case of people subscrlbing amal
amounts extendlng over a number of years,
It should neyer be attacbed, and If he
thlnks it desirabie to put any further
words to make that èlear, by ail means let
It be done.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHTED-You couid flot
attach a fund la the banda of the government anyway.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was rend the second time.
LEAD BOUNTTI03 BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT moved the second reading of Bill (191) An Act respectIng the payment of bounties to, lead contained la lead
bearing ore mined la Canada.
He sald: For about 20 years paat, we
bave bad a statute autborizing the payment
of bounties on iend bearlng ores, and la
1903 the lateat Act passed autborized the
appropriation of $2,500,000 to be expended
la iead bounties, lmiting, of course, the
amount to a certain fixed suai anaualiy,.to
be divIded up amoag those entitled te It.
At that time, la 1903, the standard fixed
wa £12 1Os.
When the price rose above
that lu the British market, then the bounty
The parties iatereStpro rata diminished.
ed conipiained that It was ef very lîttIe
value.
Up te the present time, the total
amount paid la $667,404 eut of the $2,500,It Is proposed to ralse
000 appropriated.
the standard froin £12 10s. to £14 10s. Lt
is ouly wbea It reached £14 10s. that the
allotnient begins to diiîninishi pro rata. It
is caiculated that there will be paid this
year about $45,000 ln addition to the amouat
I have mentioned, ieaving the balance of
the originual sum allotted by parliamient of
The Act providea that only a
$1.78S,078.
fixed amount shahl be payable ln each year,
and ne furtber allotaients shail be made
pending the payaient of the $2,500,000.
Hou. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Wbule I arn most
heartily lu faveur of the goverament assist94j

1491

'Ing in every legitîmate 'way the developmeat of the iliver lead industry, particularly as It exIsts la British Columbia, yet
the prînciple of bounties Is uadoubtedly peraIclons. Wby the burden sbould be thrown
upon the entîre community of paying those
bountles, la somethlng that I cannot understand.
If the government were to impose
such a duty on lead as would prevent forelga lead .from coming Into the country, It
would mean that the building up of that
industry and tbose lnterested ln the
use of lead would necesaarliy pay the duty;
but the distribution among tbe entire cernîaunity of tbe burden of supportlng a local
lndustry, seema to me to be a hereay and
one partlcularly that should flot be countenanced by a goverument now committeà
to protection by tarifr.
Hon. Mfr. MeMUJ.LElN-If we desire to
develop any raw mateial ln this country,
the proper way to, do It la by a bounty and
If our lead mines cannot
flot by a duty.
compete with the lead industry on the other
side, the better and more prudent way la to
develop them by grantIng a bounty.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Why not put It
on ail our Industries?
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-AiI our Industries
are not developlng crude material. Where
we have raw material lîke minerais that
cannot be produced witbout a beunty, the
*bounty. If my
proper way la to grant a *
bon. friend wears a silk. bat and kld gloves
he pays a portion of the .bounty that goes
to preduce lead; whereas If the policy that
he advocates were ade.pted, only those whé
use lead would contribute to fostering the
W'here you aid the industry by
lndustry.
means of n bounty every ene who uses imported goods coutributes his mite to a national necessity. The lead Industry la something we waat te develop and the proper
aud prudent way ef develeping it la by
grantiug a bounty.
Hon. Mfr. ELLIS-WVben the hon, gentleman refera to 'the other aide' -what does
he mean?
United
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-The
States perbapa.
IMon. Mfr. ELLIS-It is clear, the hon.
gentleman bas flot examined the subject.

1492

1492
SENATE

The competition is with the British market. Almost ail the raw lead entering this
country cornes from Great Britain. When
those of us who profess free trade principles are asked to coutinue a bounty systein, we should be shown what lias been
the effect of the bounty which bas exlsted
for the last five years. Has IIt resuited la
the deveiopment of the iead industry of
this country to any appreciabie extent?
Whea we reach the committee stage, the
hon. Secretary of State ougbt to show us
what bas been the result of this leglelation. He sald, In effect, that the orginai
grant for this purpose was $2,500,O00, and
that oniy $667,000 of that arnount had been
expended. If I recoileet rlght, in the first
or second year, or very eariy lu the bistory of this bounty, $200.000 was paid on
the amount of iead taken out; but last year
the hon. Secretary of State said the arnount
was only some $45,000. Although the payments for bounty may be somewbat affectcd by the price of lead, stili It Is qulte
apparent that the production of Iead In tbis
country Is not lncreaslng, notwitbstanding
the fact that we are grantlng this bounty.
And It la now proposed to, continue it for
five years longer. Whlle the hon. Secretary of State Intimates that there wiii be
oniy so much bounty pald each year for
five years, yet If the whoie amotint to be
appropriated le the balance between the
$670,000, and the $2,500,000, If iuckly, tbe
production of iead develops, we shall stili
be bound to. expend $2,500,000 lu addition
to, what we have already expended.

tributed among tbe parties entitled to tbe
bounty. You cannot tell how long it will
last; but under the Bill no more than $500,000 can be paid lu any one year, so If they
earn tbe whole amount, the unexpended
balance wouid flot extend over between
three and four years.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-That Is tbe point I
wanted to make about the expendhture. It
is provlded tbat no .more than $50,000
shall be expeaded I any one year; but we
are proposlng to extend the payment of
bounties for another five years, and thiat
Invoives the posslbility of havlng to pay
$2,500l,000 lu that period.
Hon. *Mr. SCOTT-I sald that $2,500,000
ivas voted; that of that a certain amount
liad been unexpended.
The principal
cbange ls tbat we are raislng tbe standard.
The Act is perfectiy .ciear tbat only $2,-400,000 is to bie paid out lu five years.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I qulte admit tbat; but
if, for Instance, the lead manufacturers or
the iead producers come lu next year and
say ' We are entltled to $500,000 by the
arnount of lead we have produced,' they
bave -to be pald that.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTYes.
Atter the third year they wouid get
uotblng.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-,AIfter the fourtb year
they wouid gel. notbing.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I anm not s0 clear tbiat
is the state of the law.

-Hon. Mr. LOUGHErJ-Look at subHon. Mr. SCOTT-No. The wbole amount clause 2 of clause 1. Lt Is explanatory.
Tiiere Is stili unexvoted Is $2,500,000.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGI-HTpeuded $1,700,000.
Perhaps my hon. frlend had better let it
Hon. Mr. EÀLLIS-How can we go on stand unitil the Honse goes into committee.
expendlng $500l,000 a year, if we are flot These matters can be deait withi much betproviding for an expenditure of $2.500,- ter there.
000 In five years?
Hon. -Mr. ELiLIS-L do not favour this
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe bounty Is paid bounty systeni, and wvbile this proposition
If the price In tbe British mnarket falis to may be better froin one point of view than
a certain figure. If it is above a certain. ordinary protection, stili It is nil nnjust.
figure the producers get no bounty. ForHlon. Mr. DAVID-I do not tbink I undertunateiy for the trade. the price lias ranged
stood my hon. friend.
Is be lu favour of
neariy ail the time above, so tbat the
custoins duties?
amount distrlbuted bas beeni comparatively
Hon. -'\r. EILLIS-I arn not lu favour of
Lt ba-s
smali where you take it per year.
been only a. litle over $100,000 a year dis- protection.
HIon. Mr. ELLIS.

JULY 10, 1908

. 1493

JULY 10, 1908
1493
protective duty would *not accompiish the
We know.very well that by
lame object
.rposing a protective duty sufficlently high
Eo prevent the importation of articles Into
the country, the Industries so protected begafl to exist and continued to exist until
they now occupy a position by which they
are enaied to compete wlth the foreign
manufacturer who senda lie goods lnto this
Thiat la the doctrine we laid
country.
I do nlot obiect
clown as protectionists.
to granting a bounty to encourage an lntlustry which could flot otherwise exist My
own convictions are that wben you look at
the large Importations which have beexi
made of lead from the United 'States and
from other countries, that If a suffIciently
high protective duty were imposed on forelgn lead It would not corne ln, and the
mines in British Columbia and other portions cf'Canada would be working and producing snch raw material and have smelters ln thîs country sufficient te supply the
markiet and aIso to export our own lead
producta to China and Japan and other
countiies, where they use large quantities
It la another development of
of tin fo11.
the heresy we heard denounced the other
day, and I congratulate my bon. friend the
Minister of Trade and Commerce on the
rapid conversion ivhich has taken place.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEàI.L-Ii
have listened wlth sorne little degree of lnterest to what bas been said on this ques-I
tion, and I have corne to the conclusion that
the bon. leader of the opposition must have
been studying the speeches of a gentlemani
wbo must bave lad a sent la the House of
Commons, and wbo has now a seat ln thisc
House, beca use hie seema to have been considerlng the sanme objections to this bounty
question as my bon. friend who sîts oppoI do not know thnt I
site me just uow.
should take any exception to that, holding
the views I bave always lield upon thîs
question, that It wcre mnuch better It should
be a customs duty wbicb would be a direct
protective duty, instead o! a bounty for the
reasons advanced that those wbo use the
article would then have to pay the duties,
If the article w'as not produced in sufficieut
quantities lu the country to enable tbein
to buy lt as chenply as thiey could lmport
I arn not surIt from a foreign country.
pised at the hon, gentleman f rom Wellington, because we find thnt lu ail matters
affectlng trade, whatever is opinions may
bave been lu the past, If it is necessary to
defend. the action of the government la any
step -they may take whilh Js lu direct opposition to the prîncîples tbey advocated
years ago on the opposition bencbes, the
hon, gentleman is willing to de! end thein.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTH1on. *Mr. McMýNULLFN-Thbat is flot cor- Ne conversion bas taken place.
rect.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-T-heti
the bon. gentleman is sailing under false
Hon. -Sir 'MACKENZIE *BOWDL-He
colours.
says that tue mani who ivears the silk lint
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTand the glovea, the Irnported gooda, If lils
theory is riglit, hias already pald bis pro- No.
portion te tie revenue lu the -way of duties
Hon. Sir 31ACKENZIE BOWELL-I
imposed upoil those articles, yet under the came to the conclusion that the transition
bounty systeni lie la called upon to pay lits from free trade te protection is muchl more
proportion of tlhat wilui lie never uses, and rapid than Darwin's tbeory on the Devemay never require to use. Tliat is the dif- lopment of Species wliere the iinonkey
ference between custonis duties and boun- evolves Into a man.
ties; hie compels the man wio pays the cusHon. Sir RJCHARD CARTWRIGHTtoms duty te assist the muan wio makes the
and yet hie tells us tiat it is a Justifica- If the lion, gentleman understood the queslead,
tion o! tie bounty system. There la oniy one tion of bounties and protection, hie would
justification for the bounty at ail, and that have known tbiat the argument I used was
la whien tlie granting of a bounty will tend this : that the robbery la this case la very
to the production o! au article wvhiei otier- much -less wbere you have a bounty, tbon
One
wise would not be produced, and the ques- wbere you bave a protective duty.
are robbed
tion should be asked wbether a good round knows bow much the people

-1494

SENATE

SENATE
1494
'wben you give a bounty and you know Ontarlo would be benefitted by ths amendwbether It le a robbery, and what is ob- ment ?
tained. for it. Under a protectIve duty,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In drawing up the
ten times the amount may be taken out of Bill, we had In mmnd entirely the tIrent
the pockets of the people hy the number of Lakes. It may apply outside, but that was
changes of the tariff than would be taken flot In contemplation.
by the bounty.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It will apply
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I tbrougliout the whole Dominion.
Jaeard the hon. gentleman make that stateHon. Mr. SCOTT-I tbink there are
ment the other day, but It le flot lu accord
about tour yards on the Canadian side,
witb bis prevlous utterances.
Collingwood, Kingston,' Toronto and Port
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARlT WRIGHT- LevIs.
Tt la ln accord.
Hon. Mr. LOUiGHEED-Are those ail dry
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill docks ?
was read the second time.
Hon. Mr. ROS$S ("Middlesex)-Yes.
BOARD 0F TRÂDE ACT AMENDMENT 1. The clause was adopted.
BILL.
On clause 2,
AMENDMENT CONCURRED IN.
The equipmnieits o'r eny part thereof, iniu a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved concurrence la cluding bouts purchaAsed. or supplied repairs
foreigu country for, or the oxpenses of
the amendmnent made by the House of mnade in a foreign country upon, a ve3-ml 'nCommons to Bil (Pr) An Act to amend tended to be employed, or which ;s tli,"eifter
empioyed in the eoasting itroide of Canada,
the Board of Trade Act.
shail ou the arrivai of the vessel in any port
He sald: The amendment made by the of Canada, if arrivang within one year %fter
House of Commons enlarges the opportu- the repaire have been muade or the equipinents
1itve been purochaeed or suppiiied, be liable to
alties for forming the Board and makes lt entry and the -pay-rent of du-ty ou -the cost
thereof in the foreign country et othe ifollowiug
more general.
rates: (a> on the expenses of repairs, twentyHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is there an lu- five per cent ad valoem; <(b) on equipruents,
rate of duty as if
terpretation put on the word ' district V' inciuding ha-ts, the same into Canada in the
the articles were imported
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That would be au ordinary course.
Hon. Mr. *SCOTT-This clause ç,rovides
electoral district ln the older parts of
for the duty on equipment and repairs.
Canada.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-How does my
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It should dehon. friend corne to tack that to sfetion 69?
fine what district menus.
There is nothing germane ln the section.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I rather tliink it was
The
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thbat May be.
taken lu the general term.
main object le to favour certain yards ln
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It can do no Canada. I may say the rîglit bas been
harm any way.
abused. Take n vessel, a huil wbich is
pretty weli used up, lt wiil be taken over
The motion n'as agreed to.
to the United States, Rochester or Buffalo,
and four or five thousand dollars repairs
CUSTOMS ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
muade te It, and will then be brought back
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
to Canada. This clause ba been IntroThe Houxse resolved itseif into Commit- duced ln the Act here. It lias no aftlnIty
tee of the Whoie on Bill (194) *An Act to to the section that precedes It.
amend the Customs Act.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This permîts a
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Can my liou. duty ef 25 per cent te be imposed UPon
friend give auy Information to the Cham- boats. Under the Canada Sblppiug Act,
ber how many ship repalring yards lu our government gets its authority for lmHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

1495

JULY 14. 1908

1495
,TLT LY 14. 1908
Hon. 'Mr. *LOUGHEED-There wll be
posing the duty wbich it levies. We thus
have two Aicta impoaing a duty npon boats, two sections 70 In the Act.
the Canada Shipping Act 25 per cent and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot thieli we lied
the Customa Act 25 per cent. This amend- better toucli it.
ment extends not only to equipînent and reHon. -Sir MACKEFNZIE BOWELL-You
pairs but to boats.
do nlot repeal section 70 ln the Customs
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Where it includes Act but yon make another clause 70.
boats, It takea the'ordinary duty whatever
Hon. Mr. POWER-The usual practice la
It happens te be.
to add a letter. I move that It be marked
Hon. *31r. LOUGFIEED-Not at ail, be- 70 A.
cause yeu have it ln two distinct Âcts.
The amendment was adopted.
Under the Canada Shipping Act you levy
Hon. Mr. MeSWEFENEY, from the coma duty of 25 per cent.
mittee, reported the -Bill without amendHon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
ment.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHLEED-If my hon. triend
BILL INTRODUCEI).
wili turn Up the Canada -Shipping Act, lie
Bihl (198) An Act ta amend the Timber
ls where the governrent gets
will flnd that
its authorlty to levy the duty which it Marking Act.--(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
now collects, and under this -Act you proThe Senate adjourned until Tuesday,
pose ievylng a duty of 25 per cent duty Juiy 14, at Il a.m.
it ls an aeomnly, and
on foreige boats.
wiil lead to trouble because it gives authorlty under bath Âcts.

THE SENÂTE.

HIEon. Mr. WILSON-I should like to ask
OTTAWA, Tuesday, July 14, 1908.
the hon. mInister why it la that the collectien of duty shal îlot taire place after one
The SPE~AKER tooli the Chair at Eheven
The clause says that lt must take o'clock.
year?
place within tbe year.
Prayera and routine proceedings.
If It does net, lt
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Yes,
THE GOLD RESERVE.
has to corne under the ordinary iaw with DEPLETION 0F
regard to a vessel.
The clause was adopted.
On subciause 3,
If. however. the owner or master of the
vessel furnishes satiafactory evidenoe that the
vessel, while in the regular course of lier
voyage, was compelled by stress of weather
or casualty to put into a foreiogn port to
make the said repaira. in order to secure the
safety of the vessel or ta enable her to reacli
her port of destination, or that it would be
impracticable to make the repaire in Canada
for the want of dock or sufficient caDacity ta
receive the vessel. the Minister of Customs
may authorike the refued of the duties on
the repaira. and the vessel shaIl not be hiable
to forfeiture under the next preceding subsection.
.Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This la the exception.
Where a vessel puts Intoan foreige port
trom stress of weather, an accident occurring, lie may nlot be enabled to reacli a
British port, and then the law 'would not
apply.

Hon. Mr. FEWRUS0N rose ta
Cali the attention of the Senate to the de-

pletion of the gold held by the government
during the montha of November and December lest. and to i:nqure of the goverementlat. Was

speciO

amounting

ta

$5.115,000

withdrawn froni the federal treasury in Novvember and December lest in consequence of
on order je concil made on the l2th of November, 1907, as amended by another order
je council made on the 26th of the sanie
înonth, authorizing an issue of Dominion
notes. without a corresponding increase in the
circulation of Dominion notes P
2nd. Did the government when they made

the said order in council, contemiplate the
issue and circulation in Canada of Dominion
notes, or the withdrawal from the treasury
and exportation of specie P>
Srd. If suob withdrawal and exportation of
specie waa net contemplatedl by the goverem-nt. was it not their duty ta guard against
the depletion of the gold reserves of the
treasury by providing that tbe notes issued,
without lawful aecurity, should nat be presented for redemption, until the loans tbY

SEX''ATE
were intended to facilitate lied been repaid ?
4th. Did the specie mentioned in the first
question or part thereof forni part of the exportations of gold made to the United States,
in November and December, 1907, amounting
to $7,297,778?P
5th. What were the current premium rates
on goid, stated weekiy, in New York, in November and Deoember, 1907, and did the government participate in the profits accruing
from premiuns on gold, withdrawn from the
treasury, and soid la New York during the
said monthe P If so, how muchP
6th. ln what way did the withdrawal of the
government gold reserves during the months
of November and December, 1907, and the exportation in the saine period of a correspondUnited States, reing amount of goId, to the in council, relieve
slting froni the said order
the financial stringency in Canada and facilitate the movernent of the western grain
crop P
7th. What portion of the loans, stated beiow (see retura submitted to thé Hlouse of
Conimons on the Sth of April, 1908), made by
the Bank of Montreal, on ecco'unt of the Domoinion government for feciliÉtating the iovenment of the western grain crop wcas used :
lst. In thé purchase of grain direct from
the roducers P
2nd In the movement of graini aiready in
elevators, ta the seaboard or points of consamption, before the close of lake navigation
in 1907, giving the date of the latest shipment
by the lakes route ?

No.
Date of boan.
1907,
1907,
1907,
1907,
1907,
1907,
1907,
1907,
1907,
1907,
190,

of Amount.
loan.

November 21.
November 26.
Novémbér 29.
November 30.
December 13.
December 24.
December 26.
Décember 26.
December 30.
December 30.
January 2..

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
il

$ 5(0,000

500,000
50)0,000
500,000
150,0(0
165,000
300,000
1,000,000
750,000
750,000
200,000

He said :It
will be observed that îuy
notice does not iéad to a discussion cf the
légalIty of the Issue of Dominion notes ii
connéction 'with tbe advancés made through
thé Bank of Montreal to facîlitate
the
movément of tbe western grain crop, iii
the montbs cf November and Décember
last.
Tbat part of the subject bas been alréady discussed lu botb Houses and a Blill
cf indémnity passed.
la the course of
thèse discussions, tbe illegality of that Issue of Dominion notes bas been fully admltted by the goverament.'
Some of the newspapérs seeni. to bie under thue Impression tbat my questions are
lntended as a critlcism of tbe banks éspeHon. Mr. FERGUSON.

cially of the Bank of Montreal. 1 desire
to make it clear 'at the outset that I make
no complaint against tbe banks. 1 bave no
doubt tbey carried out in an bonourable
manner the work which was lmposed on
theni by tbe goverament.
For tbe hungling, or sometbing worse,
wvbieb marked
tbe transaction froni beginning to end, 1
hold the goverament responsibie.
The secrecy whicbi bas cbaracterlzed t1ias
aifair, w-as not as bas been stated elsewbere, enjoyed by the banks. Froin Mr.
Fielding's letter to Mr. Clousion of the
13th of Norember it appears that lie lusisted on a confidential treatment of the
business for the time being.
In tbis connection let me sny in passing
that tbe remarks of the rlgbt bon. Minister
of Trade and Commerce la tbis House on
the second of December last la wbîch bie
declared biniseif as opposed te a réduction
of thé gold resérves of tbe Treasury, wns
véry misléading.
At the Urne tbe bon.
gentleman made this statémént a réduction of réservés amounting to $2,000,000
bad been made.
SThe transactions to which 1 amn directing
attention weré based on an order ia council made on tbe l2tb of November,
as
nmendéd on the 26th of tbe samne mon th.
I miake brief extracts from thèse documents.
The original order says
That the ministér'be authorized to issue
such additional amount of Dominion notes as
mav be necessary not exceeding in ail, tel'
million dollars. A strict compliance with the
terms of the Dominion Notes Act would require that sach issue should be made against
the deposit of an équal amount of goid ia the
treasury. For thé reasons already stated it
wonld be exceedingiy difficuit to comply with
the letter of thé provision of the law in this
!espect. The Minister of Finance is of opinion that under such circumstances the governméat might properly issue such notes against
the deposit by the banks of high class securities.
Then follows the amended order:
b. That the advaaces to be made to thé
banks bie made throagh thé Bank of Montréal.
That the Bank of Montreal acting on
behaîf of the goverament hé authorized te
advance sucli sum or sums as may hé reqaired
not exceeding in ail ten million dollars for thepurpose set forth, in the order in council of
November 12, et snch rate of interest, not
less than four per centuni per annuni, as the-

JULY

14, 1908

said Bank of Montreal may 'deen fair and
reasonable.
That the Bank of Montreal shall pay to the
government such sums as it may receive by
way of interests from the banks to which
such advances shall be made.
That for the purpose of providing thse funds
necessary for such advances the Minister of
Finance shahl deposit in the Bank of Montreal froni time ta time Dominion notes equal
ta the amount so advanced.
That the Bank of Montreal shall receive
from the banki to which such advances shahl
be made suoh securities as are deemed by the
Bank of Montreal eatisfactory and that such
securities shall be held by the bank of Montreal in trust for the gavernment against the
issue of Dominion note% herein referred ta.
but such ý,ecurities niay be released f rom time
to time as the advances niay be repaid by the
banks.
That the Bank of Montreai besides holding
the securities in trust for the gavernment as
aforesaid, shahl become respansible ta the garernment for all advances so made .and shahI
guarantee the repayment of such advances ta
the Minister of Finance on or before the first
day of May, 1908.
That for its services in the management of
the business and for guaranteeing repayment
so ta be made the Bank of Montreal shahl be
paicà a fair and reasonable commission ta be
hereafter fixed by the Gôvernor in Council.

the end of each month froni September to
May:

Date.

Specie, in- Other securities held
cluding
Dominion
in
guaranteed per orderbj
nate
couil
sterling
circuilat ion.
Banik of

debentures.

Sept.
Oct
Nov.
Dec.

30..
3L....
30. ...
31..

Jan. 31 ..
Feb. 29 ..
Mar. .1..
April 30..
May 31..

Montreal.

46,943,729
46,564,410
44,641,266
41,6=2495
40,844,011
42,2n5273
43,637,417
45,815,699
46,812,188

Nil.
Nil.
2,000,000
5,115,000
5,090,000
2,815,00)
940,000
665,000

Nil.

61,914,157
61,241,54
62,519,400
62,626,368
61,812,564
60,899,417
60,44.5,991
62,432,44S
.62,664,837

Reduction in gold reserves held by govýerument, as between thse Slst of October
and tise 3lst of December, $4,931,915.
Thse statements in the 'Gazette,'

for thse

mont'hs during whlch thse gohd was outstand*
ing, were Ingenlously framed ta conceal thse
misslng specle. Securities held by thse Bank
of Montreal, were given In thse gross statement of specle as ranklng wltis gold and
guaranteed sterling debentures. In reallty

The statement as ta what was actually
done under tîlese orders In councl, made
by the Finance Minister, bas flot dlsclosed $2,000,000 at thse 30th of November, $5,115,In sanie very esential par- 000 at thse 31st of December, $5,090,000 et
th1e real tacts.
ticulars they are incorrect. 1 read f rom thse the 31st of January, $2,815,000 nt the 29tùb
'Hansard ' of the House of Conîmorus of of February, $940,000 at thse 3lst of March,
and $665,000 at tse .3Oth of. April, of securitbe 18th of June:
ties beld by the Bank of -Montreah, were
Mr. FOSTER. Your reserve of gohd on specLfically descrIbed 'in the officiai stateOctober 31 became depreciated by about
nients in sucis a manner as ta decelve a
$5,00,00. between that date and January 1.
The hast colunin ln the
Mr. FIELDING. The gold never diininished casual examiner.
but inasmuch as there was a harger issue of table I have submltted -gives tise Dominion
notes the percentage of reserve was dimin- note circulation for the period named.
It
ished.

shows that not one dollar of tihe notes isAn examinatian of the nianthly state- sued under the order In council, remalned
ments of circulation and specie publlshed outstanding nt the end of thse montis of isThey were immediately presented for
,by authority ln the Canada 'Gazette,, re- sue.
The gold was wlthdrawn and
veals facts altogether different from those redemption.
the notes were nat circulated.
stated by the bon. Finance illinister. The
This fact reveals -an extraordinnry breacis
gold reserve was dimlnished ta the extent
of trust on the part of tihe governmeut.
of $2,000,000 nt thse 30th of November, and
Thse gald whicis was handed out In thse reta en addltional extent of $3,115,000 at the
demption of those notes wns not, strlctly
Slst of December. - t was. not a relative, speakhng, thse property? of the government,
but an absolute diminution 0f specie re- but belonged to thse bona fIde isoiders of
lu support of Dominion notes.
serves *whlch took place.
this statement I submlt a table shawing thse
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear. isear.
movement of specie and Dominion notes at

1498

198SENATE

Hlon. -Mr. FERGUSON-The lion. ýSecre- teed sterling debentures heid by the bank9
government for the last two rnonths
tary or State iaugbs nt that. I arn sorry and the
Coin- of 1907:
the right hion. Minister of Trade and
guaranteed sterling demerce le flot lu his place, because 1 amn Total specie and the goveramnent and the
bentureg held by
quite confident hie wouid flot. laugh at It. banks for ail purposes.
1907My own opinion may flot -be entled t0
September 30........$71,041,215
much weigbt, but the lion. Secretary of
October 31.........72,360,940
to the
State ought to, attach Importance
November 30........72,318,772
Decexuber 31........66,890,852
opinion of bis colleague the riglit lion.
1908Minister of Trade and Commerce who was
January 31.........65,746,627
February 29.........65,932,780
years Finance àlinister, nnd wlio
for rnany
March 31.........69,562,894
understands the financiai systern of Canaida
69,592,955
April 30........
bere the opinion exI hiave
thorougbiy.
May 31..........70,148,267
31 and December
pressed by my rigbt lion. frlend the iMinis- 31,Iteduction betweeïi October
i5,490,G88.
ter of Trade and Commerce .iess tian tlîree
It is probable 4lhat a good deai wvent into
ago, and I quote it ln support of
weeks
private keeping duriug the financil excitemy charge of a breacli of trust:
0f
ment of November and December.
The vast buik of what is now caiied goid
certi- course, it is not possible to locate the goid
reserve ought to be caiied goyernment
ficates for gold hei&, not property of the gov- ln the countrýy, except approxirnately.
ernrnent in. any true sense, boit held for the More of lt rnay bie beid by rnonetary instibatiks, who flnd it more convenient to hold
the certificates of the goverament redeemable tutions such as trust companles as weli as
in goid, than. to hold the goid which in ordin- by brokers, at one Urne than at another, and
ary circumstances would bie heid in the bank
vaults, our aystem ie peculiar in that respect. no doubt some of it went in-to stockings,
lu that respect we have madie ourseives cus- on account of the panle of iast fa11.
todians of peeswhich under ordinary cirWe now corne to Iiiquire what happened
cumstancesgwoild be held by a bank or
banke. . . . At this moment the vat buik to the goid whlcûl passed out of the coffers
of -the gold which le heid is, to, ail intenta, and of the goverument during these two months?
purposs the property of the banks and not The trade and navigation returns show tha-t
of the goveraeneutt.
$7,304,279 In goid was exported lu that
Under our Banking Act the banks are
period-$7,297,778 of which went to the
eompelied to, hoid 40 per cent of their reThis leaves $5,188,592 as
In order to lUnlted States.
serve lu Dominion notes.
the excess of exporte over Imnports during
cornply with the law, the banks were forced
the two rnonths under revlew.
to deposit gold with the governent, dollar
Gold imported in November and Decemntes.
for-dollar, for these iegai tender
ber, 1907.
it was a breaci of' trust, I repent,
And
From248,000
Great Britain........$
to lay bauds on that gold and deliver to any
United States........1,867,687
-whose gold lt was.
persons except those
2,115,687
Total..........$
1 say witbout fear of contradiction that
Gold exported in November and December,
no order in concil could, and 1 wili go
1907.
further and say that no Act of parliarnent
To6,404
or an
Great Britain........$
shouid warrant a breach of trust
7,297,779
United States ........
spoliation both of which are fouid
sact o!
Other countries.........95
fis eiements In this transaction.
$ 7,304,279
Total..........
The boid undeniabie facts are that $5,Excess of exporte over importa, $5,188,592.
115,000 o! gold was -withdrawn frorn the
Aitbough it le Impossible to ear-mark
treasury lu the rnonths of November andi
grain
last and that tbere was no corre- money, and the saine may be said of
December
and other commodities, yet It 15 as clear
sponding- circulation of Dominion notes.
that the enormous quanThe surn of $200,OOC was simiiariy with- as the suin at noon
of gold which ieft the governrnt
tlty
drawn lu January with a like resuit.
iast
lu further support o! my contention that vauits lu November and December
and found lts
goid went ont 0f the country, I submit was sent ont of the country
this
York.
a statement of the total goid and guaran- way to the clty of New
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JULY 14, 1908

Ottawa, Ontario, Jnly 3, 1908.
Ron. Senator Ferguson,
Sonate, Ottawa.
My Dear Senator,-The folle *n shows the
premium on currency in New Yor',k from November 4, to November 23rd-November 4th
to November 9th, 3j per cent. to 2j per ccnt.November llth to November 16th, 2à to Si per
cent.-November l3th te November 23rd, 2 to
8 per cent.
Yours faithfully.
<Sgd.) W. E. BÂGNALL.
Trhis would amnount on the $5,115,000
wbich left the treasury at 3 per cent to the
s um of $153,450.
1 sholl be delilhted to
laarn from the members of the government
that some suce amount found Its way to
the credit aide of the public accouints.
In one of my questions I Inquire If the
government contemplated a withdrawal of
spe-cle and a possible exportation of specie. If tbey dld tbey shouid undoubtediy
have provldad that the premium sbould be
accounted for.
Haviag established tbese facts we now
Inquire wbat benefits dld tbe grain growers
of ýhe west derive from these transactions?
The Dominion notes went straigbt back to
tbe treasury, the gold bandad out la tlieir
redemption, went to New York. What resources bcd we lef t to us to move the
western grain crop? We had. to fali back
on tbe banks of Canada and depend on
their circulation and resources.
It bas
been alleged that tbe limit of circulation
la Canadian banks was almost réaclied.last
faîl, bence the nacesslty of issuing DonmInion notes more freely. There would be
somatbing lu this If tbase notes ware cîrculated, but, as tbey were not, ire are back
to our starting point. There miglit be some
difficulty la keeplng Dominion notes out,
as the banks might bave an interest la
getting thani out of circulation.
Their
ablllty to do this Implies au abundance of
their own notes, and proves that there iras
no necasslty of government Intervention.

1499

1499
In 1880, Sir Leonard Tiiley made ail the
disbursemeuts lu connection witb Indian
ngencies, lu the Northwest and British Columbin, lu oue dollar notes lu order to get
out Dominion notes.
It does not appear from tbe bank raturas
that bank circulation last fall made a
nearer approach to its limit than In former
years, and tbere iras a considerable margia
ln November and December last. I sub.
mit a statement sbowing «tbe bauk circulation authorized but not iised. for the iast
nine montbs :
September 30.........$15,066,183
October
31..........10,321,343
November 30..........10,241,061
December 31..........16,274,418
January SI..........27,972,211
February 29..........26,372,870
March
31..........25,915,958
A ril
30..........28,323,293
May
31..........27,021,537
The baak managers of Canada declared
last autunin that irbile tbey were refusing
advances for speculation in -stocks, town
sites and even farm lands, thay ware able
and willing to supply the funds necessary
to meet the legitimate requiremants for
moving the crop. .Their assurances mare
brusbed to one side as mere bluff.
The
goverament listened to the represantations
of lesa Informed people, and, I fear, lu
some cames, to those irbo bnd axes to griad.
Tbe mail of the stock or ]and speculator
can. ha raad betireen the lines la mucli of
tbe correspondance submnitted to tbe otber
Honse.
Moaay was offared tbrougb. the Bankc of
Montreal to certain banks at irbat mas
deeined to ha current rates of Interest.
Tha banks refused to- toucb IL. That was
wbat migbt bave been expected.
Just
imagine sucb banks as the Canadian Baak
of Commarce, Imperial Bank, the Dominion
Bank, tba Bank of Toronto, the Traders'
Bank, the Union Bank of Canada, and tbe
Bank of Hamilton, accepting funds at
famine rates of Interest for their share of
money to carry out sucb a comparative
smail undertakiag.
Tbe government than raduced tbe Interest to 4 par cent for the first 60 days, .5
par cent for the next 60 days and 6 per
cent for tbe next 60 days. Only 20 par
cent of the government's offerlng was accepted. iren lake navigation elosed on the

JULY 14, 1908
An lnterestlng question arises at this
point.
During these two inontbs, gold
coinmanded substantial premiums lu New
York.
My Information Is that the premlum was from 2 to Si per cent, as wIII
be seen from the foulowing letter from Mr.
W. E. Bagnail, broker for stocks, bonds
and lnvestment securîties, Trust Building,
48 Sparks street :

.

1500
SENATE

1500

says a 'duli market-it was duli ln Winnipeg.'
more than 5 per cent of al] the money used
Because It
Hon. Mr. W.&TSON-Why?
lu moving the wheat crop of 1907.
Another amount of $3,115,000 was taken was owing to the foreigu market.
up ln boans near the end of December and
Hon. LMr. FERGUSON-My bion. frlend
$200,000 on the second day of January. madle the statement that the moment -the
As I have aiready sald, the lake naviga- announcement was madle that the governtion closed on the 7th of December and It ment were comlng to the rescue, wheat
la difficuit to understand the object of went up 10 per cent.
these belated transactions.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-Yes; ln the local
An Impartial examination of this matter
the only resuit whlcb market.
concluslvely shows that
can be claimed as beneficlal to the trade of
Hon. '.%r. FERtGUSON-4ere la what the
the country was the furnishlng of some Free Press, says about the Winnipeg miarf unds, at a reasonable rate of interest, to ket on tbat day:
certain banka after moat of the grain Lad
Winnipeg market was the weakest for cash
left the farmers' hands and the lakes were market there has been for days. There was
iiterally nothing doing and cortainly no imfrozeu.
in the financial situation was noted
lu what respect were the resources provement
this m )rning.
of Canada bettered by this transaction ?
1 Lope my hon. f riend will regard that
Hou. gentlemen bave told us-and 1 thluk
Now, we come to some later
voice stili rlnging ln my ears as conclusive.
I hear their
We were led to believe that
quotations.
-that the result of ihia announcemeiit hy
when .Mr. Fielding took snuff ln Ottawa,
the goverument was that prîces made an
farmers ln the Northwest sneezed ut
enormous bound lu the Northwest almost the
once, that the prîce of wheat went Up with
lmmediately.
I know my hon. friend from
a bound.
Hon. Mr. WATSCON-Hear, hear.
Portage La Prairie lias great respect for the
everything it
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-In order to deal Winnipeg 'Free Press' and
says, and -I do flot think Lie would lie guilty
with that, 1 wiIl produce an authority which
as questioning
my bon. friends who say ' hear, hear'1 wll of such great impropriety
any.thing which ippears la its columns.
not dispute v-ery much. 1 have in my «band
15th *Novemnthe Winnipeg 'Free Press ' for the days Here is a telegram dated the
I Lave
during Nvhlch'this transaction was golng on. ber, the day af ter*the annouacement
14 lu uiy read, about the ten millions of gold reserve
I have the paper of November
from my hon.
hand wlth sensational beading-s as follows: going into the Northwest,
friend from Killarney, addressed to the FiMillions for Western Canada.-Handling of nance Minister:
wheat now assured.-Government to place
$10,000,000 of the reserve in circulation.
Winnipeg, November 15, 1907.
Hion. W. S. Fielding,
We bave been
That was on the l4th.
Ottawa.
No resuits so far froin your arrangemenits.
told that prices -went Up with a bound i
imannouncement, 8 or Baaks here awaiting definite instructions,
àth of December.

This was probably flot

consequence of that
That was the 14th. I
10 cents a bushel.
now turn to the lSth, and 1 will reail whnt
this paper says about the market:
A duil wheat market to-day, cables lower,
trading liglit, ail news of crop bullish.
This -was tie day after the aunouncement
was madle.

Hon.
market
Hon.
is said

po rtant you urge prompt action on 'part of
bank-3;
anwer.F.
M. YOUNG.

So it does not appear that the hou. seator from Kiliarney had beard anythiug
about that extraordinary ju.mp lu prices
of 8 to 10 cents which occurred just on the
announcement that the government were
going to help the grain dealers, or Le would
Mr. WATSON-Tlîat is the foreigîî not have sent such a telegram to the Finthat is referred to.
ance Minister.
Notwithstanding the depletion of the govù%fr. FERGUSON-I will read what
It erumrnt gold reserves, the late date at
the Winuipeg- market.
about

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

JULY 14, 1908

1501

JULY 14, 1908

1501

which anYthing was attempted, -the fallure
to circulate additional notes, and the refusai of the banks to accept auy considerable assistance, the goverument and their
friends stili. proclaim tbemselves'the saviours of Canada.
It would seem from the results of this
glgantic bungle, that the country was under a delusion wben lu these dark November days we lainented a scarcity of mouey.
The Fielding prescription dispelled the defusion.
The seudlng of gold by the million to assist our poverty strIeken brethren
ln New York, must bave had au effect on
our financlal economy approxlmating to the
rnarvellous alleviations, which, doctors of
the oid school were always ready to affirrn,
followed bioodietting in the huma» system.
Wbat a wizard of finance Mr. Filing
inust be! By i inere swing of .the door of
the treasury vauit, fulowlng millions of
(Lanadiau gold to slip away to :New York,
lie produces a joyful clink of dollars lu the
pockets ôf western farmers, sud starts n
magulficeut procession of enormous rallway
trains sud majestic steamships sweepiug
over prairie, Jake aud oceau, and carrylng
to the moutbs of huugry Englishmen the
last peck of the wbeat crop of 1907.
But we would waru LfMr. Fielding to be
cureful.
It ray be well to bave magical
skiff, but it may not aiways ibe wlse to use
It like a magiclan.
Havlug by a wave of
bis baud lu the early rnths of ast wiater,
rnoyed a mighty crop from the centre of
onîe continent to the great cities of another,
witbout tbe aid of gold or Dominion notes,
and regardiess of sucli paltry difficulties as
shortage *of cars and f rozen waterways, lie
rnay venture further sund iuterdict sucli
superfiuitles, lu crop production, as rai»
and sunshlue, to say nothiug of sucb vulgar
anciliarles as seeding and barvesting. He
may. If lie does not curb bis energies, provoke the Jealousy of the goda. HRis friends
should so have a care. .When lie shows
a tendency to sneeze, tbey sbouid devoutly
pray that the foundations of the worid
may flot tremble.
I wlll uow ase My
questions, sud my hon. frleud can give me
bis auswers.
The ûrst question is:
let. Wss specie amountiug to $5,115,000
withdrswu from the federai t<easury in November aud December last, in cousequeuce
cf au order in council made on the l2th of

November, 1907, as amended by another order
in concil made on the 26th of the saine
mouth ' authorizinig su issue of Dominion
notes, wlithout a correspoadiug increase in .the
circulation of Dominion notes P
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answer is, most
uuqunllfiedly, no.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I undertake, If 1
amn given a commlttee, ta prove It to the
very bult, notwitbstandIng the bon. gentleman's answer, noi.'
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe hon, gentleman
should proceed w1th the questions.
Hon. Mr.' FERGU(ION-I amn eutltled
ta laterject a remarie.
The SPEÂICER-I tbluk tbe bou, gentleman la ouly entled to put bis questions
uow.
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-Wuile I amn kept
ou tbe floor asklug the questions lu detail,
I submlt that I )Iave the floor.
The SPEAKER-The bon. gentleman eau
put bis questions lu a series, sud they cau
be answered, or tbey may be put separately sud an answer gîven ta escli questIon.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-1 am n ot particular; but If my hou. friand Insista li)
breakiug lu on my questionsHou. Mr. SCOTT-I wlill answer them as
!he lion. gentlemsan asIEk them..
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Under tbose circumstances, I amrn u rder wben 1Iinterject
a remark. My second qitestion rends:
2nd. Did the goverumeut when they made
the said order in couacil, coutamplata the
issue aud circulation in Caýnada of Dominion
notes, or the withdrawal. from tha treasury
snd exportation of spacie P
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The order lu councfl
15 before parliamniet, sud makes no reference wbatever ta any wltbdrawal of gold.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-That Is not an
answer. Did the goverument coutemplate
tbls wbeu they made this order ln council?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-No, certainly they did
not, never thouglit of ItL It was 110t lu
their mlnds.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My third question rends

SENATE
1502

1502

3rd. If sucli withdrawal and exportation of
specie was not contemnplated by the goverament, was it flot their duty to guard against
the depletion cf the gold reserves of the
treasury by providing that the notes issued,
without lawful security, should not be presented for redemption, until the loans they
were intended to facilitate had been repaid ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answer to that
Sncb an arrangement could flot
ls, nc.
have been practicable.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My fourtbi question rends:
4th. Did the specie inentioned in the first
queston or part thereof forsa Part of the exportations of gold made to the United States,
in NovemtIer and December, 1907, amounting
te $7,297,778 P
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbere Is nothlng to
show nny connection between the transaction of the goverament and the export of
gold at- the time referred te.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My
tion rends:

next ques-

3tb. What were the curreat premium rates
on gold, stated weekly, in New York, in Nov'ember and December. aad did the government cf Canada participate in the profits
accruing from preminins cf gold, withdrawii
from the treasury, and sold in New York during the said months P If so, how much ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The government lad
nothlng whatever te de witb the experts
of gold.
Hon. Mr.
tion rends:

FERGUSON-M.Ny

next ques-

6th. In what way did the withdrawal of the
goverament gold reserves during the nionths
cf November and December, 1907, and the exportation in the saine period cf a correspondStates, re'n g amount of gold, te the United
.u1ting from. the said order in couneil, relievec
the financial stringency in Canada and facilitate the movement cf the western grain crop?

ist. In the purchase of grain direct f rom
the producers ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The loans, as the orders In council show, were made to thc
banks for the purpose of alding the bandThe bank-s accepted
lIng of the grain.
tbem for that purpose, and the government
bans no reason to doubt thiat they fulflhled
the condition.
Hlou. Mfr. FERGUSON-Then my hon.
frlend Is flot able to say what portions of
the loans. were used for that purpose?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. ',%r. FERGUSON-The second part
of my seventh question rends as follows:
2nd. In the movement of grainý already in
elevators, to the seaboard or points of coni',umption, before the close of lake navigation
iii 1907, giving the date of the latest shipnieiit
by the lakes route ?
Date cf loan.
November
November
November,
November
December
December
December
December
Deceinber
December
January

21. 1907......
26. 1907......
29, 1907.
30, 1907......
18, 1907......
24, 1907......
26, 1908......
26, 1907......
30, 1907......
30, 1907......
2, 1908.......

cf
lban. S 500,00
1
500,000
2
500,(00
50,000
50,000
165,000
300,(00

I suppose the sanie answer
tfs.

750,000
750,000
200,000
applies

to

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT--Yes.
FERGUSON-NotýwithstanfdHon. ',%r.
Ing the denials of the governmeiit, I amn
prepared, if 1 arn granted a cemmittee, te
prove the statements 1 have made, up te
the bUlt.

Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-We must ail admire
the iadustry and energr w-ith w-hicbi the
WC
heu. gentleman pursues bis topic.
boped that he lad taken up
could have
some subject more w'ortby cf bis intellect,
and sometbiag flint would 'bave redounded
te the benefit cf the people of Canada, or
te the informatien cf the Senate. The hon.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My next ques
gentleman drew bis conclusions. He had
tien rends:
made up bis mi nd that the government bad
7th. What portion cf the icans, stated ha paid eut this geld, and lt was shipped off
low <see retura submitted to the House o te New Yerk at once te speculate with
Commons on the Stli cf April, 1908), miade h:
there, and bis sole effort in this study on
the Bank cf Moatreal, on account of the Dom
inion goverament for facilitating the move
whichbc bas expénded some montbs, prement cf the western grain crop was used
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Any witbdrawals of
geld w-hichi teck place occurred in the or.
diaary w-ay cf business, and hiad ne con
nlection wbatever with the governmeflt'ý
arrangement for facilitatlng the inoveueill
of the grain crop.

J1JLY 14, 1908
bably, bas been to prove that the deductions lie first started out witb are absolutely true. I deny the bon. gentleman's
conclusions ln toto. Wbetber this transaction had taken place or nlot, that gold
would have gone out to New York. If
you look back to*any particular criais ln
Wall atreet there was Invariably a flow of
gold to New York, and that was the cause
of it onl this occasion. The bon, gentleman
bas shown us that some of the gold was
going out on January 31.
Hon. Mr.
statement.
stood me.
Hon. MNr.
stated that
weut out.

PERGUSON-I made no sucb
The hon. gentleman misunder.
SCOTT-The bon. gentleman
Up to January 31 the gold

]Fou. Mr. FERGUSON-No, there wad
thait rnuch outstanding at that time. The
$200,000 went out on the second of January, but I made no sucb reierence as lie
alleges.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-The lion, gentleman
spoke about seven millions as the amount
of goid.
I am within the hearing of thie
House when lie mentions that seven millions was the amount out altogether. I state
that, as a fact, on the occasion of every
crisis lu the United eStates wben gold ls at
a 111gb prernîum, gold goes out, and the
-Bank
of Montreal, the Bank of Commerce
and other banks natural ly take advantage
of the occasion te makie a little money, as
la very proper.
If I1 were to go back into
the îmast history of tliis country, I could
show wlhere the Bank of 3Montreal miade
enormous suins of money wben gold was
at a premium in New York.
Lt was ail
occasion of tîjat kind thiat gave the Bank
of Montreal Its start.
In every crisis, the
banks -take advantage of the opportunity,
very properly, to gain a liandsorne result
for their shareho;lders.
As 1 -have said,
the hon. gentleman's conclusionus are iiifounded, and bave no connection wbatever
ivith the premises.
There was noe thought'
of gold going out when this order la colin*~cil wvas miade.
The bon. gentleinan admits
that we got first class securities. as good
as gold at any trne, and convertable into
gold, and back of those securities was the
Bank of -Montreal.
r)oes the bon. gentle.

1503

man think thé goverurnent should have gone
bebind tbe Bank of -Montreal to -find wbether they were safe ln lending $5,000,000 for
Uic purpose of avoiding a serions crisis la
the Nortbwest? The bon. gentleman would
have seen the farmers of thc weat lose their
frozen wheat; lie would have seen hbmdreds of thousanda of dollars lest to hIdividuals there, rather than that the governiment ahould do a practical thIng. 't&ny
government, under the samne conditions,
would have donc exactly Uic samne; If not,
tbey would have been unworthy of being
membera o! a government, because there
was no possibility of bass. The keenest
Imagination could not conceive that there
could be a fraction of a loss.
It is 1dle
to dlaim that the government was ln any,
way endangeriug the finances of the country by advancing $5,000,000 on first class
securities, with the Bank o! Montreal
ready at any moment to niake up the
amount.
I amn surprised that the bon.
gentleman, with his keen intellect, sbould
have coule to nny sucb conclusion, and te
dlaim that the government had been guiity
o! a very grave off ence.
We would have
been guilty of a very grave mistake If we
had nlot taken the action we dld take te,
meet an emergency.
Dld noet -parliament,
a day or two ago, authorize the bailki to do
a good deal more without thc intervention
of the governrnent-allowing theni to extend their circulation during the months. letween October and Jailuary ln order te
move the grain?
Parlament did not besitate to do tînt, and yet dtlis Insignificent
advance o! $5.000,000 Is made the subject
of heurs of debate as to thc dangers te,
wbicb this country was exposed liy reason
of the goverument confing to the assistance
of tie banks to move the crops o! tic west.
I an rather surprised that rny hion. friend
should bave becomie se excited in thus matter, hecause. ifter ail, lie is making a mountain ont of a niole bill.
The money came
back when we expected It would; no one
was Injured and the credit of thc country
did not suifer.
No doubt considerable
benefit accrued to the country.
The gorernaient got interest on thc amounts of
money out. Then the hon, gentleman ays
that even gold In the hauds of tbe goverament does not belong to the government but

SENATE

1504

to
Very well, if so. we were to show thiat the goverumeut sent gold
to the banks.
New York.
glvlng it back to the owners.
Hon. Mr. PERGUSON-I did not say
Hon. Mr. FPERGUSON-If you were givthat the goveraiment bad sent It to New
lng It to the saine banks.
York; 1 sald tbey opened the door of the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe wboie transaction treasury and permltted It to be sent.
tool, place through tbe Bank, of Montreai,
Hon. Mr. DOM~VILLE-Opening the door
and 1 presume tbat bank bolds Its share.
bas scarcely convlnced the Is dramatlc again; tbey do not open the door
My bon. friend
House that the governient were recreant of the treasury. Dominion notes are legal
to their duty ln comlng to the rescue of the tender, and those who hold them can detrade at an Important crisis, and that tbey mand gold for tbem and get ItL I migbt
took the safest way of qprevefltlng any pos- call my bon. friend's attention to a time
wben be was au bonoured member of the
sible lots Rrlslng front the transaction.
government, when we could not get gold
,Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I sbould like my
for legal tenders. Wben legal tender was
hon. friend to reconcile the empbatic 'no'
lssued at St. John, It wa stamped payab>le
bie gave to my first questionl, witb bis later nt Toronto.
statement. that the gold would bave gone
very good
My on. friend first denied
out any way.
Hon. Mr. FEIIGUSON-A
that It went out.
plan to keep tbe notes in clrculqtIon.
Hon. Mr. SGO'TT-No. 1 deuied it went
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-When tbey were
The governout fromn the government.
Issued at Toronto, they were stamped payment pald out Dominion notes, not gold.
able lu St. John, and wben you went to
rFERGUSON-M-Ny first question the treasury to get gold for tbem you could
Hou. Mr.
not get It. Sometimes the bnnks mlgbt
Was this:
you witb a certain amount. 1 ai1. Was specie ainounting to $5,115,000 with- oblige
drawn from the federai treasury in November ways listen witb Interest to the lion. genand December last in consequence of an order tleman's speeches, and I bave no doubt
as
in couacil made on November 12, 1907, on tbey are read in the country; but his rearnended by another order in council made
the 26th of the saine month, authorizing Ln marks to-day whli not Influsence anybody
isýsue of Dominion notes, without a corresp-xî'i,- who understands financlal affaîrs. Every
ing increase in the ci.rculation of DominiaD
one Is not glfted the 3ame way. WVe caunotes ?
not aIl read letures on every event that
I did not say that the government had
a statement Isthat tbey liad takes' place. I bave bere
taken It out themselves, but
sued by the cbartered banks. At a certain
enabled others to do it. That w.as the reso mucb money
lu bis speech after- time of the year tbey bave
suit of their action.
out. Tbey cannot Increiise their
loaned
wards. my bon. friend said lie considered
circulation, because they are up to 'the
tbe gold would bave gonie ont any way,
to the
whicb Ilimit. They can only Issue notes
sCbsolutely contradîcting the statenient
extent of their capital. Tbe last returil
the departineut gave blm.
showed the amount of capital to be $99,Hon. Mr. 1SCOTT-TIîe bon. genitlemain 000,000, and notes lu circulation $67,000,draws deductions that are tiot warraiited. M0. Tbey couid not keep ail tbe notes ini
because tbey are continually
Hou. 'Mr. DOMV1%IL.LE-4i have listened circulation,
comning back la different parts of the counwitb a good deal of Interest to my bon.
nnw to tbe point wbich my
friend's inelodramlatîc Speech, lu Which lie try. I corne
hon. friend lias attacked. A similar emerlias quoted largely from the poets and otlxer
What il gency wiIl arise again this faîl. Tbere is
authors wbio bave had their day.
predlcted, and It
I would attaclc the govern- n bumper wbeat crop
this attack?
mnens so mucb money not reaIized. Whnt
ment or any other man or woman if 1
to do wltb It? The bauks
tbonght it was necessary and 1 could ac- are you going
in tbe saine position to-day that they
complish anytbing:* but the whole tbing is are
bave ail their
The bon. gentleman is tryin.- were In lmat fall. Tbey
now over.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT

JIJLY 14, 1908
money loaned out. Tbey are trading ou
their mouey and the sha.reholder.s want
dividends. They are earnlng 18 ta 22 per
cent a year, and paying dividende of 8 to
12 per cent. Our littie bank ln New Brunswvick has paid 12 per cent annually for
many years. When this golden harvest, to
use my hon. friend's poetry, le reaped, how
are the farmers going ta get money for It?
There are dilTereat ways. Either you must
bave -more banking accommodation, or the
goverament must Initiate some echeme by
whlch the deadlock may be got over. If
Vie wheat ls there, ln the ordinary coure
you take lt ta the elevator and go wlth
-the elevator receipt ta the bank for the
moaey. The bank says: 'We caunot give
It ta you.' You ask why, and the reply le:
4We are up ta the limit of aur circulation.'
Naturally you ask where are your reservee,
und they ans wer : ' We cannot gi've you aay
,of them, we muet hald them ugainst aur
circulation.' Naw, how are you gaing to
meet the question? The goverument suw
thut eomethlng. had ta be doue, and aithougb tbey had no authorlty under Act
et Parliament, they are an Act of Purliament unta themeelves, la case of necesity, for the wbale of Canada. What wauld
be done ln Engiand la an emergency ?
Suppose a wur were ta spring up and parIlument were nat la session? Money muet
be had, and the gavernuient muet act on
the responslbllty placed on tiemx by -the
peopie of the country. The people dld flot
eiect them ta go oniy by cagt Iran rules.
The gaverameat le there ta meet the emergencies of the moment. My hon. frlend's
criticism ofthVe goverament may be fuir
lu a certain sense; but the country 'wlll nat
uuderstand hlm.
I tblak some radical
change must be made lu aur bunking system. The banke are very powerful. They
cau decide when tbey shall lend money
and when they shaIl fot. That le something that muet be looked Into. The crope
a! the great west muet be taken out of
that country, aud we muet consîder
how the finauclai position le ta be
arrauged to meet conditions that are
sure ta preseut themselves lu the fu,ture. I for one am againet ail circulation by the bauke. It le a dangerous position ta put a bank lu. I believe
95
RUfVISED

1505

lu the system that prevals la Euglaud.
You can register as a bunker and do ail
the bunking yau waut, pravIding you cun
have the money. How do the Barciuy's,
Lloyds, Loadon, Washington and other
great Institutions aud other bankers get ou
la Englaad without circulation? They are
simpiy iending money. Ia this couutry,
our banks are largely discount bouses, endeavouring ta make a very large profit out
of the assets o! the bunks, ln many Instances, overreachiag ta muke more profit
than tbey should. The profit ou bank circulation le nat over 2 per cent. Therefore,
a bunk thut la able ta -show sa much cIrculation le getting oniy 2 per cent on ItL
If the goverameat had the circulation luetead of tie banke earnlng 20 per cent as
nt preseat, you tuke off 2 per cent and thut
leaves 18 per cent as their profits, and that
ought ta satisfy Vie sharehoiders. If we
had fia bank circulation there could be no
rua on any baak. -Very oftea Vie banks are
ln a tigbt place wlti fifty or one hnndred
branches, and circulation muy be comlng lu
whea tbey are flot prepared for IL
They
muet be prepared ta meet that circulation
ut uny time.
If tlght tîmes came, and
people get naxlous abaut their mouey-be-cause you know that money Is easily frlgbtened-they go ta the banks and demand
gold la exchunge for their notes.
There
wus n rua on a bank caueed Iby a man
merely looklug lu ut the door of -the baak,
and Vie baak went down.
The banke
should have no circulation ; It shauld be ail
lu the hande of the goverument, and uny
profit there le lu It should go ta Vie people.
I doubt mysel! If there le a greut deul- ln
It for the banks.
It Ie a mens of dîstri.
butiag through t-be country the likenesses of
the president and v.lce-president of the baak,
oue on encli corner o! the note, aud the
publie are able ta admire those likenesses
well trimmed up and very nice as
an advertlsement.
The tnme will came
when the people wiIl see that ail Vie circu- lution
le lu the bauds o! the goverament.
Thea there wllibe no danger o! a rua on
any of aur bunks, and they will not be
crlppled by havlug ta keep Immense reserves In New York, whut tiey euhi liquid
assets, ta be prepared ta meet a runa t
any tie.
We -muet get down, as they
EDITION

1506

1506
SENATE

market; nobody
have It lu England, to sound banklng prin- there was practlcally no
bec aus3e there was no
1 do nlot men to say that our bank- was buying wheat,
cîples.
had until the governrnent came
ing systemn Is unsound now; but not many inoney to be
The lion. gentleman shakes
had few branches, and to our relief.
years ago our banks
bis héad; I know what 1 speak of, and If
they did not have to deal wlth the western
gentleman will read a 'statement
wbeat problem. We must soon take Up the the hon.
or the wheat sbipments goîng forward at
banking question and decide how we are to
time, hie wlll flnd Lt was practlcally
deal with our Immense wbeat, crops and that
time the government came
The banks to-day cannot do uil. At the very
other crops.
to the relief of the situation, nîoney could
They take our capital away from the
IL
neot be procured frorn the bankers to foreast to meet the demands of the west. On
ward even a couple of hundred thousand
tue other band, If thieir money ls loaned
1 care nothlng
no bushiels across the lakes.
ln the east and la New York tbey have
for the statement bie bas made here that
money to move the crops ln the west. My
the bankers said they dld nlot want the
hon. friend bas done one good thlng; be bas
money and would flot take Lt. At that
called attention to the fact that the govtime the strongest banks ln Canada were
ernmenit did have gold, that when the denlot advancing to the grain deniers of the
rnand carne on them for legal tender, they
west over 50 per cent 0f the amount tbey
lii the gold and tbey gave Lt very willinghad advanced the year before on the wbeat
ly, because any discussions I have heard
I can quite appreciate Mr. Wnlkercrop.
have beeti not against the goverament, but
or any otlher bank president telling the publargely la favour of the goverament that
Had hie
lic there was plenty of money.
could net qnIckly and recognize the respondone otberwlse, there would have been"a
sibillty restIng on themn to alleviate and ease
run on the banks. But the banks should
off any plnch of the moment.
nlot have attempted to deceive the Finance
Hon. Mr. WATSON-It Is hardly neces- Minister, because tbey were telling hlmi
sary te go over the discussions whlch took tbey lhad ample money to bandle the wheat
place some weeks ago practicaily on the crop, altlîougbi that was not the case. As
samne motion; but the lion. senator 1.rom soon as it was announced. that the governMarshfield bas seen fit to brlng up this nient were coming to relieve the situation,
question to endeavour to minimize the ieat went up froni 6 to 8 cents a bushiel
benetit the farmers of the west derived ln the market.
The hon. senator f romn
from the goveranent corning to their relief Wolseley wiil endorse that staternent.
it
I repent, It wàs a great benefit was endorsed nt Winnipeg by the Grai
last faîl.
to the -west that the governent were bod Growers' Association, durlng the Investigaenough and strong enougb to come to their tion not long ago. The fact is, wbeat was
relief, even though they may have vioiated nlot selling at ail, and I arn safe lu sàying
some of the rules laid down by pariament that 50 per cent of the elevators ln the west
The people of the wvest got were closed for days because there was no
in dolng so.
the benefit, and the country iost nothing. rneney to buy wheat and wheat could flot
As the bon. Secretary of State has said, the be forwarded.
The hon. gentleman says
government took no chances ln advancing that money was loaued after the first of
If
the -money to the Bank of 'Montreal.
December wçven the canais were closed.
the amouint bnd been twice as large, th But the hon. gentleman kaows that wlient
security would have been perfectly good is shipped aIl rail In winter.
Whether the gold went to New York or not
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-In iimited quanI caunot say; but the bon, gentleman from
seems to thiak It bis particular titles.
Mýarshfield
business to show that the west derived no
Hon. Mr. WATSON-A great deal of it
benefit f romn the efforts of the g-overnment
to relieve the situation, aind hie quotes the came to Ontario, and someI tu -a . oUUn.
A great deal
market prices from the Winnipeg 'Free That ls, the damaged grain.
ln support of bis statement. I want o! tbat damraged grain bas gone forward
Press'1
to tell the bon, gentleman that for days by boats on the Cornwall canal, for expert,
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE.

JULY 14, 1908

1507

JULY 14, 1908
1507
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The best evidence.
and tbat clnas of wheat was handled al]
winter, and properly so. I belleve that had that that statement will flot be borne ont,
wbeat
the government flot corne to the relief of is the fact that at the very time
was selling for a dollar a bushel, and May
the situation, the people of the west wonld
bave suffered to tbe extent ot many mil- wheat was selllng for $1.08, better than
lions of dollars by reason of not being gold.
able to forward the grain. A large amount
Hon. Mr. FORGET-Whicb Io always
of It was damaged grain. If tliere Is the case.
one act whicb bas been appreciated by the
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I sold 4.000 bushels
people of the west, it was that the goverfimient folt themaselves otrong enough to of wheat for $1.02 a bushel ln September,
corne to the relief of the situation Irnet faîl and hadt ro difficulty lu gettlng my money
and assist the farmers ln gettlng a market when I had good whent to oel; but I conld
It
flot seil the wbeat I ralsed lat year.
for their crop.
was f rozen wheat, and everybody knows
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I did not intend to we cannot store frozen wheat. The
gay a word on the subject. It ls beyond bank that advanced the money on It
my calibre to discuss banking business. I was fearful until the quality of the wheat
bave llstened to the different speeches, par- was known. The banks wanted to know
ticularly tbe speech by my bon. frlend froin how the wheat was going to keep,
Portage La Prairie, and I wish to say that and there was no market for It on the
it was flot because of a shortage of nioney start. If Ontario badl not wanted our feed
at ail that there was dlfficulty la forward- whaat, 1 do not know what wonld have
Ing the wheat last yenr. I arn speaking become of us. We fonnd a market for It
to business men. Tbe wbole crop of the la Ontario. Âfter it became estnbllsbed,
Canadian west was frozen.
so that people knew Its keepipg quallties,
we had no trouble ln seliing it. We sold
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No.
.W,000 burabels of wheat off the Perley
Hon.. Mr. PERLEY-The bon. gentleman
tarm, and we got our money ln two minmust not lnterrupt.
utes and a baif. Tbe moment damaged
Hon. Mr. WATSON-There was not flve wheat had a market value and people knew
per cent of the wvheat of Manitoba frozen. what it was going to be worth, we could
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-A large portion of oel It and get our money. I neyer bad
a bait fer my money,
it was frozen, and a large portion of to wait an bour and
and 1 neyer heard the complaint that there
good, and where the grain was good,
was no
was not money to move the crop before.
It was a very small crop, only ten or
trouble was that the mercliants had
the acre. In Alberta The
twelve bushels to
trusted the people wbo grew the wheat,
and Saskatchewan tbey .bad hardly any
and the farmers grew poor wheat tbat they
good wheat nt aIl, and the resuit was tbat
could not'seIl and were.therefore unable
the banks that bad advanced money owlng
to pay tbelr obligations; money was flot
to the prosperodis-times for six years prior
avallable. for lnjured wheat. The trouble
to that, liad lent out their money and were
was flot a shortage of funds ln the banks
dependiug on another good crop. J told the
at ail. Where did It go to? There was
people to be cautlous and not to assume
plenty of money If you only bad a good
that they would always have good crops.
article to gîve for the money; but wheu
I said : ' You will have a poor crop and
you hnd n article everybody was afrald of,
you may bave a calamity in the country.'
about buying It,
banks dld not advance the dealiers were very careful
The reason tbe
and the bankzs would not advance money on
money was not that they dld not have the
was the reason the banks beld
money, but because the wbeat *as such It. That
their money. They dld it on a coinau inferior article.
merciaI basis : tbey were not going
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No.
to advance It to people who were
not able to pay back again. 1 never
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I say yes.

1508

SENATE
1508

1 wiIl lie Ii a position at the commencenient of next session to show that the issue
~fcertain letters patent lias flot alWaYs
)een i accordauce wlth the principle wbich
bas been laid downl by this House, nor lu
accordance wlth the resolutions wblch have
We bave been told very
been adopted.
often 'by promoters of Bis ivhich we refuse, that tbey couid get Jetters patent without any dlffilculty, and, as far as I bave
been able to ascertain the fact, I thluk it is
true that lu certain cases promoters of Bis,
wlio cannot bave tbeir Bis passed, can ohtain letters patenit whicli would give themi
I
the saine riglits that we refused thein.
will give an example: lIn certain cases, letters patent have been lssued where the
objeets for which tliey were issued were
Thiere can ibe no diffipurely provincial.
eulty upon that question of fact; yet when
they asked for the sane power here tliey
Therefore, as I arn
have been refused.
disposed to follow the advice of the bon.
Secretary of State, I will take the liberty
of glvlng hlm a suggestion;. namnely, to consuit the Minister of Justice during the recess before next session, lu order tliat tliey
may be able to meet our objections it the
beg-Innlng of uext session.
Hon. Mr. LANDR'Y-Provided they corne
back next session.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Are letters patent not
Hlou. Mr. WATSON-Yes, but there is no
lssued according to tbe terms of the Joint
rlsk lu buylng wlieat for a dollar a bushel,
Act?
If you can seil May wbeat for $1 a busiel.. Stock Company's
Hlon. Mr. DAVID-I do flot understand.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-lu that case It was
.damaged wlieat.
Hon. 31r. *LOUGL1IED-Does my lion.
friend contend that the bon. Secretary of
.%Ir. WATSON-No, Do.
Hon.
State should flot exercise the power vested
FOR INDUSTRIAL iu hlm under the Joint Stock Company's
WATER POWERS
Act in sucli matters?
PURPOSES.
-

round fault wlth the banks, becanse tliey
dld their business on business principles.
They would flot pay for au article that
miglit lie of no vaine wliatever. There liasi
mlot been any great change lu the price o!f
wbeat; my bon. friend Is wrong lu regard
to that. I experienced no difficulty, nori
dld the farmers around Wolseley. Thec
only dlfficulty we bad was to get the cars
to put the wlieat lu, and the moment ve
got the wlieat lu the car we could get the
cash lu Winnipeg frorn the three banks.
They would give you about 70 per cent of
the value of the wlieat when It was ln the
car on the track. You ctould not seli It ln
the elevator, but wliea yon put It lu the
car, you can get 75 per cent of Its value,
aud when you bave the g-rade and weigbht,
you can get the balance.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The bon. gentleman from Portage la Prairie asked the boa.
gentleman fromn Wolseley as to whethier the
price of wheat bad not gone up?
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I atnswered the lion.
There was no
gentleman at the time.
change.
flon. Mr. FORGET-If you buy ut five
months option, you bave to pay 5 or 6 or
You bave to
7 cents a bushel for that.
carry the wheat for six montlis.

MOTION DROPPED.
The order of the day ibeing called:
That an order of the Sonate do issue asking
for a copy of the letters patent issued iu the.
course of last year in behall of any person
asking authorization to coastruct booms cn
ertain rivers or to use water powers for industrial purposes.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I think I will accept
the advlce of the lion. Seeretary of State
and wait until next session to renew my
motion, but'iu the meantime I wilI make a
collection of the letters patent, and I think
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.

Hon. '.%r. DAVID-I contend thiat lie may
issue letters patent ln virtue of that law,
provlded the object for whicli the letters
patent are lssued are withtn the jurisdiction of the federal parliameat.
Hlon. Mr. LOUGH[iEFD-He cannot exercise greater powers than are conferred uponi
hlm under the Act.
Hlon. <Mr. DAVID-I amn not able to disI ar n ot very sure
cuss the question.
that the position. wbich I take is sound.

1509

JUIY 14, 1908

ruLY 14, 1908

1509
PAY TO SOLDIERS 0F OTTAWA FIELD

Tlhat is the reasou I wisli to walt until next
session, so as to obtain the necessary information to enable me to explain my posiI have not the letters patent bere,
tion.
but 1 remember one was issued not very
long ago, a very long letters patent, glvlng
a company tbe rlgbt to do anytblng wbicli
can be done lu this country, and givlng a
rigbt especlally to use certain water powell
to generate electrlclty, to. do certain works
ou certain rivets situate wboliy In the pro'I contend that If the Senate and
vince.
the House of Commons bad not the rlgbt
to pass Bis, granting sucb powers, because
the objects are provincial; that the bon.
S-ecretary of State cannot iegally issue letters patent giving the sanie rigbt.

BATTERY.
INQUIRY POSTPONEýD

Hon. Mr. LAINDRY inquired of the government:
When does the government think that At
will ho ahie to iay on the table of this Houa.
the followîng documents, the pro inction of
which wa's ordered during the present session,
at the dates mentioned:
(a) The etatement indicating the amounts
spent on the Deschambault wharf-February
4P
(b) The correspondence exchanged between
the. Department of Militia and Lieutenant
Colonel Davidson re the latter's dismîssal and
the promotion of Sir Henry Pellatt to the
rank of coionel-February 14?
(c) The details asked for on the subject of
the additional subscription of $200,000 to the
capital stock of the Quebec Bridge and RailHon. '.%r. ROSS (Mîiudlesex)-Hfear, bear. wav Company-January 29.
(d) The statement showing what was the
No.
Hon. '.Ir. .LOUGHEi D -May I take the daily pay of the soldiers of the Company 1866
2 of the. Ottawa Field Battery ia 1865 and
liberty of suggesting- to my lion. friend, that -March 17?
wvhat bie sbould do is to give consideration
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-On nîy reproachlng
to the propriety of parliament restricting
in the Secretsry the MIlla Department, they ad that tbey
the powers already vested
of State under the Joint Stock Companies had sent over a return, and it was issued
I thlnk tbat Is the oniy way the to the House, and tbat the hou. gentleman
Act.
end wblchli blas In view can be reacbed. was aware of It, and saw the original reThe letter to me
port In tbe department.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I bave no objection. states that Senator Landry bas seen the
original In whicb bis return Is filed.
Tbe motion was dropped.
very sorry to
~Hon. Mr. LA-NDRY-I arn Tbe gentleman
1
AOCUSATIONS ÀGAINST MR. M,%cGOV- speak ngainst that report.
who wrote that letterERN.
-IQUIRY POSTPONED.
Hion. Mr. LANDRY iuquired of tbe government:
1. Is it true that the government has ordered
an inquiry into the conduct of Mr. J. MeGovern, foreman of the Intercolonial Railway
between Lévisa smd Rivière du Loup?
2. Ras this inquiry been ordered as the resuit of grave accusations of peculation
brought against this employee?
3. What is the precise nature cf the accusations the truth of which the commi,,sioner
holding the inquiry bas been ordered te find
out?
4. Who bas been appointed commissioner to
hold the inquiryP Is it Mr. T. C. Burbee, of
monc'ton? If not, whe P
5. When was the aippointment mnade, and
wben is the inquiry to commence?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The deputy minister.
Hon. Mr. LALNDRY-I do not care wbo
He does not understand the quesbe is.
1 arn referring to paragrapb
tion at ah.
(d) of lnquiry No. 4.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Wouid the bon. gentleman wish me to file what 1 have here?

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Certainly, but not
I will get that answer, and
as an answer.
we will not leave Ottawa before I get It.
The return the bon, gentleman bas brougbt
1 will put tbe
down is of no use at ail.
inquiry in sucb plain words tbat tbe bon.
I1 also asked
gentleman will understand.
somne time ago-and it was ordered by this
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-I have no answer to House-for n copy of a retura sbowing the
that.
daily pay of soldiers of Comnpany No. 2 of
the Otiawa Field Bilttery, compared witb
The inquiry was aliowed to stand.

SENATE
SENATE

1510
1510

He said : At this stage of the session, it
can hardiy be expected that one shouid
deal at any lengtb with this question, aad
partlculariy as tbe question has already
been deaIt with on more than one occasion during the session, and aise I think
durlng tlie last two sessions. Our reportlng service, costa us now a very considerable sum, somewhere altogether between
$16,000 and $20,000 I tliink. As I have
sald, on more than one occasion, I do flot
Hon. -Mr. SCOTT-Tbe statemeat I have, thlnk we are getting vaine for the money.
appears to be a statement of non-commis- I am not flnding any special fault with
sioned officers, the Ottawa Garrison Artil- the reporters, but under the system we
leryhave, we are not gettlng value for the
The reports of our debates do not
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-That Is nlot the money.
go before the public to any extent. The
I
That is the first part of It.
order.
only Inthuation that the general public
got that. Wbat I want [s the Ottawa Field
has, as to what takes pince la the ISenate,
lBattery, No. 2 company, s0 as to compare
report
contalned ln the summarized
what No. 2 cpmpany got wlth what the Is
made by the reporter who sîts at Hîs
other companies got. It [s a simple quesrigbt; and I think If we are to
tion, and it takes an ordlnary head to Honour's
continue to spend considerable sums of
understand it, even la the llilitla Departmoney for reports which are practlcally of
ment. It will stand untii to-morrow.
no value, we ought to uaderstand that posi,Hon. Mr. POWER-I suggest that the tion; but If we are to continue to spend
hon, gentleman shouid address bis Inquiries. money we ought to get value for it, and
I contend as far as one cau see now, If
to the Archives Department.
we are to continue to have reports, we
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is the hon. gentle- shouid adopt the systemi which they have
mnan living there?
at Washington, and la London, aud as I
-Hon. Mr. POWER-This inquiry relates understand la Australia, that the reports
to something wbich took place before the of the debates of the two Houses, go out
union of 1867. It may be an Interestlng together to the public and are,. at any rate
matter to kaow how those men were paid la England, produced by the same staff.
before the union, but the Archives iDepart- The subject bas been dlscussed on varlous
ment is the proper place to look fur [t.
occasions. I thlak It Is clear that some
action Is necessary If we are to continue
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want to complete the reports. If we are nlot to take some
an answer which lias already been given In action which will cause these reports to
1886 by the samne Militia Department. They be of more value to the public than they
gave the first part and are able to give the are aow, we bad better make up our minds,
second part.
I thlnk, to drop the officiai reports altoThe SPEAKER-Questions three and gether. We are paylng a lot of money and
getting practically almost nothing la refour wili stand unitil to-morrow.
tura. That vlew bas been put before the
CONSOLIDATION 0F REPORTING SER. lion. chaîrman of the Debates Commlttee
VICE 0F TWO HOUSLis.
on more than one occasion, and he bas
liad, occasion to consider the matter, and
MOTION.
I fancy that he has also probably dlscussed
Hon. Mr. PONVER moved:
wlth the reportThat the Committee on Reporting the De- wIth gentlemen coanected
bates be empowered to consider the advisa- Ing of the debates of the House of Coinbility of consolidating the reporting service of mons;»sad I have no doubt that hie and
the two Houses and to report a scheme to the
bis committeé have views on the subject
Sen ste.

the payment of other companies ln Ottawa.'
I
I got the pay ot the first companles.
did nlot get the Ottawa Field Battery No.
What I -want Is that speciai âeld bat2.
tery pay, 'so that I miglbt compare It with
They are givlng me answers
the others.
to ail other questions, and they are evadlng the answer wlth regard to tbat single
company. I want this answer, and I wll
get It.

Hlon. Mr. LANDRY.

JULY 14, 1908

and lt would be well that we should have
these before the -Senate. I amrn ot going
to read anything, but I would direct the
attention of the bon. chairman of the Debates Committee to a report which, I have
no doubt, he bas seen, on the English Parliamentary Debates, and at page 29 of that
report the bon. gentleman wilI find the
way they arrange things.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What year Is tliat?

1511

supplement him by two, three or four accord.
ji to the length of the sitting.
Q. What je maximum staff when you are
having a longieh night in the House cf Gommons and in the Hloue of Lords P-A. Four
more than the number 1 have given ycu.
Q. Fourteen for the two Honees ?-A. Yea.
They do not have any difficulty ln doing
the work there, and I do noti see why we
shouid. have any difficulty here.
The motion was agreed te.

RECONSTRUCTION 0F QUEBEC
The report
Hon. Mr. POWER-1907.
BRIDGE.
from the Select Commlttee oa ParliamentINQUIRY POSTPONED.
ary Debates, together with the proceedinge
Hon. Mr. LANDRY Inquired :
of the committce, ordered by the House
of Commons to be printed July 4, 1907.
Since the fall of the Quebeo bridge, has the
At page 29 of that report hon. gentlemen Quebec Bridge and Railway Comnpany applied
wlll find the way ln which things are donc ta the government for any assistance whatsaever P
In England. They bave the sme difficulty
whenP
this
0f what nature was the assistance asked
to deal with there that we have ln
for p
country.
What was the reply of the government P
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middiescx)-Call thc
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have ne answer to
hou. gentleman state thc effeet ef it -la that. I wlll conauit sme onc else about
brief ?
It, and endeavour to get an answer.
Hou. Mr. POWER-I cannot etate It
The inqulry was allowed te stand.
more briefly than by readlng what thc witnese said.
TH[RD REÂDINGS.
can be donc
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Nothing
Bill (202) An Act te autherize the conthis year.
struction cf a branch lune of the Prince
Harmony, on
Hon. Mr. POWEll-I do not sec why Edward Island Railway fram
Who WiiS being examined the Souris -brandi ta Elmira.--<Hen. Mr.
net. The wltness
was Mr. Burt, chaîrman of the cornpanY, Scott.)
Bihi (201) An Act to assist in.maintaining
'Who reported the debates, and he states:.
and efficient service of telenine always in the an Independent
We have a staff of
frequently to add on three graphie ncws from Grcat Britain fer publiH3ouse, and we have
or four.
catien In thc Canadian press.-(Hon. Mr.
Q. That ie to say when the Hlouze of Lords Scott.)
sitting.
and the House of Commons aire the HouseYoD
01
Bill (200) An Act respecting the salary
probably have seven available in
omitted the House ci of the Superintendent of Insuranc.-(Hen.
GCommons P-A. No, i bail
Lords staff when I gave yen the nine as the re,
It
gular staff employed on the debates. tc. would Mr. Scott.)
Whesi
be ton and that is f requently added
Lords, it iE
there i3 a debatle in the House ofit, and prob
PUBLIC LANDS ACT AJ,%NDYM-ENT
impossible for one man to take
BILL.
tae a part.
ably tre or four reporters
Q. Then do1 correctly ynderstand you tc
FIRST READING.
say that you always have fine reporters avail
able in the House of Commons p-A. We ai
A message was rccived f roi tie Hlouse
ways have mine available in the House ol
the Rouse o: .)f Cemmons with Bill (181) An Act te conommnons on debates work-in
Commons and the Hons of Lrds.
e, sehidate and arnend the Acts respecting thc
Q. No, that ie not what yon said P-k. Therý public lande o! tic Dominion.
ten altogether with the House of Lords.
are
Q. But under ordinary cjrcumstances, yoi
Thc Bill wns rend tic first time.
Lords,
allow at least ýtwo for the Hanuse ofthe lengtl
supposel ?-A. In the Hanse of Lords reporte: r
Hou. 'Mr. SCOTT inoved tint thc Bill be
of sittings ie very erratic. One
8
can deal with it until a Bill gos
ordinarily
read the second trne nt tic evcning sittlng.
e
Up requiring Iengthy discussion and then w

1512

SENATE

1512

SENATE

,Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWFjI-Does
my hon. friend thlnk there Is any one lu
this House w-ho cati digest or even understand w-bat is contaned In the hundred odd
'BIn
the few hours w-e have
clauses of thisB
at our disposai, particularly a Bill of vast
I would suggest to
Importance lke this?
the hon, gentleman to let It stand until next
week.

sorb the w-bole of tlie unalienated lands
w-ithia the provinces o! Saskatchiewan and
Alberta. Before this House can lie fuhly
assured o! the w-lsdom of dealing w-itb an
area tliat wll represent probably a hundred million dollars In value, it sbouhd bave
the most explicit Information on the suliject. As to making provision for the building of the Hudson Bay Rallway, that Is a
rather unique proposition lu vlew of the
fact tliat the goverumeut bas already anuouuced ln the House tbat its policy respecting that project bas not yet been
decided upon. This is peculiarly a Bill w-hlcb
tlie Senate would do credit to ltself by
postponing consideration o! until next session. Because It Is utterly Impossible, ln
view o! the fact that tbe Governor General
is almost kuocklng nt our doors to-day for
prorogation, to, deal intelligently w-itb a1
niatter that involves lu value more thanl
anv otber measure and probably represents
in value a greater amount than tlie aggregate of tbe Bills that bave been before us
this session. It Is a Bill w-bich demauds
tbe utmost consideration at the bauds of
the eenate, and It is for sucb careful coltsideration of Bis tliat w-e have a Senate.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It looks voluminous,
but It la only a consolidation. It is a trancript of the Bill w-ich w-as before parliament last session.
The only really miaterial feature of lt-and that w-as iu the
Bill last year-is the setting npart of a certain area In the new provinces, chiefiy AIberta, to be sold to homesteaders at tbe
rate of three dollars au acre, for the purpose of building a rallway to Hudson Bay.
Beyond that, 1 presume It ls very littie more
than crystallizing lnto the form. of an Act
of parliament the regulations and orders
I councîl of the department for the sale
o~f lands lu the Northwest.
1 hope to lie
able to point out to bon. gentlemen any
new features lu the Bill when it cornes up
lu commlttee.
W'ltb that assistance we
w-i be able I trust to discuss the new
clauses.
Clauses that, after a long exHon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe proposition Is tiot
perieuce, It bas been thouglit not proper to as my lion. friend lias stated it. The proamend will not call for long discussion.
position is to a]low bomesteaders to takze
up a second homestead o! 160 acres, w-itbi
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I know of no tlie riglit to purchase the adjoiaing 10
hon, gentleman w-ho has the happy faculty ncres ut three dollars per acre. That propossessed by my hou. friend o! minimizlng position is limlted to w-bat is known as
the Importance of the most Important mea1- the semi arld lands in the w-estern prosures, and of assuring the House that lie vinces. The iocation Is defined In the Bill.
w-ill be quite prepared to explain and satisfy 1 thlnk It is lietw-een the Canadian Pacifie
everyone, no matter bow critical and cen- Railw-ay and the Intercolonial boundary. 1
sorious lie may be, to bis entire satisfaction shahl le prepared at the uext reading of
s0 that the inatter may be disposed of Inu- the Bill to give the locnhity exnctly.
lu
mediately.
This is a trifling matter, we reference to the goverument project iu
are told, only disposiag of millions o! acres connection wvith the Hudson Bay Rnilway,
of lanid; but I hope my bon. friend will liE it is proposed this year to appropriate a
.able to expînin that lt bias been done on certain sum for the survey and location o!
former occasions, and there ls no reason the land. Then the allotinent of land wli
w-by the Bill should not pass instanter. be at the rate of three dollars an acre.
1 should like rur bon. friend to furnisb in- The calculation is that It w-i take about
formation as to the extent o! the domain five million acres o! land, a very sinaîl
proposed to be alienated ? If I understand fraction o! the area w-itbin the Ilimit 1
the mnost essentiai feature of the Bill, it is bave already roughly deflned. It does not
tlint it proposes to give to settiers 320 acres .embrace ail the lauds of the new provinces
of land practieally as a lîomestead, and ab- 1)Y aîîy means, but is limited to a particu.Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JULY 14, 1908
JULY 14, 1908
lar section, chiefly ln Alberta, ln wbat are
known as the seini arid lands.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-If I understand
the Bill, It -proposes to open Up ail the
unsettied lands between tbe International
boundary and township 44, 'whlch is about
240 miles north of the boundary. It practlcally takes ln the settied portions of the
provinces of Saskatchewan and Alberta. If
tbey are ail semi-arid lands, then tbe provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan ln
their entlrety are semi arld, and 1 wouid
not wlsh my bon. friend to, libel or slander
the magnificent lands of those provinces
by hnvlng the statement spread abroad
for the purposes of bis argum~ent this
morning, that tbose lands are semi arld.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have a very blgb
appreciation of the character of the lands
of Southern Alberta. We have ail heard
of tbe magnificent crops produced there.
but the resei-vation is, as I bave aiready
Indicated, near the International boundary,
and extending as far nortb as township 44.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It la Important
that we sbould have flot only the area, but
tbe available acreage whicb wiil be affected
by this Bill before we can dîscuss It properiy. I have no doubt the Minister of
the Interlor bas tbat Information, and 1
wouid asiz my bon. !riend to bring ht down
before the next -stage *of the Bill.

1513

1513
wick, and it Is for the purpo-se of extendingthe bounty to oh! extracted from shale. At
present there ls a small bounty on oil proiiuced lu 'Canada.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbat ls not a reply
to my question. I asked If it la a protective measure.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I have expiained
it ts a bonnty on ohl prodùced from abale.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thls
ta anotber advance that our free trade government la maklng la the heresy of protection.
The motion was agreed to.
OFFICE 0F AUDITOR GENERAL BILL.
FIRST READING.
A message w& received froni the House
of Commons 'wltb Bill (208) An Act respectlng the office of Auditor Generai.
The Bill was read the first time.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill
be read the second time at the evenlng
Sitting.
Hou. Mfr. LOUGHEED-What ls the
purport of tbis Bill?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-SilY an Increase of
saiary, bringlng tbe Auditor General Up to
the ievel o! the deputy minister.

Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Wiii not the
Civil Service Act cover this?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Certaln]y
brougbt down.
Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-There la some doubt
about It, and that ls 'wby this Bill is lntro-.
Tbe motion was agreed to.
duced.
BOU.NTIES ON CRUDE PETROIOULN
The motion was agreed to.
BILL.
GHÂIPLINA-ND ST. LAWRENCE
FIRST READING.
BILL.
LCOPNS
SHIPCA
receîved froni tbe House
A message wvas
of Commons witb Bill (199) An Act to proCOMMONS ÂMENDMENTS.
HOUSE OF
vide for the payment of bounties on crude
A%message was recelved from the 'House
petroleui.
o! Commons, returning Bill (SS) An Act
The Bill was read the first tine.
respecting the Lake -Champlain and St.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill be Lawrence S8hip Canai tCompany, witb
read the second tume at tbe evening ses- auiendments.
sion.
Hon. 'Mr. POWER (Ini tbe absenee orf
'Mr. LANDRY-Is that a protective Hou. 3fr. Beicourt) moved. that tue aimelldHon.
ments be concurred ln. He said: These
measure?
aniendinents are o! the most formai charHon. Mr. SCOTT-No. They are now
provides that the work
getting ohl in shale lands in New Bruns- acter. The first one
it wili be

SENATE
SENATE

1514
1514

SUSPENSION 0F RULES.
shahl begin witbin two years, instead of
that It shahl
MOTION.
thmee as the Bill provides, and
be compieted lu five years lnstead of seven
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that rules 23F,
as pmovided in the Bill originaiiy.
24B and 24C, 'be suspended during the ref ar as they re'Hon. 'Mr. ýA.NI>RY-Does the promoter mainder of the session, so
late to ail Bis presented during the balthe amendments.
o! the Bill accept
ance of the session.
'Hon. Mr. -POWTEL-I hold a note f rom
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think the motion
the promoter to Senator Belcourt, ln wbicb Io flot In order.
Under the pretence of
lie says he accepta the amendments.
suspending the rules, tliis motion is hn
'Hon. Mr. FORGIET-Can the lion. gentle- reality making a new standing rule for the
Lt says that
man tell us bow many times this charter remainder of the session.
froni this day to the end of the session al
bas been revived?
those particular miles which bave been
.Hon. Mr. POWBER-T'hat -was ail deait rnentioned shouid be set aide.
That is
with by the cominlttee of the -House before. suspending flot for a particular object, -but
We are not deaiing with that now.
suspending themn entirely, whlch Is equivafor the
'Mr. FORGET-I want an answer lent to repeal of the standing orders
'Hon.
time being.
to my question, and I obJect to concurrence
now.
The SPEAKER-In s0 far as they relate
to Bis.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Then I move that the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Those miles relate
amendmenta be taken Into consideration at
to Bis.
the next sitting of the House.
The m otion was agreed to.
-Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thought the motion
was quaiifLed-so far as relates to Bills.
CÂNÂDIAN PATRIOT1,C FUND ASSOCIAHon. Mr. LANDRY-But they do not reTIO-N BILL.
They relate to Bis.
late to other things.
FIRST READING.
The rule Itself relates to Bils; 23F is for
Hon. Mr. 8COTT introduced Bill (JJJ) the second reading of a Bill; 24B Is for the
.So the rule ltAu Act especting the Canadian Patmiotic third reading of the Bill.
self appiies * to Bis, and you are asking,
Fiund Association.
flot the suspension -of the rule for a parThe Bill w-as read the first tirne.
ticular case as It cornes up, but you are
lion. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill be asking suspension of it for the remainder
read the second tume at the evening sitting. of the session.
lie said: Lt appears that the fund is a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think that bias
pretty large one, and cannot be distributed
hitherto been the mule when we weme withunless you get the Lieutenant-Governors of
or three days or the close o! the
That cannot ln tno
the varlous provinces here.
rtowever, I have no objection, if
session.
be done, and It is to enabie thern to vote the House desires, that any particular Bill
by registemed letter on any question th.at
be read the third tume, or should
mnay be subrnitted to thetii timat this Bihl is sb ould flot
referred to comimittee.
not be
introduced.
Hon. '-%I. LANDRY-I arn speaking ln
The motion was agreed to.
What do 1 understand the
generai terins.
The Senate adjourned until 3 p.m. to-day. hon. gentleman to say?

SECOND SITTING.
Tue SPEAKER took the -Chair at Thre(
o'clock.
Routine proceedings.
Hon. Mr. POWER

Hon. Mm. SCOTT-I say if the second
reading of ny particular Bill is objected
to without a day or two days notice, or if
the going into coinmittee is objected to, I
vili be very glad to take the sense of the

JULY 14, 1908

11
1515

The SPEAKER-I wouid -suggest that
House as to whether they desire further
he hon, gentleman let his motion stand
time. I do not desire in suspending that t
sittlng, until I examine the quesruIe to sprIng any Bill'unduly before the until next
Ion.
t
House at ail.
The motion was allowed to stand.
(Hon. Mr. LA.NDRY-The hon, gentleman will not press bis motlopi.
CUSTOMS ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
FIRST READING.
Ho«. Mr. SCOTT-I will withdraw it
altogether, and make it for each partîcular
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the thIrd readBill, If that la the feeling of the Hous; but Lng of Bill (194) An Act to amend the OuaI thlnk on former occasions we have sus- Eoms Act.
pended the rules.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I do
The ISPIÂKER-I wouid draw the hon. flot rise to oppose or object to the principle
of the Bill, but merely to put upon record
gentleman's attention to rule 24A.
the fact that I was correct ln the stateHon. Mr. POWER-Rule 30 says:
ment I made at the second reading, that
No motion to suspend any rule or standing the practice for years had beea to charge
order or any part of a rule or order, may be duty upon repairs made to vessels in a
made, except on one day's notice, specifying
the. mie or order or part thereof proposed to foreign couatry when they returned and
b9 suspended, and the purpose of such suspen- engnged ln the coasting trade. That was
sion.
the practIce ui'til an order was Issued by
The hon. Secretary of State gave his the Customs Department, informing collecnotice at the last sIttlng of the Bouse, tors that the practice should no longer be
whlch la to be. considered as a separate contInued. Prom that period until now,
The motion specifled the rule or the department has flot exacted duties
day.
order whlch was proposed to ibe suapended upon repaira to veasels engaged In the
or the part thereof, and the purpose of sucb coastlng trade when made ln foreign counThey were, of necesaity, British
suspension could- not be specifled further tries.
than for the purpose of expediting the vesseis having a Canndian register. I canpassage of Bis through the House. And not tell why the order was issued unleas
I thlnk the It was under pressure brought to bear on
that waa clearly understood.
motion ig ln order.
the department to aliow repaira to be made
to British vessels 14 a foreign country,
(Hon. Mr. LKNDRY-1 neyer raised a without charglng duty upon them.
Thc
point of order yet with which the bon. letter read by the hon. Secretnry of State,
gentleman from Halifax was satisfied. I coming from the Deputy Minister of Justice,
have not stated my point yet. -I was ln- and which cited one of the clauses of the
termupted by the hon. leader of the Hous. Customs Act, had no bearing whatever upThe hon. gentleman from Halifax la making on the question under consideration. The
It la not that principle upon which duties were levied ln
a bad stroke ln this case.
point I intend to raise, but if the hon. Secre- the past was based upon those clauses of
tary of State whhl permit the motion to the Customs AC which provlde that ail
stand, I will flot state the point of order. articles from a foreig-n country are subHon. Mr. SCOTT-I will press the motion. ject to duty which applied to vesseis
and parts of vessels. If, for Instance, an
I thlnk it is only reasonable and fair.
anchor was purchased abroad, It waa subHon. Mr. 'LANDRY-Rule 30 says:
ject to duty, and so with ail repaîrs, exas were necessary to enable a
No motion to suspend any mule o r standing cept such
order or any part of a rule or order may be vessel to proceed on her Journey with
made, except on one day's notice, zpecifying safety. 1 have no doubt somne shipbuildthe. mIe or order or part thereof supposed to
matbe eufpended and the purport of such sus- ing firms la Ontario have brought the
pension.
ter uuder the notice of the departmeiit.
My hon. frlend opposite has deslgnated
1 dlaim tint has not been done.

1516

SEN-ATE

1516

SENATE

that ciass of manufacturers as narrow in
their view. That reflection migbt be applied to every one engaged ln any industry
seeking for protection. I desire to place
myseif on record, because if 1 have any
advantage It Is a miemory of events ln the
past anxd more particularly of those 'witb
whlxi I was connected myself.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the tbird time and passed.
CIVIL SERVICE ACT AM_%ENDMENT
BILL.
SECOND READING.

been very mnuch eniarged. fromu inany
causes, and the number of eimployees
bas largely lncreased, necessitatiug the
appointment of a higher class of officiais;
but takiug the departments generally, 1
received waq
do flot thîak the censure
really fair, b'ecause the Civil Service of
Canada is as efficient as any other civil
service of which we have any knowledge.
Hlowever. I arn not prepared to dispuite tbat
the better way is that positions under the
government should be open to ail classes
%vlio are wortiy, wholiy apart fromi politics,
and the mile to be adopted lxi the future
is that the standard shaîl be an openx ex:xmination in whichi the best man shall get
The competitive principle
thxe tlrst place.
is a sound one. 0f course, 1 arn not prerulred to concede that simpiy because a
mîan is wvell up la the science of politicai
economy or any other subject, that that
iiecessarily is ail that Is required to -fit hlmii
It by no ineans
for the public service.
follows that a bigh education is always
ittended by întegrlty and a sense of honTbe principal feature of the Bill is
our.
the appointment of two commissioners,
forming a board, who are to have absolute
control of the examination and placing of
nmen in the vacancies that arise f romi tiîue
to timie in the civii service. 'When a vacancy occurs, they are to be notified. They
select fromi the list or persoxîs on baud wbo
hiave passed the examifiation and are en-

Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading of Bill (189) An Act to amend the
Civil Service Act.
He said :This Bill is the outeome O!
the report of the Civil Service Commission. The Impression formed by the press.
and I suppose largeiy by the people of this
country, after readlng that report, was
tbat politicai pull had more to do wlth the
selection of civii servants than had efficiency and capacity. I thlak iyself the
animosity against the principie prevaillng ln
the past was scarcely justlfied. The Canadian Civil Service is qulte on a plane witi
the civil service of any country. Ia Eugland, to s;ome extent they have adopted
the systemi of competitive examination,
and ln Washington to a very Ilmited extent. ln Canada, we have respected the titieti to appointment fromn the successful
appointments made by outgoiug goverii- exaîninations they have gone througb. They
ments. If you look over the Civil Service
properiy attach character to that evidence
iist you will flud that probably 75 per cent
lu other ways-heaith, 1 suppose, sobriety
of ail the officers above second-ciass elerks *and general good character.
They submit
long before the preserit
were appointed
*the name when a vacancy arises, and tbe
goveramenttook office. In my own de- department accepts the nomination.
if
partment, I do flot tbiixk there is an offi.
after six montbs triai the applicant bias neot
cia] above the second-cliss, except my owvx coine up to the standard that the departprivate secretary. w-be wvas flot an ax> ment tixinks it is entitled to demand. the
pointee of the prev ions administration commission is notitied, and another officiai
Coming more particularly te the depamt is named ln his place.
The commission
ment. which seemed to have incurred th(
*aiseo have very wide powers, and this elecrlticismn more than any other, of the Coin
ment of it is a very good one, to inquire
inission-that Is the '.%arine and Fisherie.
departmen' t into the internai management of a depart-the principal officers of 'that
to see that the clerks are taking au
vere appointed by the former idinuistra . ment
sinterest ln their work, and thiat they are
tion. 0f course you wvill find change!
the positions whlch tbey hold, and
avnong second-c]ass cierks. There are ex - fltted for
t kzeeping a general eye on the etticiency of
Take the Departmen
ceptions to that.
if that service is perThat departméiit ha: sthe departinent
of the Interior.
Ho>n. Sir MACKENZIE I3OWELL.

JULY 14, 1908

1511,

1517
JULY 14, 1908
formed properly, it, no doubt, will add ma- lu recent years the salaries of highi class
Officiais
teriaiiy to the good goverument of the de- officiais have been lncreased.
The Bill thea dIvides the civil have lef t the government liecause they
partments.
Banks and Iuservice Into tbree divisions, foiiowing main- could do better elsewhere.
ly the divisions that 110W exist, that is, sec- surance companles are always on the look,ond éiass, first class, and chief cierk and ont for first class men who are fitted for
highi officers. The deputy minîsters stand the particular work they have to do, and,
by tiîemseives; they are flot included. ln therefore, n number of men hlgh up have
The first division Is sub- lef t the service of the government because
tbe divisions.
The Bill
divlded, as are tbe othier two, Into (a) and they conld do better eisewhere.
(b). the former ernbracing officiais who may propose to take In the staff of the House
be known as the assistants of the deputy of Commons and the Senate.
In some of the larger departministers.
Hon. 31r. McSWEENEY-Does this lnients of the governmient, where the work
clude the ' Hansard ? '
lias licreased, it lias been fouild necessary
to appoint an assistant a littie higlier thau
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not really knowthe chief cierk-, and thien there are a num- whether It does or not. The question bas
ber of deputies, not deputies of depart- been discussed witb some of my colleagues
ments. whio have been made so by àct of and I could flot really say wbnt tbe conparlioment, who do iîot supervise depart- clusion was. 1 tblnk, the Inter conclusion
They was that it would include thiem.
nients as do the ordinary deputies.
It Is
corne lu class (a) of No. 1. Ciass (b) ls well known that the 'Hansard' men do
composed of offlccrs a grade beiow that, flot give their whole time ta the service of
who are chiefiy perhaps in the Interlor De- the government. Tbey can aval themiselves
partment, and some other departmneats of of opportunities of doing work after parthe governmeat. In the second division liament bas risen. The position of Vie
ciass (a) would embrace chief clerks, and officiais of the Senate would be as at preclass (b) the senior class of wbat inay be sent, subject, of course, to the Senate, ail
The third the grades of tbem, and any changes that
calied second class clerks.
division is made Up of the juniors below might be made wouid be. by resolution of
that rank, composed of second ciass clerks the Sonate, the samne as by the Houseo0f
The Gommons. I arn quite aware that la the
and those who are oniy temporary.
BillI litended to appiy, for the present, opinion of some gentlemen, It la a rellnquishoniy to the city of Ottawa and Its Alm- ment of certaiu privilegos. Weil, porhaps
mediate surrouudings, taking in'the Experi- lt la; but If the House of Commons ls wlllThe ing to corne undor the gonoral rulo 1 thlnk
mental Farm and the Observatory.
remuneration of the hlgber classes is some- the Sonate wouid be paylng proper doferwhat increased.
The salary of a deputy, ence to publie opinion If they followed suit,
under the proposed Bill wIll be $5,000 a more particularly as thoy have the same
year; up to the present trne the maximum opportunity, by rosolution, to ho dîssatiThen the fied with any oifficiai that may be offered
of a deputy bas been $4,00.
,classification lu the subdivisions will Ïbe, to tbem. If they are flot satisfiod with bis
class (a) In division No. 1, salaries runnin.4 capaclty or withi bis attalaments or standIn subdivision (b., ing, or wvbatever It may ho, thoy can defrom $2,800 to $4,000.
Ia the second pose lm. Tbey bave the absoluto control
fromn $2,l00 to $2,S00.
division lu (a) salaries wouid run from over bis services ln directing Vie work and
Third bours of labour and everything of that
$1,600 to $2,100, (b) $800 to $1,6W0.
division (a) would exnbrace those fromn $900 sort. 31y own opinion ls that It .rathor
in rolievod the Sonate of the crlticlsm Vint Is
to $1,200, and (b) from $500 to $80M.
the second and tird divisions the salaries sometimes pronouncod, nameiy that wo are
are flot very different from what thiey are paying salaries Vint ar'e flot oarned.
In
to-day In the hlghier division; tbey are sub- short sessions, it la weli known, that offiIt was feit tis was ciais of this body la past years bave eanstantlally increased.
necessary because, as hon. gentlemen know, ed thelé money easily. The prosont ses-

1518

SENATE
1518

sion, and some recent sessions have been
prolonged to a degree that no doubt theY
bad to give much more of their tîme than
in former years, and, therefore, the critidasm would not be as applicable and 1
presume wili not be lu the future, as the
Dominion grows, because we caunot get
back to our eariier experience when we
were sometimes able to get rid o! a session Iu ten or twelve weeks.
Hon- Mfr. LOUGHEED-Mly bon. f riend,
lu Introduclug thîs Bill, bas very weil said
that it 1-a the logical outcome of the report
whicb bas recently been submitted to the
goverument and laid upon the table of
parliament by the Civil Service Commission; but lu view of that report, and of Its
comprehensive character, it is almost unnecessary to say that t1ils Bill Is extremely
Lt only deals with one
disappointing.
phase of the abuse wvhichi bas been confrontlng the public for many years, and
that, probably, an abu-se much less serious
In Its resuits than auy of the other abuses
to which that report referred. This Bill Is
entlrely too narrow lu Its scope. It Is not
comprehensive enough or calculated to
remedy many of the abuses-and particularly the more Important abuses of which)
the people of Canada bave been vîctilus for
goule time. It la calculated only to extend
to the Insîde service. Its operations are
therefore, of a character lu w-hlch thue
people o! Canada are not very seriously lnFor reasons of political expeterested.
tue goverument
I apprebeud,
diency,
thought It unwise to extend its provisions
to the outside service. The people of Canada, 1 might say, are very much more luterested that the outslde service should be
goveraed or controiled by the provisions of
this Bill. ratiier than the inside ser-vice.
I am fully aware that the Bill provides
that the Governor in Council may at any
future time briug lu the outslde service;
but that Is not such au assurance as the
public require. I am furtber satisfied tiiut
the Goveruor lu Council would bave no
Intention ut the present time to luclude
the outside service. The outslde service,
to a very large exteut, is practicaiiy the
political organization of the goverument.
Tb,3re Is flot a province lu the Dominion
of Canada but Is sufferlng to-day from the
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT.

outslde service being largely enlisted lu
promotiiig the party ends of the government. 1 need flot refer to the different
branches of the public service wbere this
is notoriously the case. One need not specifically mention, to impress upon the
public mmnd, the fact that nearly the whole
of the Intercolonial Rallway service, whilh
is an outslde service, is one vaut politîcal
organlzation promoting the ends and purposes of the government from one year's
end to another.
Hon. Mfr. OHOQUETTE-No.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHIE'ED-Hon. gentlemen
may say no, but I say investigations lu parlhament have proven that from time to time,
and notwithstanding the fact that my bon.
friend and sonue others niay not have been
convinced of the tact, let those gentlemen
rend the evidencee taken by the investigations made lu committees of pariament
from tlome to tîme, and they cannot fait to
be convinced of tbat frct.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-Wlth respect to the
railway service, at the recent election lu
the county of dColchester the vote of the
tralumen was cast aimost altogether ln
f avour of the opposition candidate.
Hon. Mr. OHOQUETTP-In Temiscouata, ut the last local election, the IntercoloniaI Railway employees nearly ail voted
against the local goverumeut.
Hon. Mfr. BOLDUC-How can the bon.
gentleman say that?
Hon. Mfr. McSWEENEY-Oue of the late
appointmentis, Mfr.- Shannon, of Halifax,
who is not a supporter of tbe goverument
by aay mens, who was receiving $2,500 a
year, is now recelvlng $2,600.
Hon. 3Nfr. LOUGHEF)D-I am quite aware
that there are many lsolated instances, and
there inur be empioyees whose intelligence
bas been awakened to the enormnities of the
goverument, and whose consciences wili
probably prevent them froin hereafter rendering that partisan support which, hereto1 need flot refer
fore, tbey have given.
to the outside service o! the various departments of the government lu the westThe bon. gentleman f romt
ern provinces.
Wolseley ill bear me out in the statement,

-7

JULY 14, 1908

1519

et ot the governrnent is to make use of
the outside service for a partisan purpose
whieh lt has now In view ? But -wben the
time cornes that the governent will conaider it advieable and necessary and ln
the public interest to include tbe outsid e
service in the Bill, then wili I corne to the
conclusion that the government have at
last arrIved. at a determination to promote
the public Interests, irrespective of the services the outeide ernployees can contribute
I
towards the promotion of party ends.
say the Bill la lnadequate ln that particular regard, and I furthermore say It la
inadequate ln this respect ; it permîts the
service to be carried on, so far as the
administration of Internal affaire la concerned, ln the oid and unsatisfactory manner. The people of Canada want to-day
a commission which will exercise an authority or a juriedîction over the internai
lit
administration of eacb departmnent,
have confidence, by wbicb
which tbey wiil
they wIll know that the aif airs of any
particular department are being administered ln the public intereet and flot
Hon. Mr. BOLtIUC--They were f ree be- ln the interest of the .head or of the
deputy head who rnay happen to prefore then.
apart
arn under the aide over the department. Entirely
Hon. Mr. LOUGHTED-I
frorn ail political consideration and lookImpression that rny hon. friend le rather
ing at titis rnatter disinterestediy, can
tinged -with political syrnpatby.
nny of us conceive that sny commercial
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Not at ail.
or financial corporation or body would ador their undertakinge
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEEBD-And, possIbly, minister thelr affaire
bas in sucli a way as we administer departsince hie lias dlscnrded the ermîne lie
wlth our syspiaced upon himef the mantie 0f partisan- mental affaire in connection
temt of goverunent? ls there any reasS»
ship, and le not able to 1ook at the subject
of our public serfromt that disinterested standpoint which at why the administration
vice should not be upon the samne business
one time it n'as his good fortune to do.
and commercial basis as nny of the great
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Before 189, railways or financlal Institutions of thf,
ail the International Railway employees country have placed the administration of
n-ere compelied to vote against the Lib- their corporate affaire ? Wili any lion. general party, and since then tbey are free to tleman for one moment gainsay that provote as tbey wish, and are doing so.
And yet, -è are spending three
position?
be the dollars wbere one dollar wouid do for the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If that
affaire.
case, permît me to suggest to hon. gentle- purpose of adrninistering our public
Go f romn department to department of the
men that the very beet way ln whicb the
good faith of the government mlght be public service, and compare the adby
carried out, and by which tbey could demon- ministration of the public service
public tliat the outside ser- an Inspection of that kind with the departstrate to the
'-ice ls a non-partisan body, le to ln- mente which our large railway compaclude lt ln the Bill; but wby do tbey not nies have, 'whicb our large financlai InstiInclude It ? la It.not manifest that the ob- tutions, Insurance companies, baniks nnd

that the great machine upon which the goverutent depends n'est of the great laites le
the outside service, and upon which they
rely at every election to carry out the Instructions and behests of the different party
It le not theref ore very surorganizations.
prising that the government has thought it
expedient to omit the outeide service fromt
I need not point' out, it ls not
this Bill.
the desire of those public servants who constitute the outaide service, that they sbould
be subject to the beck and eall of the governrnent fromn tinte to tirne, to carry out
I belleve the mentpartisan instructions.
bers of the outalde service are desirous of
occupyiug- a disinterested postion with reference to the political etruggles which take
place f romt time to time between the two
parties. I believe the members. of the outaide service are anxious to tbe placed lu a
position by wbich tbey can occupy an Independent position with refereace to these
party conflicts.
Hon. Mr. OHOQUETTE-Not before 189.
Tbey have been f ree since 1896, however.

1520

12S
SENAT E

If the
other commercial lInstitutionls have, and w'll administration of our departments.
you for one moment place the worlcing of goveranent is serious in wishing to ensure
a governmnent department la contrast wltb to the people 0f Canada a dlean and
the other? 1 will undertake to say that the economical administration of government,
public -service could be admIistered easily, why d»es this Bill not make provision for
and very much more satisfactorily, for at the appointment of a commission with 1)0wleast one-half of wliat we are pnying to- ers sucb as I have mentioned? The people
day. An Investigation by a proper comn- of Canada require a commission thiat wil
There bas
mission composed of business men, would reorganize tbe departments.
show thait one-baif of the expense of theI been no reorganization 0f the departmieuts
I need not refer to
public service could be cnt out; but there siace confederation.
Is no attempt under this Bill to reach any the unbusiaesslike character of maay of
sucb desired end. This Bill simply pro- the gentlemen placed nt the beads of those
You cannot ex,ýpect a mInisposes to continue the nntiquated system departments.
whlch bas obtained since confederation. ter to possess ail tbe qualities of n business
Invariably our ministers are
This commission Is not vested witli any manager.
powers of their own motion to investigate politicians, or statesmea, If you choose to
the aifairs of a department and to dlean use a more dignlfied term. They are not
ont thant departrnent in the public interest. mnen wlth a 'wide and comprebensive
Need I point hon, gentlemen to the fandings kaowledge of business; not men to wbom a
of the Civil Service Commission, witb ref- large financlal Institution would entrust the
erence to some of our great spending de- reorganization of their staff or ad'ministrapartnients? Is It la the lnterest of either tion.
Since this goverument came *into
political party or In the lnterest of Can- p>ower, many deputies bave been appoînted
ada that those departments sbould be ad- who bave been peculiarly-political deputies,
mWnltered la the way la wbicb the Civii wbo are flot possessed of qualifications that
Service Commission reported as to the will commnand the confidence of tbe people
departments ? And as easurlng a proper administration 0f the
condition of tbose
The lnterests
,yet, l.a this Bill calculated to wlpe out service under tbeir charge.
the abuses referred to la that report? Nût of tbis country demand a reorganization of
Wltbln the four corners of this ail the departments of the public service.
lit ail.
Bill nobody cau point out any power Need 1 remIud bon, gentlemen 0f the fact
v'ested ln this commission with the object tbat la two of the departments, Raliways
of maklng an inquisition iato ana of those and Marine, we bad to go to the United
departments of their own motion, except as States to secure accounitants to introduce
to the standing of civil servants appointed and establisb a system of book-keeping.
under this Act, and then it has to be doue Could anytbing bave been more bumillating
nat the Instance of a hend of a department. than the goverament of Canada having to
1, therefore, contend that tliis 'Bill is la- send to the United States for accountants
ndequate in not lncluding the outside ser- to put thelr books la order? Tbe amount
vice, la not giviag tbe commission power of pald, I belleve, exceeded $50,000 in each
That was the cost of establishing a
lis own motion to go Into any department case.
entirely irrespective of the government It- new system la tbe two departments to
If the irregulariself, and Investigate the affairs of that de- whicb I bave referred.
partment for the purpose of remedying ties of those two departments had assumed
abuses which It Is well known exist la many such an enormous character as to warrant
I need niot refer to this expenditure, wbat must be the conof tbe departments.
the abuses wbich the commission polnted dition of the otber departments wbicfl bave
out la the Departments of 'Militia, '.Marine not been lavestigated? Duriag the preseat
and Fisherles, Public Works, and others, session, and dnrlag the hast four or five sesend 1 am satisfied that their report, which sions, the Public Accounts CommIttee of tbe
created such a sensation throughout Can- House of Commoas bas carried on investi-ada, dld flot begin to express the surprise gations hato the administration of some of
of the commissioners at the extravagant the departmnents, and we ail know the

JUIY 14, 1908
enormous abuses that have been revealed.
So grave have those abuses beau, aud s0
shocklng bave the revalations been to the
public mmnd wlth reference to the~ Irregular,
net to Say corrupt condition of aff airs ini
those departments, that the followers of the
governmant lu the Heuse of Commons have
considered it necessary to ebstruct lu e'very
possible way a full investigation of those
Therefore, I say that this comscandais.
mission should be iuvested with much wlder
powers, and authorlzed at least to re-organize those departments ln suchi a way as to
give renewed confidence 1:1 the service to
A good deal was
the people of Canada.
said by the commission as to lucreasing the
If 1 ware
salaries ef public servants.
ask-ed to amend tha title of this Bill, 1
should callIf it Bill to increase the salaries
Provision is made
of the deputy mînisters.
for.some 24 deputy heads, increaslng their
salaries by $1,000 par annum sud upwards.
I. am not critlclzing the action of the goverument ln givlng adequate salaries te the
Gentlemen vested with
deputy ministers.
ail the responsibllity, and authority that
those deputies have, should be adequately
paid; but I canuot acquiesce in the proposition that those gentlemen who have beau
receiving fairly generous salaries up te the
present time, should have an advauca of 25
par cent wlille the strugghiug members of
the civii service who have beau receiving
salarias not'snfficiently large to liva upen,,
are deuied the increase to whichi they are
more largely eutîtled thau the deputies.
Hon. M1r. DOMNVILLE-Is the liou. genitleman aware thât undar the new regulations ev-ery deputy minister has te buy a

$5Wo

court costume?

Hou. Mr. LOUGHIEED-I hope the hion.
gentleman doas net lay dowu the principle
that at deputy inister niust get $500 a year
added te hîls salary te enable hlm to buy a
The bon. gentleman will have
costume.
te fiud a more substantial justification than
If the principle 0f
that for the increasa.
increasing sal-aries ha adiitted, as It apparantir ls, by the verv generous lucrease
given to the deputies, that increasa should
be held over until proper consideration Is
giveu to lucreasing thea salaries ef the other
There !is another
members of the service.
96
PW.%rTAe.f

phase of the Bill to whuch exception mighit
be taken, and that Is the abandonment of
the advautages of the rlghts and privileges
which we lu the Senate have exerclsed lu
The
the past with reference to our staff.
Bill is flot very illumluating-it 15 8omewhat obscure as to the extent to whlch we
forego the rights we have beretofore exerI thlnk our attention should be decised.
voted to the question whether we are prepared to practically hand over our staff to
a commission, and to abandon the rights we
The Bill, lu my
have enjoyed lu the past.
judgment, is, therefore, defective ln snany
It ls disappolatlng to the.House
respects.
and to the public, and Is not calculated to
reniady the abuses pointed out by the comnmission. 'I therefore move:
That it is inadvisable at this late period of
the session to further con.sider this Bill until
its provisions are made to apply without dis,crimination to both the outside as well as the
inside branches of the public service.
Hion. Mr. POWER-With the general
vlews of the hon. gentleman, I feel disposed as a humble member of the House
to concur. The hon, gentleman occasienally
departed from theory, and came to
deal wlth concrete and practical cases,
where I regret to say I bave flot telt:
I aIse cannot coucur
able to follow hlm.
in the amendment ha has moved. As to the
general position ef the service, I agree with
the hou. gentleman that the service of the
public sbould, as far as practicable, be conducted lu the same manner and on the same
general principles as the business of an important raiIlvay cempany or a 'bank, or a
What is the -first
large industrial concern.
requlte as to the staff of a bank or other
large company? It ls that the person who
are taken inte the employment of that concern shall be qualified to do the work, and
that only thosa about whose qualifications
there cau be no question-that is as far as
one can judge without trylng men' out practically-should be employed. In the early
days, ne qualifleation was requiref rom perThe
sons appointed te the public service.
number of persons deemed qualified, perhaps was not as large as of late years; but
fifty years ago or so we did get a class of
public, servants who were perhaps superior
to the kind of public servants who had generally presantad themselves of Inter years.
W.nTTnM

1522
1522

SENATE
ENAT

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
the bon. gentleman refer te the practice
before tbe present Civil Service Act came
Into force?
Hon. Mr. POWER-It was feund after
a wbIie that it was necessary there should
be semne qualification for civil servants,
and that there sbould be seme bar put
up on tbe way into tbe service, because the time and attention of ministers and members of parlament were
taken up wltb applications for appointment. Instead of attending te the business
cf the country, the government and nierabers of botb Houses were obliged te devote
their time and energy very largely te dealIng witb questions of patronage. A Civil
Service Commission was appointed, wbich
reported ln 1882. Tbe chairman of that
commission was the Hon. Mr. Mcniof
Hamilton, Wbe et tbat time bad a seat ln
tixis Heuse. Tbe Commission reperted ln
faveur of competitive examinations for admission te the service; but tbe gevernment
of tbe day did not tbink it wise te adopt
the report of tbe Commission la toto. Tbey
passed the Civil Service Act, of 1882 wbicb
made provision fer examination; and since
tbat time admission te the Civil Service
bas been by way of examinatien. If the
Act of 1882 did net go as far as the
Commission's report w-eut, stili it impreved tbe cendition of tbings. The fact
that a man could net be 'appointed te
the Civil Service unless bie passed an examinatien, w-as a guarantee that the civil
servant appointed after that date sheuid
bave at Ieast an elementary educatien,
and, consequentiy, the members of the
Civil eervice wbo bave come ln since then
have been men of fairly good educatien,
and the goverament and members of parliament bave been, to a certain extent at
any rate, reiieved ýfrom the unw-belesome
pressure w-bicb bad been exercised upon
them before. The nominations te positions
continued to be polîtical. Noue but friends
of tbe party la power w-ere appoiuted, ne
matter bow good an examinatien, a man
w-bose poiitlcs did net barmouize wçitb those
of the Party ln power migbt bave passed.
The man W-be did net pass the best examination, but W-bo was on the right sîde of
po]itics was always appointed. That bas
Hon. Mr. POWER.

been tbe practize up to the present day.
The nominations are political, but the right
to nomination has been confined te perThat
sons having elementary education.
condition of -tbings existed after the Act
of 1882 went loto operation, but the pressure upon the governuient and members
of pariament, more particularly members
of the House cf Gommons. centinued, aithough nlot to the samne extent as before.
Unfortunateiy the political pressure did
net cease wben a man was employed
ln the Civil Service. If, nfter their appointment politIcai Influence ceased, things
wouid nlot have been se bad; but in aimost
every department and, perbaps more particuiariy ln tbe outaide -service, after euee
secured a position ln tbe Civil Service, bis
promotion and Increase cf pay depended
very iargeiy upen politicai Influence froin
the outside. 1 do net know whether that
faqet bad anything te do 'wlth the appointment cf a commission In 1892. That Comimission made a ývery tborough inquiry
and a very able report based on lt, recoinThe
mending cempetitive examination.
report was commended and pigeon holed,
and ne furtber action was taken with respect te It. That was under the administration wbicb preceded tbe present gevA commission was appointed
ernment.
the recommendations ia
last year. -Ail
their report bave net beeu embodied in
this BiII. 1 shouid myseif -have preferred
that tbey were; but bon, gentlemen wili
remember tbat the repert of tbis Commission was presented at a very late date, and
la order te deal justiy and efficientiy 'witb
the outside service, as Weil as the inside,
would bave reqiiired more time and censideration tbaa could be given during the
present session. Tbe amndment.proposed
by the bon, gentleman opposite is practically te tbis effect, that we cannot do the
whole thing new, and, tberefere, we bad
better de notbing. I bave ail my iife beeu
a believer ln competitive examInatien, a
believer ln tbe Englisb Civil Service system as contrasted witb our ewn, and 1
sbouid be very sorry Indeed te see tbe
ameadment carried, because it would be
sixnpiy postponing Indefiniteiy any impreveIment la the present condition. If the present government bappened te be sustained

JULY 14, 1908

1523

1523
14, 1908
stance, where tbere are large numrbers of
civil servants of some of the departmneuts
congregated togetler, this Bill may be put
Itlis not necesinto operation as to theiu.
sary to dwýeii on the desirabiiity of dealing
with mou ou their merits in the service.
Hon. Mr. iLOUGHEED-Does the hou. In Halfax, a nuniber of gentlemen were
gentleman regard that as a -oeil reason? appoiuted to the civil servi-ce under the MacThe Mackenzie
Hou. Mr. POWERiI-The bon. gentleman kenzie administration.
of reason whicb government was dcfeated. in 1878 aud the
knows tbat it is a sort
might be used, at any rate. There are a Conservative goveruiinent succeeding them
Aks to the
goofi many of the active men of the Liberal remaiued lu power for 18 years.
party wbo are nlot lu faveur of tbis mn- great. majority of île men appoiated under
Depariments
sure, simply because tbey feel that it is cal- the Post Office andl Customas
bardiy one gol an luculated to diminisb their influence lu the lu the city of Halifax,
during tiiose
future and take away froni them wbat tbey creuse of saiary or a promotion
Tlînt bas not beeni the case, I
looking upon as 18 years.
hiave been la tbe haibit of
present admninisthe naturai rewards of political success. ani happy- to say, under the
Tiiey have deait, ou tle wvbole,
tration.
on the other baud, If thirougli any nisbap
appointed by their
the bon. gentlemen opposite were to succeed fairly wlth the gentlemen
Thnt shows how necessary
predecessors.
at the next election, tbey would niaturaliy
as far as practicabie, to elimidecline to adopt this measure wvich had lt is,
nate political consîderations. If a civil
been iatroduced by their opponents, and
wouid feel tbat one of their principal du- servant la doing lis duty zealousiy
nolhlug,
ties to the country was te see that a rea- and sees that il avails hlm
and tbat men broughl lu atter hlm are
sonably large nuxnber of good Conservatives were infused into the public service promoted over bis bead, al inceutive to
In many Inbefore any step w'as taken to introduce the zeat and bard work la lest,
Engliah system. Aitbougb this mensure does stances superior men bave lef t the service.
Geological -Survey'
flot go as far as It might go uader other Take for instance the
A niunber of very able men bave
dis- brancb.
circumstaunces, stili It goes very long
This measure proposes to say that lef t tînt branch of the service aud gone into
tance.
as regards the headquarters, the inside ser- the empioy of 'other bodies whicli bave ofvice, menit and Intelligence shahl goi-erii lu fered tbemn greater Inducements. That mito the Geofuture and uot politicai influence and pres- gration bas nlot been confined
I think the goverument deserve a logicai Survey, tbougli It bas been more
sure.
great deai of credit for hiaving had the cour- slrikiug there tsan lu most of the other
One of the results of the
age to take boid of this inatter and dent departments.
systeni we bave liad, is tus lack of energy,
The govwith it to the extent they have.
erument have nlot time just now te make this lack of disposition to tbrow their souls
or ica charail the arrangements aud reconstruction Int the work wbicb Is more
actenistie of a great maay civil servants;
which an extension of the Bill te the outBut the lion. and couaequently the number of employees
side service would luvoive.
I should
gentleman must see, and lie bas referred bas been unduiy increased. White
far as tbe bon. leader of
lui a general. way to the fact, tînat uiuler nlot go quite as
sublause 3 of clause 4, the goverunient the opposition bas gone as te the amount
may, by order la council, briag the w-bote of incrense, lie is pcrfecthy right ln saying
the number of civil
or any part of the outside service under the tînt take it ahi togetlier,
servants ls inuch grenter tlhan the business
same provisions of the iaw as the Iuside
regret
I do flot know wliat the intention of the country demauds. I share the
service.
of the hou. gentleman that the measure does
of the goverument may be, -but under tbat
clause tley have power to extend the opera- not go further than it does; but il goes a
lion of the Act to the outside service, sud I very considerable distance lu the rigît direcbave somne hope thnt, la th e citles for lu- tion, sud tbere is every reason to suppose,

JULY
at the next election, they migbit be tempted
to say :' Wel, the opposition threw out
our Bill under wvhich %ve proposed te liprove the service, and we do not think we
shall take it up again for soine tine.'

SENFATE

1524
1524

SENATE
notwlthstanding what the hon, gentleman sent goverament have increased their pay,
says that the operation of the law wiii be I think 50 per cent during the time they
extended to the outside service, at any rate bave been ln power, and I think they had
very good reason to support themi.
la the case of the large cities.
1 van readily understand that ln rural
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, hear.
districts there Might be some difficulty,
Hon. Mr. POWER-I arn glad the hôn.
perhaps, ln introducing the new systeni.
gentleman approves of the action of the
One of the points as to which I cannot conln that regard. The nmen were
cur -with the hou. gentleman Is, that under goverament
not sufficiently paid. I can readily underthe present administration the outside serthat ln Moncton, whlh was the
vice haa been enlisted la promotlng the stand
headqunrters of the Intercolonial Raiiway,
party ends o? the goverament. I think 1
the men were actuated by gratitude, and
quote the hon. gentleman's language cor-*
naturally supported the government. What
.rectiy. I do not know of conditions la the
said wlth respect to Truro was perwest, and it mny be that there Is sorne I have
who pass
Ian- fectly correct. Those trainamen
Justification for the hon. gentleman's
through Truro, and live ln the county, cast
guage as voed wlth respect to the country
their votes for the Conservative candidate.
where Le lives hiniseîf; but speaking for
Hon. Mr. icKÂIY (Truro)-There werc
the country from which 1 came, I can give
his statemeut the most unquaiified con- not s0 many railway men voted for the
tradiction. 1 know of no case ln the pro- Conservative candidate on the last occavince of Nova Scotia whiere the employees sion as there wili Le at the next election.
of the Dominion government have been,
Hon. Mr. POWER-I have pretty reliunder the present administration, enlisted able Information that the great majority of
la promoting the party ends of the gov> the tralamen voted for the gentleman who
ernment. The truth ls that with us when is now the member for Colchester.
a man la appointed to the public service
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-They mnade a
I
the party loses bis services aitogether.
bis riglit to vote, but miatake.
suppose he exercises
that Is all -Le does. As to the IntercoloHofi. Mr. POWER-Generally the govniai Railway, It Is perfectly true that un- erament bave done what their predecessors,
der the previons administration, of which did not do. They bave acted on the report
They
the hon. leader of the opposition was a of the Civil Service Commission.
Intercolonial have, by introduclng this Bill, showu a wilsupporter, the men on -the
BRailway were, I do not say coerced, but, lingness to elininate polltics, at any rate
as a matter of act, they did vote almost en from the headquarters, froni the great
bloc for the Conservative pnrty.
centre of the public service. They propose,
as the ternis of the Bill show, to proceed
the lion.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Will
further In tliat direction, and at a later
gentleman allow me? He referred to the day to extend the prIncipLes of this mnlate election at Truro, N.S.: what lias Le
sure to the outside service. One observato say for Moncton? Is it not notorious
tion which 1 bad overlooked la the statethat the rallwny vote lu Moncton is ment of the bon. gentleman: as to the
wielded almost unanimously for the goTdutles of thec Commission, Lie said that the'
erument?
Commission bad no power to act tu thc
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not think It ls matter of lnqu'Iry, unless authorized to
wlelded by 'the goverainent. I spoke for act by the goverament. 1 do not know wvleNova Scotia, but I thiuk I can say a word ther the hou. gentleman had then beei
also for Moncton, and if I amn wrong, the ]ooking at parag-rapli B o? clause 10 of the
bon. gentleman from Moncton wihl correct Bill.
me. The truth ls that under the present
Clause 10 says:
have
empioyees
railway
administration
<b) 0f its own motion to investigate and reevery reason to support the goverament port upon the operation of the Civil Service
adart from pressure or vanvass. The pre- Act or of this Act and upon the violation of
lion

Mr. POWER.

J UIY 14, 1908S52
any of the Provisions of the Civil Service Act
or of ans' regulation mnade under either of the
c-aid Acts.
That, 1 think, gives very considerable
powers of inquiry and ail that, and then It
goes on, ' Upon the request of the head of
the departrnent to Investigate and report,
Hon. Mr. L.OUGHIFéFD-May 1 ask my
bon. friend, when he tbinks the head of a
department would ask the commission to
investigate bis own department?
Hon. Mfr. POWEll-I think it wouid be
very liable to bappen at any time.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It ivouid be
against buman nature to do It.
Hon. Mr. POWER-l-No disposition bias
been shown on the part of the ministers of
the day to binder independent Investigation.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Did the hon. gentleman ever attend the slttings of the Purblic Accounts CormIttee?
Hou. Mr. POWEll-Af ter ail, the Public
Accounts Comrnittee are like any other
judicil body. The duty of the Public Accounts Committee Is to Inquire lato the publie accounts for a given fluancial year, and,
as I understand, the great fault found with
the Public Accounts 'Cormlttee Is that It
bas refused to deal wlth matters whIcb occurred lu other years. than the year which
they were appointed to consider and deal
witb-matters that did nlot properiy corne
1 do not keep track of the
before tbern.
meetings of tbe Public Accounts Committee, but I tbink that bas been the principal
I wish to cail attention 'to this
diffculty.
fazt. It must be remembered. that the Civil
Service Commiesioners nre independent of
tbe goverunent.
Tbey (Io not hold their
appointment at the good will of the governrnent.
The commlss!on can, of its own
motion, luvestiga te sud report on the operation of the Clvii Service Act, sud upon violations of the Civil Service Act, and the report of the commission is to ýbe laid before
pariament every year within a certain time
Does the hon.
after parliament meets.
gentleman suppose, If this independent Clvl
Service Commission reports tbat lu certain
departrnents the Civil Service Act is being
violated, and tbat the Act le not being en-

1525

forced as It should be, that the governrnent
wouid refrain froin investigating the matter
fuily?
In the face of parliarnent, If a report of that kind cornes before parliament
the governmen' are bound, even If they
miglit be unwilling otherwise, to have an
Investigation; so that I think the bon. gentleman's criticism on that point le not weii
Wlth respect te our owu offifouuded.
ciais, I do not eee that we saal suifer very
much through the application of the Civil
Service Act to that staff. Iu tbe House of
Commona where, presumably, tbe political
feeling le stronger than here, tbey bave
agreed to accept it, subject to modifications
and conditions set out lu the Bill. Applicants for positions are to be sppointed to
As a
the staff after due examnation.
member of the Senate, a memnber of the Internai Economy Committee, I rnay say that
I bail with pleasure that aunouncement,
tbat lu future the officers sppointed te tbe
Senate ebail be obliged to pass an examinatien before comiug ln, and I think further
that wbile members may continue te make
recommendatIons for promotions and al
that; It la mest as weii that those recommendations ebail be submitted to the commission to see whether, on the whole, they are
sucb as would be approved of by a disinThat la the way I
terested business man.
feel as respects the Senate; but our staff is
not very -large, and it le not a very luiportant question witb us, and as long as the
Commons have aceepted the Bill lu its present form I do not se wby we shouid
raise any difficulty about It.
Hon. -Mr. BEIQUE,-I have not made a
speciai etudy of thie Bill, but from tbe
eummary examination that 1 have been able
to anake, I have corne to the! conclusion that
this Bill le drafted on the English principle,
and on the systern wbich wae adopted from
the Engiisb priaciple aise lu the United
States, and botb in tbe United States and
Great Britain when the Civil Service Act
was adopted; and wben a commission was
created for the purpose, the whole service
As
was not brought under its operation.
a matter of fact, I uuderetaud It does not
to thie date cover either ln Great Britain
or the United States -the wbole of the emnTiierefore, I
ployees of the civil serviee.
cannot appreciate the remanrks of tbe bon.

1526
SENATE

1526

-leader of the opposition w-len lie criticizes
-this mensure, because, at the outset, iu
'brlnging in this first Biii on the qluestioni,
the present governînetut lns flot deemied it
advisable to go further than tliey have gonie
1
In Great Britain and the Uni ted ýStates.
find that in the other House every good reasons were given wliy the goveriimient did
flot deem it advisable to go furtlier, and I
find this statement was made:
There are in Canada a great many officers
in the outside service who are pureiy local
local
in their character. Take, for istne
postmasters, take for instance

local customi

bouse officers. A large number of Postmasters
along with the work pertaining' to their ofice,
are doing other work in the ordinary waiks
of life. Customis officers of the higher grades
are not in that position, but a large number of

of the section of the Act to guard against
axîy abuse of the Clvii Service Act. For
miy part. I thiuk. the goverumient is to lie
commended for having followed the example of Great Britain in the matter, andl
for having made provision to bring under
the operation of this Act as far ns necessar> and as far as advisabie the outside
service, whenever occasion shall arise; but
not bring-ing the outside service iii at the
The hon, leader of the opposition
outset.
said that a reform of the civil service
slioild be made; tbat it lias neyer been
1 sbould 11k-e to
refornîed to tlîis day.
understand ivhat the liou, gentleman means
Tbis Bill
bv reforming the civil service.
is inteaded to reformn it by creating this
commission, which is flot to lie a political
commission, and -%vith extensive powers.
Wliat are the othier reforins that are su-Lt is tue
gested by the lion. memnber?
kind of rcýform that bas been suggested by
the opposition, by the public, by the press,
and by the three different reports whichi
have been made under the present government as well as under the previous goveriiIt bas aiways tended to the creament.
tion o! a Civil Service Commission whichi
would have the uecessnry powver to guard
ag-ainst the Civil Service Act ibeing abused,
and to exact that empioyees wvould lie npi)ointed on their inerits, and wouid lie remioyed from the control of politicai organizations.

in
preventive officers and some others, are
that position. It would lie impossible, withont careful consideration by the head of the
department, and wjthout careful investigation,
to bring that portion of the îervice under the
operations of such a law as this. We make
provàsion for doin-g so in the future, whenever
the .heads of! the deparitmeuat may see frt qmd
fi-d it proper to do so. But to bràng the outaide service in Ottawa at once under the miles
and regulations of the inside z-ervice, would
not only b& impossible. but it would lie lnaElUiashe. J *would refer to the experience
in the United States. It is true that in
the beginning. certain divisions of the
service in the United States were brouglit immediateiy under the operation of the new
provisions in regard to, classification. Gradually that was extended over the whole country
until to-day it includes a very large proportion of the civil service. If the whole service
had been brought under the Act l.n the beginning, an absolute failure would have resulted,
which. would have cast discredit on civil service reforrn. and would probably have necessiî-lon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I think w,'
tated retrograde steps, and have led to the defeat ff the civil service reforin in that coun- should accept the Civii Service Bili as an
instalment, a pretty substantial instalment
try for many years.
The hon. gentleman first criticized the of Civil Service reformn. 0f course, it is
powers which aire g-iven to the Civil Service not dra,%vn to tlie utiuost limit of wliat
I think If lie compares the mighit be cnlled Civil Serv ice reformn, mnasCommission.
powers and duties givexr-to this commis- much as it does not include the outside sersion, lie will *flnd that tbey are fully as ex- vice; but the Bill contains earnest that tiîat
tensive as those in England and the United inay at soine future tiîne be included, and
I suppose we shall have to nccept that as
As -was properly said by the iioc.
States.
gentleman froin Halifax, section 10) of the one o! the promises to be fuifilled la tlîe
Act gave them power of their own motion near future, and the sooner the better. I
to investigate and report upon the operation amn giad that the Bili lins made this subof the Civil eervice Act or of this Act, or stantiai advance, at ail events, nameiy:
to report upon any violation of any of the that it proposes to put the Civil Service on
provisions o! the Civil Service Act, or of an Intelligent and rationai basis. There is
this Act, or of any regulations made under no advnnce on business principles for a poLt is a source of
The regulations litical Civil Service.
either of the sald Acts.
Its effimay lie very extensive, and, therefore, tbey evil, and only evil, contiîîually.
would require to obtain the proper authority ciency is doubtful under the most favourHlon. Mr BEIQUE.

JULY 14, 1908

1627
12

of political moraiity and fairta
able conditions. A,%s its inefficiency, you the guardian
I tbink
you wiii have abundance mindedness of the Commission.
may rest assured
there is an advantage ln that. It would
of that. -It is a source of annoyance to
to, the public: flot ta Bay
every goad, sensible living man. We feel give confidence
that the commIssioners appolnted ta this
It la the Senate, althougli we are supposed
of higli characta be sheItered tram the influence ta whici position would flot be men
ta guard
public men are subjected. We bave felt It teer; but as persous appointed
the moraiity of the VubuIc, and sometimes
la private life. it seems ta accompaay a
do it, and as
man fram the time he ls a! age, either ta it takes them ail their time to
they are supposed to be the ws.teh-dôg 1
apply for office or ta recominend a mail
varions other
for office, until he ceases ta be able ta give for the- eommnty, and la
than Instructive.
an advice on any subject whatever. This respects mucli more useful
that the third man on the
Act proposes ta relieve us ta a certain ex- so it may happen
be a watch-dýg ta guard
the responsibility, If we assume It eommission miglit
tent of
poiitical niorallty. At any rate, If there
ta bp a matter of responsibility, or of tue
aaythiag wrang palitically that memannayance, which we know It ta be, and were
ber would know, and that would be a check
ta that extent it Is a relief, and wiii be a
action of tue commission, 'wticb I
relief ta every man ln public life, and ta on the
think would be an improvemeat. Lt would
thousands of men w-ho are asked ta express
add a little cost, but that Is of no cousea good opinion of an aspirant for office.
considering the question of effieven w-len lie feels that the good opinion quence,
ciency. 1 amrn ot going ta discuse the debas to be expressed with a good deal of
tails of the Bill at this stage, except ta say
mental reservatian. We know that certi- that I congratulate the leader of the Senficates as ta qualification have ta be rend
having the priviiege of introduciflg
wlthiu the Ilues, and there is much more ate on
this Bill, and I thlnk the sense of the Senwithln the lines than there la la the uines
&te wIil be that the sooner fi; 1s put ln
themseives. Neverthelt-sFs, we have lived
operation the better. -It is a pity the govthrough that long period of inconvenience,
ernment is not prepared ta consider the
hypocrisy, traud and deceit, and 1 thiak. salaries of ail the public officers as tée
we are naw entering upon an age at whlcli amendiment of the hon. leader of the oppoa man shahl be appointed ta, public ser- sition suggests; stUl that is not a reason
vice because lie Is fit s0 far as a -t examina- why we shauld delay the enjoy.ment of
We
tion wiIl test hlm for that service.
whatever advantages this commission may
should havp reached that point long ago. give. 1-r the meautinie the comrnisslon may
and If we are reaching Il late in- lite 1 arn go on with Its competitive examinations.
happy ta lie able ta say that 1 hope w-e may *There may be classification lnsîde. It may
live ta see It consummated before Mhs week *be essier ta do that tu the.service 'whefl
Is out. I am uaL going to criticize the Bill~
* ciassified, as it eau be under this BIhI, than
I may propose a few amendmeuts to IL ai it wouid be jnst uow.
a later stage. IL is deslgned ta lie non
I think this amendment of the bon. leader
polîtical. Let me say iL Is nat quite as
__
of the opposition shonld not be considered.
non-political as the United States Clvi
aWe bave delnyed long enougli. Let us
Service Bill. There the Act requires thi .eL down ta business. Let us get a comappolatment of Lhree commnissianers, onli
mission. Let themn do what they can. Let
twa of 'uvhom shaîl lie of the same pohitica
them appoint three examiners, bold their
stripe. We have two commIssianers, boti -examiations,
reform, the service as far as
-same stripe poli
of whom, shail be of the
thelr powers go, and the goverument, I
tically very Ilkely. The non-political strîpi
wll, as soon as iL possibly can-aud
commissioner is supposed to be the pro -think.,
before another session,
tector o! the political morality and virtni e it mnay not be doue
t 1 suppose-see that -the salaries of the siubof the Commission. Re ls there to suppor
of the service bear some
the minority, the party out of power. Pas - ordinate members
ta the salaries- of the higher
sibiy iL wlIl be that lu this case for sam,e proportion
time to come, and ta that extent he i s officers. The salaries are a serions maLter

1528

228SENAPJE

with regard to the inereased cost of living.
I do not tbink we realize fully, nor do the
large corporations, the pluch that cornes 10
the mani with an ordinary saiary in regard
to the inereased cost of food and clothlng ;
and ln the civil service I think that pdnch lg
feit in every departmeflt of publie activity.
I hope the governIçnt will correct It as
soon as possible, aud 1 hope they will also
brlng under the law, as bas been doue ln
Great Britain and the United States, tbe
outside service, so that we shall have this
guaranteed from the higbest officiais under
the C-rown to the door-keeper lu sonle remote hamiet, of some post office or customs
office, that there is no political pull ln regard to the public service. That efficiency
is Its watchword, and that he himself appears, not in bis position as the testimonial
of having been a politicai ward beeler, or
in sonie other way of baving been lu the.
politieal service ; that be is a respectable
citizen, aud bas obtained the position
slaiply because he *wns wortby of it snd
was quallfied to fill It. I think It would add
materially to the dlgnity and usefuiness
of the service, Iustead of bearing tbe reProacb that by means of some back door
influence, or some other mens not always
bad, but pertaling nevertheless to, what
may be bad, be got bis position, he wlll
be able to say he got It because bis manbood w-as respected, bis Inteliectual attainmeuts were respected, bis character was
respected, sud he oniy holds it so long as
these qualifications continue aud abide
with hlm. I shahl be giad to see the Bill
carefully examined iu committee, sud see
It brought into operation at the earliest
possible moment.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I have
listened witli a good deal of interest go
far as I heard the expinnation of the character o! this Bill by the hon. Secretary of
State. The introducer of the Bill iu the
House of Commons took hetween two and
a haîf and tbree hours to explaîn the character of the provisions o! the Bill. The
Secretary of State contented himself 'with
ten. or flfteeen minutes of an explanatioii.
In -wblch he lndulged lu sorne rernarics, to
my mmnd, totaliy irrevelant to the subject
under discussion. If I understand the object o! the royal commission appoiuted to
lIon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

inquire into the workigs o! the preseut
Civil Service Act and their report, it 'was
for the purpose of estabiishing as far as
possible a competitive system 0f examination for admission to the civil service aud
to, rem -ove as far as possible the appointmnts from the politîcal influences wbicli
have surrounded the appolutmeuts lu the
past. I do flot pretend to say by the preseuit
goverument exclusively, but by nil governments sînce confederation, and I presunie
also before coufederation. Speaking e! the
Influence wblch has heeu exercised lu the
appointments aud the conduct o! governments lu dealiug wlth officiais, I must dissent lu toto from the reflectious cast upon
the late goverument ln reference to their
promotions of officiais that were appoiuted
by the Liberai governmeut ivhich existed
under the premlersblp of the Hon. Alexander Mackenzie, botb as to the inside and
outside service. I regret that the junior
member from Halifax (Hou. Mr. Ross) is
uot present at the preseut moment. If he
were I shouid appeai to hlm as au evîdeuce,
at least of the incorrectness, inadverteutly
I dare say, of the statements that no salaries had been Iucreased. of officiais
ivho had been appoluted by the Liberal
goverument during the eighteen years
o! administration uuder 'Sir John Mac.
Sir John
Abbott,
Sir John
donald,
Thompson sud myseif. So far as the luiside service is concerned, the statement
made, If they referred to, that, la wlthout
the slightest foundation. Take my own department ; the appoiutments made by the
Mackenzie goverument were prornoted to
the hlghest positions lu the gif t of the goverument lu that departmeut, aud they were
Liberals when they came into the department, remained Liberals duriug the whole
period of their existence sud are still lu the
service o! the goverument, aud are stili
Liberals, aud I wiii give credit to those
with 'whorn I was more iutimately couuected lu the administration of the different
departrnents over whlch I presided ln saying that the most efficient officers under my
control at the time, though they were Liberals, never interfered lu auy way lu poltical matters; how they cast their votes 1
ar nuot prepared to say.
Whether the heads or deputy heads cast
their votes I amrn ot prepared to say, but 1

JULY 14, 1908

1529

1529
JULY 14, 1908
amn bound to state lu justice to those gen- ciple could flot be appiied to thec more luitlemen, that so far as 1 could ascertain. they portant positions ln the outside civil serneyer allowed their political vlews to ln- vice, is au absurdity. Wby shouid the ofterfere wlth their duties in the office. ficiais at the Experirnentai riarm be brouglit
Some of the. deputy heads'were strong Lib- under the operation of the Clvil Service Act.
erais and free traders, but more zealous men while the most Important men couected
in administering affairs under a protective with the Printing Bureau here, and wbo
policy did flot exlst. I amn speahing of those sbould bold permanent positions, are not
wxth wbom I -was more lntirnateiy connect- brought within the scope of the Act ? The
ed. and I repudiate on behaif of the goveru- answer of the minister, no doubt, will be
nment of Sir John Macdonald and succeed- this : Iu the case of your Superintendeut
ing Conàervative governments, the allega- of Prlnting, the minister can recommend te
tion whicb bas been made that they were ceuncil aud the Goyernor lu Council bas
neither promoted nor given lucrease of sal- power to place snch officers under this Act.
ary. In drafting the clauses of this Bill, I Tbat is a power to whicb I have strong
arn satisfied the question of increasing sal- objection. The difficulty ls that the bead of
aries was flot thoroughly considered. 1 arn tbe departmneut can block it at any tirne,
flot opposing- the increase given to deputy sud it becornes, as It uufertunately ls at
hends, or those wbo have been prornoted to present to a great extent a matter of
the position of (1tptity head. 1 'fully concur faveuritisrn. I venture to say that the
iii the rernarks of the Hon. Secretary of bOn.
senator from Middlesex will not
State. that some of the nîost efficient of- rise aud utternpt to explain the proficiais of the goverune.nt have left the ser- visions of this Bill. I have gone tbrongh It
vice, for the simple reason that they have ivith smre littie care aud tried to ascertain
bail better offers froni the outside. Men of the position of the Senate lu reference te
superior ability were brouglit into the civil its empioyees, but tbe Bill bas been drafted
service aud pald salaries whicb, ln sme
lu sucb a mauner that I question If even
cases, wcre flot baif or evea one-fourtb of the author himseif kuows what It means.
what they have been off ered by outside Take clause 45 for Instance : The whoie
banking or rnanufacturing or transportation character of the Bill ls cbauged by whichi
institutions. Only the other day, oue of the the power sud autbority exercised lu the
most efficient servants lu the Customs De- management sud control of the Senate aud
partment, the head of that departrnent, House of Commous over their employees,
wbich le tecbnlcaiiy of very great impor- of whlcb tbey were deprived to a certain
tance-the appraising departrnt-though extent lu tbe first place, ls given back to
as higbiy appreciated as auy officiai could them by a provision substitutlug the word
be, ieft: the service because be was offered Speaker or sme other officiai for an order
a larger sulary by the Manufacturera' As- in council. Wby could net a Bill of this
sociation. than he could get la the employ character bave been drafted so that it would
of the goverprnent. That wlvi go on contiri- flot be necessary to. make provision lu so
uaiiy. The only advantage of a position ln mauy places that It is to be adrnistered
the civil service ls its peruianency, and un- by the Governor lu Council, and then ut the
der the old system the retiring allowance in end add a clause taklng large powers away
old age. The hon. Senator from De Sala- froîn the Governor lu Council sud giving
ber3- speaks of the impossibillty of brlng- tbem to those wbo exercise tbem to-day ?
ing certain officiais under the provisions of Wili any eue tell me who is to bave lu futhis Bill. There can be no difficulty In the ture the recommendation of the appointmeut
case of collectors of customis, or postrnas- of the Clerk of the Senate, the Usher of the
ters. and assistant postrnaster lu large centres of population. No one ever supposed Black Rod, the Sergeant at Arms, aud the
that the Civil Service Act ivas to extend Chaplain, If tbere ls to be one appointed ?
to minor postmasters or preventive offi- In the past, the chaplain was uppointed by
cers lu the Custorns and lnland Revenue tbe Governor lu Council. The Clerk, the
Departrnents, who receive iess thian $100 Usher of the Black Rod, sud the Sergeant
a year ; but to say that the general prin- at Arme are at premeut appointed by order

1530

1530

SENATE

they are occupied for eight mnouths in coniection with the sitting of parliament, they
u
.eA
are BL OCCPICUauy~vere C~t~.
tirne belongs to the government, and it
should be a mnatter of littie consequence to
them wbiether they are engaged bere witb
The
a. long session or a short session.
present Civil Service Act was based to a
certain extent upon the report of the Civil
Lt
Service Commission appointed in 1882.
recommended that there should be an examination as to the qualification of every
civil servant appoinfed, excepting perhaps
snch officiais as preventive officers, and
oither unimportant officiais. There was,
however,.*a reservation as to one or two
classes of appointments In tbe Inland. RevThe apenue and Custoras I)epartrnent.
pointment of those officiais wns lef t to the
discretion of the goverument of the day,
and there is no use trying to bide the fact
it was done for the purpose of leaviug certain positions open with which to rewnrd
men who biad done services for the l)arty.
That has been done by the late goverument
and under the preseiit administration; 'but
in the cnse of ail the other officiaIs it was
uecessary that they should have certain
qualifications, and their salaries were *fixed
Nevertheless, the inw bias
under the law.
been grossly vioiated by the present admninistration, and they bave rendered the
Civil Service Act a nullity. Take the preseat estimates before ns, and you will dind
in one departrnent nione over one million
dollars asked for whichi Is to be distributed
by the head of that depnrtment ' notwithstanding nnything in the Civil Service Act
In this Bill, there is a
to the contrary.'
provision showing that no vote of parliament, la which the naine of the person wbio
is to receive the remuneration to be given
and no vote expressed to be made generally
notwitiistanding anytbiing in the Civil SerMr. ROSS (NMiddlesex)-Order.
Hon.
vice Act, shahl be deeined sufficient to auHon. Sir M.\ACICENZIE BOWýEl-,lýf 1 thorize the payinent of any additional salam out uf order, I bow to the decision of nry or remuneration.
What 1 have snid is literthe Speaker.
Hon. -Mr. ROSS (.%Middiesex)-That is to
ally true, s0 far as it Ppplies to the Liberil
party; but having great respect for the hon. guard against the present practice.
gentleman fron 'Middlesex, I wili flot repeat
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWEDLL-That
How the iength off the
the statement.
present session affects this question, I amn is to gilard against the practice that existed
The civil servants to a very lirnited extent under the old adunable to understand.
are enîiphoyed by the year, and for if e. If iiistration. and exists to an enormous ex-

I fail to find in this Bill, thoug'h
they are brought under the operation of it
so far as saiary and other matters are concerned, who, in the future is to recommend
these appointments. Whetber it is to be
the two commissioners to be appointed, and
whio are to be above the government and
only removable by a vote of parliament, or
the Governor iii Council, cannot be ascertained by any clause of the Bill. It shows
the incongruity of the provisions of this Bill,
and the absolute necessity, If it is to becorne a working Bih,ý to delay further consideration of it until the goveramelit aud
parliament cau corne to sorne decision'as to
wvhat reformn and improx'erent shouid realiy be made lu the civil service. I arn not
nw-are that any party in Canada, at present, object to a reformi of the civil service
to a very great extent. One hou. gentleman said a few moments ago. suppusing
this Bill should flot be l)assed, an incoming
goverament might not take it up. The present leader of the Conservative party made
It'a prominent piank lu bis platformn thiat
there should he civil service reform, and
that whlle hie does flot concur fiilly la al
the provisions of tbis Bill, hie goes to the
extent uf saying that it is an admission of
a necessity for a reform, and tbat we nccept
it to the extent that It goes, su there need
be no0 misappreheusion lu the minds of hon.
gentlemen as to what wiil be doue in thiat
direction la case off a change of goverumnent.
1 may add this. su far ns the Conservative
party is concerued, what they profess out
They
ut power tbey practice lu office.
make no professions on the stump as do
the Liberal party thiroughout the coulitry,
pledging thernselves as to wbat thev shahl
do if they attain office, and tiien wb%,en they
are retnrned tu power, abandon every sinigle
profession they ever made.
in couiieil.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JULY 14, 1908

1531

1531
JIJLY 14, 1908
teut under the liresfPat administration; but nation. The bbject of my hon. friend the
rny bon. friand knows JUSt as weli as I do leader of the opposition ln moving the
that clause ln the Bill is a nuIiity. It can amndment, la flot to defeat any measure
be evaded by the use of other wards besides wbicb bas for Its object the reforin of the
those that are mentioned. Tbe power that Civil Service, but he la ot the opinion,
puts thîs on the statute-book can break lt and I arn strongiy imbued with the sme
every session by saying It shahl not appiy, Idea, that before a Bill of this ktnd la
and it Ia cbildish, worse than childisb, be- ndopted It sbould receive due consideracause It la Intended ta Impose upon thase tion. It ls usual at this period of the sewbo have not given the subject any con- sion, when one wants time to consider a
sidaration, ta iead tbem ta believe that If measure, to say : 'You are delaying the
thia Bill becomes law it cannot be vioiated public business,' but If measures are to bc
because of this provision being Inserted ln properiy considered tbey must be discussed.
It is notbing short of an insuit No one can take up this Bill and in baîf
the Bill.
to those wbo are aid legisiators and know an hour, or an hour, or a day, compare It
the constitution that governs us. It is iike with the Civil Service Act and ascertain
puttlng decay ducks in a rnarsb ta attract what effect the new legisiation will bave.
live ducks ta where they cau be sbat. This He rnay vote on the generai principle that
is a decoy ta the outside public, leadiug he la ln favour of Civil Service reform, and
thern ta belleve that protection exists, but say he cares not wiiat the proposition la sa
I sbould long as It bas that object ia view. That I
whlch cau be made a nuliity.
like ta have sornebody expiai.n clause 45 believe to be tbe attitude of a majority of
and bow far it chaliges the Bill Soas ta the Senate ; but If they diveat themselve3
aiiaw the Senate ta retain ail Its rigbts and of the idea that it la tbeir duty to support
prIvIleges, whicb it passasses under the con- a. government measure, I arn satisfied they
I canfesa I cannat understand would favour the amendment. I arn not
stitution.
There la one provision of the Bill accusiag bon, gentlemen for their fidelity
ItL
wbicb meets witb rny strang approval. That to tbe government. 1 know wbat It Is ta
la that the deputy beads are ta pass an ex- enjoy the thought that you have behind you
If they are ta be exarnined, thase wbo wili vote for you rigbt or wrong.
amination.
Jet -us hope that It wIii be on mattera wlh My bon. f riend from Middlesex knows what
which they wIli have ta deai as deputy satisfaction that gives, as any one must
Under the eresent who has been la the pasition of holding
heads of departrnents.
goverameut, some of the deputy beada that office by a narrow rnajorlty of two or three.
My
have been appointed had neyer been la the But that la noa answer In this case.
The Deputy 'Postmaster experience has taugbt me that tbere is
service before.
General was taken from a amali town necessity for Clvii Service reform, but it
I do not say that should not be donc In a baîf bearted way,
ln North York.
nat acquired sufficient knowi- aud certainiy flot by passing a measure
he bas
useful ln' the like this, which nobody can dlaim ta thohlm
make
edge ta
postioabe baids. The Departinent of roughly understand.
the Interiar bas bad a similar experienýce.
strongest
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The
The first deputy bead appaînted under the argument addr 'essed ta this Hruse lu favour
late Minister of the Interior, retired be- of the amendmnent Nvas furnished by the
cause be couid do better and make mare bon. senator fromn Halifax. Wben 1 pointed
money, in connection witb that famaus out the condition of things at Moncton, I
In or- meant ta cali the hon. gentleman's attenNorth Atlantic Trading Company.
der tbat the facta in cannaction wlth that tion ta the condition under bath gaveramatter shauld not corne ta light, bis books ments. Moncton la tbe headqiiarters of the
and letters were canvenientiy b;urned, sa Intercoloniai ]Raiiway, and T amn safe ln
that wben be vient befora the Investigating sayiug there are from twelve ta fifteen
cornittee nothlng couid l)e found out about bundrêd empioyees of the governent there
It. Sucb men, I daresay, rnigbt flot bave apart frorn those along the Une of the Iabeen appointed bad there been this exami- tercolonial Railway. When the Conserva-

1532

1532
SENATE

tive party were lu power, they always got vinicial goverumnent and baviug intercourse
a good majority out of Moncton. When with many of the departments, and since 1
the change of ministers occurred, it turned bave been here, that we bave in the Civil
arotund and the majority camne the otber Service ou the whole au excellent body of
wvaY. At the ast election lu Westmore- men.
land there was a majority agalist the govHou. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
erument outside of the town of Moncton;
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Aud. I thin]. se,
but tbey were turued down by a majorlty
of seven hundred lu favour of the goveru- notwithstanding the disclosures wblcb have
ment lu Moncton. I called the attention of coule, discreditable to one or two of the dethe hon. senator froin Halifax to this xvhen partments, and whlcb probably If they were
be made some remarks about Truro, and the followed to a finish would resuit discreditfact remains that the rallway men lu -Mone- ably to other departments as well. Wben
ton, whetber they were t-oerced or not, voted we are dealing with this question we
for the government. Hle suid tuey have shouid have begun at the bottom and net
every reason to vote for the goverumenit, have confined the operations of the Bill
for the reason that the goverument bad in these main features to the salaries of
Increased their salaries. Now, that fur- the main ciass of officiaIs, but that we
nishes the very strongest rea son why tbe should have made provisions for the lower
outside service should corne under the ope- and secondary grades of men iu the piublie
We should not have
ration of this Bill. I do flot say the rail- service as welI.
way men got larger increases than they stopped where we have stopped, but w-e
were entltled to. I do not know that they sbould include the whole outside service
recelve as large salaries as the employees and bring tbe whole system under tbe coinof the Grand Truuk Railway and the Cana- mission and bring the patronage system. te
dian Pacific Railway, though there may be ani end.
more men employed lu proportion to the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTwork to be doue. Nevertheless, the goveru- Thbe logical result of the remarks of the
ment bavlug control of this matter and hon. gentleman would be that It would be
giving increases of salaries, explains 'why better that the civil service employees neyer
these men, as the hon. senator from Hall- should have any votes.
fax sald, had every reason to vote for the
Hon. '-%r. FERGUSO-Mly hon. friend
government. I do nôt believe there Is sucu
a bad condition of thlng-s existing lu Ot- migbt put it that way.
tawa wltb the whole Civil Service uround
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTns as exista In Moncton. .There is more luIs the hon. gentleman prepared to vote l
dependence lu the Civil Service here than
direction?
there Is among the employees of the Inter- that
There is
colonial Railway at Moncton.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think the
more government Influence held over them remedy wbich Is now proposed to be ap-there. Tbeu why should flot the Iutercolonial plied, If fully applied, will make it much
Railway employees be brought in as well as better than that. Let them be independthe employees at Ottawa? In connectien eut ln that as well as lu everytbing else.
with the discussion of thîs subject. it is
Hoin. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Might
almost natural to form a conclusion, and
of State if he
from recent disclosures connected witth the 1 ask the hon. Secretary
will be prepared, when we go into commitCivil Service Commission, that the Civil
the question 1 asked him as
Service Is ln a very bad condition. 1 1111 tee, to answer
te the clerk, sergeant-at-arins and the
not prepared to subrscribe to that view. We
Usher et the Black Rod. lew far the Bill
know thero are abuses la it. I believe that
is cbanged by the 14th clauise ?
we bave too many employees. 1 believe
there are many lu the service that should
Hou. '.\r. SCOTT-L wlll endeavour te.
neyer be there; but 1 know from a long
The agniendment w'is declired. lost on a
knowledge, bot as a member of the pro- division.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

JULY 14, 1908

1533

JULY 14. 190S
153.3
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill be Ijuilt thereupon. a protest 'would flot
oniy have arîsen from the people of Otwas read the second tnie.
taîwa. but probabiy from parliament ou
SALE 0F MAJOR'S HILJL PAREZ BILL. account of such a mnisuse of that particu>îr
property. For my bon. f riend to say that
SECOND READING.*
the intention of the goverament la that
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second rend- the money wbicb bas been secured front
Ing of Bill (89) an Act to autborize the sale the sale of that property and the destructo tbe Grand Trunk Railway Company of tion of that park would be applied towards
Canada o! a portion o! Major's Hill park, the extension of the parle ln the direction of
la the city of Ottawa, as an hotel site.
Nepean Point, la to my mmnd a bumilation
He said : For many years there bas been indeed. It is tantamount to saying that
an agitation to have a good hotel erected the government of Canada, after expending
la Ottawa. The hotel accommodation bas an enormous amount of money ln beautif yflot been considered sufficlent, and an offer ing Ottawa, bad to sacrifice tbe front
was made by tbe Grand Trnnk Company to of the park facing upon the main thoput up an hotel if tbey got a desirable site. rouglifare of the capital witb the object of
Tbe site tbey selected was tbe soutbwest devoting the purchase money, the paltry
corner of Major's Hill park across tbe canal. ainount of $100,000, towards extending the
I need mot go over ail the negotiations and
îîark ln a direction that *will never be seeîî
resulted finally in the
-discussions, wivh
l>y the general public. I think that eaiigoverament undertaking for the coasIderanot be justified for a moment. It 'bas ailthon of $100,000 to seil tbem a piece of land ways been a probiem ln my mind, as to
-wbich bon, gentlemen wIll have noted la bow the Grand Trunk people for one monow inclosed wltb a board fence, it being
ment imagined that the government would
understood that tbe money was to be used be wiliing to sacrifice the beauty of that
In the extension of the park at the nortb
pari- for commercial purposes, and It bas
end, wbich belongs to, tbe Crown. It bas been more astonndlng to me that the govflot yet been improved and It bas mlot been ernment sbould bave entertalned for a miomade a park. Tbe proposal was tbat the
ment the advisabflity, or the expediency
consideration of $100,000 wnas to be banded If you choose to put it that way, of selling
over to the commission which bas charge
the park, to a raiiway company. Our govof the improvement ln tire city for the purerument for some time past lias been expiose of adding to the park at that end.
propriating publie property on whilh to
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do not profes erect public buildings, and paying enorto be burdened w-lt) aestbetic tastes, yet 1 mouse prices therefor, witb a view parti('an always recognize an act o! vandalisni culariy to securing the continuity of Our
w-hen I see it. and I venture to say that parliament grounds. We know that the
any hou. gentleman whio passes down the property along the west aide o! Sussex
niain thoroug-bfare of the city of Ottawa, street bas been exproprlated, and that at
the capital of this Dominion, 'The Washi- a very considerable expense, the object beington of tîje North,' must deeply regret inging at the Inception o! this action of the
the act of vandalism for whicb the gov- governaient, that the parliament grounds
ernment la responsible, and w-bic> is evi- sbouid extend from the present grounds
denced by the choicest feature of the down to Sussex street, aad, ultimately, withi
MaJor's Hill park belag surrouaded by a
that object ln i-iew to secure what is kaown
fence indicative o! tbe fact that the goyWe
Departmeutal Store.
ernment bas. 1 mighit say deliberately, des- as the Lindsay
view of erecting deliberately cut out of the very center o!
troyed that park w-lt> a
a comimercial institution, siniply a modern that scheme, the most beauteous spot of the
HUlI
hiotel thiereon, I am satisfied that If the whole, la the entire front of Major's
1 cannot thinýk of any precedeut
goverament of Ottawa attempted to erect Park.
The Grand Trunk Pacific people
a public building whichi, lu its architec- for it.
tural features, and la ail lts beauty would ,uight as weli bave asked for a hotel site
IL w'ould
have exceeded lhe hotel w'hhch is about to besile the parliamefit g-ates.

SENATE
1534

1534

I
flot have made very muclu difference.
cannof tbink of any precedent in Ottawa or any other part of tbe Do-

minion, w-here fthe government has deliberately sacrificed ifs property with a
view to a commercial concern belng erected
-thereon. The only thing 1 can tiuink of,

that at all compares with if, is the old

biblical story of Naboth's vineyard.
Hon.

Sir RICHARD

Who Is the Alual

CARTWRIGHT-

lu this case ?

Hon. ".%r. LOUGHEED-I

refer t0 the

riliway people as Ahalu. I do not know
that 1 can add anything more than to read
t0 bon. gentlemen tlie story of Nabotb's
vineyard, and if seems to me this vandallsm o! the governmeiit is s0 parallel wlth
thue covetousness of Ahau, .that fthe two
cases are
rends:

aimost

parailel.

The

story

And it came to pass after these things, that
Naboth fthe Jezreelite had a vineyard which
was in Jezreel hard by the palace of Ahab,
king of Samaria.
saying,
12. me Ahab spake unto Nabofli,
give And thy vineyard, that 1 may have if for
a garden of herlis, because it is near unto my
bouse; and I will give thee for it a better
vineyard than it; or, if it seem good to thee,
1 will give thee the worth of if in money.
3. And Naboth said to .&hab, the Lord for,bid if me, that I -hould give the inheritance
of my fathers unto thee.
4. And Ahali came into his house heavy and
displeased because of the words which Naboth
the Jezreelite had spoken to huyn, for hie lad
said. 1 will not give thee the inheritance of
my father,. and lie laid him down upon his
lied and turned away lis face, and would eat
no bread.
5. But Jezebel lis wife came to him, and said
unto him, Whv is thy spirit so sad, that thon
eatest no bed
6. And lie said unto ber, Because I spake
unto Naboth the Jezreelite, and said unto him,
Give me thy vinevird for money. or else, if it
pleai thee. L will give thee another i-ineyard
for it; aîîd lie an'swered, 1 will nef give fIee
imu'uvine vird.
7. And Jezebel. bi- wjfe said unto hinm. Dost
flou now govern the kingdomi of Israel?
Arise and ed-i lread. and let thine heart be
mnerry, L i i give thee thie rinevard of Naboth
the Jezreeite.
The country witb the reluclance of
Nalîotb. relused f0 yield nip tbeir inlueritand siid to the railway colulpan)v: Let tbine
beart be merry, tue botel elte la thine;
thereupon passed from the people o!f
ain
Ottawa, as well as fthe people of Canada,
a place of beajuty by an acf of vandalism,
Hon. Mr. LOUGLIEED

and ail to satisfy thue sovereign wisbes of
the applicants.
The ýmotion was agreed to, and the Bill
wvas r~end the second time.
TLMBER MARKING .ACT.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second rending of Bill (No. 193) 'An Act to amend
the Timber Marking Act. He said: The
object of tbis Bill Is to place Ne-w Brunswick ln thue list of provinces subject to
the Timber Marking Act
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON-Wby not make
It generai'?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot know. 1 suippose there were reasons for it.'
Te motion was agreed to and the Bill
passed througb its final stages under a suspension of the ruies.
LE)AD BOUNTIM4

BILL.

THIIRD READING.
The House resolved itselfl nto Committee
of fthe Whole House on Bill (No. 191) An
Act respecting the bounties to lead contained lu lead-bearing ores minned In Canada.
(Ln.fhie Committee.)
LMon. 31r. SCOTT-The sum of tw .o aind
«a-bal! million wvas vofed by parliament five
years ago f0 pay fthe lead bounties. Lt
was flot, however, to lue payable if -the
price of .iead rose to a particular figure lu
thue London market. The price did rise f0
that figure on several occasions, and the
consequence was thiit instend of $500,000
being paid yeariy, as was calculated, iess
than $50,000.was paid lu five yeýars, so that
fliere is a considerable portion of the haif

million vote leff. This Bill does not propose to add fo tbe original aLmount, but it
proposes, up to $50.000 1 year, wbule it
iasts, to pay the bounty, but the standard
of price is raise&. up f0 £14.10.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY from the committee,
eotdteBlxvhû
a
nmnt
eotdteBhwtotaedet
The Bill was read a' flird time under n
suspension o! the mIles.

1535

JULY 14, 1908

JULY 14; 1908
QUEBEC BRIDGE REPORT.

1~35
-THIRfl

SITTING.

The 8SPEAKEIR took the Chair nt 8S
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before ithe adjourno'clock p.ni.
ment takes place, 1 should like ta know
tram the leader af the House If any ProROUTINE PROGE EDINGS.
gress bas been made ln the prlnting a! the
THE SUSPENSION 0F THIE RULES.
second volume of the report of the Bridge
Commission? That wli contain ail the
Hon. Mr. SCÔTT moved the suspension of
minutes of -that most lnterestlng commis- the ruies Insofar as they affect Bis comlng
»Ion.
from the House of Commons tram now on
end of the session.
a memorandum until the
Han. Mr. SCOTT-I have
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-I thougbt my bon.
ln regard ta the matter, whlch reads as
folloirs
frled, was golng to canfine himmelf ta susIn the matter of the prlnting a! the pending the ruies ln each particular case.
second volume, or evIdence, of the Quebec
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If conditions would albridge.
low it, I would be very glad to do so, but
So far as I can gauge the work on the at this perlad of the -session It Is usuni ta
repart now, it wUll make about five hundred make a motion of thîs kind, end 1 see no
pages of text, o! which mare than binif, or ground for opposing It.
three huindred and twenty pages, la ln
The SPEAKER-A point was raised this
te.The requlstIan cails for 7,365 copies.
qulte a large nuinher; the tert afternoan as ta the rlght of the hon, gentleThis Is
malclng 500 pages, or 31 formes, and 141 men ta make such a motion. I sêee nothlng
half-toned plates of 18 formes, sa that we ln aur ruies ta prevent It, and the practice
conhave 49 formes o! 7,365 copies, or 360,881 of the Senate on that point has'been
off, and It wIil be fuliy six stant for a number of years. A similar
sheets ta print
%veeks before copies ,wIli be ready for dis- motion was moved lu 1881 and ln 1887 and
lu 1900.
tribution.
The report Is nat like the ordlnary blueThe motion was agreed ta.
books, and the plates must be giren time
GOVEIRNMENT ANNUITIES BILL.
ta dry after comlng off press.
When the repart wums first sent ln it came
IN COMMITTEE.
ln the nature of a return from the House,
The House resaived. Itseif lnto a Commitand-we were Informed b.v the Hanse that
tee of tbe Whoie on Bill1 (120) an Act ta
the report was requlred ln a burry, but
of Goverament annulties
that the evidence need not be printed un- authorîze the Issue
for aid age.
tiI nfter the session.
(In the Conittee.)
1-lon. Mr. LANDRY-There is an omission
Han. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGRT-M~y
give the number of
there. They da not
Uines, but simply give the number of pages. hon. <riend opposite (Mr. Ferguson) deslred
ta have an actuarial statement showing the
BILL INTRODUCED.
I naw send hlmn a
basis of caiculation.
capy, and lie will note that It la subdivlded
Bill (No. 146) An Act respecting propriInto several periads of fixe years each and
etary patent medicines.-(Hon. Mlr. Scott.)
the accumulated gain which will resuit
Han. Mr. LANDRY-I 'want ta know
the arrangement proposed, is set ont
what bieame of a certain Bill wlich was under
each.
introduced here saine time ega by a report ln
tram the House of Commans?
On the third clause.
The SPEAKER-Â message came tram
the House of Commons asking to have lt
returned.
The Sennte ndjourned until S o'clack
p.m.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It is quite natural
that niy right hon. friend the Minister of
Trade and Commerce being the originatar
of this seheme should be entrusted with lis
management if possible, but It appears to

1536

SENATE

~ent the government and tiiere wiil have
me it should bie connected with the Insur- iin of
o be a bureau for these annuities. On couIt will necessîtate the t
ance Department.
the House wiil sec that tbere ks
emplo7ment of an actuary lu the Départ- s ideration,
*pretty large field. For Instance, there are
ment off Trade and Commerce. if there ie a
or six hundred tliousand deposiauy business at ail done under It, It 'will te- a bout'five
ors in the governmeut savings banks, and
quire to be doue under actuarial direction, t
n the savings banks attached to the several
and it would seem to be but natural that we 1
>anks througbout the country. lu other
sbould not be carrying on tbls business la t
~vords, very nearly every third *or fourt>
two departments at the same time. The wage-earuer lu Canada le tryixg to make
Civil 8ervice Insurance Bill le run by the
some provision for his old age, 1 think lu
Department off Finance and this. aithough
most cases on a goverument security or
not strictly Insurance, nevertheless Involveà
bank security, for which he receives about
acturlal calculations, and le on the saineI
three per cent I think we shall be able zo
lune.
offer hlm better Inducements than the govHon Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-My erument savinge banks are anie to do. Tbeu
bon. friend le quite rlght, an actuary wll be there le a large and constantly lncreasiug
required, but the same gentleman can act as class of persons receing swiail salaries,
actuary and accountant and 1 inteiid, under growing up lu Canada. Tbese persons,
the vote proposed la the House off Commons, wholly apart from what we înay cail par
to appoint and employ sncbi an officer. The excellence wage-eurners, wouid be inciined
Finance Department ha& Its bande pretty to avaîl tbemselves of the good offices of
f ull already, and without undue vanity I the government to secure a provision for
tbink, la the first Inception at any rate, I their old age. I may mention In that coucan manage 1h as weli as the Finance De- nection, that my attention has been very
partmeit
specially called to the tact that there are
now a far greater number of single womeit
Hon. qUr. FERGUSON-I have no doubt
who are provlding for themeelves, and are
of that.
likely to provide for themeelves. Up to a
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-0f certain age these people are able to obtain
course it can bie changed from tiine to time, a reasonabie living wage, but tbey flud
if vey great difficulty In saving sufficient for
If found convenient or expedient.
that it would go to their old age, and for that deservlng class
cbauged, 1h le probable
the post office If to any departaient other tbls will afford a veèry usetul and speca'l
than the department of Trade and Com- mode of lnvesting. Altogether, wboliy and
merce; but I have rather more time on my entlrely apart from the artisan class, theriý
bauds tban the gentlemen icharged 'with are many people who may conceivably avail
these two large depgrtments, partlculiirly themiselves of the provisions of this Act. The
the Post Office Departmnent and I propose to calculations, some of wbich I suomitted to
give n good deal of my personal attention my bion. frieud the leader of tbe opposition,
show the caiculation ou which the unit
to starting tlil. inatter.
is based. The nuit, as 1 explained to the
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-L can sec ut a liuse, is Iutended to cover the period froni
giance that the Post Office, iu some respects, 20 to 60.
0f course that will vary accordxwould be a vers' sultable de,)artment becau re
to the age off the applicant, but ut the
ing
payments can be m-ade through the Post
age of 20 a very smali paymeut wili lie
Office Savings Bauks.
sufficient to secure at the'age of 60 au anHon. Sir RICHARD CA-%RTWRIGHTnuity off $120, or if a man would accept a
That is provided for iii the Bill.
deferred annuity without any further pay$200 a year, and ail
Hon. Mir. FEPGIJSON-Whqtever depart- ment hie may receive
require actuarial the rest wilI bie la proportion to that caicunient w-l have it, w-ll
lation. It Is based on a slightly smnalier rate
essistance.
off interest than w-e can well afford to pay.
Hlon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-if It.is based on three and three-quarters per
tbis takes shape, and is as successful as5 I cent, wheveas the iutention is. if necessary,
trust It may be, this wll be a sub-departHou. MNr. FERGiUSON.

. JULY 14, 1908

1537

JULY 14, 1908

1537

to go as high as four per cent, that being will be the charge for the maintenance of
the amount we are likely to pay for our the bureau for a short tîme. 1 expect thât
money for several years to corne.
before long It wiii become self-supportiug.
Lookhig at the expenditures now lucurred
'Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHIEED-Can my hou.
frie.nd Say bow tbis wouid compare with lu many directions. the stute wlll neyer put
the tables of the ordinary annulty comn- out its mnoney better than by expendlng
thlrty or forty tbousad dollars ln encouragpanies tbat sell simidlar annuities?
lng our people to niake provision for their
Hon. eir RICHARD OARTWRIGHT-Au old age.
ordinary annulty company will sell you an
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I agree witb ixny
annulty of $102 for a paymeut of $1,000-that la will pay at the age 0f sixty, ten and bon friend on that point, and I do nlot tbink
a quarter per cent. On the calculations, we that by making this scheme somewhat 11hare really flot doing better lu one respect eral we are golug to do a great barm to the
than tbe annulty companies are dolng. The lnsurance companies.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
difference lu favour of our annuitants would
arise from two or tbree different circum- do not think we do any.
stances. First tbat we require no profits;
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Their experlence
second that we bave practically a large is that tbiey do not find much field for the
staff at our disposaI which wiil cost us sale of annuities. They do a littie business
extremely -littie, and tluird, because there lu that flue, but nlot much, aud thnit being
will be a amali gain arising from the fact so, I venture to suggest to my boen. friend
that relatives of parties wbo die will re- that hie wvili have to make this proposition
ceive a less rate of interest thpn those who somewhat attractive If there la any business
have the good fortune to remain alive and]
to be doue uuder ItL
get the annulties.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
Hon. Mr. FElRGUSON-I would under- think we shall be able to do that. 0f course
stand .frein this table that It Ia to show the we reserve to ourselves the rlght to amend
gain fromn deatbs occurrlng before the age lu case the original proposition does not
of sixty, by reason ot the difference In the take.
rate of interest.
was adopted.
The clause

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWIRGHT-Iu
cases of death before the age of 60, the
relatives of the 1
narty receive the amount
that has been pnid ln wltb interest at three
per cent. In the case of annuitants they
are allowed three and three-quarters per
cent. If the hon. gentleman will 100k at
the third column beaded 'Total accumulation lncluding gain from deaths' hie w!ll
find that the total pnyments from 20 to 00
amounit to $1,246.24, while ln the case of a
person buying an annulty at the age of 20
the amount without gain would be $1,045.80.
The dîfference between these two amountq
represents the gain fromn deaths hetween
the nges of 20 and 60. I think there is no
doubt that the statement I made wlll be
f ully borne out, and the country, wlthout
any loas to Itself, at the rate of Interest I
speak of, wiil be able to afford these annul.
ties. The ouly charge which wlll be placed
on the state-and that 13 a charge I have
no hesitation whatever lu recommending-

Ou claurse 4
4. His Majesty, represented and acting by
the minister, may, frein time to time, subitc
the provisions of this Act, and of any order
Ln couneil made under the authority of thie

Act, contract with any person domiciied in
Canada for the sale to sauch person of an im-

inediate or deferred aunuity depending on
a single life, or partiy depeuding on a single
life and partly for a term of years certain, or
of n im-medieite or deifred ennuity dépending on the Wont continuance of two livecs, with
or without extension of b»nefit to the eurvivor.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Suppose two
cases occur ; one, a man at the age of 60
pays $4,000 for an annulty, whIle another
bias been payig fromi the age of 20 to the
age of 60 ; I aubmlt there will be &'discrimination agalust the peron who lbas paid nl

bis Ilfe ln this way. At the age of 60, a man
bas the option of purcbaslng the aunulty or
not. If bis bealt± is good bie will probably
do so, if not he will not pay the money. lu
the case of the man who bas been paying
fromn the age of 20, however, hie bas no op-

97
REVIBE»

]EDITION

1538

SENATE
SENATE

1~38
tien. At the nge of 60 be may see no prospect of living for a 'year or two longer.
Both pay exactly the sanie suni, but the man
wbo lias the means wiil only take out the
annuity if hls bealtli Is good. He bas an
opportunIty of selection wbich the poor man
who has been contrlbutiag ai bis life Is not
given. If he is unfortunaite enough to die
before he reaches the age of 60, bis friends
will get the benefit of his payments, but If
lie passes that age be must take bis chance
of drawing tbe annuity for a year or two.

Hon. Mr. COX-Very few people buy annlties before tbe age of 60. A man mnay
takre out an annuity to-day and die to-morrow. Tbat is the risk that is carried by
every person tbat purchases an annuity,
and the company carnies It with every person to wbom It selîs an annulty. Every
year every Insurance dompany wblcb does
a certain amount of business is sure to have
*claims arislng on policies tbat year.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIt !s nlot a miatter like the law of the ~Medes
and Persians, and If In our experience it
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTturned ont there were cases of bardship,
That Is almost of necessity tbe na-ture of
we migbt see our way to relieve theni; but
tme cise. You could nlot very well Introduce
I wonld prefer to see it
any provision for discrimination in that way Iu the first place
started on the business prncil)le.
wlùbout ralsing tbe general rate. No doubt
the man 'who lires longer will get more out
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Another point lu
of tbe government than the man In poor section 4.
This is flot confiued to British
bealth ; but we can bardly provide for cases snbjects; It is applicable to people denmisucb as tbe hon, gentleman speaks of. -My ciled In Canada.
Thenefore a newcomer
view is that this Is an objection to trying could take advautage of ItL
I do not see
to run two tblngs as one measure, that Is any objection to that.
assistance for old age an&. an Investment.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe -man w'ho pays four or five thonsand dollars at tbe age of 60, Is making an invest- I do not think we need bother about It.
ment.
Hon. Mr. FFBItGUiSON-I amrnft offenîng
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- it as an objection; at the sanie tume I do
not see wby we sbould nlot admit Britisbi
I tbink there wlll be few of tbat class.
subjects who may be temporarily domiciled
Hlon. Mr. COX-A person wbo pays for out of Canada.
a nutuber of years and dies shortly after be
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTreaches the age be is entitled to the anI tbink we may admit theni witbout being
nnity, is in the sanie position as any one
who buys an annuity. He may buy an an- toc, strict; but it is betten, ia the first inW'e do not
nuity to-day and die to-morrow. Anybody stance, to put in those w-ords.
who purchases an annuity takes that risk. want te do business in the mother country.
The maxi who pays for it gradually over a It Is not a commercial speculation ln the
tern of years is In no worse position than ordinary sense of the terni; il is for the
benefit of the people of Canada mnore parthe other.
ticulanly.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Tbe man who at
Hou. 'Mr. McMULLEN-Do the g-overnthe age of 60 can purchase an annuity,
ment intend te take steps to induce parties
knows the state of bis health, but the mian
who beginis at the age of 20 and continues to contribute to this fund: and if they do,
PaYing to the age of 60 bas no option; by m-hat method will they bning the sceie
wbatever the state of bis bealth he must before the people so as to try to get tbern?
go on paying without any prospect of drawHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTiner the annuity for more than a year or
0f course this is rather a tentative measune,
two.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
think, in practice. very few wi] wait until
tbey are 60 and then pay several tbousand
dollars for an annnity.
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON.

and we shahl bave te proceed with due caution: but I propose te appoint a Superintendent of Annuities, and I propose te appoint a moderate nuniber of carefully selected lecturers, w-ho can explain in a sort of

JUIY 14, 1908
fasliion in the varlous centers of population
among the parties who are most desired to
be benetitted, and, as I mentioned the other
day, I have had communieations from sucb
persons as large employers of labour, and
ulso certain clerical bodies, who tblnk under this sebeme they may maire a very effective provision for pensionlng off elther
their employees, or ln the case of a clergyman, the clergymen connected with varlous
denominations, and of course I sball have
to communicate wlth the varlous savlngs
bank depositors, at any rate wlth those ln
the government savings banks.
I tblnk
there will be no partîcular dlfficulty ln glvIng pretty wlde publiclty to the thing, and
at a very moderate expense.

1539

after a number of years fails to continue
payments, wbat wvould you do ln that case?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIG;HT.
What we do lu sncb a case ls thîs, and this
la an Important feature of the Bill- We do
not propose any forfelture at aIl under any
clrcumstances.
Ha will continue to be
credlted wlth ah bhe has paid. and whan
the term. at whlclj ha was to commence hIs
annUity Is raachad, be It 55 or 65, the sum
wlll ba computad, and If thara ls anough to
pay hlm $50 a year ha wIll racelva an annuity of $50 and upwards.
If it le les
than $50 the maney wlll ba returned to hlm.
Hon. Mr. COX-Tbat provision ls
tn the Bill.

not

Hon. Mr. McMULLFEN-In the meantime,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTyou will have to pay the expenses of those
We bave taken pawer to make regulations,
agents.
and those regulations the bon, gentleman
Hon. Sir RIOHARD CARITWRIGHT- will see If he looks at paragrapb S.
An
I have asked for a vote of $25,000, whicb annuity shahl not be granted for less than
you will see la the estimates about to be $50. If we cannot grant hlm $50, his money
sùbmitted, and wlth a little more I shall wIll be raturnad. That wll be provlded
perhaps be able to start the scheme falrly. for.
Hon. *Mr. FERGUSON-I do flot understand the portion of clause 4, 'for the sale
to sncb person of an immediate or deferred
annulty depending on a single lîfe, or part]y depending on a single lite, and partly
for a termn of years certain.'
How would
it be possible to base an annuity on a lite
and on a term of years jointly?

Hon. Mr. COX-There are a great many
people who think they can make their annual payments, and fail in dolng ItL

Hon. Sir RICHIARD CARTWRIGHTI took particular notice of that, and one of
the features ln this Bill wbich, I think., wll
commend itself ta the average waga earner,
ls that supposing they by stress of clreumnHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- stances were obliged to suspend paymant
This particular clause was diawn by the for 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 years it would not operate
as a forfeiture. Tbey could resume at the
oincers of tbe Finance Departinent.
I and or leave the
sumn tbey 'had pald ln acthlnk tbere will be «no particular difficulty
cumnulating, and when they became 60- or
about it: it was meant more partlcuiarly
65 they would aither get an annulty or the
to meet the case of husband and wife. You
money would be returned.
may selI an annulty if you like, If parties
Hon. Mr. COX-That is a most important
chose to buy it, for a short term of years
provision and I am glad nowv that It Is In.
as well as for a naturai life; but we~ àointend to encourage that.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. PDERGUSON-How can the anOn clause 5,
nuity be based upon two contingencies?
5. Such person may, by tbe payment at any
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- time of a sum of flot less than ten dollars, or
by the payment of
We would have two annuities.
It Is cally at fixed and a stipulated sum periodidefinite intervals to any
rather a complicated -tbîng-, but It can be agent of the minister appointed under tii.
provisions of this Âct, purchase an snnuity
done.
Hon. Mr. COX-Suppose that a person
commences to make annual pnyments, and
97j

under the provisions thereof; Provided, howe-ver, so purchased shall be subject ta the
annuity so purchased shall be subject ta the
ter of section.

1540
SENATE

1540

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThis has been introduced at the instance of
I thoughit It
the labour organizations.
would have been sufficientiy provided for
under the general regulations.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 6, subclause 2,
2. Miy ooiety or association of persans,
being a body corporate for fraternal, benevolent. religious or other lawful purposes, rnay
contract with his Majesty, on behaif of such
of its members as are domiciled in Canada for
the sale to such members of annuities otherwise purchasable by thein as individuals under
this Act; and any sums of moaey necessary
to the caryn out of this object rnay be paid
by such =oit or essoiation direct to the
miaister, or may be depositedl in any Post
Office Savings Bank, to be transferred by the
Postmaster General to the minister.
Hon. Mr. COX.-In thnt case, I suppose,
a corporation or cornpany purchasing annuities for their ernployees could flot pur.
chase more than $600 apiece ?

On clause 8,
S. An annuity shall fot be granted or issued
ini favour of any person other than the actual
annuitant, nor for an amount less than fifty
dollars or more than six hundred dollars a
year; and the total amount payable by way of
an annuity or annuities to any annuitant or
to jouut annuitants, or an the Sse of husband
and wife to any two annuitants, shahl not exceed -six hundred dollars a year.
2. Except upon the occurrence of invalidity
or disablernent of ian anniiitosnt, no annuity
shall be payable or paid >to any annuitant unless ho has reached the age of fifty-five years.
3. Any contract providing for an annuity to
commence to be payable at any greater age
then eighty years shall, as to purchase price,
ba, subject to the salme terans s if the age were
cxactly eighty yearts.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What do you
inean by that section, that an annuity shall
flot be granted to any person other than the
actual annuitant ? By clause 6 you provide
otherwise.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTClause 6 bas been interpoiated bY the labour
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTassociations, and 1 think we must interject
No, $600 Is the lirait for any single man.
after the words ' actual annijitant 1 the (foiHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Although the sa- lowing : 'except as hereinbefore provided.'
clety would pay hlU, $600 would stili be
Hon. Mr. F'ERGUSON-In clause 6. it
the limait.
Is not proposed that the annulty shaIl go
Hon.
Yes.

Sir

RICHARD

The subclause

CARTWRIGHT-

was adopted.

On clause 7,
7. AUl contraobs for the purchaise of annuities shah beo entered into in accordance with
the values stated in tables prepared under
regulations made pursuant to section 12, and
for the tirne being in use.
Hon. Mr. COX-You leave it wlde enough
to take la auy rnortality table you like?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTYes. The maximumn I calculated was 4 per
cent The calculations are based on a little
srnailer *suma than the table, three and
three-quarters per cent to four would be the
maximum we would have.
Hon. Mr. COX-Have you decided on the
rnortality paper?
Hon. ïSir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI amn hnving tables prepared showing the
expectations of hIfe at the various ages.
We shaîl probably take those used by the
large Insurance companie.s.
The clause was ndopted.
Ilon. Mr. COX.

to any other person that the actual annuitant. In the case of the fraternal societies
paying la, tbey are not the annultants. I
lad an Impression last year that this was
a clause taken out of the New Zealand
Bill for pensions, but I amn not very sure.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTWe did not consider it would be very desirabie in a generai way that one pnrty
should be ailowed to Insure for another
except under special conditions. 0f course,
la the rnajority of cases, the actual annuitant wouid be the party who pays tli,
money.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If It would read
this wny :'Contributions for annuities shall
flot be received except from the actual
annuitant, except as hereinbefore provided.'Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThat is what I arn Inserting.
Clause 6 contemplates, pnrticularly in the
third subclause, joint payment by the employers and empioyees together.

JULY 14, 1908
Hion. Mr. FERGTJSON-That refers to tbat the Commons bave lmproved It; but
the payments; but the emnployee would be- that is what they sent Up.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Will the bon.
made by the society or not.
gentleman. Say where Vie provisions come
Vie occurence of invalidity or- disHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- in for
ablement?
I arn not quite satisfled about tliat. SupHon. Sir RICHARD CARtTWRIGHTposing a churcli chooses to insure Its clergyman, tbey would undoubtedly bave to That would have to be done under the
Insert some sucli provision as tbis, that It regulations given us la clause 13.
would be In force so long as the clergyman
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Whicb of tbo.se?
contlnued a member of their cliurch. If
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTlie were to leave their communion, I Imait would bie necessary to forfeit bis Tbere is a clause tbere whlch gîves pretty
gine
annuity. There are two or tbree things consideralily wlde power for doing anyof that kind that miglit occur ln connec- thing incidentaI to tbe foregoing matters,
tion w-ith clause 6, whicb I thinlc w-ould or necessary for tbe effectuai execution
bave to lbe provided for especially iu the and worklng of tbis Act, &c.
agreements made. My bon. friend would
HOn. '.%r. LOUGHEED-I doulit whesee It would be 'an unfair thing for a cler- ther that would gîve sucli power. Clause 2
gyman to insist on receiving an anauity of section 8 *seemns to presuppose a preafter lie bas ceased to lie connected withi vious provision deallng wlth disablement or
tbe congregation to wiclh be origlnally lie- lnvalldlty where there fs no clause of that
longs.
klnd la the Bill.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-And the same
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTprinciple would apply lu the case of an em- I Viought clause 6 would do It; but if my
ployee. Supposing lie leaves the service of hon. frlend bas doubts about It, I wlll conan employer who was provlding an annulty suit tbe law department and at the tblrd
for bin.
reading I may insert something to meet
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- sucli a case.
As I say, I amn not particularly wedded
For tbat reason, the words are inserted :
to this clause.
'And sucb agreement to be ln the form prohilnk there
vided by the minister.'
Hon. Mr. LOUGHER>-I
lie a substantive clause giving the
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My eye did not should
falI on any provision for invalldlty or dis- power to pass regulatloiis.
ablement.
Hion. Sir RICHARD ICARTWRIGIIT-It
Is a clause that is possibly subject to Soule
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTwbicb
Subclause 2 gives power ln connection witb abuse; but It is llmlted by clause 9
gives the minister power to refuse a con13 to make such allowance. I bave my
doubts about the mrisdom of that; but the tract for an annuity.
bon. gentleman tbougbt, It wise to insert
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Does this presucb a provision, and I thouglit it was flot suppose that the government will pass reguworth wbule quarreling about. 0f course lations dealing wltb accidents? It partakes
It wlll lie subject to the regulations laid of the nature of accident insurince.
down in clause 13.
Hion. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Tilere -will have Supposing a man had pnid five or six hunto be somnetbîng explanatory put in, lie- dred dollars, and at the age of 45 or 50
cause it does not fit into the Bill.
was suddenly disabled by accident, lie
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWIRIGHT- mighit, in that case, be allowed to receive
Yes, I am aware of that. I w'as flot able an annuity on strict business principles, of
to introduce it bere; and I bad to take course, proportionate to the sum lie bad
wbat I could get. 1 amn not altogether sure pald la. Tbere would lie no loss to the

1542

SENATE
SENÂTE

1542
country involved lu It. There would be I do not think ln Mnost Cases they would
merely a departure from the rule to whlch bother us very mucli.
I myself attach a good deal of Importance,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Without any distbat we sliould keep this for old age anablernent, at 55 a man who was flot able to,
nuities.
proceed witli bis payxnents would corne in
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-To bave any In- under the general provision tihat lie could
telligent knowledge of the Bill, there sliould get bis xnoney back wlth three per cent Inbe some well defined policy laid down by terest.
the government as to wliat they propose to
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
do In case of disablement.
do not propose that the money shall be
Hon. Sir RICHARD GARTWRIGHT-I pald In any case except denth.
do not partlcularly care for tliis clause.
Hon. Mr. FERGU8(>O'-I thought my hion.
The Bill, as I liad It liere, was very confrlend explained, that in case n man was
slderably better and It contnined no such
unable to, continue parment.
clause; but the Hlouse of Commons, in
their wisdom, bave chosen to put it in, and iHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-If
I take it as they send it to me. There is lie died, bis relatives would get the inoney.
no particular difficulty in payîng the an- If he lias not pald enough to entitie Iimi to
nulty, wben the money bas been paid for $50 lie gets bis money, but otherwise flot.
It, at forty-five'instead of at fifty-flve.
Hon. Mr. F\ERGU",ON-Tu ',"e(ntially, this
Hon. Mr. LOUGliEED-Tlie dlfficulty I clause meains tbat on thle occurrence of disforesee lies in this, that so uiuch importunity ablement, a person could begin to, draw bis
whIl be brouglit to bear on thie government annuity.
to meet aIl classes of contingencles tliat
Hlon. Sir RICHIARD OAeRPWRIGHT-Not
miglit arise, so that Instead of being on a
the annulty lie would get at the Inter date,
strictly business basis, it will largely par- but the ainnuity
w¶hldh lie lied paid for.
take of a polîtical aspect.
Hon. Mr. FERGU>ON-AInd that It would
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWEIGHT-No occur even at n younger age than 55-thiat is
man will get more than the money that lie
inferentially whnt this would mean.
liad paid in will lawfully purchase. There
will be no great danger of political pr-es- iHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTYes. it would mean that, but it would be a
sure in that way.
very small anhluity lie would get.
Hlon. *Mr. LOUGIHEED-If you have It
The clause was adopted.
provided specifically by statute, of course
pressure that otlierwise would be brouglit
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
to bear on thie governmeut to amend thie wonld suggest that another clause be added
regulations froin time to time will flot take
tocanse 8, es follows
place. I simply tbrow ont the suggestiou.
Provided always that nothing lierein contained shahl be coinstrued as preventing corHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWR[GHT-I porations or employers of labour frorn enterwill consider that, but I think that the ing into arrangements for procuring ananiamount that would be received at these ties to lie paid to members as persons emp]oyed by tliem on such terms as may he
enriier ages Is vastly .smaller than the aiu- agreed upon with the minister, being otherount tliat would be received if the maln wise iii conformiity with the' provisions, of
this Act.

continued to contribtite Up to the age off
55 or 60. My lion. friend can ensiiy see
that where you are dealiug largely with
a -question dependent on comnpound interest
and on continuons l)ayients, and on the
expectation off life, the arnount any iman
would get nt 40 or 45 would be mucli les,
tlia lie would get at 60, so mucli less, that
Hon. Sir RICHTARD CARTWRIGHIT.

Th-. reason for that is, that it mnight be
suposed under sub-c]ause 3 of clause 6 that
emîhloy-ers of labour could onlv be allowed
to purchase annuities iii case of contribution
frorn enhi)loyees. This is to guard against
that.
The amendaient was agreed to.

JULY 14,1908

1543

1543
JULY 14, 1908
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I arn afraid it wll
On clause 9.
leave the door open to a good deal of fraud.
9. The mnister may refuse to contract for
an annuity ini any case where lie is of opinion Lt Ls only after the insolvency bias occurred
that there are sufficient grounds for refusing that the fraud Is detected. We bave la the
so to do.
province of Quebec a provision of that
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON--Could my hof. kind, but It Io more flexible than this. The
friend suggest what -wouhd bie a probable court la ernpowered. If It Is found that the
cause? 1 have been trying to think. Bad payments were made whien the party nak-healtb would flot bie a cause that would bie liig the payment wvas insolvent, to declare
that the creditors shial get tbe benefit of
unfavourable, to the government?
the con.tract.
Hon. Sir RICHARD -'ARTWRIGHT-I
this la llkely to bie
do nxot tbink myseif that
Hon. Sir RICHARD OA4RTWRI-HTcalled lu. It -vçould bie probably merely lu The object 1 had In* view le thls : we want
cases wbere Nve thougbt we saw there was particularly to reach the wage-eflrniflg por«,in intention to defraud credîtors. It ls cou- tion of the community. I anticipate that
celvnbie-and the thing Is dealt withi lu very few large paymeuts will be made en
clause il-that a man on the verge of bank- bloc for the purpose of obtaining annuities,
ruptcy miglit lie tempted to pay over fii-e or but it is very desirable, as far as we can.
six: thousand dollars to buy an annuity for to create the idea 'with the wage-earners
hlrnself or bis wife that could not bie Inter- that these governmexit annuities cannot bie
fered witb. Tbat is the ouly cause 1 can disturbed under any pretence wbiatever.
1
tbink of that would corne up.
They are lhable to take a arm If tbey supThe clause was adopted.
pose that tbey could be Impugned for any
cause. If we find there Is any sort of disOn clause 11.
position to take advantage of this, -we can
Hon. Sir IIICHIARD CARTWRIGHTamend the Act ; but ln -the first Instance,
This clause was drawn by the Depart- whiie we are gettlng It under way, I desire
ment of Justice for the p)urpose of pro3as far as possible to convey the 4dea that
ventlng fraud sucli as I bave lndlcated. to
the annuity la a thing whicb cannot be
niy bon. friend just no-w. I wouhd bie dismeddhed with, in any shape or form, and
posed to aunex a sub)-clause to this. My
1 tblnk a period of two years would give
hon. friend opposite brouglit the niatter up,
that
as ample time to detect any rascality
but 1 had alrendy cbnsidered It. As far
iniglit be practiced.
possible, it is destr-able to avoid litigation
over annuities granted by the goverument,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-T thinli it is qulte
and la ahl cases. even -nhere possibly a long enougbi.
serious fraud lias been comitted, action
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-As far as rayments
sbould be brou.ght within a certain Iimlted
made by employees, but under this Aot a
time, and 1 propose to add the followlng:
person contemplating bankruptcy three or
Provided always that no action shalh be four years bence might be terapted to buy
brought f"or the ceancelinent of an aanuity
granted undr this Act after the lapse of an anuuity and pay for it w-ith the money
ur the time at whioh rthe pay- of bis creditors. and I arn afraid that the
to Yer
M~ent ýcon;plaiaeýd oflas b-een made.
government îvill have a number of persoils
Withi that proViso. clause 11 xnay go. of that class purchasing annuities. 1 would
The Nwlîole oWjeot is to gu.ird against ban]- invite the bonourable genUýeman to see the
rupts availing themiselves of the provision provision in the Quebec statutes:
I wouid
w-hiei inakes tiiese allnuities unahienable. appreciate bis makiug an exception for the
A inan miglit. lis I have said. ou the verge cîass to whieh lie bas referred, that is payof baikrup)tcy, inake a large paanent of nients mnade. flot for the person himself.
money w-hichi properly belongs t0 bis credi- Ibut for his employees.
In that case, I
tors. If lie does tibat it is fraud. He could thiuk the provision of two years -wouid bie
be piiiishied for it under the conînion la-w as, amphlle.
it stands :but the Departrnient of Justice
Hon. .Mr. SULLIVAN-I do uot think
thouglit it exPe,ýeit to Put in this parthere should be any twvo years. The precauticular clause.

1544
1544

SENATE
SENATE

tions taken in advance ought to guard
BOUNTIES ON CRUDE PETROLEUM.%
against fraud. You take extra precautions
BILL.
in selling these annuities. That should
SECOND AND THIRD R.EÂDING.
suffice to guard agaiust any'possible danger
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readsucb as my hon. friend from De Salaberry
ing of Bill (191 ) Au Act to prov-ide for the
bas rnentloned.
payrnent of bounties on crude petroleum.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I eam not sure He sald :We
bave at present a statute
whetber one year would flot be enough.
whlch authorizes a payrnent of bounties ouoi1. lt ls now suggested tbat it should be
Hon. Mr. COX-Thl-ere is notblng to preenlarged ln order tbat If oi1 can be extracted
vent any persons doing it with an ordinary
from the siale formation in tbe maritime
company. If a =uan wisbes tu commit à provinces
tint oi1 sbould also be considered
fraud,~ lie can buy din annuity from any
tu corne under the statute. That is the
annuity company.
wbole object
of tbe Bill.

Hon. Sir. RICHAR.D CARTWRIGHTHon. M.Nr.LOUGHEED--Caii ry lion.
I would prefer to try it as it stands. I will frleud say if this Is purely experirnental, or
note niy 'bon. friend's objection, and if we bave tbey been extracting oi1 frorn shale ?'
tiud it is weIî grounded we cau amnd tbe
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Ia New Brunslaw afterwards.
wick some 50 or 60 years ago ln Albert
The clause ivas adepted.
county, in what la caled tbe Cumberland
range, tbere were very -extensive works
On clause 12.
12. In the event of the death of an annuitant establlsbed, refinerles for makîng tbis oit
before the tirne at which. an annuity becomes from shale. When the cheaper o11 carne
payable te him, ail moneys paid by him in Into vogue in the United States, tbey bad to
consideration of the, aanuity shalh be paid to
his heire, with interest thereon at the rate abandon their works, because their o11,
of three per cent per annurn, comnpounded though of very fine qualîty, could not coinyearly, and.the provisions of section 9 shall pete wltb the cheaper o11e lmported from the
apply to the, said rnoneys.

United States.

Hoi. Mr. BEIQUE-I amn not sure tint
this sbould not be modified by reason of
sub-clause 2 0f clause 8, wbicb is as foiloews
2. Except upon the, occurrence of iuvalidity
or disablemnent of an annuitant, no annuity
shall b, payable or paid to any annuitant
unless he lias reached the age of fifty-five
years.

If they get some assistance

in the way tbe Bill1 proposes, tbey can put

up works at once and produce from that
sliale an o11 that wlll compete with foreign,
oi1. I may say that the quantity is un-

Ilited.
Hon. [Mr. LOUGHEED-To wbiat extent
bave tbey been securlng o11 at tbe place my
bon. friend rnentioned ?

0f course he will receive mucli leas than
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Those wo1-ke
if the annuity w-as paid only at the age of
55. Now clause 12, 1 arn afraîd, Is flot flexi- were started by a company long ago. I
Nle enougli to provide for the operation of sbould tbink 60 years ago.
the Act.

Hon.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIf a man re*ceives bis annuity, nothing will
be paid to bis beirs. It is onîr in case of
bis death that it wilI be paid to bis beirs.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. FORGET, froin the comrnittee,
reported the B3ill witli amendrnents, which
were concurred in.

Mr. LOUGIHEED-Are

tbey

stili

at it?
Hon. 31r. DOMVILLE-NO, tbey abaiidoned the work because they could flot coinîpete witb tue United States oil. It was a
first-class o11.
Hon. iMr. SULLIVAN-Have
samples of the shale?

you

am,

Hon. MNr.DOMVILLE-No, I bave non(,_.

Tbe Bill was then read. the third time
Hon.
and passed.
lis it?
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN.

M1r.

FORGET-What

sort

of

oit

JULY 14, 1908

1545

JULY
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE,-Mineral 011, inrlcatlng and burning oil as weli, and ln any
quantity and I thlnk that la an excellent
Idea because I believe the lndustry will start
at once, and w1llendeavour to compete with
foreigu oul. I may say I amrn ot personally
interested ln one way or tbe otber.

1545
14, 1908
to the production of oi1 frorn sale as tliey
now pay tu time fiuoving wells. There la no
objection to it, because It Is anotiier advance ln the principle of protection, and
I congratulate the govemament on the fact
that they are beiag rapidly educated to a
proper economic system of trade.

Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-1 thlnk thst
Dr. Ells, of the Geologfial Department, If lie,
bas flot already gone to 8cotland, Is about
going, to look~ Into bow they manufacture
the 011 there, and tbey expect ln the nieur
future to get a report from blm.
HMon. 'Mr. FORGET-That is the oniy
pince la New Brunswick ivbere tbis oil is?
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-No. il rung rigut
tbrougb the country to St. John, you may
say, but the great mass of it is in the Cumb.?rlatnd range of mlouantalas.
Trhe motion w-as agreed to, and the Bill
was read a second time.
The House resolved ltself io a cxun
mittee -o! the whole on the Bill.
(Ia the Commlttee.)

Hon. Mr. JROSS (Halifax)-Thls Is always
prospective. When the oul wells ln Ontario
dry up, thea they will corne dowil to New
Brunswick and manufacture o11 fromn our
shale, which was dune before the discovery
of ohl la the United States. I reinember
that oil, and I have used it la my own
bouse in iny early recoliection. It la a fille
lllumiaating 011.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWEUL'-Thlat
Is one of the advantages o! confeileration.
Whien our oll wells dry up we wvill corne and
get sume froin you.
Hon. Mm. LOUGHIE'D-I fahi tu understand why my hon. frlend confined. this
bounty tu oil from shale.-

Hua. Mr. 8COTT-It says: 'From sbaie
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Was this the or other substances, made. la Canada.'
bounity payable under the Act of I9O4?
Hou. Mr. WILSON-I should like to know
f romn the promoter of the Bill, If the owlier'
Hon. 31r. SCOTT-Yes.
of the land will stand la the Saine Position
HMon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWnELL--Couidl
receive bis proportion ate
the hoa, gentleman inforiu the House Nvlant as the producer to
shame of the bounty? Under an amendquantity of oul is produced froîin a toil of
ment of two years ago, power was placed
sbale?
la tue baads o! the Goveraur in :Council
Hon. Mr. %SCO1'T-We have no positive that tlxey could compel ltme producer who
evidence at ail.
It la not coiisidered fair received the bouaty from the govemament
that if they can produce ohl la New Bruns- to grant the ownem o! the land bis prowick that we shouid imot give 111cm ilie portionate shame ef the bounty, and I wish
saine bounty. It wns sald many years ago to kaow wbether this will weaken their
that they couid produce it. Possily they clain la any particular?
may have some modern machinery that will
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Oli, no.
enabie them tu abstract IL. It Is put on tite
saine plane as the ôther qualities.
Houi. '.%r. WILSON-Su thiat they w'ill
have the saine rîglits and privileg-es la the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW',ELL-Whuîit
perceatage of *oil is taken froin, say a ton of future to their proportiuaate shame of the
bounlty. As a rule, the producers go ho the
this shale. or how Is it produced?
owners and offer theia a certain ratio, say
Hou. Mr. DOMVILLE-I do not kznov. oae-eighth of the 011 produced. Then the
I ouiy fariner Is consid 2red entitled tu lis proOne could flnd out la the library.
know the fact that it exiats.
portionate share o! the bouiity. Before,
Hon. Sir MAOK'ERNZI14 BOVE LL-Thie the fariner received aue of the bounty, nd
reason for Ibis was very weil understood whien they did granit the bouaty It depreby the bon, gentleman who bas just spoken. ciated time prIce paid for crude oil and thereThis is to extemd the same bounty system by the fammer was deprived o! a con-

1546

SENATE

SENATE
1546
siderabie source of revenue. Wbat I want par wihh the other deputies. 1 iaay say tbat
Is that the farmer may be protected in the cost of the Insuranee Departuient i.i
this matter in the saine way ns hie was pnid by the varions companies. They nr-ý
assessed for the expenses of nmanagemient iii
under the order lu council.
the Department of Finance of that brancli.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Hlalîfax)-In this casa,, Practicniiy, it does nxot corne ont of tbe punbthe shale wouid nlot belong to the farîn?". lie money.
The minerais beiow the surface are nlot
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWD4LL-Are
owned by the owner of tlie land In Novit
these increases whicb are proposed Ia the
Scotia.
salaries of the Supenintendent of Insurance
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-That shale I spcak and of the Auditor General heiag mnade at
of, which Is ail we know about at present. the present hhme so as to have theni take
le owned by the -Crown, and the 'Crow.i effect before the new Civil Service Act
leases It on a royalty.
cornes into operation?
Hon. 'Mr. WILSO2N-Ti~e bounty does flot
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, flot before.
beiong to the fariner. Uniess there be a
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If
provision made whereby the fariner can get
bis proportionate slhare of the bounty of they remain untii after, if I understand the
eacbi find; bis crude oul is flot as vaiuabie vý provisions of that Act, they caîinot be deait
it was before, and he tbereby loses a cer- with, exceph by the commissioners.
tain arnount on each and every barrel of
Hon. air. SCOTT-The Act wouid not
crude ohl. I tiîink there was a Bill pnssed give it now to Mn. F.itzgeraid, because lie
two years ego piacing the fermer lu tiî,
is nlot bead of the department.
It is a
saine position In relation to the bounty as brandi of the Finance Department.
the producer, and if that be the case, aîîd ;f'
Hon. Mn. LOUGHEED-Are tbose genIt lese8 stated bere, It wouid be covered-tlemnen not indiuded In the Aot as we bave
it?
Hon. Mr. 8COTT-The clause reads:
Hon. Mr. SGOTT-No, the $5,000 appiies
The said bounty to be paid to the producer
of the petroleum or to such other person ho the deputy beads of departinents. Tbe
interested as the Governor in Council by
Insurance branch of the Finance Departregulation approves.
ment ca> scarcely be called a departient
That covers it completeiy.
of its owa.
Hon. '-%r. W'ILSON-That mny euibr.tue
Hton. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
wbat 1 desire, but If ih ilees not enibrace ih
Civil Service Act miakes tbern equal to tbe
1 want to eaul the attention of the ininiste_ý
to the fact Ia order tha t the farmer may depu-ty liead, and declares tbat tlîey occupy
a p)osition similar te that.
have bis just nighs in the matter.
Hon. Mr. COX-It bas not nny bearng
HRon. Mr. DOMVILLE, froni the conmniton this question; but rnay 1 ask if there are
tee, reported the Bill without arnendmeut.
any other institutions wlîich are assessed
Th(- Bill was then read the third tiiuie the saine as tbe insurance companies?
and pnssed.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I an ixot awane. I
SALARY 0F SIJPERINTENDENT 0F understand the insurance cornpqixies are asINSUP.ANCE BILL.
sessed for the runlning of tbat branch.
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
lHon. _Mr. COX-The superintendeîîce of
Hon. 'Mr. ÔCOT'P introdued Bill B 'An bankiaig is paid for by the goverillent. WbvAct respectinig the saiary of the Sulieriii- flot the superintendeace of insurance ilso?
tendent of Insurance.'
lion. 'Mr. SCOTT-I do not kinow ; the
reg-uiations were made sorne tinie igo.
The Blill wvs read the finst tinie.
Hon. Mr. COX-I tbink the other instiHon. Mr. SCOTT rnoved the seconîd reading of the Bill. .He said: This autiiorizes tutions siîould be made ho pay the saine as
the payint to the Superintendent of In- insurance coipanîes, or the insuraiee con'suranice of $5.OOOl n year, puttlng hiini on a panies sbould be released.
Hou. Air. WILSON.

JULY 14, 1908

14
1547

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is not a very serious conti.nued but at a less sum. This Bill provides that for the year ending March next
matter.
the sum sbould be $9,0O0 and for the fiscal
Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWErIil-I reyear terminating on the 31st March, 1910,
meniber whien tuis branci of the service
It shaIl be' $12,000, and then for the next
was establshied. My lion. friend remembers
year $3,000.
It also, and at 'tbat period tie Insurauice
companles agreed with the governinent to
alhow themselves to bie assessed to, pay tbe
expenses of the office; but I qulte agree
wltli the bon, gentleman wio hins just
spoken ; wbiy shouhd they bie itaxed to pay
the expenses of the departmxent any more
than aay otier coml)any, the banks, for
Instance, or any otier corporation wbere
an Inspeetor is appointed to look after and
Inspect their business. It Is a question wel
worthy of tie governmient's consideration.
There is oîîe thing certain, the gresuter tbe
tax put upon tie*insurance companies, nd
the more tluey bave to pay, whether it be
directly or lndirectly, the more It adds to
the expense of carrying on the company
aud that must of necessity proportlonately
corne out of the polhcy-bolders.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This Bill bas flot
been dlstrlbuted, aud I think we mlght let
It stand unthl lt is dlstributéd.
Tbe order was allowed to stand.
SOURIS BRA&NCH LINE OF THE PRINCE
MDWARD ItAILWAY BILL.
SECOND READING.
Mr. SCOTIT moved the second readHou.
ing of Bill (202.) An Act to autborize the
construction of a brandh ine of the Priace
Edward Island Railway froil Harmony, on
the -Souris brancli, to Elniira.

Hon. -Mr. LOUGHEED-Is that tbe Bill
to lmsure the retura of goverament members
in Prince Edwnrd Island ?
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-It Is -a a3mail matter,
'Hlon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-The more you
and not wortb wblle dlscusslng. We can- do for Prince Edward Ishand la money matters the greater opposition the goverament
flot imnake any change.
recelves la the country.
Hon. Mr. COX-It Is $20,000 a year.
Hon. Sir MÂCICENZIE BOWELL-The
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I wll cahi the ettenhon, gentleman speaks from experience, hie
tion of the Màinister of Finance to It.
obtained $100,000 for bis small constîtuency,
Tise motion was agreed to, and the Bill and then they would not nominate hua, so
passed tirougli Its final stages under a that hie knows what hie is talking about.
suspension of the ruhe.
Hon. Mr. P~ERGUSON-We heard some
TELEGRÂPHIC SERVICE TO GREAT person say that the Liberals neyer kept any
of thier promises; but perliaps my boa.
BRITAIN BILL.
friend wihl feel obliged to me if I point out
SECOND READING.
an instance wliere a promise bas been kept,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Moved tise second rend- perliaps a hittle tardily. I attended a meetlng of Bill (201) Au Act to assist in main- ing at Elmira during the last election, tie
taîniag an independent and efficient service tlrst meeting hehd lni Rings county wien the
of telegraphic news from Great Britain for governmnent candidate promised tbe railwny,
publication in the Canadian Press.
and if hie did not get it lu oae year lie would
,He said: For some years a subsidy of neyer ask tie people to vote for Ilim again.
W5.000 lias been paiS to a compaay to izup- Tbis is the fourti session, anid lie wîi bie able
ply thse newspaper press of Canada with to go back and tell the people "Weil I did
European news. Tie grant terminates the not get it in a year, but 1 got it."
present year. Tlie people w-ho are engaged
LOUOIIEED-It does not fol*Hon. M-Nr.
ln tbe business, the press of the country. l0w that the governuiient whhl ýbuild this
have pressed. the g-overnment to continue it
railway. because it lias been put ln the
for a couple of years longer. They say tint
estiniates.
the service is not self-sustaining, and they
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-How lor.- is thie road?
bave asked to have it-continued. It is being

1548

SENATE

'Hon. :Mr. ROBERPTSON-Tb irteen miles. 1
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL--Can
the hon. Secretary of State tell what It 'nl
cost?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I could not.
some hon, gentleman will know.
pretty level country.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Some of them $500
each.

Hon. 'Sir MACKENZIIE BOWELL-They
run from $500 to, tliree or tea thousand
Perhaps dollars each. 1 suppose we are to understand that the different constItuencies cau
It is a
be bouglit for that prlce?

Hon. Mlýr. DOMVILLE-They wil] flot rewas
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-It
quire to be built a second time.
stated la the Ilouse that it would c(>st
Hon. M1.ROSS (Halifax)-A good. many of
$400,000-about $30,000 a mile.
those Items are renewals of former grants.
Hon. ',%r. LOUJGHEED-According to our
Hoa. Sir MACKEINZIE BOWELL-And
You
experience, that wou]d be $00,00.
unless the elections corne on tbey wil be
double the goverament estimate.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There la only allowed to lapse.
The SPEAKER-I would draw the lion.
$30,000 voted towards it. I may say that
I have beau over the ground very 0f tan, gentleman's attention to lhe Bill whichi is
aud it la as near n dead levai for that dis- before the House.
tance as I cnn imagine.
The motion was agreed to and the Bill
crooked will was read the second time.
Hon. Mr. DOM'%ILjILE-How
It be?
TEILEGRAPHIC NEWe SERVI-CE FROM
Hon. -Mr. FERGUSON-I do not know
GREAT BRITAIN BI-LL.
where they get 13 miles. Tan miles is very
SECOND ANI) THIRD READINGS.
much nearer. It Is throug-h the centre of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second rendThare is
an absolutely level country.
ing of Bill i201) An Akct to assist in mainscnrcaly n roi! ln that distance.
taining an Independent and efficient service
Hon. Sir ,M'ACKENZIE BOWEI-An of telegraphic news from Great Britain for
absolutely level rond, equal to the prairie, publication ln the Canadian press. He said:
is to cost $30,000 n mile.
Some years ago a susbsidy was granted to
a concern in London, England, for the purHon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-No.
pose of gathering and sending news to the
Hon. Sir MACIiKENZIE BOWELL-If it Canadian press. The grant for sorne years
is only 13 miles and la to cost $400,000 that was $15,000 a year. It man out this year
is a large sum.
and they pressed to have.it continued for
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEE*D-I think my hon. tliree years longer. This Bill proposes to
friend from Belleville need not be uneasy take authority from parliament to coniply
about it, because the govaramant will see with their request. The first year the sui
of $9,OO0 is to be paid. the next year $12,000,
that it will cost-that.
and the following $3,000.
Hon. M-Nr.FERGUSON-There must be
Hon. .\r. LOUGHEED-Why the rapil
over-classification before it will cost that.
aiscent from nBine to twvelve thousand. and
BOWIDLHon. Sir MACKENZIE
the more rapid descent frorn twelve to thirce
Could the hon. gentleman assure the House thousand?
that this rond will be commeacad. before
Hou. Mr.. SCOTT-The presumption L%
the general election,' becausa I intend to
they ouglit to be able to mnake it self-suscaîl the attention of the Housa to the fact
the l)apers
that for the province of Nova IScotia alone, tain1ing,' that we ought te assist
until it is on that basis, and it la proposed
in the hast supplementary astimates subto continue the subsidy three years longer.
mitted to parliament, there wara no les
than 142 appropriations for harbours and
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It la scarcely
wharfs and ditches and aIl that sort of probable that they will do that if thev can
thing.
assess tlue goverament.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JULY 14, 1908

1549

JULY 14, 1908

1549

The motion wis ggreed to. alud the BIH! was exercising ia refusing to pay certaniî
demanda which lie contended were contrary
passed throug-h its final stages.
to law. He asked. to have the Audit Act so
OFFICE 0F THE AUDITOR GFJNERAL. amended that lie could l)rev-ent wbat lie Imdicated In as plain language as possible, were
SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
frauds upon the revenue, and under those
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read- circumstancea hie bad a row with tbe goving of Bi (2081_)
An Act respecting the ernment, whicli resulted lu his resignation.
salary of the Auditor General. He sald: The late Auditor Generai w-as
one of the
This Bill is for the purpose of recognizing hardest working deputy iîeads in the service
the payment of $5,000 a year to the of the government. So assiduous was h,2
Auditor Generai.
lu the performance of bis duties, thiat lie
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It only cIiangî, rau aniuck against the bonds of the difierent
departments and to sucb an exteut that tlie
thec salary.
l)resent goverument made it so uncomfortHon. Mr. SOOTT-Tbat la ail.
able for hlm thnt rather than continue ini
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-Was there flot his position witli the restrictioua placed
a distinct refusai to increase the salary of uiponl him, and the attempta to deprive hlmii
the late Auditor Generai. leading up to his of bis powers under the Audit Act, lie reresignation? Can my lion. friend give uis signed bis office. I do Dot know timat the
present Auditor General devotea as miucl
information on that?
time to the performance of bis dutîea under
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-No more than. it lias the Audit Act aa bis predecessor did, if lie
been represented that during the lat year doea, lie richly deserves the advanced salary
tbie cost of living bas increased perceptibly, proposed to be given hlm.
and wben the government came to the conThe motion waa agreed to and the Bill
clusion that the deputy beads should be
pald $5,000 each, tbey included the Audîtor passed throughi Ita final stages.
General.
In Mr. McDougals time the
Auditor General was pald on a par w'Ith tue MANUFACTURE AND SALE 0F OPIUM
PROHIBITION BILL.
deputy heads, except In three of the departInents wbere the deputy lieads were paid
FIRST READING.
extra amounts.
A message was reeived from the House
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My recoilection of Commona witil Bill (205) An Act to proOf wbat led to the reaignation of. the late hibit the Importation, manufacture nand sale
Auditor General is that lie asked the gov- of opium for other 'than medicinal purposes.
ernanent to make some amendments to the
Tlie Bill was rend the first. time.
Audit Act to enable hlm to discliarge li9
duties efficiently, and w'hen the goverîiment
Hon. 8fr. SCOTT *moved tInt the Bill
refused to, make those chang-es, lie asked be read the second tlune to-'morrow afterfor superaJnnuation.
I do not reîiember noon. He said : lion. gentlemen are awnre
that Mr. McDougnl ever pressed for an iii- that in the province of Britishi Columbia the
crease of salary. I do not thhik we have opium trade bas become a very Important
had the amendments to the Audit Act for part of the business of two cities there,
wbicb Mr. McDougal nskzei, aumi in view and large amounts are being invested in it
of the immense expenditures going on now, trom year to year, and a good deal of
there onglit to bie every facility giveul the opium Is being ismuggled from that proAuditor General to Investigate.
vince into the United States. An aittenipt
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWErlL-M~y is b~eiag made in nearly ail the clvilized
bon. friend from Marabfield la quite correct, c-ountries of the world to stanip out the
but lie did not go quite far enougli. A Bil opium trade. RecentIy it wns stopped in
was lntroduced in the House of Commons Ceylon and one or .two other Britisb colonamendinir the present Audit Act, depriving les, and la Sumatra. It la on the strength
the Auditor General of certain powers 0f the report of Mr. McKenzie-King, who
wbicbli h ad under that Act, and which lie bas been lnquii-ing into the opium trade In

1550

SENATE

SENATE
1550
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The government
Vancouver and Victoria, that this Bill lias
lias been a consenting party to the imporbeen introduced.
tation of opium, and lins been deriving a
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-What provision, revenue from the trade.
if any, lias been made to give sufficient time
Hon:' Mr. SOOTT-I do flot îï-now wben
to dispose of opium In stock?
it began, but It is very degrading altogether.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tliey will have t0 take Lt sliould neyer have been allowed. Tliey
it out of the country. Lt will flot do t0 let are smnuggling It Into the United States,
tlie trade go on here.
and our neiglibours are very Indignant at
our tolerating It.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Does the Act
The motion was agreed to.
corne linto force by proclamation?
The Senate adjourned until to-rnorrow nt
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It cornes into force cleven o'c]ock.
as~ soon as It i assented to.

Hon. 'Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-Tbere
is a good deal of sentiment on this question, and It lias been deaIt wltli by several
countries. The history of it, as far as
Canada Is concerned. is one of some Interest ; but until we see whîat the provisions
of the Bill are, I amnfot in n position to
deni wlth It.

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA, Weduesday, July 15, 1908.

FIST DISTINCT SITTING.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eleven
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wliat revenue o'clock.
lias the government been deriving. front the
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Importation of opium?

amlounit and mention it to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. FERGU SON-I suppose the object of the Bill is to suppress opium deus?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thie only question Is
wliether w-e ouglit to give tinte for the disposai of stock on biand. Tliat lias been discussed very of ten in other countries. Lt is
feit that tlie opium trade is a great evil.
that it is destroying body and soul of people addicted to the use of the drug. The
habit is making great lieadway iii Britishi
Columbia. Numbers of the whbite lbopulaition. soute of tbemi womien. frequent the
opium deus and ar-e under the influence of
opiur for days together. Nothing coulid be
more degrading aud destructive to niorahity
than the existence of sueh -tn evil, and,
itherefore, it is flot a druz thiat you ca
.give timie to those in the trade to dispose
pf. Tliey wvant a number of years :the '
,%ay it will take sonie years to 'get rid of,
their stock, but w-e could never dreatn of
;allowing anything of fliat kind. Lt would1
be compromising with a trade that is noNwý
condemned tliroughout the Christian wor](d.

Hon-. Mfr. SCOTT.

PENSION 0F INTERCOLONIAL
WAY EMPLOYEES.

RAI1ý

INQUIRY.
Hon. «.Nr. M.%cSWEENEY inquired
1. How many Intercolonial Raiiway

.rn-

ployees have been pensioned under the provisions of the Provident Fund P
2. Their namnes and the amount granted
eacli one since the first of January, 1908 ?
3. Also, the number of applicants for pensions since the first day of January, 1908

lIon. Mr. SCOTT-The answer given me
Is ns foliows
To

No.

1

Intercolonial

Railwny

em-

ployees--------------162
Prince Edward Island
ployees................1-2

Railwny

cmi-

Total..-------------174
'To No. 2 the list of the naines and the
amnount of tlie retiring alloWance in eacli
case is attaclied.
As to No. 3, tlie answer is 45. I have a
Ilst of the naines whicli I shall band to the
hon, gentleman to see wliat lie wants done
w-ith it.

JULY 15, 1908

1551

and the langer portion, leaving very little,
la given to the public business, and 1 canINQUIRY.
not posslbly be expected to do everything.
It was after 12 wben I went to bed last
lion. Mr. LANDRY inqulred :
nlgbt, and 'between 4 and 5 o'clock tbis
1. 's it true that the government hias or- morning when 1 awakened.
dei-Pd an inquiry into the conduet of Mr. J.
McGovern, foreman of the Intercolonial RailHon. Mr. LANDRY-I was. net under a
way between Unvs and Rivière du Loup P
wrong Impression wben I tbougbt It was
2. lias this inquiry been ordered as the
resuit of grave accusations of peculation a public matter. It la not a private matbrought against this employee ?
ter. It ls not for myseif I want It.
3. What is -the (preeise mature of the accusations the truth of which the commissioner
lion. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Stands untîl
holding the inquiry lias been ordered to find
cext session.
out ?
4. Whio lias been appointed commissioner
lion. Mr. LANDRY-No, we shail not
to hold the inquiry P Is it Mr. T. C. Burpee,
of Moncton P If not, who é
pi:oro-gue before 1 get an answer to that
5. When was the appointment made. and q uestion.
whien is the inquiry to commenceP
lion. M.SCOTT-I bave an answer, not
The SPEAKER-The question bias been
as to the question as put now, but fis it pnu-tially answe-ed.
The hou, gentleman
wne~ put a day or two ago.
could put another question.
The information asked for in these quesHlon. Mr. LANflRY-I thi*nk I will take
tions mny be embodied in one repis : Mr.
Burpee, engineer of maintenance and ways ont of this question ail that bas been anof the Intercolonial Railway, lnvestlgated swered, so that It shahl fot appear so forcertain complaints made concerning Mr. midable wben It comes back, and, witb the
McGovern some time ago, and as a resuit good will of the minister I may obtain an
of bis report the management of the road nnswer. The minister ls doing ail be eau
luive been asked to make certain changes to get those answers, but I tbiuk there Is
a man la the department, wb-Io, under tbe
lu the staff.
false pretense of playing me a trlck, isHon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose we bave doIng an injury to the minister. lie stands
only a deduction, to make from that an- against the minister's will, because 1 know
swer. lias tbis inquiry been ordered as that the lion, gentleman would do aIl bie
the resuit of grave accusations o! pecula- possibly conld to give me proper answers,
tion? Is It out of order to ask that ques- but that mau does not answer. I will put
my question la a milder form and will
tion?
try to get round the difficulty. If w-e canHon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot think- it Is. not get It tbe front way, we shahl have to
1 do not know auy reaison why it sbould ho make a flank movement.
out of order.
DELAYED RETURNS.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-The hon, gentleman
INQUIRY.
mnens that it is in order?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY rose to inquire w-bon
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-That is muy off-hand does the
goverument think it wl bie able
opinion. I have iiot had mnuch time to to liy on the
Table o! this lionse the followformi an opiion.
ing documents, the production of w-bich w-as
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-And w-hen we agree ol7dert'd duning the present session, at the
that that question is la order, could we not dates mentioned:
agree that it is convenient that an answer
(a) The statement indicating the amounts
sbould be given to that very orderly ques- spent on the Deschambault wharf-4th FebruaryP
tion.
(b) The correspondence exch*-anged between
the Department of Militia aad Lt.-Col. DavidHon. Mr. SCOTT-There are no more son re the later's dismissal and the promothan tweuity-four iiours of my life each day, tion of Sir Henry Pellatt to the rank of colonel-l4th February P
ACCUSATIONS AGAINST J. McGOVERN.

SENATE

15h

PRLSONE US ON PAROLE.
(c) The details asked for on the subject of
IQIY
additional suliscription of $200,000 to the
the
IQIY
capital stock of the Quebec Bridge and Rail?
way Cornpany-29th January
lion. Mr. LANDiRY inquired:
(d> The statement showing what wvas the
What has been the number of prisoners in
dair Pay of the soldiers of the Comnpany No.
during each
2 of the Ottawa Field B3tt,-ry ini 1865 and peniteatiaries liberated on parole
year since the governent has exercised that
1866-l7th March ?
?
He said: 1 wouid asic that paragrapli ç power
Holu. Mr. SCOTT-The number is as f olI have received the debe omltted, because
Perbaps the lows:
tals asked for In tbat case.
1899-1900..............71
one from the
bon. member bas the last
122
1900-1901 .. ................
Departmeat?
Militia
1901-1902.............157
1902-1903.............113
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In reference to that,
1903-1904.............122
I asked the-officiai particularly charged witb

126
19

that matter-wrote a private note to the
deputy minister uuking if lie would not

ifl1oo...........
190-19...........

seud one of the officiais of the department
to the hon. gentlemnan's rooin here.

1906-190l7.............157
1907-1W..............215

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I saw the officiai
ie said the information
yesterday, and
would lie given this niorning.

]IAILWAY CROSSINGS.
INQUIRY.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Before tbe orders
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He lins not given it to
of the day are called, 1 wlsli to direct my
me yet.
attention once more to a reHon.Mr.L.ANRY-e shll ive imhon. friend's
0f
wbich I moved for toon the 27tli
'turn
rallway crossI will let the notice March iast with regard
a littie more time.
1 presume this la the last reference
ings.
stand until to-morrew morning.
THE BLECTO>RAL LISTS IN QUJEBEC.
INQURY.ment
INQUIRY.ings
Hon. Mr. LANDRY rose to inquire:
1. Are there any eleetoral iists which, although in farce, have not yet been sent to the
Clerk of the Crown in Chancery, accordiag to
the requirements of section 12 of chaptex 46
of the Revised Statutes of Canada. 1906 ?
2. Which are the municipalities, inthe
province of Quebec, which have not yet conthe iaw P
formed with this requirement cf ]ists themEither with regard te the electeral
selves, or with regard te the changer~ made
thereto by the revisien required by law ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have only seen that
110W.

I amn golng to make to It. A partial statewas brouglit down covering 66 crossand the remainder was promised inter
My bon.
on. I do not expeet to get It.
friend ma', try, but I think lie wili not get
t
My object in movlng for It was simply
t.
to give the Railway -Commission officiais an
ttmnst
h
eiyn
opruiyo
ttmnste
h
eiyn
opruiy0
Tliey
had made before Our commlttee.
a retura sufficient to show that
have made
their statements were Inaccurate, and 1
arn satisfied they are flot suppiying the balance because they know tliey are in a hiole.
DO'MINION LANDS ACT AMEND'MENT

ILANDRY-Tbat is one of theBIL
Hon. M-Nr.
SECOND READING.
inconveniences resulthng frein not having
The order of the day being caihed:
the orders of the day printed.
Second reading Bill (181) An Act to conHon. Mr. SCOTT-We cannot do any

Thle Bureau is working niglit and solidate and amend the Acts respecting the
more.
The eiectorah iists are, under the public lands of the Doininion.-(H-on. Mr.
day.
iaw, sent regularly, when they are revised, Scott.)
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I object to proceedto he ler
oftheCroil n Cancry.
it is distributed.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-All 1 want to know ixug with this Bill until
SCOTT-It was distributed yesHon. McNl.
sent?
is, if thosp. lists have been
terday.
Tfhe notice w-as allowed to stand.
Ho7u. Mr. LANDRY.

JIiLY 15, 1908
In that respect
'Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I have not seen the speak the two lauguages.
they have the advantage of us, and they
Frenchi copy.
ought to be satlsfied from the national
,Hon. 131. SOOTT-I presume thut for the standpolnt If -the Bill la. prlnted In French
second reading there will be no diffculty lu later on. 'The hon, gentleman understands
using the English edîtion.
Englisli as well as French, and, therefore,
Hou. Mm. LANDRY-The B3ill should be lt is flot fair to block the publie business
of the country for an objection tbat is not
printed lu both languages.
really worthy of the hon, gentleman slmply
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I presume my hon. because, towards the end of the session, It
friend will flot takre that* objection.
becomes practically Impossible to keep Up
Hon. -Mm. LÂNDRY-I certainly shall. 1 wlth the work unless you quadruple your
The force is at work ail the time,
have frequently walved the objection for staff.
but tbey cannot keep up with the work at
the sake of harxnony.
0f course we can extend the
this perlod.
Hon. Mr. iSCOTT-It Is the firat tine I session another week and walt for the
have known such an objection to be taken, translation If bon. gentlemen think that Is
where superhuman efforts have been made best.
to advance the work. This Bill was printHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
ed lu both nguages and distributed last
hon. gentleman tells us this Bill was printsession, but was held over because It was
is
It was introduced this ed and circulated, last session-that
so voluminous.
session, and some few changes were made twelve monthe ago. M! at have the offimontbs that
Lt necessarily claie beeil doing for twelve
ln the House of Commons.
bave the Bill laid
had to go through the French chunnel again they were flot able to
b.efore parliament untîl we had been lu
The Bureau Is not
and be re-printed.
session six or seven months, and now they
quite equal to ail the labour pressed on it
ask us to suspend aIl the miles and. the
at the end of the session, and some allowconstitution itself lu order to enable them
ane must be mnade for the circûumstances.
to rush a Bill of 104 clauses thirough parYou cannot have a double force towards
liament iii about 104 minutes. That is
the close of the session wlthout very greatabout our position.
ly Increasing the expense.
Elon. 'Mr. SCOTT-The Bill was reprintHon. '.%r. LANDRY-I admit there la no ed this session with very voluminous. notes
fauit on the part of the officiaIs of this explaining the changes that were made lu
House, but we are face to face with a con-. the iaw as it stands.' There are verv voludition of affairs whlch I wish to see ended. minous notes for the information of every
If they are not able lu the 'House of Com- one. 11, the House of Commons, there
mous to translate and furnish us with the were certain changes to wvhichi I shall be
Bis as they are sent to us, 1 'want, to fiud very giad to call attention when the House
'where the fault lies, and I shahl certainly la in committee, so that bon. gentlemen
We bave only me- will be thoroughly seized of the amendInsIst on my objection.
ceived no-% the copies lu French of the meuts to the law as it lias exlsted ln past
It la time this years.
journals of two years ugo.
1 do not say there
delay was ut un end.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-Can my hoit.
la fouit on the part of the minister or the
goverument. but there la fault somnewhere, friend lay upon the table the information
when 1 oaiked for yesterday with reference
and I waut to fiud where it la.
to the area that It is proposed to, throw
Hon. 31r. SCOTT-It la simply because open to homestend pre-emption ?
there la not staff enough. Lt lsan question
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have a memo of ItL
Surely we ought to exercîse a
of money.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Thult Informalittle common seuse la dealing wlth a subhappy'to recog- tion might be interesting to the House
I amn
ject of this kiud.
nize the fact that the hon. gentleman, and during the period while the translation into
ahi of his nationality lu thîs House, can French Is being completed.
9S
~~vi~n

1~T)T'rTON

1554

SENATE

SEXATE
1554
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There are 28,000,000 The area ln the part nnder w-hiclh present
acres In the area; commencing some dis- ýhomesteaders have the right to niake, a
tance w-est of Moosejaw extending to a second homestead and to buy the adjoinpoint some distance east of Calgary on ing lot, is limited, as 1 said before, to the
the Canadian Paciflc Railway and from tie aren I descrlbed mast now. In that area
International boundary te township 44. there are 28,000,000 acres and the homeWlthin that area only are the duplIcate steaders can now settie on either the odd
homesteads lssued under thls Bill. In the or even numbers. 1 think I have answerBill of last year It was general-no re- ed the question of the hon. leader of the
striction; now the duplicate homesteads opposition. I think that la the iusual courwlth the riglit to re-purchase 160 acres are tesy.
himited to the area I have descrlbed.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I ask very many
qupstions and neyer get an answer.
Hon. Mr. LOTTGEED-There wIll be
28,000,000 acres available for pre-emption,
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Better get the leaor available for homestead and pre-emption der of the opposition to nsk them.
-whch is it?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Does the lion, geniHon. Mr. SCOTT-That Is the fuil amount tleman persiat ia bis objection ?
in the area I have described.
Hon. '.%r. LANDRY-Certainly 1 do.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That does flot
MAJOR'S HILL PARK BILL
apply only to the pre-emption ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, there ls a preemption outside of that.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No, that Is the total
area of land available for homestead.
Hon.i.

SCOTT-I think not.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Thie law, as it
stands to-day, perinits of homestead entries being *made on surveyed even numbered sections. Consequently, the substantial ameudment te the Act lies ln revivlng
the old pre-emptive right of the settier,
and mnaling provision for lands that may
be taken up for that pnrpose. I want to
know the area of land that w-ill be available for pre-emption as distinguished* from
hioniestead?

THIRD READING.
The House resolved itself into a Committee of the Wlîhole House on Bill (89) An Act
to authorize the sale to the Grand Truink
Railway liompany of Canada 0f a portion
of Major's Hill Park, Ili the city of Ottawa,
as a hotel site.
(Iu the Commnittee.)
Hon.. Mtr. 1,OUGHEED--Can my bon.
friend sny nt the moment w-bat the restriction referred to in the Ordnance and
Admiralty Land Act in the preamble of the
Bill, where It says, 'And subject to the restrictions w-ith regard to the sale thereof
Those lands w-ere
prescribed by sRid Act.'
handed over to Canada by the imperial governmiient.

Hou. '-%I. SCOTT-robably if I just
lon. Mr. S,ýCOTT-No, they w-ere reservread the figures the hon. gentlemen will ed by Canada.
At the time tbey w-ere
uniderstand. The area alloted to the rail- taken over by the Orduance Departmnent,
w-ays. the odd nuinbered section, amounts they w-ere divided into two sections. Onie
to 32.000,000 acres, and abont the saine w-as open for sale, for instance aIl 10w-er
number. 31.000.000 to 32,000,000, have been town w-as beld open for sale; theni there
takzen up as hiomesteads and disposed of. w-ere certain lands. sncli as the land w-e
The total area of good lands -as estimated are on now, the park and Nepean Point. reat 170,000,000 acres, and fromn that yoti served for muitary purposes.
w-ill dednct 64.000,000, being 32,000,000 takea
Hon. _qir 'MACKDNZIE BOWýEL-Is net
Up on account of the railways, and 32,000,000 taken np or supplied as hoxnesteads. the reservation to w-hich my hon. fîiend
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

JULY 15,1908
JU'LY
refers thiat the imperial governmnent can, if
tliey tbink proper in case of necessity, or
war, re-assume ail this property?
Flou. Mr. .SC{JTT-Obi no, nlo,
reservation of that klnd.

11o;

flo

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-This
property belonged to the imperial governLt wvas lianded over,
nient at on1e tirne.
when ail these ordnance lands were banded
over, to the goverlrnent of Canada under
I do flot think it
certain conditions.
aniounts to auything, but I an under the
Impression tliat tlîat Is the reservation to
whlciî the Bill refers.
Apart froîti that, I
do not know that there is anytiuing to be
galined by a discussion upon tis question,
becanse I take it for granted the Fluse will
pass the Bill before us. I siînpiy rise for
the purpose of entering my protest against
the alienation of any portion of that park
l)rÔperty for biotel purposes, for the reasons
whicb have been advanced by others. Most
of' us will remember-I arn quite sure rny
lion. friend will remember-the time wlien
that property was handed over to the clty
-of Ottawa for park purposes, conditional
.tbat they would keep It ln n state of, shall
1 say repair, or at least that tbey would
keep it in a state that wiIl be a credit to
the city.
Wh7len the government camne back
to power la 1878, or shortly afterwards,
they re-assumed the ownersbip of that prol)erty ou account of the state iii wbich they
found it. If my recollection serves me, 1
thlnk the hon, gentleman from Wellington
took exception to that nt the time, as incurrlng a large ]iabllity upon the Dominion
which shou]d bie paid by the corporation of
the clty of Ottawa, for the reason that It
became a part of the city.
I need not
enter Into the istory of it further.
We
know w-bat took place siiice that timie; tens
of thousands 0f dollars have been spent la
the beautîfying of the park and in the erection of buildings for the purpose of cuitivating flowers and so on.
Subsequently,
the policy enunclated by the Prime 'Miniister,
that Ottawa should bie made the Washington of the North, înduced the governunent,
and parliament sustaiaed it, to boan or ndvance a very~ large amont of money. runnîng up, I think. nearly to a million dollars,
ia order to beautify tln,, city, not onily the
9si

1555

1555
15, 1908
park, but other portions of the city to make
it a credit to the Dominion.
I arn not
aware thiat the opposition or auy one' took
any serious objection to that course; but
now when you have It in an attractive condition you alienate the best and mosf consplcuous part of the park for hotel purposes.
WVhen the botel is constructed on the site
which they have obtalned I have no doubt
It will be a credit, so far as the architecture
of the building is concerned, yet you make
the whole of the rear part of the park a
plnyground for the benefit of the hotel. It
will be nothing more nor less than just a
back yard to the hiotel.
I tbink It Is a
policy that ougbit not to be adopted, and
the city of Ottawa sbould have taken
stronger grouinds than they did la order
to prevent the alienation of any portion of
it.
Hon. Mr. PROST-I an just afraid our
hon. friends of the opposition do not quite
understand the position of the Ottawa Improvement Commission la respect to this
very part of tbe city.
*MaJor's Hi111 Park
will not be used as'a playground for the
guests of the hiotel; the park, ls there for
the wlhole city, and the Ottawa Improvement Commnission, apart from the exact
site upon whicb tue hotel wlli stand, can
close the park.
It is under their control,
and will nlways *be so, as long as the Ottawa Iînproveinent Commission exists. The
money which Is to bie pald for the hotel
site by the Grand Trunk Itailway is to bie
expeuded to extend the park on down to
Nepean Point and to create another driveway, which wili run not only through the
city, but tlirough the country, and I arn
satlsfied that wç%hen these improvements are
conipleted by the commission, not only wll
the Senate of Canada, but I believe the
whole Dominion w'ill be proud of It, as
they are proud to-day of the work tbiat bas
nl1ready been accomplished by that commission.
W%ýe
might Just as well say that the
driveway along the canal is the back yard
0f thè bouses that are adjoining or abutting
on to the pnrkway, as to say thiat the
'Major's Hill Park is to be made the back
yard of the botel.
We have just as much
reason to say it lu one case as ln tbe other.
Any one w-ho -wihl take a walk ln Major's
Hi Park, and see the section of ground

1556

SENATE

1556

SENATE

that Is fenced off for ftle purpose of fhe
liotel, and wlll notice whit a very large
proportion of fIe park stili reinaiins for the
benefit o! fIe city, will see nt once fIat
there la no ground for the objectionîs whicl
our frlends are taklng f0 the bote] site.
The whole matter lias been sufficiently
guarded, nof only by fIe city counceil, but
hy fhe governent, and I arn safisfied. as
I have already said, tînat when If is coinplefed and fIe park Is extended my lion.
friend wlll lie fhoroughly sitisfied fIat fihe
commission have donecIlicir duty and fIat
It will lie a pride f0 flie wliole country.

wbile the Commission exercise confrol,
they do so under the governnient. Tlîey
are a commission of the governmiienf, and
the goverament can reverse wiîat tlîey do
If they see fit. The expenditure of every
dollar of money has to be submitted f0
the goverament..
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Was tiiere any
active protesf against this? Did tlie Comimission protest f0 the goverument ngniinst
making a sale of this land to the railway
for liofel purîposes?

There wnas no
Hon Mr. FIIOST-No.
protest against If, because 1 thiuik flie
ýHon. V5fr MACKENZIE BOWEI.-I aîn Commission were well satisfied that the
exceedingly obliged for fIe Information flic hotel ifself would bie, as it Is going f0 lie,
lion, gentleman has given mie axid flie ln barmony with the parliainent buildings
Huse. 1 arn under the impression that I and with the uew~ departmcuntal building
undersfand fIe dut les and flic povers- 0f that la eventually fo be bult tupon Sussex
flic commission as well as rny lion. friend street. This building will be in harrnony
1 did not say fliaf if wis f0 lie exdoes.
with the whiole of these buildings as far
clusively fIe bnck yard or the l)laygrouuid
as architecture is concerned, so tat if
1 said If would bie uscd as
of fhe hotel.
wll fot lie an eyesore.
sudh, and the people of Ottawa or other
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I had no idea of
people who corne here would nof lie deprived of golng Info fIe park any more speaking on this subject, but 1 fhlnk every
tian they are now; but thnt does not hon. gentleman sliould express au opinion
change my position la flic least.
on the question at Issue. My hon. friend
Thaf word
referred to flie opposition.
Hon. MNr. FROST-I took flic statemnenlt
should not lie used ln thtis Senate so far
made by thc hon, gentleman as tentamtout
This la
to saying that flic park will be rnerely flic as any opposition Is coneerned.
n matter where political opposition or feelbackynrd o!f the liotel.
lng docs not coioe la. If is no question
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL,-So If wliatever of polities, and is enfirely indew-i bie.
pendent o! any political parfy, and I think
Hon. Mr. FROST-And also if was f0 lie if is not rig-lif that the gentlemen lu fhls
fIe playground; but if is to lie for flic wîole Senate wiîo have a thorougli acquaintance
cify and n large proporftion o! flic park re- with this mnatter, gentlemen who are iii
a position f0 lie thoroughly Independent
mains for fIat purpose.
do flot on Ihis occasion-and I say so wifli
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. friend,
a good deal of respect-give expression to
lu informing fIe CharnIer of the facf tînt
opinions wheu, undoubtedly, their silence
flic Commission exercises confrol over flic
is as eloquent as their words would be.
Major's Hill Park, onîiitfed f0 say whethler
Thiat wvould go to show thaf senators are
fhey exercised comîfrol at thc time o! flic
by fo iieans lu linrmony lin their views o!
alienation of titis land te flic Grand Trunk
this matter. As flie hon. gentleman froin
Railway, or aun 1 f0 uîidcrstand tînt flîey
Belleville said, titis land wvas banded ove."
rnorenfnrily 10sf confrol. and that some
by the borne governinent, as public proother aufhorify sfeppcd lu and disposed
parfy, jusf as the oriuance lands were ia
XViII ny hon.- friend'say
0f fhe property?
Kingston, nnd Sir Jolin Macdonald would
wliether thc Commission was a c'nseiifing
neyer, lu bis lifetime, allow auy I)nrfy iii
party f0 this sale wlidl lias faken pince?
Kingsfon te niienafe one inch o! those
Hon. Mr. FROST-I mniglif say for flic grounds. He lad an idea tînt the home
inîformation of flic Ion, gentleman, tInt goverument miglif at somte time demnand
Hon. Mr'. FROST.

JULY 15, 1908

them, and It was only after bis deatb that
the lands were sold. However, thiat ls
nlot the question. The question is as to
the principle that this part of the great
system of adornment of the capital city
of Canada, should be interfered witii, just
in the same manner as selling the Niagara
Falls. Some peop]e are so entirely devoted
to maklng money that they have an Idea
of glving the falls over to capitalists for
the purpose of generatlng electricity, and In
that way supplying factories wItb motive
power.
I hope that this vanidalism will niever be
consuminated.
Lt would be far better that
the falis should be allowed to remnain iii
their present condition as one of the greatest wonders of the world. The samne' priaiciple Ia at stake lu the attempt to destroy
tbils beautiful pari..
I wonder If any othier
body of gentlemen or any other corporation
had made application for this beautiful site
for any commercial purpose if tbey wouid
have obtalned it? I regard it as a concession to a large and powerful rallway corporation such as lias neyer been granted to
others.
It wIll Interfere witb the beauty
of a systeui of improvements wivh il tendlng to miake Ottawa the Washington of the
North, and Interfere withi the plans the Improvement Commission have in view for
adornIng the city.
I have not seen tlheir
plans yet, but I presume they will Ulft the
curtalu Borne day and show us sucb a scene
of beauty as wvo bave neyer thoughit of.
This Is an occasion on wbich the Senate
should give expression to thieir views, and
should say whether a part of the public
demnain devoted to the purposes of the
whole inhabitants nlot oniy of the capital
but of the Dominion should be at tbe-disposai of any one wbo puts down enougbi
money to obtain It.
I regret that my hon.
friends here have not taken occasion to express their views, as tbey usually do with
muech eloquence ou an Important principle,
and one whIlh does not involve political
feeling.
Hon. '-%r. POWER-One or two points
naturally strike one la connection with this
matter.
One is that if the banding over
of this piece of Major's Hill Park to the
Grand Trunk Rallway Company la an outrage, how la it there bas been no proteat
fromn the citizens of Ottawa.

15
1557

Hon. .Mr. FE-RGU,SO0N-There have been.
Hon. Mr. POWER-WhVere are tbey?
Hon. Mr. 6ULLIVAN-The city cannot
proteat bere.
Hon. Mr. POWELl-On the contrary, tbe
city council, whio are supposed to represent
the citizens, have been xnost analous tbnat
this business transaction should go tbirougli.
Hon. '.%r. SULIVÂ,%N-AIi1 for the money
part of IL.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I ain nlot sayîng wby,
but they are most anxious to have it consummated. That la one point; I fail to
see tbiat Ottawa ls being wronged or ontraged.
The ]lou. gentleman frorn Smnith's
rals (LHon. Mr. Frost) who is a niember
of the Ottawa Improvenient Commission,
has given the Huse bis assurance thiat the
hotel wlll be of sucb a character nrchiitecturally tbat It will not disfigure tbe landscape.
Hon. -Mr. LOUGH'EED-It will have to
be transparent then.
Hon. -Mr. POWER-We have been lef t
under the Impression that practlcally ail
the remainder of Major's Hill Park besides
this amail fraction of It that is beîng sold
to the Grand Trunk Railwny Company, will
become a sort of backyard for the hotel,
and 1 suppose the biated aliens who wvill
put up at the hotel will disport tbemselves
to the exclusion of the citizens of Ottawa,
in the remainder of the park.
One does
not see as many of the citizens of Ottawa
Ia tbe park as there should be; but If I
were n citizen of Ottawa I sbould be, on
the wbole, rather pleased to see a number
of respectable strangers enjoying the scenery and resting tbemselves there.
L assume that tbe guests wvbo w-i put up at
this hotel, will be people of average respectability nt any rate, sucb as you find
in the Frontenac botel in Qnebec.
Lf one
bad to look at tbe tbing as a completely
new question, and be gulded simply by bis
own taste and jud.-ment, hie miigbt have
one opinion or the other about It, but unider
the circumatances, looking at the stage to
whlcb the matter bas got, there is really
notbing for us to do except to approve of
the measure.

1558
1558

SEýZATE

SENATE
Hon. 'Mr. SULLIVAN-I suppose you Rocky Mountains, where there la no capital
or enterprise to, construct tbemi otherwise,
have a public park in Halifax?
la another tbing. Tbe building of a bote!
Hon. Mr. POWER-We bave.
at Qiiebec was no0 doubt justifiable, but it
is altogetber another tbing for tbe Grand
Hou. Mr. SULLIVAN-How would you
Trunk Railway to buiid a bote! ln Ottawa.
built there?
Ue ta baie a bote!
A company ln the financial position of the
Hon. Mr. POWER-It juat bappens that Canadianl Pacific Railway may go Into side
the fee of Point Pleasant Park is vested la transactions of this kind wbicbi would flot
Lt cou- bie justified la the case of the Grand Trunk
tbe Crown for miiitary purposes.
tains I sbould thiuk about 200 or 300 acres, Railway Company lu its present condition.
and I for one sbiould bave no objection at
Lion. ?dr. WATSON-I do iiot tbink that
ail to seeingan architecturaily auperlor it la fair that, the statem'ent sbould go
bote! located tbere.
abroad that the Grand Trunk Railway is
Hon. .Mr. FERGUSON-I concur lu the lu, a bnd state. Tbe general feeling of the
is
eondemnatiou of this action on the part of public is thiat tbe Grand Trunk Railwiy
the eity of Ottawa and of the goverumen t. on1e of the best systems in Ontario, botli
Lt la very regrettable tbat it sbould bye lu roadbed and equipmrent. The lion. gendoue, but It la nat necessary to accen- tleman, for the sakeo0f finding fauît with
tuate tbat point. Tliere la anotber pbase tlie government, bas made the statenment
of tbis iuntter tbiat w-e shanld not lose slght finit the Grand Trunk Rail-,vay la not lu a
That
of; 1 do not tbink tbe Grand Trunk Rai- financial position ta build a bote!.
Is n statement that sbould not go abrond
way, ut tbe present tîme, bas money ta
It is not warranted by
throw away or burn. I do flot want to uncontradlcted.
the facts. Sa far as tbe location of the
throw any undue refleetion. on the Grand
Trunk Rallway; but it Is well known tbat liotel la concerned, every one wbo visita
the railway systemi requires Immense hin- Ottawa kuows tbat tbere sbould be better
provemeuta ta brlng it Up ta the level of bote! accommodation bere. The bote! ac*
other Canadian ralîroada, say the Canadian commodation of the city is reinarked by
Pacifie Raiiway. They are beblnd in a every one wbo visita the capital ns heing
Tbe bon. gentleman
great many thinga, yet bere tbey are pro- simply disgraceful.
poaing ta expend a million dollars in build- says the Canadian Pacifie Railway were
ing a bote]. L do flot tbink they sbould perfectly rigbt ta build botels ln' thé
be eneouraged lu doing tbat. Lt la the Rock Mountains; but tbe Grand Trunk
duty of tbe Grand Trunk Raiiway ta, pro- Railway sbouid not build a bote! in Ottawa.
tect Its railway system and aupply facili- Other rallroada build batela in the interest
ties for tbe people af Canada wbo are us- of the passenger traffic of tbeir own ronds,
Ing It, lu recognition of tbe very large and if any arrangement eau be made beboans reeelved from tbe people of Canada, tween the ýcompany and tbe goveramneat at
~viba first-clasa bote! will be built at
wbicb bave neyer been repaid by the Grand
Trunk Railway Company. Tbat shaulf be Ottawa It la a very commendabie object.
ln the nilada of the Grand Trunk Railway It la a business proposition ou the part of
people tbemseives, instead of launcbing into tue Grand Trunk Railway, and we hiope it
this bote! project. Because tbe Canadiani wi!! be successful and I believe it will.
Pacific Railway Company bave built lio- Lt la not a matter that bas beeni sprung
tels lu Montreal. Quebec and otber cities on the people of Ottawa or the mlenibers
and bave made themi pay, la no reason why wbao bave heen here for the last few weeks
for
the Grand Trnnk Railway Company abould or moaths. Lt bas been discussed
yeara. Attempts have been made to erect
build a bote! in Ottawa. Tbere is capital
enougb in Ottawa ta bulld a batel, and a good bote! on a sitte owned by the late
the citîzeas, if lef t ta tbemselves, wouid Senator Clemowv, acrosa the street froni
bave provided a liotel, perhaps flot so grand where tliis bote! la ta be ereeted. A coinas this will bie. but quite aufficlent for tbc' pany was organized years ago for tlue purpurpose. The building of baotela la the pose', but it was -a failure. Ottawa was
Hon. Mr. POWER.

JULY 15, 1908

1559

190S

1559

JTJLY 15,

neyer able to enlist sufficient capital tu
build a botel. From the care which is being taken ln conuection wlth the projeet,
I amn satislied the bote] wlll be nlot only
useful, but ornamental and that it wll
flot interfere wlth the park. The small
area fenced off for the purpose of tbe-bote!
wlIll interfere very littIe wlth the park
and If the building la to be ln barinony
witb the public buildings there can be no
objection to It. The goverumeut and the
city have been very particular about the
eity of the building and the'character of
the material, and if the people of Ottawa,
who are more interested than gentlemen
who are bere only for a few months, are
anxious to bave the hotel buiIt we sbould
nlot object. Tbe people of Ottawa have
miade concessions to the Granit Trunk
Railway to bave not only a station, but a
hiotel erected here. -A settiemeut bas been
arrived at. I do not tbiuk the. money consideration sbould enter into tbe question;
but the government Is getting $10,000 for
that littie piece of )and and altogether it
.Is a goôd move on the part of the Grand
Trunk Railway, the government and the
city council of Ottawa, to do wvbat they have
done to accomplisb what they have been
trying to bring about for a nuinber of
years. Wbat I rose partlcuIarly to sny,
wvas, that the statement bf the hon. seator from Marsbfield with regard to the
Grand Trunk Rallway was entirely uncalled for.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Any hon, gentleman who will take up the statistics of the
Railway Department and make the. coinparison for hiniseif wili find that the number of imployees injured on the Grand
Trunk Railway system as coenpared with
the Oanadian Pacific Railway is as four
to one.
That la the story that the statistics reveal. Some lhues of tbe Grand
Trunk Railway may be la excellent condition, but laking the whole systeni, there
munst be somethlng at fault when there is
this large percentage of accidents. A railway that is ln that position would be very
much better employed in perfecting their
systern and Iowerlng tbe percentagé of accidents witb the working of their hunes.
than ln building n hotel.

Hon. -Mr. WATSOX-I bave not looked
over the statistics, but comparing the statistics of people injured ini proportion te the
number of ernployees and of passengers
carried 011 the Grand Trunk Railway witb
similar statistics of other lunes, 1 doubt if
the hon. gentleman's remarks are justified
by the facts. His reflection on the Grand
Trunk Rallway Is of the sanie nature as
bis insinuation against the Board of Railway Coîninissioners w-heu the orders of the
day were called this morning.
Sncb insiutin
are unfair.
I do tiot know that
this Honse bas beeîî furnished with any
inforination by the RItulway Commission
that is net correct.
The bonu. gentleman
did inaie a statemniet to show that tbey
'vere wrong, because bis particular ideas
were miot borne ont by tlic information tbey
furnisme: baut thnit iq lio eviflence that they
wvere liu the wvroing.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSOIN-The bon. gentlemnan is altogether out of order.
He is
ftow dealing with a question that is not before us.
When lie makes a statement
about the loss of life on the Grand Trunk
Railway lie sbould look up the returns and
ffnd ont the facts.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-What bas that to
do with the botel?
Hon. Mr. M ULE -Iexceediugly regret that my esteemed»friend fromi Marshfield sbould bave so far wandered from tbe
patb of prudence as to attempt to cast a
reflection, as lie did by bis remarks, on -the
Grand Trunk Railway.
The Grand Trunk
Railwvay was tbe pioneer Uine of this country, and bas rendered admirable service to
Canada.
In undertaking to build a bote!
at Ottawa, it la only following the examuple
set by the Canadian Pacific Railway and
by niost of the leading railways of tbe
country.
Tbe bon. gentleman is exceediugly indiscreet lu venturing to lecture the
general manager and the board of directors
of the Grand Trunk Railway as to w-bat
they should do about building hotels. Tbe
compauy surely know what they are doiug.
They bave had thîs matter a long tinie under consideration, and bave corne to tbe decision to construct a hotel at Ottawa and
the tirade of tlie bon. gentleman is alto-

1560

1560
SENATE

gether out 0f place.
We are proud of the
Canadian Pacifie Railway, because it is one
of tbe best manag-ed uines on the continent.
WVe also bave a rigbt to feel proud o! the
Grand Trunk Railwny.
It is a good uine
and well and ably managed, and has a
creditable record.
With regard to the site
of tbe hotel, I think It Is a good one.
if
there is any thing Ottawva wvants more than
another it undoubtedly is better hotel aeThe accomModation at precomnîodation.
sent is not creditable to the capital of the
Dominion, nnd I often bave occasion to regret, when proinlent visitors corne to the
capital, that ive have flot better accomîmodation for tbem.
We have inagnificent
botel accommodation ln M-Nontreal, to wbicli
the Canadian Pacifie Ilailway bias contributed immnensely, and wve want a first ciass
1 do îlot think you can devote
hotel here.
a portion of Major's Hill Park to anv better purpose. Major's Hill Park belongs to
the Dominion, flot to the city of Ottawa.
Large sums of money have been spent by
tbe government on the park, nnd the entire
Dominion bas n perfect right to enjoy it.
The best way to enjoy ut is to, erect a coinmodious and comfortable hotel at the south
end of it, wbere it will be central and at
It wilI *be close
the saine time isolated.
to the parliament buildings and convenient
The
to the business parts of the city.
government could flot bave done better thani
to seli a portion of the park for a hotel site.
With regard to, the expeaditure of the purchase price of the site on park improvements, I sbould like to see Nepean Point
added to the park.
It will mnake a loveiy
walk not only for the citizens o! Ottawa,
Everybut for the guests of the bote!.
thing considered, It wlll tend to beautify
Froin what I
that portion of the city.
bave beard witb regard to the hotel plans,
it *wiil be an ornaînent to the city and ln
keeping with the public buildings la tlîe
The Grand Truak Railway devicinity.
serve credit for their eiiterprise, rather than
to bie lectured by any oîîe and told that
their finances do not justify themn l' undertaking the project.

The .CEAIItMAN-I sbould like the lion.
gentlemen to confine themselves to the Bill.
Hon. Mr. FEItGUSON-I bave addresscd
myseif to the Bill, and have no intention
of going beyond it. We have before us a
Bill wbicb proposes to give away property
wbichi beiongs to the Dominion, and in
wbiclî the city of Ottawa ougbt to take a
special interest. We are giving It to a
railway corporation and have a right to
discuss whether tlîat railway corporation
should get it and whetber they should not
ln view of the enormous subventions tbey
have received froîn Canada and knowiig
that this is a pretty bard time for ail
railway companies, devote the money to
improving their lunes rather than to buildlng this hotel. The hon, gentleman fromn
Wellington uudertook to Intimate very 1>0litely, as lie always does, that I have waiidered away fromn the trutb. 0f course 1
did not go to the fountain of truth, the
hion. member, for the Information 1 laid
before the House. 1 question the wisdoni
of looking to sncb a source; I sometimes
think lie does flot possess more than is necessary for his own consumption.
The
view I take of thîs question is that It is
flot the first duty of any railway to, build
liotels. Their first duty is to keep their
roads in good condition and furnish firstclass accommodation for freight and passengers. We would not discharge our duty
la discnssiing this Bill if that point were
not eînphasized. I was not giving a mere
niatter of opinion like the lion, gentleman
froni Portage la Prairie and the hon- gentleman when I said that the statistica
show most eoncelusively that the Grand
Trunk Railway is not as %well
eqtilpped as
othier Unes, the Canadian Pacific Railway
for instance.
Hon. Mr. FROST-Wiil the lion, gentleman tell me hiow many millions tuec Grand
irunk Rnilway bas paid within two or
tbree yenrs for double tracking its line?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I do not know
lîow much).

Hon. Mr. FROST-Tbey bave expended
fifteen million dollars.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-A
number of
speakers bave undertakeni to lecture mue as
Honl. Mr. FERGUSON-The Grand Trunk
going beyond my duty.
Railway may have been doing a great deal,
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN.

JULY 15, 190S

1561

JULY 15, 190S

1561

and doing It usetully ani wc]l; but 1 take Railwav and they are about to build alhotel
the sworn stitistics furnisbed by their when, iu mny Judgnieut, other things should
own officers.
be nttended to first.
I arn disposed, howHon. Mr. FROST-The statistics of tbe ever. to drop tis poiut If the chairmnan:
Grand Trunk Itailwny show -that It ls a says go.
first-clnss and as well equipped road ns
Hou. .%Ir. DOMVILLE-As the lbon, gentiiere is on the continent of Ainerica.
tleman la chasiug ail nround creation to get
Hon. Mr. FEI(GUSON-I always wel- a hnck at the Grand Trunik ltallway and
corne the hon. gentleman's Interruptions.
the government, would I bc lit order followHon. Mfr. FItOST-I do not %vautto ln- Ing hlm ln a liglit straîn to show up Prince
Edward Island and the nirrow vlews taken
terrupt, but 1 want to see the lion, gentleby the people of that province? Would 1
man righit.
be la order to discuss that lu- counectioli
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-The lion, gentle- with the Grand Truuk Railwny hotel?
man refera me to the stntistics of the Grand
Hou. Mfr. FEPRGUSOX-I tbink this la,
Trunik Itailway itselt.
The statistics to
wvbich 1 have been reterring are the sworn just the tixue and place to refer to the quesIt is a very listntîstics of the Grand Trunk Rallway offi- tion I bave brouglit uji.
%cerstbeinselves, Unit are sent te the gov- portant matter. I jolii ln the protest made
It is uotbiug
ernment, and thiese statistîca tell the story. by otbers on this question.
We can draw only one conclusion fromn short of an act of vandallsm to take the
them, and It is tbis; tliat la the matter of front of Major's Hill Park and devote It te
equlpment and lite savlng apparatus and the purposes of a bote!. *That Is wrong lu
arrangements, tbey are not as 'well ad- the first Instance, and even If the clty of
vanced as they ouglit to be. Otberwise, Ottawa bas been carried awny by the prostberè would. not be this grent discrepancy pect of a million dollars belng expended
between the number of lives lest and per- bere, the parlament of Canada should take
1 pushed the argument
sons ijured, on tbat systemn as compared a higlier ground.
a littIe further and ventured to show that
wîtb others.
the Grand Trunk Railway bad other thîngs
Hon. 1fr. COX-Is thé lion. gentleman more Important
for them to do than to
speakîng of the statlstlcs of one yenr, or baud a bote!.
However, as the feeling or
statistics spread over a number of years? the cominmttee Is thatI bave gene far enHon. Mfr. FERGUSON-1 amn speaklng oughi on that, 1 bave no desire to go further
of a number of years; I have tbe tables la wltb my observations.
my possession showing the coniparison for
Hon. '.%r. POWE R-1 ao nlot think the
three years.
hon. gentleman from Marshifield went toc,
The CHAIRMAN-I have to cal the far, nltbough
I thlnk he was goiag quite
bon. gentleman's attention to the tact that far enough,
when lie expressed the opinion
that question does not conie up properly that
the coinpany hiad better spcnd money
la the discussion of this BIII.
la imnproviug their lunes thian building n
Tliat, of course, would be just tbe
Flon. Mfr. FERGUSON--On tlie question hiotel.
of the Grand Trunk -Railway undertaking opinion of the lion. gentleman set up agalnist
to build a biote!, I think the whole question the opinion of the dîrectors of tîme Grand
Trunk Railway Company; but whea lie
comes up.
takes advantage of hal position la parliaHon. M3r. FROST-What lias that to do ment to make a statemnent sucb as be did
with the building of a first cîass bote! lu with respect to the rlsk of human lite on
the Grand Trunk Railway as compared
Ottawa?
wîth another rallway, I think lie Is going
,Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON\T-It lias this to do; much further than bis parliainentary privlwe are givîng a site to the Grand Trunk lege should alîow hlm to go.

SENATE

1562

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-l understood we
liad a ruliug, and 1 ylelded to it and dropMy bon. friend is returnped that iatter.
ing to It ln sucb a niaur as to cali for a
He maises the point that I have
reply.
gone beyoad xny rigbits as a member of
If the House is prepared to
parliament.
I did
permit It I shall be ready to reply.
flot give this as an opinion of my own; I
gave the statisties furnished by tbe Grand
Trunk Railway Company.
Hon. 'Mr. POW'ER-The bon. gentleman
bias made a statement %viiceh is calculated,
If believed by the public, to seriously daniage one of the uiost Imlportant institutions
ia Canada, and I1bave a right as a friend
of the instltutiofl--no partictilar friend, I
wlsh It understood- -to protest against a
I do flot
wrong impression going abroad.
think It Is fair that the hou. gentleman
should use his position as a member of the
Wlbat is
Senate la the way lie bias dioue.
The hon. gentleman takes the
the fact?
mlle.ige of tbe Grand Trunk Rallway and
Canadian Pacifie Raiiway and ivorks out a
snm lu proportion
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I wish W. correct
my hon. friend; 1 did flot do that. I took
the proportionate number of employees, liot
the proportion of mileage.
Hon. Mr. POWEII-Tbe fact is this, that
the Grand Trunk Railway Company's lunes
are in the mnost tbicklypeoffled portions of
Tbe linoes of the Canadian PaciCanada.
fie Raiiway rua across the prairies to
British Coluxubi aud dowu tbrougb tbe
State of Maine and into New Brunswick.
And you caunot compare hiues of tbat kiud.
You have to take these circumistnnces iiito
consideration. and the Grand Trunk Railway are the first coinpany to double track
Tlîe. have double
a liue lu Canada.
the whxole lino froin '.%ontre.il to
tracked
Toronto.
COFFEE-To Chicago.
Hon. M-Nr.
Une beHon. Mr. POWER-And the
tween MNontreal and Toronto bas been accepted, as I understand, after due examination, as tbe standard for the Transcontinental Railway ;and even supposing the
bon. gentleman conscientiously boiievod, or

lon. Mr. POWER.

had persuaded Iimiself, because the hon.
gentleman seems to bave a remarkable
capacity for persuadlng Jilmself that anytbing hie wisbes to be true is true, If hie
hiad persuaded himself it 18 true, I do flot
tbink It le rlght or proper the Senate sbould
be made the medlum of damaglng one
company and helping along another.
BOWELL-I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
should Ile the coammit tee to uniderstand,
s0 far as I amn concerned, I do flot object
to the course beiag pursued as against the
erection of the botel. The only objection
[ had was to the alieaatioa of a portfon of
the park, wvhicb I think ouglit to be lef t
excluslvely as a park. I differ entlrely fromn
those who take the view that large railway
corporations sbould flot build hotels. I tbink
ia the case of the Canadian Pacifie Railway, It bas proved a profit to the coinpaay, and bad the Grand Trunk Railway
foilowed a similar course ln times past, I
belleve it would have been to- their advantage also. I remember very -well wben the
-attempt was made to build a hotel on the
Intercolonlal Railway, that great objection
-was taken to it. I thInk It ls one of the
mîstakes of the management of tbe Intercolonial Railway that for years and years
past they did not erect good, commodious
hotels nt the different seaports and sea resorts, where thousands of people would
have resorted, and the railway.would have
reaped a benefit la the way of passenger
traffic and freight, and the hotels would,
I bave no doubt, have proved a success.
I do flot wish It to bie understood that in
objecting as I diçl to tbe policy of the gov.
ernment tliat it -was on aecount of the
construction of a botel by the railway.
There are plenty of other places on the
other side of the canal that could have been
utiiized for the saine purpose. Nor do I
join in their condemntion of the Grand
Trunk Railway. I bave been travelling on
that railway ever since it was bult, and. I
question vory much, takiug tbe extent .of
the Grand Trunk Railway and considering
the amount of capital that bas been lavestod la it, If thoero is a better railway
on the continent, and at present, altbough
there ilay bave been mistakes lu the past
and thoy bave arisen lu ail probabilit7 from
want of sufficiont funds to put the road

JULY 15,190S

1563

JULY 15, 190S

1563

In proper repair, of ]ate years Canada and
particular]y that portion ln whicb we live,
lias been proud of the equipment and the
management of the Grand Trnuk Raiiway.
It may be true that accidents bave bnppened too numerous to please us, but the
reasons asslgned, which have been stated
by the hion, gentleman from 'Halifax, are
unanswerable. If you compare lt witb the
Massachusetts and other railways wbiere
the country is more densely populated
than it ls even in Ontario and Quebec, we
find from the rec ords of the United States
that accidents and loss of life, unfortunate
though they may be, are quite equal in
tiiose countries, if they do not exceed the
accidents in tbe province of Ontario on the
Grand Trunk, Railway.
Hon. Mr. F'ERGUSON-If 1 bad based
tUic figures on the population of the couintry or the delnsity of population there would
bave been sonie ground for the argument
whlh tbe bon. gentleman refers to of the
'bon, gentleman from Halifax as being unanswerabie; but as I do not have anytbing to, say about the density of the popuilation. aud as I produced statistics showIng the deatbs of employees of the rond,
the "argumeut was not applicable. The
density of tbe population bnd nothIug
whatever to do 'with it, nnd it was not an
opinion of my 0w-n. 7My bion. friend froni
Halifax. wlth bis îîsuai politeuess, snys I
hav'e a way or convincing myseif. I have
a wayI of convincing myseif, but I go to
the records for conviction. The bon. gentlemani bas a way of convincing hiimself by
looking wise and saying thlngs hie does flot
know ainythilng about.
Hon. Mr. KERLR-Tie lion. gentleman
from Marshfield made use of an expression
about gtvilug the land to tlic *rallway comnpany.
I think tliat is a misleading statement.
No doubt lic did not initend to convey that idea. but whcre the government
are recelilhg a very large àum of moncy
as considerition for the land-a vcry hi.-l
sum indeed as coinparcd wîth tie size of
the property and gencrally 1 think with regard to Its valuc-it Is an cntirely misicadiug- statemlent to talk about It as a glIft.
and it coni-cys an entirely wrong impression whcen aniybody rends tbe remarks of
the hou. g-entlemnan.

Hon. Mr. ROSS (Hallfax)-In discussing

a question of this kind, I tliink shiarp personal allusions should be avoided altogether.
Lt is discourteous to the senators wbo use
them, nid I generally try to avoid nnytlnlg
like personalities.
I remember the time,
ln 1807, wbien I traveiled fromn Portland to
Prescott on tbe Grand Truuk Railway when
it was runuing about 12 miles an hour,
wlien there was no accomimodation, no place
to sleep, and it wvas a pretty biard job to
get to Ottawa iu those days. Contrast that
w-ithlich condition of the Grand Trunk
Ltnilwny now, witli ail its modern accommodations, and I think bion, gentlemen will
say tîmat tlîat coinpauy deserves a great deal
of credit.
It is scarcely fair to coatrast
the Grand Truukz IPtailway with the Canadin Pacific Railway.
Tbe Canadian Pacific Iailway wvas built withi the money of
Canada. and a lot 0f the gentlemen la that
company are nîulti-millionnires with the
money they made out of the land that Canada squandered and gave away to them. If
McKenzie's method hiad been ndopted, the
road would not have been bulît so soon,
but the land now belonging to tbat comnpauy wonld be a ricb asset for the DominIon of Canada. MWben McKeuzie was driven
out 0f power tbere werc 17 sections of that
road under contract, and they used to condemn the ulne hie selectcd; but the conlpany
afterwards bad to, adolît the lines tbey had
prevlously coademacd.
So tlîat >McKenzie, with the disadvantages under which hie
laboured when lie commenced the building
of tbat rond, made
èsuchi progeess during the
time tbat was at bis command as was neyer
made afterwards. 1 just risc to say that
It Is scarcely fair to c'ontrast, the wenlth
that lias been given away, I wa~S, going to
say squandered, to the Caxiadianl -Pnc -fic
Railway Conipiny l comparison to the
Grand Trunk Rnilw-ay.
Hou. Mr. F~ERGUSON-Did the Grand
Trunk Railway get notbing?
Hon. Mr. COMEAU, fmom the committce,
reported the Bill without ainendment.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved Uic third rending of tue Bill.
He said: As to the authorlty. to seli, I mny sny tbe land was
tralisferred to the govcmamc'mit of Canada
for the purpose of Canada, and what the

1564

1564

SENATE

goverument of Canada did was to place the
lands in different parts of the country ia
two classes.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-What year w-as
that in?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It wvas first transferred before confederation about 1854 or 1855
for the purpose of the govorament of 'CanThe government of Canada divided
ada.
it into two classes, but they took authority
also from time tu time to change property
1 may say as
from one class to another.
far as the property of the canal is concerned, the goverument of Canada hield for
many years the large block there which
formed the corner of W'ellington street,
and that w-as sold a few years ago by the
lite Senator Clemow to the Lindsay Company. It was held, as lias been observed
by some lion. gentlemen, for n hotel for
some years, and the price the late Senator
Clemow put on lt was $125,000. He neyer
succeeded la fioatlng a company. The area
of that block would be quite equal to the
area for the proposed hotel, s0 that as f ar
as precedent went, there would De Iliat
precedent for it.

I think the Bill is extreiuely weak, quite ni'
equal to meet the necessities of the case,
because I see that a very long list of drugs
that I consider-and many of which everybody else considers are absolute poison, are
still permitted to De placed in patent medicines wlthout thie public being informed of
We find carbolic acld, corrosive
the fact.
sublimate, flux vomica, hellebore, &c.
Hon. 31r. SULLIVAN-Those are flot allowed.

Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-If I have read the Bill
arigbt, those particular medicines, which
are recognized ln the pharmacopoeiýa and the
varions encyclopedias, are permitted to be
used wltliout attention being called to tliem.
So that I think that the objections which
miglit lie urged by the trade against the
Bill are very mucli modlfied by that fact.
There is one clause In the Bill wbicli I
thlnk la very useful and very important;
that is that no firm or corporation shahl
distribute or permit to be distrlbuted on
the doorways, &c., any sample of a proI have read that one
prletary medicine.
or two chlldren in Canada have recently
been fatally poisoned by plcking up packon a division, ages lef t on the doorsteps and .consumin.The motion was ngreed to
and the Bill was rend the third time and them.
passed.
flot know
Hon. '.\r. MoILNIdo
M-NEDI- why the word 'sample'1 should De there.
PROPRIETARY OR' PATENT
CINES BILL.
Hon. Mr. ROY-This proposed lnw is a
SECOND READING.
step la the right direction, and the goverfifor introducing
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read ment is to De congratulated
1 do not believe that a more
this Bill.
ing of Bill (146) An Act respecting proprieimportant question could De deait with thau
tary or patent medicines.
of patent -mediHe said: It mnust De within the recollec- the manufacture and sale
The use of patent medicines la
patent cines.
tion of every lion, gentleman that
of 11f e and dentli
medicines are too freely sold. 'Some of the many cases is a question
We cannot, I
for the people of Canada.
patent medicines have been used practically
persons have suppose, discuss and amend this Bill confor the sale of alcobol, and
stage of the session, but I
acquired a taste for stimulants entirely siderably at this
men- cannot allow it to become law without ofI may
from taking patent miedicines.
when we are in corntion Peruna as one ivhich is said to coatain fering an ameudment
mittee. 1 propose to move that clause 7 De
about 30 per cent of alcohol. The object of
after parag-raph (c)
the Bill is that every manufacturer or im- amended by lnserting
of subclause 1 a clause providing that no
porter of a proprietary medicine shahl procontaining
cure annually from the 'Minister of Ialand proprietary or patent medicine
or any of the ingredients
Revenue a numbered certiticate of registra- opium or morphine
druggst withtion, and shahl file with the departmeat an
f
th re shah e sold by any
qualified
of its component parts, so that the out a prescription from a lawfully
anahysis
1 feel in offering thîs amiendpbysician.
public may understand what it conitains.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JULY 15, 1908

1565

JULY 15, 1908

15~35

ment that I arn fuifilling an important
duty.
For the last few years, from my
experience as a physician, I have contended
that patent medicines containing opium
should flot'be allowed to be sold carelessly
and blindly tbroughout Canada.
I have no
hesitation In declaring that patent medicines
containing drugs are kiiling more of our
chlldren than any one of the known diseases.
It la a pity to see mothers feeding
their Ilttie babies with drugs whilch wiii
eventually have the effect of making the
man or woman become addlcted to the
worst habit possible. 1 can ln ail sincerlty draw a sad plcture of the lives of
those who have been ruined and made objectionable to their familles, to their country and to thernselves, by the use of patent
medicines containlng opium. I observe that
the government has on the Order 'Paper
for to-day an Act to prohibit the importation, manufacture and sale of opium for
other than medicinal 'purposes.
You propose to pass a law probibiting the Importation, manufacture and sale of opium, and
at the saine time you pass another law
autborizing druggists to seli opium and
morphine as a patent medicine. You know
very well that witbout a prescription from
" doctor or physiclan, anybôdy caxi go to
a drug store aud buy two or three quart
botties of a patent medicine containing morphine or opium.
If that individuaIisl addicted to the opium habit, hie will continue
ail his lfe buying patent medicines contain.
ing opium, and the object of the law prohibiting the manufacture of opium is defeated.
By my amendment, a great deal
of good will be done to the people of Caniada.
A few days ago the Senate was very
much concerned about young men at the
ag--e of 1.6 using tobacco.
Watbotifants being gis-en opium and morphine in
food?
1 tbink it la a good dei more serioua with ifants who cannot defenci theinselves agailat tlieir parents, and their parents sixould not be ia a position to give
them'morphinie and opium and ruin them
forever.
1 know from nxy experience that
huadreds of thousands of people h ave been
ruined by morphine and opium contaiaed
ln patent medicines.

were permitted to examine this Bill aud discusa it la conference, contradictory statements might be avoided. I think it la a
good Bill that might be improved. It is
too late thiis session to make any material
amendment; nevertheless there are a few
points I would like to urge. We mlght
make some amendments wlthout imperiling Ita passagè. It is a matter of indifference to me, and I simply tlbrow out the
suggestions pro bono publîco.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is there auy danger,
If the doctors hold a consultation, that the
Bill may be kilied?
Hon. Mir. SULLIVAN-Ohi, no.
Tbe motion
was read the
.The House
mittee of the

was ngreed to, and the Bill
second timé.
resolved itself into a CoinWhole on the Bill.

(In the Committee.)
On clause 2,
In this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires,-'Minister' means the Miniater of Iniand
Revenue or any Person duly authorized to act
in his stead. or aay other head of a department charged with the administration of this
Act;
Proprietary or patent medicine' means
every artificial remedy or prescription manufactured for the internai use of man, the
naine. composition or definition of which is
not to be found in the British Pharmacopeia,
the Codex Medicaznentarius of France, the
Pharmacopeia of the United States, or any
foreiga pharmacopoeia approved by the minister, or aniv formularv adopted by the properly conatituted pharmaceutical association representing the Dominion of Canada, approved
by the minister, or upon which is not printed
in a conspicuous manner, and formingr an inseparable part of the label or wra"per. the
true formula or li-t of medecinal ingredients,
which must not contain cocaine or any of its
derivatives or prevarations ;'officer ' means
iioy orlicer of Inland BEvenue or anv lierson authorized under this Act or The Adulteration Act to Procure eamoples of articles
of food, drugs, agricultural fertilizers or medicines and to submit them for analysis;
Where the manufacturer of a nroprietarv
or patent medicine is not the prpprietor thereof, the proprietor who procures .t; to be matnfactured shall be deemed to be the manufacturer within the meaninz of this Act.
Hon. Mr. POWVEI-I just wisli to direct
the attention of the medical gentleman to

a passage in paragraph (b) the reason of
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-There are a num- which I do not observe, I l ne 21 we finfi
ber of physicians ln the Senate;' and if they the words :

SEN ý,TV

1566

Or upon whicla is not prjnted in a con-

spicuonus manner and forminu an inseparable
part of the label aud wrapper. the true formula or iist of medicinal ingredients. which
must flot contain cocaine. or sny of its derivstives or -preparatioxis.
Why put cocalue lu?
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-That ls ail right.
You wilI observe the quantities are not put
ln. To insert the quantities would destroy
the patent.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 4,

ing to the requirements of section 12 of chap-

ter 6 of the Revised Statutes of Canada.
1906 ?
2. Which are the municipalities, in the
province of Quebec, which have not yet conformed. with this recinirement of the law P
Either with regard ta the electoral lists
themselves, or wjth regard to the changes
made thereto by the revision reciuired bi
iaw ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Cierk of tbe
Crown lu, Cbaucery aidvises me that the
oniy lists of voters for the provinces of
Qnebecfor te year 1907, whieh bave flot
yet been received at the office of the Clerk
of the Crowu lu Chancery are tbose for
division of the
the second registrationi

4. Ail proprietary or patent medicines shahl
of Gaspé.
be put up in. packages or botties, and every county
one of these. jntended for sale or distribution
The registrar, Mr. J. X. Lavois, Percé,
in Canada, shall have placed upon it, in con- lias been writtefl to four times since tbe
spicuous characters forming an inseparable
reply
part of the general label or wrapper, the beginning of the preseut year, but no
naine sud number under which the medicine lias been recelved from hlm.
is registered. with the words 'The Proprietary or Patent Medîciue Act,' aud also the
PROPRIETARY OR PATENT MEDImanufacturers name sud address. whieh
CINE BILL.
maame sud number shall be sufficient identification, as to the manufacturer thereof. for
14 of this Act.
the purposes cf section
IN COMUITTEE.
Mr. SULLIVAN-That would nulHouse resumed lu Committee of the
The
Hou.
Ilfy the other provision. Thiis does net ad- Whole, conslderatiofl of Bill (146) An Act
mit of any names beiug placed on the pack- respectlug proprietaéy or patent medithe ciles.
that
age. The other clause states
names of tbe ingredients sbould be placed
(lu the Comrnittee.)
ou the wrapper.
Hon.u
that.

.

ROY-Cause

7 provîdes

for

on clause 5,
The Governor

-5.

in Councîl may appoint

f om he crn-officers or anaiysts for tho purpose cf carr-ving
Hon.Mr.CHOQETT,
Hon.Mr.
HOQUTTEfromthe om-out the provisions of this Act. aud they shall
during pleasure sud shall perform
mlttee, reported tbat they had made some hold office
to them under
th Biill nd skedleiv toregulations, as are assigned
progesswitiththesu ased eav tosuch duties of the Governor in Counicil.
progess
sit again.
this
think
Hon. Mr. Mc3ILLAN-I
be amended s0 as to rend that the
until three o'clochi sJou
The genate adjouruied
oeurluCouncil may appoint qualified
this afternoou.
or analysts.
meialse

SITING.Hou.
SECON
The SPEAKER tooic the Chair at Three
o*c]ock.
routie prceedngs.tories
Routie proeedifgS.and
THE ELECTORAL LISTS.
INQUIRY.Hon.
Hou.

Mr. LANDRY

iuquired:

MIr.

SULLlVAN-There is nio ne-

The
cessity for this clause, lu reahity-.
lnland Revenue lias aualysts and laborawhere samples of food are auaiyzed,
1 do not see wvhy another set cf offidialisl5 eeded.
Mr. F ORGET-It -says

i'may'

net

Hou. '-%I. FORGET-It says 'may ', sot

them froml among their eniployees.
1. Are there anv electoral lists which. ai-'
The clause was adoptedforce, have rot Tet bees sent to
though in
the Cierk cf the Crowçn in Chancery. accordHoil. Mr. POWýER

~J 1LY

7. No proprietary or patent medicine shall

be manufactured, iniported, exposed, soid or
offered for sale(a) if it contains cocaine or any of its saits
or Preparatiolis;
(b) if it contains aicohol in excess of the
a:xiount required as a solvent or preservative,
or does flot contain suficient medication to
prevent its use a,; an alcoholie beverage.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I would suggest
that subclause (b) should state 'pure alcolin!.' Proof spirit is hiaif water and haif
spirit. It should be pure alcoliol. 1 see
tlhat %vood alcobol is not prohibited. On
no accounit should it be used as a preservative, or for the solution of anytbing.
Hou. Mr. WILSON-I sbould hikze the
bon. gentlemani to tell us what quantity
of alcohol Is necessary to preserve any
article for whicb It is used? A provision
sbould be made that no medicine sbouid
contain alcohiol lu excess of that quantlty;
otherwise alcohol might be used with a
inedicine as a stimulant lnstead of a preservative of the article. Then lu reference
to tbe quality of the alcohol used In the
preparation. of various articles, as the bon.
gentleman from Kingston Boys, It sbould
In al! cases be pure alcobol. Wood alcobol
Is a very dangerous article Indeed, and
sbould not be put into ny drug. We have
patents wbere wood alcohol w.flh some preparation of- aconite or sometbing of that
klnd is used as at liniment. It passes froni
the drug store into the bands of Borne
w-ho do not know better, and Is used as a
beverage. Two or three Indians lu our
town have lost their lives
by
tions containing wood alcohiol.sucb preparaEvery precaution should be taken to protect the lives
of those w-ho do not understand the nature
of drugs. Therefore, I amrnlufill accord
w-ith mucli that bas been stated by the
bon. senator froni Kingston.
Hon. Mr. ROY-I beg to move that
clause 7 be amended by inserting therein
lmmediateiy after paragraph (c) of subsection 2 the following as subsection 2 :
No proprietary or patent medicine coataining opium or any preparation -or derivative
thereof, or morphine or any preparation thereof shall bs soid by any retail dealer
any
druggist except on the prescription or. b'y iawof
fully qualified physician, for unless the a
exact
proportion of opium or any proportion thereof
is specified on the label.

là, 1908

1567

1Hon. Mr. SUL LiVAN-M_%orphine and
the derivatives of opium are on the prohibited schedule. You miust get the permission of the ininister with regard to
any one of these. If you place those on
the label you spoil the patent. There is
no 'agent known to science wbich wll
quell pain to the saine extent as opium and
Its derivatives. There Is no othier drug
equal to It In that respect.
Hon. -%r. SCOTT-The clause allows tbe
minister, on an application froni the mianufacturer, to place in the preparation any
article named In the schedule to this Act.
Opium is there, belladonna is tbere, and also
a number of otiier drugs.
I would exclude tbem altogether, with inauy others,
if I biad my w-ny.
The lion. gentleman,
takes exception to opium as beiiîg now very
generally used and being a dangerous agent,
and, therefore, it is proper that it sbould be
taken out of the power of the minister to
allow it to be used In a patent medicine
unless the proportion o! the opium la defined on the package,
In addition to the
Justification given by tbe bon. member wbo
introduced this amendment this morning,
hon, gentle men w-ill be surprised to know
w-bat an opium coilsuxning country we bave
become in récent years. I have the returns
for aine months.
The -crude opium !iported lu that time aimounts to 67,464
pounds, wblch Is over 30 tons, for w-hich
$54,000 ln duty w-as paid.
Then of the
pow-der opium, tbiere bas been liported in
the hast six months 30C6 pounds, on which
they paid $366.
It is tume we plhced sonie
restriction on the trade.
Hon. M'Nr.
SULLIVAX-The gurn opium is
ised by Obinanien.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I would suggest to
be lion. mover to strike out of bis amendment the w-ords 'by any retail denier or
Lruggîst.'
We otberwise open the door to
t being sold by others.
You sliould pro!ibit the sale.
This clause does not seem
o me to be In harmoity wvith subscction (c>.
) ~ou have a great n]any other things in the
s chedule w-bich
are quite as offensive as
0pinni.
Subsection (c) commenced b y peri u rittinig you to do w-bat afterwards
subsecj t ion 2
prohibits.

iffl

SENATE

Hlon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Tilat anîount of
opium does flot startle me, because opium
is used lu every hamiet lu Canada, so that
it gives one no idea of the amount of opium
There is Winslow's 'Sooti'coasumed now.
ing Syrup, which is giveu to childreu who
This Bill will destroy that
are teethlng.
business. I th-ink the hon. gentleman
is charging the Cbianeî rallier liarsily,
I do not think they consume ail the
opium that is c0lsuiid' la British Columbia. ,They are supposed 10 use a certain amount of it, and miany of them usé
It by smokingI buruing itl n tbe saine Way
as people use tobacco by burniag-, and
others by snuffiing; but lu every direction
there Is a very large amount of opium used.
Unfortunately, 1 think it Is rather on the
increase, tbat many get iiit the habit of
uslng opium or soule of the saits of opiumu
or morphine and also cocaine, and we eauflot draw the Une buo striugeatly toprevent
Lt is an injurions
the habit increasing.
habit, hike the other acquired habits. Il Is
flot a natural habit, and il grows upon the
While 1 amn in
individual who is using il.
full accord -ithlithe princîple of the Bill I
think the minister w-ill find a great deal
o! difficulty lu proving just how inucli
alcohiol or spirit mnay be uspd in certain articles thal are being preîared,
and mwhether the preparabion is strong
for drinking purin alcohiol
enough
For instance iu the Northwest the
poses.
Indians there regularly use as a drink Perry
Davis' Pain IÇiller, and il wiIl be the samne
Iu reference 10 these drugs, so that the
more stringent you make Ibis Bill the betW'e ouglit to be very guardter it wilI be.
ed not to make this lau' oppressive upon
Ln sonie
lIme people lu the rural sections.
of the outlying portions of the country, il
is necessar3- there sbould be soine preparations that the peole eau use under certain
:My lion. friend froin Wel,circunistances.
Iing-ton referred t0 couatry groceries, and
necessary that tbey
stated that il -as
ishould have on baud a preparation of paregorie or some simnilar preparation for einergencies, and unless wve are careful in that
While I
respect we will do an injustice.
unm lu favour of requiring a pbysician's
prescription or certificate' for medicines of
this kind, 1 do iot thînik we sbould umake
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

it xiecessary that tliey shouhi be obliged to
g o1 the doctor for a prescription and pay
the doctor a dollar for it, when they want
I thing that
half an ouuce of paregorie.
would fie wrong.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEEI)-Thiere is a difference of opinion among the doctors, and
1 should like 10 know what is going 10 be
(loue about it.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-The lion, gentleman
who introduced the motion certainly suggested to the House that sonme checkc slould
be placed upon the sale of opium. It occurred to me that bis suggestion was mi
wise one and 1 would have liked 10 have
it extended 10 a nuinber of other articles;
but it wvas made quite plain 10 mie that
opiumn is being used every day more and
mor-e. It is time cause, as tbe lion. genitieman said, of niany thousauds of dellis in
Canada. I bave sufficient evidence of lita
fact, and we would be remîss ln our duty
lu the public if we falled to call attention
10 ;t ln that way, by depriving the minister of the rigbt to say that If you mnake
Up a drug 'with it you may conceal il antid
offer It t0 the public. We should eall attention 10 the presence o! opium in drngs,
and Ihen those w-ho purchase snch (lrugs
would know what lhey are getting.
Hon. 'Mr. DOUGLAS-ý;-Not only are the
Chinamen lu British Columbia producing a
certain amount o! opium, but lil lbas come
under niy notice that the Hunguirlans in
the Northwest grow opium for their ou-n
use. Tlhey use the seeds of the plants lu
flavouriug cakes which they appreciate very
mucb. Lt is an acquîred taste, as a mattcir of course, stili Il is very generally
-used. The specimiens o! the plant limaI 1
have seen la ltme Hungarian settleinents
are equal to lime very best specimens 1 have
Those speciever seeu grownl lu Indiii.
mens coic froin the nomtb side of the
Qu'Appelle river, where there is a colony
If lime fact became known
of 11ungarians.
g<enerally, 1 have no doubt a trade w-ould
spring up and inigbt be very successful
were il nul for its mischiievous tendencies,
so the House sbiould be very guarded fl
refercuce bo bbc growth and developinent
of that plant either in British Columbia or
the Nortbwest Territories. H-owever, a Bill
Is 10' corne before 'us shortly dealing w-ith

JLT'Y 15,
the manufacture and sale of opium, aud
we cau dlscuss the matter then. In the
meautime, we should be careful, lu passlng this Bill, how we sanction any mixtures that contain the drug.
The ameudment was agreed ta, aud the
clause as amended was adopted.
On clause 9,

1908

1101lio.
Mr. McMe.%ULLEN-It would take
a country- merchant a year or mare ta seli
bis stock. it would be well ta strike ont
that portion of the clause whlcb says he
shall be hiable for the costs incurred. As
It stands, even thougli the party briuglng
the prosecution Is flot successful, lie Is
respansible for the costs If lie lias patent
medîcines ln stock coutrary ta law.
He
bouglit the medicînes lu good falth before
the passage of this Act and lt Is unfair
ta vlrtually confiscate lis property.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-We give hlmi three
mouthes ta get rld of hits stock.

9. No person, firm or corporation %halldistribute or cause or permit ta be distributed
from door to door, or upon a Publie place or
highway, any sample af a Proprietary or
patent medicine.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-More
samples
Hon. Mr. M)CMULLE.\-TJIat is flot time
are sent by mail than by distrlbutlug theni
nt tbe doorways, and the clause sliould be enaugh. Even twelve mantlis wauld be
short enaugli; he wauld have a large perextended ta samples sent by mail.
centage stlll on band. If lie cau show that
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I accept the sugges- lie bought the medicines before the passage
of tliis Act that sliould be elough. Iu the
tion.
next place, If lie gîves the name of the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-That would probl- wbolesale merchaut from wbom lie bought
bit the wholesale dealer sendlng samples thie medicîne, aud gîves satlsfactory evlby mail to retail druggists. That ls golug dence that he Is an Innocent liolder, lie
should flot be hlable ta prosecutbon.
toa f ar.
Hou. #Mr. SCOTT-It does flot mnake hlm
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We can quallfy It by
saylng except from the manufacturer or hiable.
wliolesaler ta the trade.
Hon. Mfr. McMULLEN-It says lie shahl
puy the casts.
It wouhd be a matter of
Hon. Mfr. SULLIVAN-I do not see whv considerable
Importance. Every business
tliey cannot distribute to ather people as
maxi bas au enemy aud that euemy miglit
well as the trade. It Is mnklng It a crime haut
hlm up for keeping Perry ýDavis' Pain
ta dblstrîbute wliat the minîster lias en- Killer
If lie does flot conform ta this Act.
dorsed.
If It is proved lie lias It on bis shelves, ho
wlll bave ta pay casts.
I mno-e that the
The clause was amended and adopted.
clause be struck out.
On clause 14,
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Some provisions
sliauld be made for the protection of counitry mercbants-who liald stocks af medidunes that they bouglit la goad falth.
1
would suggest that w-e should add the
words, 'and that the medicities so sold or
offered for sale were In bis p'ossession at
the time of the passage of this Act.'
I
do not thinli It would be rialit to hohi a
country mercliant for ail the costs that
mlght be lncurred ln case of a prosecutian.

Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-I agree with the lion.
gentleman from Wellington, that if the
dealer Is able ta prove that lie liad lu stock
the praprletary medicine at the tîme this
Act was passed, tbat It sbould be a good
defeuce.
We know perfectly wehl tliat lu
the country stores It may take years ta soul
what they bave lu stock, aud lt wauld be
practically confiscatîng what they hiad. We
cannot change a trade af that kiud on the
spur of the moment, but must do It lu a
graduaI way.

Hon. 3f-r. McMULLEN-I mai-e that we
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thie Act is flot to strike out
the words lu the 27th lino after
came Iu force except by proclamation. aud 'as the
case may lie,' and add tlie followall parties will have plenty of time.
lng:
99
RrFvIqrn

P.nlTflT

1570

SENATE

1570

SENATE

And that the mediciue so sold or offered medici'ne iu stock will swear falsely, and
for sale was in his possession at the timle of that the man from whom. he purchased it
the passage cf this Act.
%wilI swear falsely that lie did flot purchase
.Hou. ',Nr. LOUGHEED-How long would that medicine from hlmn at tbe time lie
It take to exhaust tbis stock of patent medi- stated?* He bas to show that tbe mediie
cines whlcb we bave heard la prejudicial was in bis bands at tbe Urne tbe Act passed,
Will he be prepared to and give tbe name of tbe party from wbom
to public bealth?
lnsert in the opium Bill wblcb is uow before be bouglit It, and tbat party will be called
us a provision wblcb wlll enable tbe China- upon to give testimony as to when be sold
men carrylng n large stock to dispose of It the medicine.
lu the same way?
Hon. Mr. M_%cMILLAN-I do flot tbink
the postponlng of this Act and baving It
Hon. Mr. McMU'LLEiN-Opiumn is n discorne in force ln one year or two years or
tructive drug, but there are a great mauy
beyond that wilI rid many of the country
medicines wbich render good service lu
of the large quantity of patent mediThey bave got to prove that stores
some cases.
ciles they bave on band, and for that reathe medicine wbich they are cbarged
son 1 feel like supportlng the amendaient
wlth violating thiq Act lu seling was lu
Lt
from Wellington.
tbe time of the passing of air bon. frlend
their possession nt
Lt
may be opening the door for perjury.
of this Act.
is really confiscating tbose people's goods.
Hon. .Mr. SULLIVAN-AlI they can show You are actually destroyiug the value of
Is wbat la on the bottie.
those goods wbicb were bouglit lu good
Tbe only tbing is to
faith years ago.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I tbink the amend- prevent tbe dealers from. belng fined If tbey
ment, If it were properly described, would dispose of tbe goods tbey bave on band.
be described as an amendaient for tbe promotion of perjury, because 1 ain satisfied
Hon. '.%r. SULLIVAN-Those people are
that If you adopted an amendaient of that just as bonest as any men ln tbis House,
klnd, a great rnany country deniers would and do flot commit perjury.
be found, after tbe expiration of seven -or
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-You must give
eigbt years, to bave these goods lu stock,
the time this theai an opportunlty to get rid of tbose
and tbat tbey were lu stock at
Pain Killer
If that amendaient is passed, patent medicines, Perry Davis,
Act passed.
and so on. There are many medicines of
it will destroy tbe vîrtue of this Bill almost
six
I quite recoguize that tbere is wbich tbey only seli one bottie in
altogether.
mouths or a year, and it sbould be a good
a good deal of force in tbe views that the
show tliey bouglit
hon, gentleman takes, and there aiight be defence if tbey can
tbose goods before the Act carne into force.
some arndment lu the Bill to meet the
case wbicb lie propounds; but I burnbly subHon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe uecessity for this
mit tbe right time to do that Is wbeu w-e Bill arises fromi the belief that human
corne. down to the end of the Bill. Iu cou- hf e is being sacrlflced by the patent medinection witb clause 19, or iaimediately be- ciles that are being sold iu Canada. Hou.
fore it, a clause mnigbt be iuserted, w-hidi gentlemen propose tbat the country merw-ould require to be framed very carefully. chants wbo have on baud the poison-beI tblnk the lieuse Is iu favour of protectilg cause you caunot class it ns'anythiug else
tbe persans whom the hou, gentleman if the estimation of it is correct, aud 1
wlsbes to protect, but if he underta-kes to believe if is correct-for the next two or
mutilate tbe llthi clause, the result w-I be three years shahl be at liberty to poison
serions.
the public.
Hou. Mr. McMULLEN-This clause itself
Hon. Mr. McMe.\ILLAN-Thiit is an exagprovides tbat tbe man w-ho bolds that pat- geration.
ent inediciue must give the nijane of the
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-No, it is not. an exagDoes
party from whoai he purchiised it.
Either the Bill is n necessity
bon. friend think the man w-ho bas the g-eration.
my
Hou. Mr. MrMULLEN.

JULY 15, 1908
and should be passed at once, If the sale
of these medicines la dolng harm lu the
country, or It la nlot doing any harm, and
lu that case we sbould throw out the Bill;
but the idea: that for commercial purposes
we should put human life ln the balance la
absurd. I have given a great deal of attention to thîs subjeet for over balf a century, and If 1 were to give my own experience perhaps It would be of some value ;
but I do say that the larger proportion of
the deaths of people of this country result
from tbe drugs they take.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-If the bon. gentleman wlll allow me to suggest; bis amendment would not carry out the object bie
has la vîew. It would go furtber than
tbnt. 1 would suggest that the bon. gentleman do not Insist for the present, wltb
the understanding that the committee stage
of the Bill will neot be exhausted until
the next sitting, so that we shall bave
tîme to prepare a proper elause.

1571

that clause stand until the next sltting of
the House. Iu the meantime an amendment wlll be prepared which possibly mnay
cover the point raised.
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-I could understand the argument used ngainst patent
medicines If we were prohlbltiug the manufacture and sale altogether; but we are
maklng a law that permits the selllng of
proprletnry mndicines, witb the provision
that tbe label shows tbe lugredients that
That la the
are contained. in the bottie.
only difference between this Bill and tbe
law relatlng to the sale of patent mediaines to-day. The proportions may be Just
as good lu Perry Davis Pain Killer to-day
as it will be when the manufacturer prints
bis formula on the label, so I cannot understand why we should deprîve those who
are the holders of patent medicines, honestly and Innocéistly, wben there was no
law agaluat tbem, of the opportunity to
seli tbem.

Hon. Mr. WIILSON-I would suggest to
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-If the bion. Secretary of State consents, I will wlthdraw the bon. gentleman from Wellington that If
the goverument feel that patent medicines,
the amendment on that ground.
are Injurions to people, tbey sliould hardly
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
ask merely for the sake of allowing dealers
to dispose of a few packages of medîcine
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The object of they inay bave on baud, to extenid the time
the last clause la to permit the goverliment and give theui an opportunity of doîng a
to make proper Investigation and Inqulry, stihi greater wrong.to tbe public. It Is adIf initted by the preamble of the Bill that
and then to brlng the Act ln force.
the principle of tbe Bill is as stated by these medicinies are injurions to pieople, and
the leader of the governmeat to probîbit that tbe public are suffering by it, and will
the sale of patent medicines that are des- iny hon. frieud for the salie of tbe few
tructive to life and healtb, tlhea we should cents that tbe grocer may save on account
bring the Bui Into operation at once.
of the sale of tbese. medicines deliberately
Hou. Mr. McMULLEN-From wbat I state bere that tbey ought to bave a longer
Has uly bon. friend not the confiknow of the bon. Secretary of State, I arn time?
positively certain bie la not a good judge dence of the government thiat tbey will
of patent inedîcines. I do not think he exercise discretion nnd bring this law luto
I see no good
force at the proper time.
bas tasted thein in 20 years.
object that cau be attaiaed by delaylng the
The grocery keepoperation of tbis Bill.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Not ln 60.
ers havlng drugs or patent mediclues on
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-And perliaps hie their shelves geueraliy take themn from the
benefits tbereby, but everybody Is not of nianufacturers and selI them on commission.
that opinion. Doctors give prescriptions of Is the bon, gentleman auxions that this
one kind and anotber, and tbey would not business should be continued lu the futurebe considered of any use by hlm. I res- as It bas been lu the past?
Is hie wiliing
pect the view beld by my bon. frlend and that some of these medicines made wltb
1 wlll withdraw the amendnient and ]et Iwood alcohol, for Instance, sbould he kept

1572

1572

SENATE

on sale for a leng-th of time? I think flot
I beliere the sooner this law is placed upon
the statute-book.. and the sooner It la ln
force, to do away if possible vrith the perniclous use of cocaine or morphine aad other
deleterlous drugs, the better it wlll be for
It is la the public interest, and
the public.
the contention of my bon. friend is in the
interest of a prîvate few wbo may have
these things on their shelves to seIl. Would
lie flot be wllling that they should suifer?
Restraint must be used in ail legisiation
to do away with wrong. 1 would imagine
that he would bave confidence lu the governuient of the day hringing the Act Into
force when they deem It a proper time to
do so, and give an opportuuity to those wbo
have such goods on their hands to dispose
They foresaw the difticulty my
of thei.
hon. f riend anticipated, and took the matter
into consideration and lef t it subject to tbe
order of the Governor In Council. Lt would
be a mistake to accept the amendment suggested, or to delay the operation of the Act.
Hon. -Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-I do not beIleve la medicine of any klad, even f rom
a doctor's prescription, and I congratulate
myseif lu statlng that I do not know the
year when 1 took medicine of any kind. I
attribute my good health at my age tc barI do not belleve
ing eschewed niedicines.
The health of most of us
la them at ail.
wcjuld be preserved longer If we dîd not
rouch medicines, particularly those which
I
are L-uown to be dangerous poisonis.
agree with my bon. friend who bas just
spok.en, that we should leave to the dîscretion of the goverument the proper time to
briug the Act into operation. They are the
best judges, and the sooner the Bill can go
into operation the better.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mfr. BELQUE-I sbould like to reconsider clause 9. I thlnk we should limit
the effeet of the section by lnsertlng after
the words ' sample'1 these words ' containlng
any of the drugs mentioned in the schedule
of this Act.'
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There are more drugs
that are Injurions than are mentioned ln
the schedule.
lion. Mfr. WILSON.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Surely you do flot
wish to prohibit the distribution of samples
whieh are Inoffensive?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-That is a matter of
What one may consider Inoffensive, may be regarded by others as dangerWe want to stop the distribution of
ous.
patent mediclues, and there sbould be no
exception.
op)inionl.

On the scheduie.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Arsenic is a metallic substance and flot solvable and Is neyer
There are preparations or arsenic
used.
whlch are used ; but they contain very
smali quantities of arsenic.
Hon. 'Ir. WILiSO-N-Tlhe bon. gentleman
f roui Klng.ston is quite mistaken. M'Nedicail
men constaatly prescribe arsenical preparations.
Hou. Mr. SULLIVA N-I mnean the substance metalllc arsenic is not a preparation.
Hon. Mfr. ROSS (Hallfax)-It la aniusing
to fInd how doctors do diff er.
Hon. Mr. SULIVAN-Atrophine is a
derivati've of helladonna. Cantharides is
neyer used except for some internaI purposes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWTELL-Why
is hellebore probibited? Lt is used bY giardeners and those, who raise flowers.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I do not Iznow~ of
any liquid whicb contains hellebore as a
medicine.
Hon. Mr. MeMILLAN-It is 1)urchased to
destroy iusects in gardens.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Can the father of
the Bill not tel] us what it Is?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I
clause be struck out.

miore that thaIt

Hon. IMr. SCOTT-There are ninny more
deadly poisons in the iist than hellehore.
BOWELL-Is
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
that a reason why this should be put in?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ask the mnedical men.

JULY 15, 1908
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-It is used externally wlth suiphur ointment and others to
make them more energetie.
Hon. Mr.. BEIQUE-I think we should
Power
flot interfere with this schiedule.
Is given to the minister to add to or take
away some of the names that are mentioued, and it is a thing that should. be
done by experts. Then the Act will be
carried out under the direction of offleers
who ivili be specially chosen for the purpose.
Hon. 'Mr. DOUGLAS-Opluin, lts prepsrations and derivatives includes ev-erythîng,
and it ý«s flot necessary 10o insert nmorphine.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-There are no preparations of stryclinia. If you bave mux
vomica and its derivatives you cover the
ground. But there Is anolier substance
which 1 desire to mention. Wood alcohol,
a very poisonous substauce, whlcb Is used
to make up these tinctures. That Is the
reason I want to add a provision that
where alcohol is used It must be pure.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-That should go ln ns
a subclause to clause 7. The hon, gentleman very properis says that wood alcohol
Is a very dangerous liquid, and that the
minister should be prohibited froni recognizing it as a proper component in' any
Therefore it should.
prescription made up.
go with opium and miorphine under clause
Hon. Mfr. SULLIVAN-I know a manufacturer of one of those drugs who uses
The preparation is used
wood alcolhol.
externaily, but is also used internally In
Therefore, 1 think it is w-el
sonie cases.
to have wood alcohol prohibited.
Hon. Sir MACKEiNZIE BOWELL,-I
should Ilike to ask why tansy is mentioned.
Hon. 'Mr. Me.NILLA-2N-Because its medicinal properties are used for bad purposes
occasionally, lke argot, pennyroyal, and
Indian hemp.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Formerly it was used very largely as a tonic
in connection with whisky, and if It Is a
poison, a great many people should have
been dend long ago.

1573

Hon. 3fr. DAVID, froni the committee reported that they had made some progress
with the Bill, and asked leave to sit again.
THE CO-OPERATION BILL.
MOTION.
The order of the day being calied:
Consideration of the report of the StandinR
Committee on Banking and Commerce on Bill
5, an Act respecting eo-:perationi.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I have the pleasure,
not to say satisfaction, of IntrÔduclng this
Bill In the Senate. It was before the House
of Commôns for three years, and passed
there without any substantial opposition.
It was referred to n very important committee of that House, conaprising xnany prominent members, inchucling labour representatives and two members of the goveriiment
Mfr. -Aylesworth and '3fr. Lemieux.
A
large amount of evidence was taken, andi
the committee had a number of sittings during the two sessions In which the Bill was
under consideration, and that committee
came to the conclusion unanimously to recommend Its adoption. They were goverued In reaching that conclusion by the fact
that It was made clear to theni tbat notwithstanding the provincial legislatures had
the power to charter conipanies of the nature described in this Bill, yet, that, owlng
to the fact that the labour element was
dîstributed ail over Canada, the body of
the lnbouring element desired that their
leg-islation should be uniforni and secured
froni the federal parliament.
Whien the
Bill came here, It mwas referred to a speclal
committee, not such a committee as the one
which hnad considered It in the other Chaniber, but a special committee before whom
interested parties could appear to gire their
reasons for and against the Bill. A very
strong opposition was got up against the
It w-as represented that it wouhd
measure.
interfere very materially with the retail
trade of the country and deputations came
froni aIl sides representing that it would
I do not hesitate
destroy their business.
to say that there was no justification for
such a conclusion.
That opposition waff
worked up. When organizations like the
retail dealers and the wholesahe dealers
employ -agents to watch legislation that may
affect theni, their agents necessarily, In

1574

SENATE

1574

SENATE
North America Act that the local and the
federal authorities have in common, where
a rivalry may exist as to which body will
do the more good. and this is one of those
particular Bis. If wlien a prîvate Bill
cornes before thls Chamber, the Senate is
satîsfied that it is an encroachment on the
powers of the provinces, we give It a very
searchlng lnquiry, because If you tike
anythlng from the provinces you have
taken aIl there is in that Bill. But if you
take this Bil] from the provinces you do
not rob themn of anything, because they
have a rlght to legisiate just as f reely as
we lhave. 1 mnay mention an illustration of
British
that, a subject that under the
North America Act mnany persons maintainPd was exclusîvely under the authority of
the local legisiatures, and that is thue Canadian Temperance Act wbich I hiad passed
thirty years ago. It w-as declared by tlue
courts of this country to be ultra vires of
It went to the Privy
this parliament.
Council, and It %vas there declded that It
was quite competent for the parliament of
Canada to pass that Act. My hon. frlead
Lt was
beside me says It did no good.
an educator at the tîme it was passed. It
was taken up and adopted at the time la
a very large number of communities in
thi.s country. The goveramient whichi succeeded the governmeat that passed the
Bill wns fot favourable to the Act, and,
consequently, although the Act provided for
an! executive officer to put It la force, no
executive officer was appointed or was aIlowed to undertake -tht 'duty. Cousequently, whea the Act was discredited. to
that extent that there was no0 executive
officer behind It, and 110 private individual
cared to become a public prosecutor, the
Act failed except where it was takea up
by the community, as la some of the maritime provinces. where the -Act lias been
lforce for the last *25 years. After the
education that was recelved by the passage
of the Act, the provincial nuthorities began
to agitate for the adoption of local option, and we find that la recent years,
generally over this w-hole Dominion, local
option laws have been passed from timue
to time which are far more stringent than
the Canada Temperance Act was. I merely
mention that to show that the fact of Our

order to magnlify the importance of the
positions they fill, and for whlch they are
pald, exaggerate any legisiation that la any
way bears upon the corporations they are
That is why this
supposed to represent.
Bill is la the unfortunate condition it is
It was proved clearly in evideace
now.
that thxe sympathy of the whole labouring
elemieat, over one bundred thousaad voters
of this country, desired that this Bill1
should be passed by the parliameat of -Canada because they desired uniform leg-isiaIt was
tion throughout the Dominion.
proved -that the socleties which the local
legislaturés had organized nominally as local
orgaiiatioiis were really iacorporated coinDr. Ruddick, dairy and cold storpanies.
age commlissioner, gave evidence lu wlich
hie showed that dairy associations, cheese
associations, and other organizations are
orgaulz,,d under the Joint Stock ýCompanles
Act, and except la the -province of Quebec,
where the legislation lis been had recently,
no0 law bas býeen passed that fairly uaeets
the sympathy and vîews 0f the large body
Lt was
of people behiad this legislation.
an unusual course to send this Bill to the
Committee 0f Banking and Commerce. It
was a public Bill, and I lad a right to move
It to Committee of the Whole House, and
the committee uaprejudiced, and without hearing outsiders, would be entitled
to consider the.-Bill and if in their judgmnent it "-as Nvorth beiuug passL0d, they could
pass lt; but when it went to the committee there was au orgaaized opposition to
It, and la a thia committee consisting of
17 out of the large Committee on Bankin_- and Commerce. the Bill was throwfl
Lt is contrary
out by a majority of one.
to the ruies of the House to say what occurred la the commlttee, more than in a
1
general way that I bave indicated.
thlnk parliameat wll make a very great
mistake If they do flot give the parties
seeking this legisiation an opportunity to
secure organization,-under it. My strong
reason for supporting the Bill Is thîs; that
It encou rages thrift and ecoaomy among a
class 0f people that ought to be eacouraged la those particular lunes. I say further, that la passing this Bill we take
nothlng from the provincial legisîntures.
There are mianv subjects under the British
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT.

JULY 15, 1908

17
1575

passIng legisiation of that kiud was rather associations thiat have proved so beneficial
observaan incentive to the provinces to talze uP lu other countries. With these
The tions, 1 beg to miove that the report be not
the subjeet and pusb It to a finality.
be referred
ane may occur in regard to this. I shall now received, but that the Bill
to a Committee of the Whoie House. The
be very glad te see the provinces take up
cominittee is as folthe subject and have companies that the report made by the
Iow-s
labour element would be attracted to, organîzé under the provintial legislation; but
The Senate,
it would be ne reason why the federal
Committee Boom, No. 8,
Friday, IOth July, 1908.
parliament should decline te aliow socleThe Standing Committee on Bankiug aud
Io net Commerce, to whom was referred the Bill No.
ties te organize.under this Act.
propose to go into, the general subject of (5) fromn the loeuse of Com mous, iutituled:
Co-operation.' have, in
co-operation. because that is a .very long 'An Act respecting
obedience to the order of reference of 24th
one; but lt bas been shown by the most March, iast, examined the said Bill, and now
as foilows:
that It bas been pro- beg leave te report heard the representatives
- undoubted .evidence
leur coinmittee
good. Thiat it has of the provinces of Ontario. Quebec. British
ductive. of widespread
who dlaim that
elevated to a very great extent a class of Columbia and Sask-atchewan,
the provinces have legisiative jurisdiction
people w-ho waut encouragement, w-ho want over the matters embraced in this Bill, and
of the said provinces
incentive to rise to a higber plane, and I that the legisiatures powers and have incorhave exercised such
that porated a large number of companies with
tbat by the associations
maintain
embraced in the Bill, which coinwouit! be fornied under this Act it would the powers in active eperation and under the
panies are
in every coin- supervision and control of the leuisiatures of
have ihe effeet of drawing.
munity, a body of people w-ho now take the said provinces.
After full and due consîderation of snob
no interest lu nny association, w-ho w-i not represeutations sud of the objects and aims
go to a bauk to deposit a ten or fifteen set forth in the Bill, your committee beg leave
that, iu the opinion cf your comcents, nor to a goverument snvings bank, to report is not uecessary, uer is it advisable.
mitte, it
but w-ho xvould be drawn together and te interfere with or dîsturb the conditions
been se estabiished in the
feel that a member of tlheir ow-n body bas which haveaud that it is net necessary said
uer
provinces,
charge of the money gathered by thieir advisable to pass the said Bill.
recommend that
Your committee, thereforo,
mnembers nnd made up of smail sums. If
be not adopted and that the said
a man, after paying for the necessities of the preamble passed.
Bill be not
AiU of which ha - respectfullv submitted.
his faniily, bas fifty cents te spare, InWM. GIBSON,
stead of spending it over the bar, hie chips
Acting Chairmau.
It in *to this organization, kuow-ing that he
1 arn prepared te challenge tbe statement
can get it bnck at any moment. There is
As I snîd before, it
no necessity for long notice if bie needs made lu that report.
the mouey. It bas been shown most con- wvas a thin committee 0f only 17 w-heu the
clusivniy that it bas produced marvelous report was adepted by a majority of one.
thrift. industry aud temperance -and aIl the It did not appeur except in the province of
virtues one can tliink of in the class of Quebec, that there w-ere laws that exactly
men w-ho require some uphifting. We en- met the aspirations and the views e! the
I do not
courage other associations, bodies asso- elernent that asked for this Bill.
ci.ited together for auy other purpose lIn hiesitate te say thut at ail. They were net
,enterprises of various kinds. Why refuse of the class. There were lots 0f organizato the ciass of people w-ho make this ap- *tiens, ne deubt, recognized by the legislapeai to us. anti say- to them coldly, go t( tures, and uo doulit the legisiatures can
They say we adopt this.
It w-as after this Bill w-as Iuthe provincial legisiatures?
lu the House of Cemmons that the
are net provincially separated; our organ -troduced
ittious are generai over Canada; w-e are province of Quebec adopted the samne prinIf the sane principle existed lun ail
under one leader and under one genera iciple.
Ithe provinces, and if the labour element
management. We have our officers electe
be induced te take the laws te be
w-Iiolly Irrespective of provincial bounda -coud
owu in a provincial sense, te limit it
ries, and w-e ask te be given this legisia -their
of the province, I shoulËl
tien in order that w-e tnay organIze thes e te the legisinture

1576

SENATE

SENATE
1576
Hou. '-\r. DAVID-In view- of the opnot feel as strongly as I have donc, but I
do* say that after the House of Commons position made to this BilI by the four
bas bad this Bil before thein for over two provinces, by the great majority 0f retail
sessions, heard a large amount of evidence dealers and merchants; in vicw 0f the
wbich has been printed and distributed, important question it involves, does the
and practically passed it, that it would be bon. Secretary of State flot think that
a high-handed action of the Senate to throw in order to give us tinie to consider the
the Bill out.
On the question of jurisdic- question, and in order to gIve us turne to
tion the commlttee first reported to the study the evidence w-hidi bas been given,
House asking to take the opinion of the that the Bill should ho postponed until' next
Minister of Justice.

Some discussion arose

session?

Perhaps there

are some of the

on tbat, and the House declined.
The Bill members 0f tbis Hanse w-ho, another seswas sent back to the committee, and on that sion, would vote for the Bill, but w-ho could
the committee, through the chairinan, sent not (10 it this year.
After 1 had studied
an Invitation to the M,%inister of Justice, and the question I might think proper to vote
he sent back an opinion, aud it was on that for the Bill. W'e should have time'to coinopinion, 1 presume, that the committee camne pare this Bill with the legislation passed in
to this conclusion.
I do0 flot tbink that other provinces. in orde- ta rcally sec if the
the opinion given by the M-Ninister of Jus- Bili is required-to sec If the work-ing
tice leads oîie to that conclusion at al].
elasses cainuot obtain froin the local legisiaHon. Mr. DAVID-Has
taken been printed?

the

evidence

turcs ail the pow-ers and privileges a.,ked
foi- by this Bill.

Hou. Mr. SOOTT-I amn able to answ-er
Hon. .'-Ir. -SCOTT-Not the evideuce in
the ýSena te.
The evidence in the House of
Commons was printed, and part of it 1 have
ln My band.
I think the House will see
that ',%r. Aylesworth*s letter baives the Bill
very much where it was before.
WThile it
admits that the provinces have jurisdiction
-which w-as neyer disputed, 1 neyer for one
moment stated the provinces hiad nlot juris-

diction-the conclusion one might draw froîn
It was that It was quire proper for the par-

liament of Canada to adopt the Bill. There
was one clause in the Bill thiat I askcd to
have struck out, the clause whlcb would
uniiit the Bill to local operations. sud that
was restrictiuig banking operations by members of a society to a particular district.
That was struck ont iu order to remove
from it one point froni %vhiclh it îuight be
argued that It was a local subject.
'3y
whole argument was baseO on this; that
it w-as a g-ood thiug to do, and that w-e were
itot taking any powcrs from. the provincesthat it w-as open to thein to rival us ini the
facilities tbey might give in the formation
of those associations, and for those reasons

I thought the Senate

ight fairly adopt the

Bill.
The proposition will be that the report be not rcceived, but that the -House go
into a Committee 0f the Whole on the Bill.
Fon. Mr. SCOTT.

the last question.
The provinces have ail
the powers necessary ta pass such a Bill.
There is no question about that; but I miution that we have concurrent jurisdiction.
and. therefore we are not rohbing the pr-ovinces of anything. I hîave no doubt 'our
action would be regarded as au encroaehmeut that w-e should (I0 anything of that
kind; but that w-ould be no reasonl foru- s
refusing to ne-t on the requesu of 150.00') of
the labour elenient of th!s country. I bave
here the letter written by the Ministe- of
Justice, w-hich reads as follows:
Ottawa. 9th July, 1908.
Sir,-I have the honour to acknowledge,
yaur communication of the 7th instant, advising me that the Standing Committee of
the Seîîate on Binking and Commerce desire

my opinion as to the legisiative jurisdictioa

of the I>arlia.ment of Canada to pa-ss Bill (5)
An Act respectiDR co-operatian.
1 recognize that it is my duty as official
legal advi-er of the (jovernor General and the
legal member of Ris Majesty's Privy Council
for Canada, to advise the Crown upon ail
matters of law referred to me by the Crowu.
and ta -idvis-e the Leads of the several dcpart-

ments of the goverument upon ail matters t)f

law connected with such department. but it
wonld seemi to me presumption on my part to
offer advice ta either House of Parliament. or
to the Standing Comniîttee of the Senate especially when among its members there are
many honourable and learned gentlemen more
compl. eteut thaîi 1 ta formi an opinion upon.
any doubtful matter of law.

JULY 15, 1908

1577

JULY 15, 1908
1577
ment Is that If It is withln the powver of
Moreover, the Bibi referred ta has been
passed by the Hanse of Commons and in that the provinces to incorporate companies
view it would III hecomne a member of that
House ta question the canstitutional power of wvith provincial objects, it is flot witbin the
parliamnent to eaact legislation af this char- power of 'the Dominion gavernment to enacter.
Section 16 miakes it .even
1 beg, therefore, to say by way of reply to1 ter that domain.
your communication mereiy that ini my opin- stronger, for section 16 says that the proion the subWet with which the bill in ques- vinces generally have powers lu ail mattion deais is within the legisiative autharity
of auy provincial legisiature. unless it may be ters of a purely local or prîvate nature lu
in >o'far as the Ujîil woubd autharize (if it the province. Theargument Is-and It la
does autharize) the incorporation af saviugs my arguinent-that these co-operative sabanks.
cleties are purely local and of a prIvate
I have the hanaur ta be,
Your abedient servant,
nature. They are local in this sense,. that
A. B. AYLESWORTH,
Miaister af Justice. tlxere Is no society that bas jurisdlction
It
beYond the limits of Its own members.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-Before thîs ls coufined lu its duties, and lu its operaquestion is put. I %vishta offer a fe-w ab- tions ta its membership. It cannot buy
servatiaîîs, particularly as I do not belleve from or selI to any other persons except
the Bill la within the juriadiction af thîs its members. If it la a credit and Joan soHouse; that it is au encroachment on the ciety, or what la called briefly a saving
.jur!stUctibîi of the provincial legislature
society, It can only boan to, Its own memthat It la not necessary and la uncalled
bers, and on ly boan, deposit and receive
for in the existing condition of begisiatian
from Its own members; but it does not
lu the varions provinces. The columittee
ta which the Bill was referred, took a gaad take power to itself apparently to borrow
deal af pains ta ascertain Its pawer lu money f rom others to Joan to its members.
the matter, so far as juriadictian is con- So that it la so dlstinctly prîvate that Its
We had direct representation duties are confined to Its own members.
cerned.
jurisfram Ontario and Quebec, but I do nat That brings it withln the provincial
knaw that we had auy direct reprsentatiou diction, under clause 16 of the British
It la not only local
from the other provinces, aithougli we Northi America Act.
had a letter, I thlnk, from the Attorney but it la prIvate. We incorporate insurance
with a right
General of British Columbia w-ho reon- societies here. a head society
rather argued, and I thouglit ta establish agencies wherever it may, In
strated or %vlio
argued very successfully, lu favour of pro- ail the prav:itees of the Dominion ;but
vincial juriadiction and exclusive provin- thtase co-oPerative societies have not the
Each la an
cial jurisdiction. The representatives af power to establish agencies.
indivîdual entity, a unît lu ltself, so that
the provinces-aud that is my own view if
It is of auy value-did not 100k, upon this it Is so distinctly prîvate and Sa dlstinctly'
as a matter ai concurrent or dividéd juris- local that it exista at that particular spot
There
diction, but ns a matter ai exclusive juris- and cannot exiat anywhere else.
ean be notbing in my judgment more disdiction, and lu presenting their case they
based their plea upon the British North tinct and clearly local than the jurisdicWithout goiug
AmerIcaj Act, which. it seems ta me, is ex- tion of these societies.
clear, and ta whiclî I u-ili just Inta the matter as one might at this stage
ceediug-ly
refer for a moment. Under the powers of tile scssion. I inay submit a brief quotagîven under the British North America Act tion from authorities on the subject. The
the provinces are authorized under setion hon. leader af the Senate argues that it is
il ta legisiate for the incorporation af desirable to, have uniformity. Is it desirable
companies with provincial abjects. Now, lu ta have unlformlty? Is It flot the whole
ail matters In regard ta which the provin- pallCy of the federal system that uniformcial legislatures have juriadiction. the inria- lty la not desirable, that unlty Is not posdiction of the Dominion parliament la sible ? If uniformity -was the abject, then
ousted, except perbapa lu two or three, we would have a legislative union as they
say Immigration, agriculture and Iu a small have lu the United Klngdom. We have a
way In regard to' education. The argu- federal union because we w-ant diver-

1578

SENATE

1578

SENATE

sity, because diversity suits the constitution of our country and the habits of our
people hetter than uuiformity, and I hold
that a co-operative society thiat might suit
Quebec under its Act of 1906 might not
suit Ontario ; la fact w-e have no co-operative legisiation like that, nor have they in
any of the other provinces a law like Quebec, althougli it Is, I believe, a very good
I therefore plead not for unilaw.
formity but for diversity. Here is w-bat
Sir Oliver Mow-at said on that question.
Sir Oliver Mowat, the Attorney General of
Ontario, in a report to the executîve coulicil
of the province upon the decision ln 'the
Privy Counceil in Hodge versus the Queeui
says:
It is clear that an alleged or supposed expediency of the law being uniformn throughout the Dominion on any subject which is
otherwise wjthjn the exclusive jurisdiction of
the provincial legisIatures does not give jurisdiction to the federal parliameat to croate
uniformity.
His argument is thiat a desire for u-niformity does not give jurisdiction. I agree
with the hon, leader of the Senate, that uniformity may he desirahie iu many ways,
and uniform legisiation lu regard to criminal matters l5 of very great importance to
Canada, and w-e have uuiformity la thiat
respect; but look at the diversity. We have
the French code la Quebec la regard to
Is that any detriment to
civil matters.
We had the Canada Temperance Act
us?
passed, for one reason amoug othiers, that
we miglit have uuiformity in regard to
legisiation. What is the upshot of that?
Prince Edward Island abandoned the Canada Temperauce -lct 0f 1878, and passed its
own Act, not absolutely different from the
Scott Act as w-e commionly called it. Manitoba abandoned the Scott Act and adopted
We in Ontario abaadoued
one of ber own.
the Scott Act and practically adopted the
Manitoba Act, so that the Scott Act, useful
as it has been, and much to, the credit of
the promoter, much to the benefit of this
country, dld not resuit la uniformlty In
temperance legisiation, but la a variety
of legisiation on the subject, which
isuits us better. Prince Edward Island
produced a temperance law of its own that
was much more effective than the Scott
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

Act, and had the Manitoba Act prevailed in
Manitoba I bave no doubt it wouid bave
been more effective than the Scott Act.
There we have had an attempt at uniforrnity -on very high and noble ground, becoming a failure because of the peculiarities
of our people. Here is au attempt té Insist upon a nco-operative BUi for the Dominion of Canada, that, If insisted upon, miay
fail just simply because Iu jts various aspects it was flot adapted to the varlous
bon. frieud says
MýNy
wants of our people.
that the Scott Act led to local option. The
istoriea! fact is, that local option preceded
I thiuk local
the iScott Act by 14 years.
option w';s passed iu 1SG4.
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-Thie D)unkia Act.
the
Hon. Mr. ROSS (idex-ud
Scott Act in 1878, and as a matter of fact
iu many. cases where the Scott Act wvas
tried, and where It dîd not succeed. local
option has been adopted, so that althoug-h
the Scott Act would give us uniformity in
ail the provinces, the people of Ontario, and
some of the other provinces, prefer local
option after their own fashion. 'My hon.
friend dlaim that this Act takes away
If the pronothlng from the province.
vinces bave exclusive jurisdiction in the
matter of legisiation of this kind, then it
0f
takes nway exclusive jurisdiction.
course w-e have, as I said a moment ago,
flot concurrence, because 1 do not think that
is possible under the British North Amierica
Act, but we have parallel legfisiation in the
matter of agriculture and immigration, and,
I think, somethlng like parallel legisiation
in the matter of education; but if it is the
exclusive right of the province to pass measures of this kind, theu this Bill would take
somethlng away from the provinces, and,
as I said la the committee, if I may be
allowed to state whiat I said there, if this
:Senate stands for anything by which it
ivill have vitality, and by which it w-i bave
the respect of the people of Canada, it must
stand for the purposes for which it w-as
orlginally established, namely, to proteet
The Senate of Canada
provincial rights.
is the buttress of provincial rights, as the
Senate of United States is the safeguard
of the rights of the diff erent states, and if
we fail la that we fail lu the purpose for

JULY 15, 1908

1579

JULY 15, 1908

1579

We were lntended
whicb we were created.
to be a check upon hasty legislation ln a moment of weakness or passion, where the larger provinces might combine against minor
For that reason, 1 think it is
provinces.
our bounden duty to be exceediugly careful
that we do flot go beyond what Is the proper Une of our duty in that respect. 1 read
from a remark made by Sir Oliver I',owat,
that the principle of uniformlty should flot
apply ln this case. Let me give the opinIon of Sir George Burton, CGhie! Justice of
Ontario, whicb illustrates somewhat the
Myv hon. friend thinks that
samne principle.
If the Dominion governmeù1t steps in and
extends to the whole of Canada biis Bill,
whlh Is good enough la its way. tbat we
will get better results than froni legisiation
by the provinces. This is a constitutional
prInciple. Supposing- we sbould get better
resuits, 15 that any renson wby we should
violate the law? Supposing a man sets himself up as an authority on some religious
doctrine, and says 'If you ali corne to my
churcb you will be better Christians than
ln the church to which you belong,' that
does not prove bis theology is sound; it
shows the audaclty o! the man to put forward views whlch have not been proven to
be true. I shall not apply that to my hon.
friend, for of ail men he is the most modest;
but it is the audacîty of sudden encroachment to say because these tbings must be
better than everything the province lias, we
must accept it. But no, the provinces have
It has beeîi
the right to make their laws.
urged in the case of home rule that if Ireland wants to play the f001 and misgovern
berseif, that is bier bu3iness, she is entitled
to home mile. ._,We argued wben we were
passing our federal constitution, if a province clioose to misgovern itself that Is their
100k-ont.

Edward Blake observedl, in his argument
in Regina versus Watson, we must recognize
as an incoavenience inséparable from the
fédéral. s.ystem a lack o! power anywhere to

Chie! Justice Burton said:

1 think thé principle must hé clear that
neither the Dominion parliament nor thé local
législature can attract to itself a jurisdiction
in rnatters assigned exclusively to the other
power, by the mere devioé of enlarging the
geographical area to excinde thé wholé of the
provinces, nor in the other case of restrictingc
the area in which the power is to be exercimoed.

make uniform regulations co-extensive with
the whole- Dominion on subjects relegated to
provincial authority.

Edward Blake saw the desirability of
What premaking uniform régulation.
The sanctity of provincial
vented hlm?
Hands off thé province; îîo
Jurisdiction.
matter how uniformi the regulations miy
be, bauds off thé province, because the province bas the exclusive righit, 'and, thierefore, untformity, desirable though it miust
be, miay be abandoned for the moment. I
shall bave to trouble the House with two
or tbree more quotations to make my argument conclusive. and to meet the statement
that thiis is n mnatter of trade and commerce.
and, thieréfore. withia the jurisdictiou o!
Now tbis is not a miatter of
parliamnent.
tmade and commerce as I understand the
Trade and
Britisli North America Act.
commerce, under the constitution, méans
trade between provinces, or betweea a province and a foreigu country, or between the
Hère Is
Domnion and a foreig-U country.

what is said on that point by Mr. Horace
Davey lu discussing the Dominion License
Act:

Regulation of tradé and commerce means
général régulations as applicable to tradé
géneraliy, of what may bé called, for wanl.
of a better word, a politîcal character, that
is for regulating trade and commerce betweén

the Dominion and foreign countriés. or other
countries, including. o! course, Great Britain.
or, for instance, for regulating the tradé hé>tweea thé provinces themuselves.
I have similar definitions, one of them
from Chie! Justice Strong, and définitions
from other judges on the saine point. We
cannot bring it in under trade and comnmerce lu any faim interpretation o! the

S0, therefore, the jurisdiction of
temnis.
this parliament is excluded in that way. Let
us notice tbe case as it came before the
committee, thé pains taken to arrive at a
I think that is worthy o! conconclusion.

The commltteé heard ail that
sidération.
could be snid ln thé time at their
disposai, and the conclusion arrived at by
Here la an endeavour to extend the juris- a majorlty was that the Bill should not
diction o! Canada by extendlng the geo- pass. That conclusion Is beforé the House.
We asked the opinion of tbe Minister of
graphical area.

1580

.SE -'lZA.T E

the w-ny of legisiation on fis subject. Is
Justice as to whetber we had jurisdictiou. tînt so7
The province ef Quebec lias an
W'e got au opinion, but not an opinion as to Act as comprehetisive alrnest as this Bill.
The queswhetlier we had jurladiction.
In Ontario, any five or seven mna can orgation was asked, if the passing of such ia nize for a co-operative association If they
Bill waa withln the jurisdiction of the Do- desire te do se.
TIc farmers have orgaHe did flot answer
minion parliament.
nized lnto dairymen'a associations, slmeep
that It was; lie said it would 111 becoxue breeders' associations, associations for the
him to express an opinion on a question to
imiprovement of stock of ail kind. Alinost
a commlttee coniposed of such eminent law- everything relating te the industries of Onyers as our committee was composed of, tarie that you can thinkz of, la representcd
which was a very great compliment, and by an associatioi, fer that purpose, consiston a question on which the House of Com- ing la some cases ef 40 memabers as a niiThen he
mons bad expressed an opinion.
;mmd with :i fee flot exmuni and others ClO.
gees on to say that the province bas jurîs- cceding one dollar. This Bill previdea fer
WhVly did he flot
diction ln the matter.
The farmiers are alfarmuers' associations.
say as plalnly that the Dominion had juris- ready provided fer. There la nothing speciReadig
diction, If he thought we lad ?
fied ln this Bill that f bey canneot de alreacly.
that letter, there is only oue view to le
Any numiber
that the Minister of The labeurers can organize.
taken of it, namely,
of them ecm open a store and purclase geods
Justice deciined te express an opinion, if
Tîcre la nethlie lad one. Perhaps le had net made up and selI theni te customers.
mind; ln that case he should net express îng la this Bill thnt Is net possible under
bis
This Bill does
If lie bas made up *his mind provincial legislation now.
an opinion.
We have ne guidance net give tIe rigît te establish saviugs banks.
say se.
lie dees net
Tbe re11e dees net It ssys ' credif and boan socleties.'
f rom the M.inuister of Justice.
We have presentatîve of fhe province et Ontario said
say that we have jurladiction.
bis authority that the provinces have juris- moat exuphaficalîs that under Ontario legiadiction; therefore, leave it te the provinces lation tley could erganize credif and Ioan
There is no other cen- societies; ln fact he held fley could orgais my conclusion.
But nize savings banks, tînt Is banks te ail laclusion te which w-e oug-ht te cerne.
the provinces have tents and purpeses, but net batiks ef issue.
the Ion, gentleman says
net given us much legisiatien on fIat subHon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-If yen
The
ject, except the, province ef Quebec.
.1inister of Justice is quite 'positive that loak)I at -ubsection 16 of section 91 ef the
y ou -wll aee
this matter la within the anthority of the British North America Act,
exlegialatures, except on one poinit. reserved te tIe federal governwent the
provincial
clusive right te organize saviaga baaks.
and tînt la thnt the Bill authorizes the esHaving ne Subsectien 14 refera te banks and the latablishient of savings banks.
those w-e
assurance from the 'Minister of Justice tînt suing of nioney. sbewing that
thiings are quite diffecent. If there lad
it is.-within the authority cf the Dominion
rclating te bankparliamnent. baving cerne te the conclusion leen only eue subsectien
ing, yen mighf say thaf there w-as a deubt
1 do net believe any substantial authority
says the f edcan be show-n that it is witbin the autherity about savinga banka; but It
eral governmnt bas the exclusive riglit
ef the Dominion parliament, why sbeuild
this House precipitate itself imite matters of et legislatlng wltI regard te savinga banks,
We have been ait- and this Bill provides fer the establishprovincial legisiation?
banka altbeugh yen mnay
ting elg-ht months leg-ialating on Dominion *ment ef snvings
cali thera by some other nine.
matters, and ferseoth we wvant te remain
here longer legislating for the provinces as
ROSS (M-\iddlesex)-The fact is,
len. M.Nr.
well, so w-e wll become a House la per- w-e have credit and loan societies in Ontario.
We
petual session as the Long Parliament of Our loan societies receive deposifs.
Is that geod legisiation? bave privafe banks composed of IndlviCharles I. was.
But my hon. friead *duals, and of sevecal individuals, w-bld
I do net thlnk se.
To ail
depesits and make loans.
says, fIe provinces have net done much lu irecelve

1581

JULY 15, 1908
latents end purposes w-e have, or eau have
under our provincial legislatfon, credit-and
loan societies so that even for that purpose I w-ouid besitate before passing this
Bill. Then w-e have the Post Office SavIngs Banks in wbich deposits ean be made
and withdrawn on giving certain notice,
and w-e are maklng provision for oid age
pensions where yoxl can deposit but canflot withdraw w-lUi any notice. They nei-tier borrow nor iend, places w-bere your
savings are absoiuteiy out of your control
the moment tbey get Into the hands of thc
government. We have many facîlities for
savings. 1 amn quite free lu saying to the
House, without any reservation, that w-lthln
my 0w-n judgment there is nothing that can
be done in the w-ny of credit and boan soeieties in this Bill that w-e cannot do under
our letters patent, and, for that reason, 1
I
sec no necessliy w-hy it sbouid pass.
appreciate the motives of theclhon, gentleman. They are kind, as bis montives alw-ayS
have been. His life bas been one of generous pbiiantbrophy and generous Intentions, and I suppose in this case he Is only
foibow-lng In the lune of a long coreer of
that character; but, ail the same, bis purpose can be accomplished without encroacbing on our constitution, and niY Opposition to hlmi Is flot because of the character
of the Bill; but because of the nature of
the legisiation whicb It involves, and, there
fore, 1 shall resist this Bill on ail occasions.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-We
have a number of w-bat are termed loan
:ind savinsS compaflies organized under
the Ontario haw, w-bicb have been carried
on for a great number of ycars. They arc
flot designated savings banks, but they are,
under their eharters, savings and loan societies.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What is the motion
before the House?

Then thc hon. gentleman's motion w-ouid
properiy corne In. that lt be not conctirred
ln, but that it be rcfcrred to, a Committee
of the Whole Hlouse.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Tbat is spiitting hairs.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hon, gentleman bas made a motion whicli
is really out of the usual order of business.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thought it w-as tue
commons sense w-ay of getting at It Nobiody cisc w-as moving, and my motion %v.is
to refer the Bill to a Coinmittee of the
Wbole House. If any one tbinks it is not
regular, let somiebody move tbe adoption of
the report, and mny motion wvill1 corne iii as
an amcndment.
Hou. Mr. YOUNG moved the adoption of
the report.
The SPEAKER-I arn somewhat lu a
quandary, inasmuch as if the motion of
the Sccretary of State w-as negntived, therp
w-ould be no motion for a step forward.
Hon. Mr. POWERt-Tbe bon. gentleman
from Killarney, iu order to, get out of the
difficuity, bas now formerly moved concurrence lu the report and the bon. Sccretary
of State bas agreed to ike bis motion ini
ameadment.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I think the mîothon of the leader of the House is perfectiy
in order.

Supposing no

inexaber of the

House approved of tbat report you w-ould
have to, bave that motion. 1h w-ould I)e
the oniy w-ar to bring 1h up.
The SPEAKER-That Is w-hy I w-as flot
absolutely clear. The practice is for some
inember to move the adoption of tlie report and then the other motion Is mnade a-i
an ameadment.

The SPE-IKEPt-lt is a motion by the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY moved that the deHon. Mr. Scott that the report be not now bate be adjourned until the next sltting of
adopted, but that the Bill be referred to the House.
a Committee of the Whole House.
The motion w-as agreed to.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
The Senate adjourncd until this evening
ordinary procedure bas been to move conat Eigbt o'clock.
curence in the report of the committee.

SENATE

1582

SENATE

1582

empire.
I know of nlo compensation that
would be considered too much to aid -a man
The SPEAKER took, the Chair at Eight la the laudable ambition lie bias to, be a
o dlock p.rn.
scliolar and take care of hîmself. A fund
was ralsed by a few friends, but witb a
OANADIAN PATRIOTIC FUND ASfeeling of dignity or pride that 1 think was
SOCIATION BILL.
praisewortliy, he said lie could not accept
of cliarity If bis application was flot conSECOND AND THIRD REÂDINGS.
sidered wortliy by tht. people Of thîs counHon. Mr. COX moved the second readlng try, lie did flot propose to accept the charity
of Bill (JJJ) An Act respecting the Cana- of a few frlends.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Dld lie graduate
dian Patriotic Fund Association.
at Queen's University?
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn advised that lie
He ls now a student at Oxford.
Hon. '-%r. COX moved that the Bill be did.
read the tliird time at length at the table. Tliere Is but one object in passing this Bill.
We have the opportunity of seeing what
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There is a sum withln the rules and regulations are, and the paraa few dollars of $100,000 at the credit of grapli Ia the Bill relating to themn miglit
Tlie board consista of 15 or 20 conflîct with tlie purpose for which this
this fund.
I tberefore sug-gest tbat
memibers, some of wliom are lieutenant gov- Bill is passed.
It la im- tliey should be struck out. They were put
ernors of the several provinces.
possible for tliem to meet at Ottawa ail at la by the law departrneut, because It was
tlie same time, and the object of this Bill consldered the proper way.
Tlie
is to enable tlier to vote by mail.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Tliere ean lie no
subjet to be submltted to tliem ls.one of
Among the volunteers second opinion In titis House on this quespecullar Interest.
young Mulw-ho went to Southi Africa, w-as a Mr. Mul- tion. I have read tlie story of
w-as deprived of the loy's loss of sîglit In the service of lis couniloy, wlio unfortunately
He la lieroic in more try, and of tlie herolc effort lie lias made
siglit of botli eyes.
Instead of becoming a since tliat to educate himself and ln w'hich
senses tlian one.
He bas developpeRsioner and begging- bis w-ay flirougli lie lias been so successful.
ed talent appreciated by every one who lias
life, w-itli a great deal of courage and perseThere is every
witli hlm.
verance lie bas endeavoured to educate hlm- corne in contact
desire on the part of those wlio manage this
self for some position for w-hidi lie may
Happily, lie Is fund to enable hlm to participate, and tbis
be of value to society.
the difficulty.
blessed w-ith a very keen intellect, and up Bill is designed to rernove
to the present time the colleges lie lias atHon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill be
tended with a vlew of perfecting bis edu- not now read the third, but that it be
cation have reinarked la Ihim a seholar wlio amended by striking out the first parals likely to attain considerable emînence. grapli.
He lias biad one year nowv at Oxford, and
The motion was agreed to, the Bill w-as
la moat auxious to continue bis studies
there. The object of tuis Bill la to give read the third tirne, and passed.
hlmi au allow-auce for the two years lie may
CO-OPERATION BILL.
be at Oxford, in order to fit himself for
The order of tlie day heing called:
journalismu or some profession wliich wil
I
give scope to bis very keen intellect.
Resuming the adjourned debate on the Moknow of nothing more praiseworthy, or tion of Hon. Mr. Young that the report of the
that should comiend itself more b.> parlia- Standing Comnrittee on Banking and Comrespectiag co-operation, lie
It la merce 'An Act and the motion in arnendment, than an object of this kind.
concurred in,'
sad to think tint a young nman, juat after ment of the Hon. Mr. Scott that the said
arriving at manhood, should be deprived of report be not now a concurred in, but that it
committee of the wliole
lie committed to
the siglit of both eyes ln defence 0f the Hou se.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

THIIRD SITTING.

JULY 15, 1908

1583
treated by the House of Commons witli
great care and respect.
It was sent to a
strong committee of that body, of wbich
two members of the government were members, and 'they reported*upon It, and at a
subsequent stage It was taken up by the
government on the motion of the riglit bon.
Premier.
It la true, there was -iome opposition to it expressed ln this- Housie; neyerthelesa the Bill received Its second reading,
and -with that action I thlnk the committee
exceeded their power ln the niatter, whlch
was, atter hearing the parties pro and con
with regard to it, to have taken it up ln
detail and made such. amendments as tliey
considered were necessary.
This la the
paramount
consideration whicli
would
cause me to vote for the motion of my
hon. f riend the leader of the House. But
I listenied to the very ingenious aud able
argument presented to the House before
recesa by the bon. gentleman frorn Middlesex, wlth regard to the powers of this
blouse and of the provincial legislatures ln
dealing wlth a Bill of this kind.
1 have
no doubt It would be regarded as presumption in me to set up My view ln opposition
to so dlstinguished a gentleman as the
hon. member from Middlesex. At the samne
tîme, we have to bear in mind with regard
to my hon. friend, that lie bas been lu the
provincial harness and fighting va]iantly.
and so strongly for *what lie regarded as
the rights of a province, and the largest
province of Canada, that hie lias liardly
divested himself of the feeling that naturally grew up in the performance of lis duty.
to the province; but perhaps I amn not fair
to my lion. friend.
He la generally very
broadminded, and lie may lie broader than
I ami -vith regard to this question.
However, I fear lie lias bardly divested liiself
of this feeling which grew upon hlm in
connection with his duty to tlie province.
My starting point ln tlie discussion of this
question would lie rather different frorn that
of my hon. fricnd.
I may lie wroug, but
I look upon this as a question of trade and
commerce.
I dare say many hon. gentlemen will conclude that It xnay not lie so
regarded, because it points to some local
transactions ln trade or iu commerce, and
that to lie a question of trade and comninerce wîtbin the meaning of the British

JULY 15, 1908
- Hon. '-%r. LA-NDRY-Withi the leave of
the House, 1 should like the Hon. Mr.
Fergiison to continue the debate.

Hon. MNr. FERGUSON-I intend to vote
for the amendmient of the hon. leader of the
House, and my object ln making a few remarks at this stage Is to express an opinion
whlch I entertain very strongly wlth regard to the treatment of this Bill by the
Committee on Banklng and Commerce.
When a public Bill lias received Its second
readlng lu thîs bouse, and la sent to a
select commlttee, lt la certalnly flot sent
there to have its principle reviewed by that
committee.
It la againat ail parliamentary
practice for a committee to assume any
suchi duty or function as that. The oliject
la to liear the views of those whio are affected liy it, eitlier pro or cou, and thien to
consider its provisions in detail, and niake
suchi amendrnts In the details of tlie measure as the committee may think proper;
but 1 hold that it is altogether contrary
to parliamentary practice for a commlttee
to undertake to discuas and to negative the
prînciple of a Bill after It lias passed Its
second reading, n public Bill which bas been
sent to thern; and on that account I support the motion of my lion. friend the leader
o! the bouse.
As a public Bill, having
received its second reading, It lias, in my
opiniou, gccording to ahl parliamentary practice, a riglit to go to a Coinmittee of the
Wliole without committing ourselves to the
principle of tlie Bill any further than the
House bas already been committed to it by
its second readinig.
I strongly contend
that it is due to auy public Bill, after It
lias been read n second time in this House
and sent to tlie cornmittee, wlien it cornes
back, to lie submitted. to a Comrnittee of
tlie Wliole and therefore independently of
what the opinions of lion. gentlemen miglit
lie as to the real mnerits of the Bill.
I
tliink that laý the proper course to take witli
regard to It, and 1 tbink tliat practice la
especially rilit lu counection with this Bill
because it has corne to the House with a
All measures
very stroug cornînendation.
that pass the popular brandi, and the second reading of which la agreed to by this
blouse, of course are well commended; and
this Bill thoughi introduced liy a private
member of tlie H.ouse of Commons, was

1583

1584

SEN ATE

North America Act it must be a trade with almost innumerable, that the powrer of the
the outside world, or at least between two province ini regard to property and civil
I find that there are judicial rights must give way before the supre1.ý
provinces.
findings upon that subject, and 1 wlll read power of parliament In the working of the
one of thei, a decision of Chief Justice railwgys. It would be impossible to build
Strong, who uses thls language in Severn and operate a railway as a federal work
without encroachlng on property and civil
s.teQueeu:
within the province, and the judgvs. therights
That the regulation of trade and commerce tients are ail lu one direction, th-at the parin the provinces, domnestie and internai, as liament of Canada, hiaving the undoubted
well as foreign and external, is, by the British
-North America Act, c'onferred upon the par- rîghit to build the rallway, can Infringe on
liament of the Domiinion, cails for no demnon- wliat is contained in the British North
stration, for the language of the Act is ex- Amierica Act as exclusive of the rig-ht of
plicit.
the province wlth regard to property aund
whetber civil rlghts.
The question will of course
luis Bill is olie for the regulation of tzfade
aud commerce. It ls flot excluslvely that.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (2%iddlesex)-Tbat proIt goes a littie beyond il, and I notice position is rather too broaid. While, nfrom the wording 0f the letter of the Mî-der the Dominion Act, poNver is given 10 a
151er of Justice that he tbinks it possible railway to expropriate lands for railwqy
that lb pertains 10 banking ; and, of course, purposes, yet ln the disposai of these lands.
if it did. it would not weaken the position ln the titie of these lands and in the power
1 take, because undoubtedly the regulation of deaiing with these lands, you have to
of banking- is set down as belonging to the fail back upon provincial legisiation, wbatDominion parliament. Subsection 2 of sec ever that legislatlon may be. 'Your power
tion 91 of the British North Amerlca Act to expropriate does flot give you the right
gives exclusive jurisdiction ln matters of to set aside provincial legisiation as 10 the
trade and commerce to the. parliament of niolde of asserting or registering your tille
Canada. Allow me to refer to a judgment, or deallng with the properly ultimately.
which is quoted ln Bourinot, by Mr. Justice
Hon. Mr. IIANDRY-Inu such a case.
Taschereau, of the Supremie Court, with
reference 10 this subject. If this Bill is a wouid n~e not be obliged to follow the proBill dealing with tue reg-ulation of trade cedure of the province lu matters of exand commuerce, although it inight infringe propriati«n, or have w-e not a law of our
on somne riglit that the province bas lu carry- own?
ig It out, we bave sti11 the riglit t0 Pass
Hlon. Mr. ROSS-I think you have that
il. and lt would operate, even when lt came
l contact with a provincial law. It may under the Rallway Act.
be. as stated by my hon. friend, that the
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Though the province
right to incorporate companles for n local
provincial legîsia- bas a sîmilar law?
purpose belong-s ho the
Hon. -Mr. FERGUSON-Undoubtedly lu
bure ; but if this is a question of trade and
commerce, aud w-e iegisiate on the subject, the mialter of expropriation, the federil
even the power o! the province in the muat- parliament passes a law aud il overbears
ter of Iegislating lu the formation of coin- the law of the province ; and if that poinit
panies for local objects would have to give is clear, there is quàte sufficient made out
Nvay before the supreme power of Ibis lî;,r- to substantiate the point I have been makDiament. For instance, as 91n illustration in1g.
of w-bal I muean, ive take the question Of
Hon. 'Mr. ROSS-Whien a railway l5 (lea rallway connecting more thanl
railw-ays
eue province is a question entirely w-lthin clared 10 be a w-ork for the general advantthe pow-er of the parliament of Canada. age of Canada only.
There is no pow-er and jurisdiction giveli
flon. Mr. FER.GUSON-Whenl a railwaY
mnore throroughly 10 the province than on1
to propertY and civil is declared to be for the generEil adv4mntage
questions relaling
rights :stili w-e have judgments, I miay say of Canada or, if Il is not so stated. if it
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

JULY 15, 1908

1585

Hle goes ou further:
connects ixtore than one province, the fedepower to operate
rai parliamnent lias the
It is themefome to bie presumed-indeed it is
the road ; that follows. Here Is thie jutig- a necessamy implication-that the Imperial
ment, anti it ls quoted ln Bonrinot, by statute in assigning to the Dominion parliaChief Justice Taschiereau :
The Federal parliament must have free and
unfetterel exercise of its powers with respect
to matters placed under its control, fiyei
thougli such exercise niay inter fere w=t
some of the powers left under the provincial
control.
Now. if nmy starting proposition is riglit,
that this Bill deals witb a question of trade
andi commerce, the regulation of trade and
commerce is one of the features. at al]
evtents. of the Bill, tlien by tis jutignient
of Chief Justice Taschereaif s. as well as
that of Chief Justice Strong, wbicli I have
already rend, this parhiamieut lias the riglit
tct pass it.
Hon. MNr.DAVIlD-I would gsli my hon.
frieuti ta rei the decision ln the case of
Citizens? Insurance Company vs. Parsons,
*ivbicli I think lie will finti very near the
decision lie bas just cited.
HIon. Mr. FERGUSON-'fhazt la t.le case.
It la the case of an Insurance companýý, but
the jutigmeut NvIicb I have read is a quot.ition f romi a previous judgiieflt reudereti by
Chief Justice ýStroug anti is quotcd hiere aipThen 1
provingly by Justice Taschiereau.
turui to the jndgaîeit of Justice Ritchlie:
I do not thinl, tbat the local legislatures
are ta be deprived of ail power to ' dpal i-.itli
pro,)erty and civil rights, hecause parliament.
in the plenary exercise of its power ta regulate trade and commerce, may possibly pss
la.-x- inconsisteuit with the exercise by the local
leghlatures of their powers-the exercise, of
xin
the powers of the local legisiatures being the
such a case subject to sucb regulations as
Dominion may lawfully prescribe.
1 mniglit also re.td fraîîî Bourluiot witli reIr runls very mucli
garil to tli., sub.iect.
After speakiug
in the sanie direction.
about the difficulty lu layjng tiownl any fast
mIle of construction. lie says:
The nearest approach to a mule of general
application that has been attempted in the.
courts, of Canada with a' view to reconcile the
apparently conflicting legislative powers under
the Act is with respect ta propemty and civil
rights, over which exclusive authority is given
to the local legisiatures ;that as there are
niany inatters involving property and civil
rights expressly reeerved to the Dominion
parliament. the power of the local legislatures
must, to a certain extent, ha subi ect to the
g eneral and special legislative powers of the
Domnioni(f.

100

ment the. subjects of bankruptcy and in-olvency, intended to confer on it legisiative
power to interfere with property. civil riglits
andi procedure, within the province. so far as
a general law melating ta thede snbjects oîight
affect them.
The conclusion I have arriveti at for nirself is, that we have a rigbt to pass tliis
ineasure, and that if we do pass It It will
become operatîve, andi wliere there may bie
nny clash between It andi a provincial law,
1 do flot
the fetieral lau' must prevail.
tilnk that we shioulti at this stage discuss the mierits of the Bill; but as that
seems to bie the trend of the discussion, I
thîink there are some thiugs la tlie measure
wvith w-hidli I could not agree, andi that wlien
wve get into commrittee I shahl be very glati
ta join withi tiiose whio think as I do on
that subjeet ta modify the Bll in that reBut 1 appeali to bon. gentlemen,
spect.
that it is not £air to the interests that are
Iiivolveti ln this Bill to tieny them what a
sing-le Individual may do andi what aaiy
group of people may do in other simiilir
avocations of life under the law, whicli is
concedeti ta thien freely andi witliaut any
Take for Instance,
restraînt wbatever.
miniug: I have no liesitatian ta say that
in the incorporation of mîiuig conipaies,
thiere lias been a great deal of îvronig-tioing!
lu Canada as well as in other countries;'
yet the proverbial liar with a haie ini the
ground anti two or tliree other associates,
is nllowed ta get an .Act of Incorporation
Tliat being so, 1
anti go on anti operate.
do not see wliy tlie civil servants in Ottawa, for Instance, should flot be alioweti
to co-operate anti carry on business la a
way tlit would be most contincive ta their
1 have not a very strong
oivn interests.
opinion ini favour of farmers co-operating
It is essential ta tarmers that
hn trade.
there shoulti be mierchants. and that tliey
shoulti tratie and tliey sboulti worc together,
ain d for tint reason 1 would uot encourage
But for
farmiers to trade lu co-operation.
a ciass like civil servants or eanployees la
large factories, they bave notliag to seli.
If tbey feel
Tratie is ail lu one direction.
tint middtlemen are taking tao mucli out of
thean, why shoulti tbey not be aliowed to

1586

SENATE

1~S6

SENATE

this: instead of tbe motion for the adoption
of the report being considered, we are considering a motion la amendment to refer
tue Bill to a Committee of the Whole.
That Is quite in accord withi our ruIes and
It is for the
with parliamentary usage.
Senate to say now whether the report of
the commlttee shall fot be adopted and
that the Bill shall be referred to a CoinHon. Sir MLACENWZIE BOWEL-I
mittee of the W1ýlhole House. If thiat motion
rise for the purpose of takinig exception to should carry, it is for the committee to dethe doctrine laid dlown by the hion, gentle- cide wvhat tbey wlI report to you, 31r.
man from Marshfield as to the powers of Speaker, after considering the measure.
the Senate and of the committee. If hie Whien the commlttee meets, it inar corne to
theory be correct, our action in this House ai conclusion that the views of the special
recuits in a mere farce. In the firet place, committee are not in the interests of the
lie said that the Senate having concurred country, and that the Bill should become
in the second reading of the Bill, therefore, law.
Then when that report is made, it
they confirmed the principle of the Bill, and is for the Senate to take action as to wliethiat thierefore the comnuîittee liad no riglit ther tbey will concur in the report of the
to interfere with the principle involved lu
If there is any
committee or reject it.
To that position I take excepthe Bill.
other ruie or practice whicb justifies the
In the first place, it bas been undertion.
statement that the committee exceeds ite
stood for years past that the second readdealing with any mensure, or any
ing of a Bill by either Ronce of parliament power ln
abstract principle iavolving the resolution,
does not confirn in the minde of those w'bo
The 'Senate in
I arn not aware of lt.
permit It to pass wlthout objection the
session bas the power to deal with any of
prînciple of the Bill. That bas been conthese questions as the majoritr think proceded over and over again. Otherwîse we
In this case, the Bill was referred
should decide the principle of the Bill on per.
to the Committee on Bankzing and ComnIn referring a Bill to a
second reading-.
mnerce to deal with It. Wbetber their recommittee it le always understood that that
port meets with the approval of the Senate,
committee can deal *with it as it pleases.
I cannot
more is altog-ether another question.
It often occurs with private Bis and
concede a more absurd position to take
particularly' public Bille, nnd even in tbe
than to say that because the Bill was recase of government Buis, that the goveraferred to a conamittee, that they are rement consente to a reference of themn to a.
stricted in the action thcy sbould take upon
special committee to consider the principle
to the
Par- it, unhese there be speclal instructions
as well as the provisions of the Bill.
cornniittee to deal with it la na particuhar
liamient bas that rîght, and, having that
I do not propose to enter into a
right, they refer a Bill to a special coin- -Way.
discussion as to whether this le a Bill afmittee, and that special committee bas tbe
and commerce, or even the
power to deal with the Bihl as the majority fecting trade
question. That
mnuet, after hav.ing af- constitutional aspect of the
think proper. They
1 shahl leave for those who have probably
firmed the position tbey hold upon the pringiveil the mnatter more study than I have
ciple or details of the Bill, report their
If I could convince myseif that it
done.
conclusions to the Senate, and the Senate
is witlhin our jurisdictlon, and not an interthen takes such action as it feels necessary
provincial riglits, the principle
on the question, Ia this case, the measure ference witli
of the Bill sbould have my support; but
was diecussed for hours, and the committaken the position I have assumed
tee came to a decision upon the Bihl with having
on the question of provincial rights, and
It
instructions to report It to the Senate.
interference ýwith the riglits and prerois for the Senate to say whether they wilh our
la the views of the committee or gatives of the provinces, I do not propose
concur
The position we are ln ie to stultify mlyself.
reject tbem.
Bion. Mr. FERGUSON.
go to the producer and purcbase by cooperation or any othier way? Every facility
shouhd be given them to co-operate and get
over beavy exactions lu the way of profits
For these reasons, I lnof mlddlemea.
tend to support the motion of the lion.
leader of the Hlouse, and I think we shou]d
certalnly go lnto commlttee on the Bill

JULY 15, 1908

1587

1587
rights of this parliament -witb reference to
the Bill. In looking over the report of the
committee I find that it does not expressly
say that tbis parliament bas not authorlty
to deal 'Wltb the' Bill, but simply that It
finds that the provinces, by practice, have
been lncorporating somewhat similar companies, and It Is inexpedient, In view of the
exercise of that rigbt by the provinces, that
we should Intervene to incorporate suchi
societies as are contemplated by this Bill.
That is tantamount to saying that should
the provinces at any time encroach upon
the rights of the federal parliament, and
incorporate companies or societies wbich the
federal parliament would have a right to
Incorporate, that, therefore, in the future,
we should stay our bands. That is a proposition that I for one could flot assent to.
I would refer lion, gentlemen to the report
of the comm ittee, in wh ich ît Is to he found
that the committee bas been sulent in expressing any opinion as to our not baving
a right to incorporate the societies. I had
very grave doubt ln my mind If the bankIng clauses bad been eliminated from the
Bill, whetber we sbould bave the right to
incorporate the societies at ail. Tbey are
socleties witb purely local objects, but
having lncorporated In the Bill the banking
clauses, it seems to me that the provinces
could not exercise authority to Incorporate
socleties to do a banking business.

JULY 15, 1908
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I fear 1 have flot
made myseif clear.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWEILb-Are
we to discuss this Bill as if we were ln
Cornmittee of the Whole? If the bon. gentleman is to discuss the question again, I
sbould have the right to reply.
Hon .Mr. FERGUSON-I arn not going
ta make another speech.
I shall confine
myseif entirely to a matter of explanation.
Arn I wlthln rny rîghts?
The SPEAIZER-The bon, gentleman can
explain any part of his remarks.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I fear that I did
not make myself clear on this point.
I
know that a practice has arisen in
parliament of having Bis read the second time
with the uuderstanding that the House bas
not committed itself finally to the principle.
1 was not here when this Bill was rend.
the second trne, and do not know If that
understanding was arrived at; but a reference to a committee does not leave
the reversai of the position taken by
the House ln the hands of the committee.
Ail the cimmlttee have to do is to consider
the d'-tails of the Bill, get more light on It,
a- report that to the House, and the
House ltself, having reserved its assent finally to the principle of the Bill, could then at
the third reading,. without any stultification
of Itself, reverse is action.
But the view
I tah-e-and that is the opinion I wish hon.
gentlemen to understand I hold-is that we
-may
pass the second reading of a Bill without hein.- absoluteir committed to its principle, If there is that understanding; but
that the consideration of the principle does
not belong to the committee but to the
Ilou se.
Hon. Sir MACKE,.\ZIE BOWý%ELLTo
that 1 talce decided objection.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do not propose to discuss the principle of the
Bill, because 1 arn assuming that the
principle of the Bill, by practice, If flot
by fact, was approved when it recelved
its second readlng and was sent to the
comniittee. 1, however, rnust dissent from
the finding of the cormlittee. I think the
committee misconceived the constitutional

Hon. Mr. nO.SS (.Niddlesex)-It fa not a
bank-ing Bill.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Under the British North Am9,rica Act, section 91, subsec.
tions 15 and 16, tbis parliament bas the ex
elusive jurisdiction with reference to banks%
savings banks and ban:ýIn.. Upon referring to scbedule (c) of the Bill in question
(and I may say under clause 8 of the Bill it
is provided that achedule (c) shall be posted
up in the head office of every savings and
credit socîety), I find the following:
Form of statement to be made by a socioty
carrying on the busiess of banlcing
1. Oapital of the sooiety;
(a> nominal amount of each share;
(b> number of ehares iffsued;
<c) amount paid up on shares;
2. Liabilities of the. society
<a> on judgmients;
<,b> cou-tracta;
on
(c) on notes and bisl;
(d) on estimated 'liabilifies;

1588

1588SENATE
provincial bank. it would bie one whichi thprovinces could flot incerporate, and wbicb
would be exclusively wi-hiu the powers of
this parliamient. 'Holding this view, I do
feed myseif at liberty to concur lu thq,
I have te rot
report of the commnittee.

3. Assets of the society:
<a) governrnt or other securities;
<b) -bills of exchange end promnissory notes;
<(c)cash in -bauk;
<(d>other securities;
Tbat sbould bie plain evough.

infer from this scbedule thiat tme seciety to
bie incorporated under the Bill is te bie eitber
a bank or a savings bauk.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I (Àî)net admit that

tbis is a banking Act, but suppesing it wys,
does the hon. member cnntend that if there
are lu a Bill ten clauses, -wberein the provincial legisînture lias jurislictien, and ouly
one or two clauses under the jurisdictieu of
the federal parliament, that the w-hole Bill
anen ernles within tbe jurisdictien of the
jfederal pai-liamient?

lion. Mr. ROSS (Mýiddlesex)-Ceuld net
the province incorporate a credit and loan
society, that is to reeive and lend meixey ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I ind niethlng in
section 92 of the British North Ainericil
Act conferring such powver upen a province.
Hou. MuI. ROSS (Middlesex)-Sucb socletics hiave been incorl)orated, and the incor-

porations lias neyer been disa]lowed.
lion. M.KELtR-With reference te this
report, a motion for the adoption of wîc

the- question witm whicb
is Pefore the Ilise.
whether
the ceiwittee -as confrouted w%--as
of an incorporation over this Bill -was oue within the exclusive jurisnny of the features
wbich the federal parlianielit.w-uld biaveý diction of this parliarnient, or iu the alterniaexclusive right, even tbeugli that w-ere ne- tive, was it wlthin the exclusive jurîsdiction
c-onpanied îvith features w-hicb peculiarly of the provincial legisiature, or a tliird
beieng te the province, thev are properiy proposition, ivas it eue ef those cases lu
before tLis parliarnent. and it beconies a ivhicb the jurisdictien overlapped? As it
lion. '-\I. LOJGHEED -If 'lie prometers
of the Bill emibeiied -%vithin nts prov-ision,_

was the instruction
question w-hetber this paliarnent will grant was intended, fer it
tbem what mighit be termed tbe provincl d frem the Senate, altheugh uet in -writiug,
Lt im for this parlia- the commlttee heard evidence, aud ceuilsel
features of the Bill.
Its discretiex ns te w-bethcr fer the four previnices naned lu the reportment te, exercise
aIl tbese pew-ers should be given te such Ontario, Quebec, Saskntchewian and British
secieties; but my argumient is confined te Colurnbia-appeared before the committee
this proposition, tlmat this feature of the Bill, and represented that these provinces bnd
w-hich is one of its esseutial, if net the essen- cach withini its.elf the exclusive righit and
tial feature of it, is pectoliarly w'ithin tho jurisdictiou te deal wltb sncb matters. If
competence of parliament, and enly this par- that contention was correct, it is plain that
lianment ceuld incerporntc sncbi secieties as this parliamient eught net te attempt te act.
those of whichi I speal. ns banlciug secieties- Lt wis coutendcd, ou the other baud, that
this parliainent had the powNer end, thereHon. *Mr. McISWVEENEY-Are net the for-e. could deal 'w-ith it if tbey chose. The
banking- operations liimited ns te the dis- commiiittee w-as confreuted with this questrict ?
tion: if iLis cerrect tliat there is tlhat power,
wise and l)roper, under the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes. 1 was about îvouldl it bc
evidence before
because a savings bank or .9 e ircuuista lces, and with tbe
to say, that
ns. te initerfere and legisiate, even tbough
tank niight make an apl-)ication te parpower was i-ested lu parliament. Tbe
lin meut witb territorial regtricticiss se far as that
pow-er mnigbt bie vested ia a province equally
its business is cencerned. that would noue
aud then the question was,
the less tak-e it out of the provincial power with parliainent,
in that event, what w-as their relative posiand confer it upon the federal. Under ne
atter
Ceus8ideratien cau. a province 'nerperate a tien in the matter? The cemmlttee,
My propositien is that parliament having beard the matter, presented- certain
bank.
Could incorperate a bank te do business lu proîesi.tieus in the fermo eareport, and they
set forth definitely. and there are net
a particular province, restricting is opera- are
less than five different statements presented
tiens entirely te tbat province, and notwithstanding its being what you might terni a te tbis House as staternents of fact. Tbey
lion, Mr. LOUGREED.

JULY 15, 1908

1589

cIaim (1) that the provinces have legisiative conclusion and what ether duty liad the
jurisdiction over the inatters ernbraced IL ceînmnittee to dlscharge but te corne lu this
the Bill; (2) that the legisiatures of the way before the Heuse, and if that report 4t
provinces bave exercised those pewers, se acceptable te this Heuse, then It is certainly
that we have the case of a province dlaim- the duty of the Heuse te adopt it andj to
Ing te have, and having the powers te deal take ne further action with reference te the
with these matters, and that they have Bill. The case has been presented as te
exerclsed those powers; (3) they have incor- what Is the condition of things under the
porated a large number of companies wlth law as- the matter stands. Let me say a
the powers embraced lu the Bill, and (4) word or two wlth reference to my own view,
such companies are in active operation, andi whlch I presented before the committee and
(5) are under the supervision and contrel ef which 1 thlnk is the view which this Heuse
the legislatures of the provinces respective- shouhd adept, or 1 would not preseut it.
ly. -Now,confronted with sucb a case, the U'irst, I submit that this Bill is one whlch
facts of whlch are beyond dispute, what' is within the legisiative jurisdiction of the
conclusion could the comrnittee corne te but pirovinces, and I was glad te find that iii
the opinion of the lnister of Justice, who
to advise this House as to -what it deerned
was asked to censider this question, and
the proper course ? The House is net whose opinion was reail here, that that
bonnd to follow that advice, it is perfectly vleiv which I had prevlously expresse-i
true; but lu the discharge of its duty, bav- before the cemmittee a t a previeus
meeting
ing heard this evidence, and flot being able and on more than eue occasion tee, lias
te present the evidence lu detail before the been sustaiued, and the provinlces
have the
Senate and havlng heard -the contention, jurisdictiou te legisiate in cennection with
they summarized the facts lu these findings, the inatter as this Bill proposes. The
and present to the House the conclusion next proposition is, bas this parliam-cnt
that lu the opinion of the committee It is power te pass It? On that point, it is
flot necessary or advisable that this House net necessary, lu the vlew which I take ot!
should act. W7hy? Because It appears that the inatter, and
wbich the comrnittee tooz of.
the provinces have acted, and that the re- the matter, te cerne te a conclusion, aud
quirenients of the public. so far as there as the Minîster of Justice abstalned fromî
aare requirernents la these matters. are being glvingaun opinion on the point, for thie
satlsfied.
reasous wbichi very preperly occnrred te
There is no0 necesslty, nor is it idvisabie me, aud whichi are stated by hlmn lu the
to Interfere with or disturb the conditions letter whichi was reae, it is net necessary
whlch bave been s0 establlshed. It is not« te corne te the conclusion as te whether we
necessary that Parliament should act, ijor have the power or net, becanse 1 ain
preis It advisabie that tbey should interfere
pared te cencede, If Parliament bas tbe
wlth the conditions which have been
power, it beiug undoubtedly rny opinion
established by the provinces. Iu otlier words
and It being un opinion wbich is sustained
the provincial right which bas been asby that of- the 'Minister of Justice that
serted and which has been acted upon by
provinces have that power, the dircunistanthe provinces. and under whichî righits have
grown up. comipanies have beeii formed, pro- ces are such as te make it inadvisable. and
perties bave been acquired and aIl geod pur- inexcusable that parliarnent shouldI exerposes wh-ich it Is suppesed and claihned by cise the power, even if we have It. There
the advocates of this Bill ean be couferred is a borderlaud undoubtedly between the
upon the public, are really belng conferred jnrisdictien of Parliament as compared wviti
and are being enjoyed by those Nvho have the jurisdiction 0f the provinces, and there
taken advantage of the rights which they is u overlappîng grouud in respect ta the
dlaim, and the rlghts which .they have been powers vested ln the provinces and aIse in
conceded under the provincial legisiatures; the Doiminion. An Illustration of that is ln
therefore it hI flot necessary uer is It ad- the case of railways. A railway can be invisable to pass this Bill. Under those cir- corporated by a province if its operations
cunistances. wltb that statement of ficts are wholly withln the province. The Dominpresented before the comrnlttee, what otlîQr ion could Incorporate a rallway In the sanie

1590

SENATE

put by the court after discussing the qués
province, because the power to deal with
as to the whole proposition, they wiaid
raiiways ls especiaiiy vested by the Act in tion
up withi these words :
Parliament, so that there wouid bie a case
of overiapping jurisdiction, and whiIe the
The peint, éirfoee, cornes ta hée within a
provinces rnay assert; their power, aud the very nerrow compasa. Tîhe respondént maintains, and the Suprême Cour't has uphald its
parliament may assert; Its power within a contention, 4,heit this is .truly railway législacertain radius, it would be au unnecessary tion.
thing for Parliament to legisiate and incorAnd therefore wouid bie withln provincial
porate a company which was running over
jurisdictîon. Thé judgmént continues:
precisely the samne ground, serving precisely
the samne country and running fromn and
Thé appellanbs; inaintniin état undér ithe guise
through the samne towns in a province. lu of railwey législation it is truly legislation as
And es isuchi, 'under sectilon 92,
sucb a case, I would say It was expedient to civil rights,cd thé Bxàfhsh North America
sabsection 13
for parilament to exercise Its power If the Act, appropriate to the province. The onlegisiature of the proviince had already done struction of 4thé provision of ithé British North
America Act tbas beén frequently hefore théir
so, unless some other rigbt Intervened. If lordships. It does not seém, necessary to rethé work was or such a character that, eapitulate the decisions, buit a comparison of
casas decided in the year 1894 séem6 to
taken In connection with other worLs two
estabish these twvo propositions: first, that
which the parliament had sanctioned tbere can hée a domadn -in which provincial
overlap, iii
and had granted, a conclusion could and Dominion legisiation niay will hé ultra
which céase nei;ther legisiation
be arrived at by Parliament at ail évents vires if the foid. is clea.r.
that the wmek so provlded for was
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What is thé subone which was for thé general advantage of
and, ln that case, It would bie the ject being- discussed?
Canada,
duty of Parliament, as It wouid lié Its unHon. Mr. KERR-Contracting out of liabidoubted riglit, to take the whole work over lities.
and deal with It. So that I take it that the
proposition whicb I have enldeavoured to
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is the hon, gentlepresent is clear. The point cornes down to man réading the finding of the court or the
this : is thére that overlappiug position with argument of the lawyer?
reference to provincial rights and Dominion
rights in this case? Now, that bas beén
Hon. 'Mr. XERR-Thie judgméunt of their
determinéd by the highest court in the lordships. First tbat there can be a domnain
land and In the very plainest terms. I in which provincial and Dominion iegisiarefer to the last judgmént on this point, tion may overlap; lu which case neither
which is thé judgment of thé Privy Council legisiation wili bie ultra vires If the field is
ln the case of thé Attorney Gênerai against clear; thiat is if néither Parliamenýt bas
the Grand Trunk Railway Company, where exerciséd its législative power.
the question was one that arosé on a mat,And eécondly, il the field is noi; clear and
ter of contract betweén employer and em*- ini snob a domain that itwo legisiations meet,
ployéd. It was a case in which the railway *then the Dominion legisiaition must prevail.'
the présenlt
true
company had by its conditions and stipula- *Accordingly theem into position in thé question
tura upon
case doés not
could contraci w~hother t.his lasw deanis with a civil right,
tions provided that the party
himself out of rights of action, wbich which mey hé ooncedéd, burt wàeîther this lavlégislation.
might accrue to hlmi durlng bis émploymenl is truly aaci-llîary to railwoe'
And dealing wltb that, they déýcided the
were signéd, and there
if no sncb contract
fore, it was a question of whether that civi Icase. Now, one of the cases whicb maires
very ciear ls thé case of thé .Attorney
right which undoubtedly was a right within ithis
provincial rlgbts, could be covéréd and IGénéral of Ontario against the Attorney
the
embraced by legisdative authority by th e General 0f Canada, and ln that case, which
raiiwny company Incorporated under ith e was one with reference to assignménts, aud
Dominion Parliament, and with the righit whethér Insolvency or banirruptcy being
of thé Dominion,
to maire contracts. In thé discussion of th4 ewl 'thin the jurisdlctioa
'q thé provincial làw was constitutionai and
matter, this is the way ln whicb it wa.
Hon. Mr. KERR.

JULY 15, igos
JULY
within the right of the province to pass,
and wbetber It interfered wlth or w-as a
part of the jurisdiction wbicb can be exercised by Parliament aloiie. On the argument of thât case, It was contended by the
Hon. Mr. Edward Blake and Mr. Haldane,
now one of the British mlnlstry, and one
of the points whlcb was made there was :

1591

15, 1908
1591
guished f rom a bank, in the flrst instance
as distinguisbed from a savings bank, wblch
is different f romn a -savlngs and credit
Society.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The restriction
la that they shall not do a banking business
as defined by the Bank Act; but they may
do a banking business outside of the Bank
These deoisions establish live Sues of con- Act.
struction relarting to ithe Act of 1867.
Hon. Mr. KERR-I do not see where it
This Is the argument, but it is adopted
1says that.
ln the judgment.
Hon. M.r. LOUO-HEED-The restrlctiou
One, the pre-sumption is ini fav-ouýr of the
làeing placed by clause 8 on lt would not
vahidity of au enaotment.
tie inference be that they could do business
I ivili skip the others and go to number
cutside of whnt is defitued by the Bank
5:
A.ct.
.Subjeots which, in ne aspect, fail wibhin
section 92 miay in another aspect and fer enether purpose fali within section 91.

That is the proposition w-hich in effect
w-as adopted by the court. I w-li not take
time to read It. That is w-bat ls meant by
the judgment I read first, referrIng to the
Judgment in that case. If w-e look at this
Bill before us, it ls perfectly plain that
It is one of those w-hlch, like the assignment case, is clearly w-lthin the jurisdiction
of the province, so far as its area and scope
of enactment, afid s0 far as it is aiso within
the powers conferred upon It. First as
to the location.. clause 2 says:
A society which may be incorporated under.
this Act is a society for carrying on any industries, businesses or trades,, (except bank-

ing, as defined by the Bank Act, and insur:ance specified) in or authonized by its rule-.,

Hon. '-\r. KERR-Look at w-bat is defined by the Bank Act, and you wll find it
covers the w-hole systemn of banking. Then
w-he w-e col back -to thue second part of
It, I see the business of banklng is excluded
froin It. Then we come to the question of
the savings bank as distlnguisbed from a
savings and credit socieLv:
-In regai'd to a savings and oredît Society,
such soceity shal nlot carry on qany other
business, and shall be subjeot to the provisions hereinafter oontained.
eo that it la confined in its operation to
the business of a savings and credit society
You will observe that because the
only.
nuetluod o! investing money by the savlngq
bnnk as it must be is one thing, and the
question of a credit and loaning society
is another business. Loais can be made on
A savings bank Is precluded
real estate.
froin doling that.

wbether wholesale or retail incktding dealings of any description with land.
So that the w-ords of the second section
Hlon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILL-It can
expressly precludes the Idea cf this being a
lend money.
bank w-lthin the scope of our Bank Act, or
Hlon. Mr. KERR-Yes, but not on tbe
witbin the scope of what is authorized
saine class of security. There ls an excluthere.
Tbey can
sion of this class of business.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I admit that. I lend mioney on a mortgage. Savings banks
refer to a savings bank.
cannot do that, nor can n bank lend money
Hon. Mr. KERR-Subclause C of this on a mortgage. Whiat caui be done by this
Society? Remember it is flot called a
Bill reads:
savingas bank.
In regard to a savings and credit Society,
such society shall not carry on any other
Clause 8 provides that:
business, and shall be subject to the provisions hereinafter contained.
Every Society which carrnes on iche business
shall, every
eo that tbe corporation whicb ha to be of credit a.nd savingseonspicucusly six months,
bang up in
niake onit end keep
Incorporated here Is to be one as distin- its head office, a etatement in the fornm in

1592

SENATE

SENATE
1592
or as near thereto %s confines it to busincss Iveally Nvithin thîvý
schedule C to this Act,
circumsances admait.
electoral division, and tbm refore, necessarily
2. A sooiety oarry-ing on the business of
case accordcredit and savings shall not opera.te outside wvithin one province and la eacb
of the eleotoral division where it hias its heid 11kg to tbe jurisdliction of l e province tlîc
office.
is jurisdîction over tbese different coirw
Now, wbat w'ould be tbe effect of
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE,-But lt pales.
grantins the powver to inco'lporate companies
cau operate there.
like tbis? NVe bave beard of
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-AIl over the Do- uder an Act
tlic hundreds of cases la ivbicb incorporation
minion.
have been granted in the provinces wbere
Hon. Mr. KERIt-Section 9 says
sncb coiînp.nies bave been lncorporated, and
9~.A society carrying on the business of whoýre tuey bave been corrymng on business.
credit and savings -shall eleet at îts .annuai It would be nothing but the introduction of
general meeting a boaTd waiich ehall pass upon
ail oa-ns or investmenbts of the funds of the confusion. coml)aiies w-itb different righits,
eoc îety.
1If w i
companies wvitlî differeut pow-ers.
2. Such board shall be composed of jiot les
the otbcý-s
than three members, and their terni of office assumie tluis greater Uover than
%vould bave, or If tbis bha in addition to it.;
shahl be one year.
3. The members of such board shahl not have ütlier powers, then Nve w-onld have a coithe right to borror either directly or indifusion as to powers, and a inanuer of co;i
iectlv from the society.
ducting- business and conifliet cf anthiorit%Then it refers to the .generai mieeting .l
wbiclu wvould undoubtedly bie raised woul-h
tbec society, an'd these ries are to goverit
leoa-e ail these colulanies in a state of cooanîd so on, treating ' t ail the way tiîroligil
fusion. I submit it w-ouldi be inexpedienf
as distinguislbed from a savings bank, nulI
and Infidvisabie to adopi. this motion, and
providing amongst other tbings that th-~
tbe report correctly exprc',ses the view tlint
înouey may be loaned to a man wbo miust
sbouid be adopted.
reside withjn the electural district ov«v
Hlon. '-%r. LANDRY-I want to eall attenwincb it lias jurisdiction, tind niiay be loaued
on real estate security. So that it lias dif- tion to tbe reai position w-e occupy it tbe
ferent power and different jurisdiletlon moment. Tbat Bill lias been refecred to a
At the second rending
fcomi that w-bicb is understood to be the select committee.
business and jurisdiction of a savings of tbe Bill tbe principie w-as adopted.
batik. Under those «circumstances, let us
KERR-Xot iiecessa.rily? Our
Hon. McNl.
see just wbat the British North Ainerica Act
not say so.
bas jurlsdictioii under cule does
la. First, parliament
section 9. The second po:nt w'hece thue exHon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes it does. If my
clusive jurisdiction is conferred on pachia bion. friend wiii cead cule 26, page 64nent. Flcst, we bave 'The public debt niai
The principle of a Bill is usually debmted
property.' eecondly, 'The regulation of Trade
at its se-cond reading.
and Commerce,' but we do not find anyTbat is flhe usag-e.
tbinig in this Bill relnting tg) trade and comiIncorporationl
merce. Tbien it -deals witI; tii.
is tue contrary.'
lion1. '-\I. KR-oit
of banks and tbe issue of paper money.
Tben the savings banli. Tben we corne io
1101. .\i. rANDRY-If it is the contra-y
section 92, the exclusive powers of the pro- of wbat it says, 1 understand the argument
vince, section 11, ivbich iwas referred to hi'- of iy bion. friend. If tbe preambie of a
fore, tbe incorporation or conipanies wiLlî Bill is usually accepted or adopted at tbe
provincial objects-I need iiot read it-third. second readin.g, w-bat particular circumstanProperty and civil rigbts in tbe province. ces bave ariseîî to deviate froin that cule?
and generally ai matters of a merely The principie of a Bill is al.vays accepted
in tbe pro- or refused on tlue second reading of the
nature
local
or private
vinces. We have by this Bill a limita- Bill.
tion wbich 1 bave pointed out. tbe socie1L'
M.\c.MLLEN-M'Ien the bon.
Nl.
Hon. -carrying on the business rf credit and savshahl îot operate outside of tbe elc- Secretacy of State moved the second rendlngs
intention
toral division where it bas its bead office. it ing of tbe Bill, bie intimated bis
Hon. Mr. KERR.

J17LY 15, 1968

1503

JULY 15, 1908
1593
Hon. '-%I. LANDRY-As the bon. gentlemnan is unable to answer, 1 will answer
for bim. I say that tbe House, in referring
tbat Bill to -the committee, did not give any
Lt ivas purely and simply
Instructioins.
referred to tbe committee, and tbe Standing
Hon. '.%r. LANDRY-Tbat does uot change'
Commlttee bas no more power tban a -Cointhe position one Iota.
mittee of the Whole.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Yes it does, inaHon. Mr. M-NcMULLEN-That Is ail rigbt.
terilly.

of sending it to a commîttee and it was
gîven a second rending, to the best of my
recollection, without a division on that
point, and, agreeing to that, the House let
the Bill go.-

Hon. Mr. LANDItY-My bon. friend bas
the riglit to bold tbat opinion, and I bave

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Having got niy bon.
friend to say It Is aIl rigbt, I will read rule

a rigbt to bave a contrary opinion, and my
opinion is as good as bis. The bon. g-entieman says that- wben the Secretary of
State introduced this Bill and the second
reading tool, place, he intimated to the
House tbat it would be referred to a special
committee. 1 accept that. The standing
committee. is a select committee, and if

74:

No argumnents are admitte-d cagainst the
principle of a Bill in the Co.mmittee of the
Whole.
If the Standing Coînmittee bas no more
power than a Commnittee of the WbVole, tiien
no arguments are to be admitted against
the principie of the Bill in that comnmittee.
you refèr to the ruIes yon will see that the Is air bon. fmiend convinced?
standing coninittee is a select comittee.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Mýiddlesex-Whlat would
You bave a standing cominmttee and a
special committee. and wben I say a Senate be the sense of referring this Bill to a
committee 1 use It in the broad sense of select colunittee to bear evidence and arguthe word, a committee wbicb is composed ment, If no arguments are to be admltted?
of the wbole House. That was referred Lt w-as refemmed to tbe committee for the
to a Senate committee with the understand- purpose of bearing- arguments, and the prolng tbat aIl parties interested la tbe Bill moter of tbe Bill sat tbere witb the other
would be beard before it, but that com- menibers of the committee and beard argumittee was only replacing the Comniittee ments for tbree days, and baving beard
of the Wbole. RIas that committee more theai were we to, consider tbey were flot
powvers than the Committee of the Wbole? heard to be Influenced by theai? These
arguments were not to be beard in a CoinHon. Mr. McMUI 1LEN-Tbe House dele- mittee of tbe Wboie, but couid be beard in
gated certain powers to that committee a Select Committee.
wben lt referred the Bill to tbem. It got
Hon. Mr. LAXDRY-Tbe Bill w-as rethe second reading, on the good faitb that
ferred to a comiuittee, without any special
it wouid go to tbat committee, and ln cousequence of that, I contend the principlo instructions.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-I undemstand there was
of tbe Bill was not adopted in the saine
sense as it would bave been If the Secretary no special instruction.
of State bad not intimated bis intention of
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The bon. .mneinber
sending it to that committee.
may have said at the time that it was reHon. Mr. LANDRY-I was asking tbe
bon. gentleman if the Standing iCommittee
biad more power than the Comniittee of the
Whole? 1 am quite ready to accept bis
answer If be is ready to give It. Yes or no.

ferred for the purpose of bearîng those for

and against the Bill, outsiders, to give tleni
a chance to speak before the commlttee
because tbey had no igbt to s-peak in tbe
House.

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-The 'Standing
Hon. Mm. ROSS--The commnittee was mis4Committee of the House bas concurrent lead if it was left to the committee to bear
power witb the House, because the House argument and evidence, if they were flot
cannot confer on tbe committee any more to bear evidence and argument and act
power than tbey tbemselves possess.
-on it.

1594

SE-N-ATE

1594

SEINATE

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If the committee
inoves in the circle for which It was
created, ail riglit. Thiat committee bas no
more right thani a committee of the whole.
This was a public Bill ; a private Bill would
be different. It was a publie Bill and being
referred to a committee for a special purpose, to bear the outsiders, they had no
right to do under those clrcumstance what
the cormittee of the whole could do.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-That is technical. 1 arn
trying to get the merits. Here I was opposed to the principle of the Bill. 1 could
have moved for is rejection at the second
reading. Acquies-ing iu the view thiat the
reference to the select committee would
leave me free to the sanie exercise of my
judgment as I would have on the second
readinig. 1 acquîesced in tha:t, and let it go
to the commnittee; then, baving beard the
evidence and being convinced tbat the Bill
wans not witbin our jurisdiction, I amn told
I bave no rigbt to exercise my judgment
and act accordingly.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-My bon. friead
being la the committee, and the committee
flot having the power they dlaim they have,
my hou. friend was flot deprived of bis
power because If hie bas -a right to vote
agninst the principle of the Bill on the second reading lie bas the samie right on the
third reading. The -committee goes Into
detaiis of the Bill, and wvhen the Bill coines
bacl, for the third reading, tbe principie
of the Bill is accepted or rejected on the
third reading as well as on the secon)d.
My hion. friend may be in favour of the
principle of the Bill on the second readiag
because in bis mmnd hie might say " I miight
offeor some amendments to the Bill that ivili
suit me ; but bie might flot succeed iu getting the amieudments made and therefore
lie would bie against it on the third reading.

adopted;' but wben the coinmittee recomrnenaed that, the preamble Lad already
been adopted by -this House on the second
reading.

Hon. Mr. DAVID-Under reserve.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I bave no reserve.
"And that the said Bill be flot passed."
Wby sbould we flot pass thîs Bill ? We
must flot forget that that committee Liad
made a first report, and in that first report
they were asking this House to bave the
That
opinion of the Minister of Justice.
shows what the intention or the commlttee
was. It was to, know If the Bill was constitutionai or flot, by asking the opinion of
They addrcss
the Minister of Justice.
themselves to the Minister of Justice and
w-bat is bis answer? He says
I recognize that àt is my duty as official log-il
adv4sor of the Governor General and the leg'xi.member of His Majesty's Pýrivy Council for
Canada, to advise the Crowin upon ail matters
of iaw referred to me ;by the Crown, nmd to
advise cbhe heade of ithe several departments
of the governient upoii ail inatters of 1%w
connected with such departmevt, but rit would
seem iti me presumption on my part to offer
advice 6o exther House of parliiement, or to
the Standing Commàtee of the 8enatte, specially when among its members there are
many hlonourable and ieai'ned genrtlemen more
oompetent than I to fora -an opinion upon
a-ay doubtful matter of la.
H1e couid advise the Governor Geinerai, lie
could advise the Prime Miniister and-_the
Kng but Le could ilot advise us. WkZ ?
Is it becnuse we bave the hon. member fromn
Toronto on that committee ? Tbe Minister
of Justice continues
Moreover the Bill referred to has been pass5?d
by the House of Gommons and in that view
it w-ould iii become a member of that House to

question the constitutional power of Parliament to enact legisiation of this character.
Here is a gentleman wlio voted on tbi2
BUi and who by the stand hie took la the
House of Gominons recognizes that the Bill
is constitutional. H1e is asked to give bis

Hon. Mr. ROSS-That is good reasoning.
opinion aad bie savs : '110w could I give
Hon. MNr. LANDLIY-Tbe Senate com- an opinion when by miy vote Ia the House
mittee to wbicb that Bill -was referred bad of Gommons I bave declared that It is
no more rights than the Committee of the constîtutionai. Am I to stultify myseif 'Y
Wbole and ln the Comimittee of the Wbole
Hon. -Mr. IYAV%'ID-Does it not menu
we have no right to discuss the principle
this-' If I was not bouad by the vote of
of the Bill. M-\y hon. friend said thit the
not
committee reported this Bill. Wbat was the House I would decinre tbe Bill is
wvithin tbe jurisdiction of the Dominion
the conclusion 'Your commlttee furtber
recommiends that the preamble be flot parliarnent.' If you rend between the Iines
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

JULY 15, 1008

1595

JULY 15, 1908

1595

Hon. Mr. LANDRY--t-NO, tbey would flot
you will see that be was embarrassed by
I bave tbe power to do tbat. They cannot
the decision of the House.
reject ail. the clauses. They must accept
Flon. Mr. LANDRY-I do flot -want toi at least one.
read between, the Unes wben I read the Unes
Hlon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWrELLjtbemselves. Wbat do tbey say? Tbey say
give an opinion when as one Tbere Is no0 sucli practice.
how could I
of the House of rCommons I voted myseif
Hon. Mr. WVILSON-A public Bill, wben
for that.'
tbe principie of It Is adopted, must be reHon. '-%r. DAVID-Exactly.
ferred to a committee, and as this Is a public Bili, it should bave gone to the CoinHon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbat man who, enliglitens the Governor-Generai, the premier înittee of the Wbole. Then wby was lt
ar.d everybody on cartb. enliglitens hlm- sent to the Committee on Banking and -Coniself and voted for tbe Bill. EvIdentiy bis nerce? The rule must bave been violated;
action was before bis eyes wben be ivas brit my hon. friend wbo bas spoken so forciasked- to give an opinion, and lie says, 'the bly on observing rules did flot ask that the
best opinion I cau give is the way 1 rule be suspended ln order that it miglit be
sent to the Conîmittee on Danklng and Couivoted.*
mlerce. Why was it sent tlhere? We were
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middescx)-Is flot this led to understand by the leader of tbe House
an expresison of repentance on bis part ? tbat if this Bill went to tbe Committee on
H1e votcd for the Bill, but he-does flot say Banklng and Commerce thiat committee
it is constitutionai,
should have absolute liberty to treat It as
it wouid any Bili introduced In tbe House.
Hlou. Mfr. LOTJGHEED-I think It ls
tbe greatest tribute that could be paid to \Vbat is the use of my lion. friend saying
the genius of tbe «%inister of Justice that that the commlttee lad no0 riglits. If they
lie bas written an opinion that nobody had none, what was the good of sending
the Bili to theni. It would bave been a
understands.
perfect farce to send It to the committee
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The Minister of If we bad nlo opportunity 0f bearing tbe
discussion and evidence and forming an
Justice concudsopinion. After hein.- reported froni the coinI beg, therefore, to say by way of reply to mittee, any member of the House could
vour COMMUD iMtiOn, niereiy that in my opinien the subjet with which ihe Bill in question Insist upon baving the Bill submitted to a
,eais is vwithin the legisiative authority of any Committee of the Wbole House. If a pubprovineial legisiature, 'unless .it miay be in so lic Bili can be takzen away from the riglit
faýr aýs the Bili wouid authorize (if it does
authorize) the incorporation of savings banks. committee, it would bave to come bacl,
bere, and what was the use of its coming
Tbat is. thils Bill is witbin the jurisdic- back If we bad committed ourseives to the
tion of the legisiatures unless It Is within principle of tbe Bill on its second reading?
our jurisdiction. Re says tbe door Is open It looks to me very absurd reasoning and
uuiless It Is shut. That is no opinion at ali. treatment. I remember the statement made
To have an opinicn, we must see bow h2 to the House by the bon. Secretary of State
acted biniseif, and lie Is one of those who wben the Bill was sent to the committee.
voted for the Diii in the House of Commons. It n-as tbat n-e should be at perfect lberty
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE DOWE.LL-I to approve or disapprove of the Biii when
wudask the lion. gentleman from Stada- it came back to the Huse. Non- we are
cona, for whose opinion as to the rul* of told that having consented to the second
the House I bave very great confidence, reading n-e bave committed ourseives to
wbether the cornmittee wblcbi had tbis Bll the priacipie of tbe Bli, and bave virtualiy
under consideration. would bave thue power, put ourseives out of court, so that n-e.can
as eacli clause was put to them, by the form. no opinion and must accept the Biil.
chairman to say no. and by a majority to I tbink I ami at liberty to vote for or
against the Bill as I cboose.
reject every clause submItted to tbeni.

1596

SENATE

Hon. Mr. McMe.\ULLEN-I exceedingily regret that tbis matter bas been broug-ht Up
at this very late hour of the session. The
Bill bas been the subject of a good deal of
discussion. One of the largest deputations
1 ever saw la this building assembled lu

lu view of tbe necessity of the Prem-ier
and bis colleagues having t0 go to Quebec
Now,
f0 take part la tbe celebration there.
at the eleventb bour, to revive a contentious lneasure like this and risk tbe ciosing
up of fhe House Is, I will not say imprudent but a dangerous thing to do.

tis Chamber for the purpose of offerlng
opposition to this particular Bill. Af ter
Hon. 3fr. BOLDUC-You Lept the Bill lu
that deputation wvas heard, andi wheu the the committee for four moritbs.
second reading- of the Bill was proposed,
Hou. Mr. LcM.NULLEN-Tbe committee
the hon. Secretary 0f State generousir proBanking and ,%vas caiied togetber promptly wbenever
posed to send the Bill to the
application from anybody t0
Commerce Committee wlthout any limita- there was an
bie heard. I would strongly remoustrate
tion as to the manner ln which It shouid
xvitb the bon. Secretary of State and urge
be deait with. The hon. memiber for M.\arshlet the whole matter stanid over until
field, who took exception to the action of him to
a member and next session. That sbouid begin witbin
thxe commnittee to-piglit, %vas
three or four months, and if it is thoughit
attended every meeting and neyer raised
%vise to take up this Bill then, there wiii
the point he bas ralsed to-night.
bce time t0 give if thorough consideration;
Hou. 'Mr. FERGUSON-I ixever attended but t0 force the Bill upon the Flouse at the
aur meeting but the last one and 1 raised eieventb bour when tbe session is about
the point then that It w'as not withln the chosing, and in view of tbe fact that the
Senate is holding tbree sessions every day,
jurisdictlon of the committee.
is, in my opinion, nlot treating tbe flouse
McMe'\ULLEN-I have no recol- witb the courtesy wblcb we bave a rigbt t0
Hon. '-%r.
except. However, If be decides t0 take
lection of my hon. f rlend doing su.
fhat course, xve shah bhave to do whatever
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW7ELLNve tbiuk is best unider the circumstances.
What tbe bon. gentleman f rom M-Narshfied
The Senate divided on the amendment
sys is quite correct; lie took tue saine posi- wvhich was rejected by the foliowing vote:
tion in the comimittee.
CONTENTS:
Hon. 'Mr. McIMULLE'N\-Thie Bill bas been
The Honourable Messieurs
discussed from time to time ail through tbe
Lougheed,
that the report of the coin- h3éique,
session. Now
Mackay <Aima),
ixuittee is before the flouse, the hon. Secre- Bolduc,
McKay (Truro),
Bouchervilie, de,
M cMilla n
tary of State proposes that it shial be re- Choquette,
Montplaisir,
In my long- experience in parlia- Coff ey,
jected.
Robertson,
of the Domvslle,
Ross (Moosejaw Y,
ment I have neyer known the leader
Ferguson,
Scott,
House or a member of the goverameat to Gilimor,
Sullivan.-18.
Landry,
niove that a report of a committee Lie set
aside, either under the preseut Premier or
NON CONTENTS:
any of bis predecessors. Can any one lu
The Honourable Messieurs
this House mention a single instance in
McLaren,
which eitber the present Premier or Sir Beith,
.NeMNulien,
John Macdonald ever mioved to set aside BoDwel, Mackenzie),
Mcswee~ney,
(Sir
is a Bill Campbell,
Riley,
the report of a committee? This
Ross (Halifax),
over whichi there is a great divergence of Cox,
Ross (Middlesex),
David,
Roy,
opinion. We have been bastening business Frost,
Tessier,
la this flouse for the last two or tbree days Jaf ray,
Watson,
to be ready for prorogation on Saturday Kerr,
Wilson.-19.
King,
should give the
or early next xveek and he
The report wa s adopted on tbe same
House credit for the manner la which they
have facilitated putting the work througb decision reversed.
Hon. 3fr. WILSON.

JUJLY 15, 1908

1597

SECOND READING.

teleg-ranis, and representatives of the parties
called upon me, and I intended to subulit
this proposition when the Bill was in coiniîiittee :

Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading of Bill (20Z) ',An Act to prohibit thue
Importation, manufacture and sale of
opiumi for other thian medicinal purposes.'

Subject -to any such regulations, it shall not
be au offence under section 1 of this Act to
seil or offer £or sale or have in one's posseýs9ion
for sale, fur ex-port only, withia three montlis
after this Act cornes into force.

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I pnt
a notice uj)on the paper to-nig-ht asking for
the correspondence sub)mltted for and
agninst the Bill, and I shonld like very
much to have that correspondence before
final action is taken. Not that I am opposed
to the principle 0f the Bill, but I think It Is
one that requires a very great deal 0f consideration as it is virtnally a Bill of confiscation. to a very great extend, and w-hilp
I shiou!dl like to see the use. of opium,
whether crude or refined, totally destroyed
and its importation and manufacture prevented. it is a grave question hiow far we
should go w-ith a chass of people who have
been carrying on a business, thougli not
particularir ini accord with our own views,
iu w-ihc very large suins of money have
been lnvested, and destroy their trade and
bring ruin upon those engaged in It. It
seenis to me there should be some provision
la the Bill to enable themn to dispose of the
stocks they have, or give thein compensation
for the destruction of the property which
they hold. It may be a popuhar view to
take to abolish the traffic, but I have strong
view-s lu favour of the protection o! those
wvho ire carrying on a business under the
haw as it exists upon the statute book,
and if we desire .to destroy the trade, let
us take the xnanhy course of compensatlng
them for lt. and destroy the article If you
Please. h vil., lu committee discuss the
question as it bas affected the country in
the past. and Nvhat the polcy of Chlina,
Enghaud. India and Hong Kong bas been
ripou the subject. I thinik It is just as well
to) know exactly what position tbis question
is in, in the eyes of the whole worhd.

Giving them thiree monthis In whichi to
export.

MANUFACTURE AND SALE 0F OPIUM
PROHIBITION BILL.

Hon. Sir M~ACKENZIE BOWELL-

To

what country can It be exported ?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-It must lie taken ont
of Canada. I do flot kuow wlbere it would
be exported to-China, I suppose.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-Or p)ut it on board
the , Arctic.'
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVEIL-Wihl
the hon. gentleman try and secure the documents that I have asked for ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I recelved a letter a
few moments ago which is the only correspondence I have had. -%r. 'Mackenzie
King made a report on it which lias been
printed and circnlated, and beyond thiat I
have had nothing except a telegrani froin
British Columbia objecting to the Bill, and
a communication froin Mr. M.\clnnes who
represents the parties interested.
BO0WEL-l
Hon. ýSir NIACKEN71E
understand that cojnmuiitio"5- have been
had with the preiiier an.l witiL the goveruinment in favour of the Bill whichi we are
110w considering, and thaï theie have been
protests froin those w-ho have large anonts
of nioney invested ini the business. Those
are the ones I want.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I protluced. at council
to-day a telegram froni the gentleman acting for these p)arties. cihhing attention to the
large amnount of monev inivested, and asking
that somie consideration be given. However, I will make Inquiries.

The motion was ag-reed to and the Bill
HIo n. Mr. SCOTT-Thie province of wvas rend the second tume.
British Columubia adopted laws and has
BILLS INTRODUCED.
endeavoured to suppress the traffic for some
Bill (204) 'An Act to amend chap. 38 o!
tiîne. but it Is carried on In deffance of the
laws; however. atter the Bihl passedl the the Statutes. 1907, litnaineadment to the
House o! Commîns I received a number of Railway Act.'-Hon. '%r. Scott.

1596

159~3

SEINATE
THE SENATE.

Bill (210) 'An Act to amend the Northwest Territories Act.'-Hon. iMr. Scott.
JUDGES ACT AMENDOMENT BILL.
FIRST READING.
Â message was received froum the Hous.o
of Gommons with Blit (206) Ar Act to ameud
the Judges Act.
The Bill was read the first tîme.
Hou. 3fr. SCOTT-I move that this Bill
Th Is
be rend a second time to-morrow.
Bill deals with salaries of the county court
Judges and district judges, giving certain
lncreases. Clause 1 reads:

OTTAWA,

Thursday, July -16, 1908.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Eleven
o'clocic a.m.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
LEASE 0F SHOPS AT MONCTON.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY inquired:
Have the governînent leased the aid shops

rntl grouads at Moncton, whicb were -adrertised last 1'ebruary, and tenders ivere closed
ab~out March?- And, aiso, if lease has be-n
ciosed, to whom was it awarded?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The
question is 'no.'

answer to that

The judge of the county court of the counity
of York, $3,500 p,,r aniluin.
OTTAWA FIELD BATTELIY.
Sixty-uine other judges and junior judges PAY 0F
courts and district courts, each $2,of county
INQIIY POSTPONED.
500 per annium during the first three yeaxs of
service, and a.fter three years of service, each
Mr. LANDRY inquired:
Hlon.
$3,000 per annum.

When does the governinent think that it

Hon. Mr. -SULLIVAN-I think that is will be a.ble ta la-y on the table of this House
the fa].lowing documents, the production of
very proper. The salaries of county court ighich was ardered during the present session,
Judges of Ontario ought to be increased.
ot the dates nientioned:
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Does my hon.
friend merely zontemplate dealing 'wlth
county court judges of one province ?

(a) The statement indi cating the mliulunts
speat on the Deschambauit wharf-February

14?

(b) The carrespondence exchang-ed between
the Department of Militia and Lieutenant-Colinel Davidson re latter's dismissal, and the
iomotion of Sir Henry Pellatt to the rank
of colonel-February Il?
(c) The statement showing what was the
uiaily pay of the soldieu s of the Companuy -No.
2 of the Ottawa Field Battery in 1865 ind 1866
March 17?

Ho.M.SCOTT-I have not gone through
the Bill. It affucts; county court Judges iii
Manitoba, $2,500 for the f1rs-' three yearý;,
ind after three years, $3,000, and It makeg
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have no answer to
provision with regard to the c-bief commi3chief commissioner of auy of thiese questions.
bioner and assistant
the Board of Railway Comn.issioners, the
Hon. Mr. L-ý'NDRY-I suppose the lion.
Saine as was doue ivjth reference to the lati gentlemani could get those unswers for the
chief commissioner, that bis term as hiigh uLext Sitting of the House?
court judg--e before bis appoiutmient to the
lion. Mr. S,'COTT-Whbere everybody la
commission should counit fil hiýý pension.
working under hiigh pressure it is not easy
Lo sce anybody sud attend to oueWa ou-n

Hon. Sir MACKDiNZIE BOWELL-Does work, ail the ministers are so busily enit deal with one judge, or with the county gaged. I would suggest to the hon. genCourt judges as a whole?
tleman to .-ive bis question to Soule friend
l the other Chamber, and have hlmi asic
Hon. '-%I. SCOTT-I dû not k-now whalt
the minister there.
the increase is.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I have no slaves lu
The motion was agreed to.
question No. 3
the other Chamber. M-Ny
adjourned until il arn. to- was answered yesterday, s.o it will be
The Senate
dropped.
morrow.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT

JULY 16, 1908

1599

1599
JULY 16, 1908
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIELL-Iu
POSITION OF COLONELS AT THE
reference to paragrapli (c) question No. 2,
TERCENTENARY.
does the bon. gentleman know -whether the
INQUIRY- POSTPONED.
records have been kept lu the department?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I have a question I know that when Major General Herbert
on the Order Paper item No. 4 whlch rends was ln charge of the department, some in:quiries were made with reference to the
as foiiows
pay roils of the oid Belleville Rifle ComHas any provision been made or will any,
be fmade by the militia authorities -to give pany. We were desirous of obtaining its
honorary colonels and honorary lieutenent- history. It went back as far as 1837, and
colonels o! regimeats a fitting position in the the answer we got was that ail these oid
military turnout at Quebec on the occasion of records had been burned and destroyed,
the tercentenaryP
being considered of no value. Probabiy
It Is easy to answer that-just teleplione this return may be ln the saine position.
to rouse the
to the Militia Departmnt
The question» is, whether the parties to
minister?
whomn the money was. reaIiy due ever got
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I have written and it. and whether it was paid by the govtelephioned and I have asked hlm to send erument and put lu the pockets of some
dowu one o! the officIais who was familiar officiai. I thiink thiat is the history of the
with the matter to the bon. gentleman's matter to whicli the question alludes.
roomi and get hlm what lie wanted. I did
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Quite likeiy.
the best I couid. I cannot reform ail the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And
departments at the saine time.
If it were possible to arrive at the truth
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No. *I asked by
question No. 4, what standing wiii be given of the matter, it wouid be a vindication
to lieutenant colonels and bonorary col- of the officer w-ho received the money. If,
however, hie kept the money lie ought to be
onels lu the turuout whichi wili take place
punished.
ut Quebec.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-I wiil explain the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I got that answer.
In 1865-6 some volobjeet of my motion,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I did not'get it.
unteers were sent to Prescott. Some coinHon. Mr SCOTT-It must be umong panies were laid ut the rate of 50 cents
my pupers They were to have an offi- and some ut the rate o! 25 cents a dny.
That is what the men say. I want
ciai standing lu Quebec.
to know if the governmeut
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I wiil wait for n nated in that way, paying some o! discrimithe men
answer.
twice as much as they paid others?
Hon. Mr. SCOT-Thnbt was reaily the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat is a proper lusubstance of the answer, that they were quiry.
to have an officiai standing ut the TercenHon. Mr. LAN1-\DRY-I usked for a returit
tenary.
reiating to one couipany, the men o! which
Hon. Mr. LANDItY-In regard to paraand for a returu
graphi (c) o! iuquiry No. 2, the hou. gentle- received 50 cents a day,
of another compauy, the men of whichi reman said. an officiai w-ouid corne to me to
ceived ouiy 25 cents a day. The man who
Inquire wiiat I wnnted. He came up.
came to me said, 'Do yon want aIl the
Hion. Mr. SCOTT-I fear the depurt- pay lists ?' I said, 1 1 do not want that, I
mient do not see their way to nnswer that. only want the amount paid la 'these two
The officiai I have referred to
cases.'
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-They are ut sen.
brougit me the puy lists of the annual dril
The SPEAKER-Have ail the questions that year.
I said 'I1 do not want the anbeen answered?
nuai drill; I wunt the puy lits of tlhe men
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I wIll bring anothei on active service on the frontier that year.'
I expIained to hum exac.tly whaj; I wanted,
answer ln the afternoon.

1600

SENATE

1600

SENATE

jute force until Septeinler because if wll
take some time te organize under it. Lt is
(laite impossible te fatiion exactly w-liere
ixSULLIVAN-Perliaps I could it ill lead te, but 1 thînk I ai quite safe
Hon.
get sone of the relis of the First Fronte- iii saylig that au officiai m-lie is neov qualimic. comnionly called the Bloody Fîrst. A.t lied for promotion could net lie disturlied.
the tirne of the Winidmill battle at Prescott
lien. Sir LMACKDX ZIE BOWVELI-Tlat
they made a gallant at'tack on a distillery
and captured It.
What tliey did withi the is an equitable conclusion te corne te, liut
Their deeds 1 qulestion very mucli whether under tlîe
contents 1 do flot know.
have been se great, that I arnl sure tliey pîrovisions of tbe :Bill, uuless souxe arI kiîewv rangement Is made prier to liringiug it into
iînst be on record at .ý.ingstoiî.
their colors are there, and when I returîï to terce, that the interpretation given liy the
Kingstonî 1 will enticaveur to tiiid ont aiiy lion, gentleman is correct.
and lie said he would give nie an ansiver
to-day.

hîistorie facts connected witli thein.
CI[VIL SERVICE ACT AM\ENDM\EXNT
BILL.
IN COMMITTEL.
Thù lieuse resolved itsi±lt ii11e Coiinrnittee
of the %Vliole on Bill (IS9) Ail Aet to arnd
the Civil Service Act.
(ln the Committee.)
On clause 6,
6. Clerks noiv holding the rank of first-class
shall be placed in subdivision A of the se<'cnid division.
2. Clerks nlow holding the rank of seniior
-second-,ctass sh-al lie placed in subdivision B
(i the second division.
3. Clerks now holding the rank of junior
second-edass shahl bc plaeced iii subdivision A
of the thilid division.
4. Tli--ls
clerks anîd tenipora ry clerks
paid eut of eivil governiiîent contîngencîeý
tshal1 le p]aced in subdivisin B of the thiiid
division.
Hon. Sir :NACKiýENZIE BOWELL-There
is a provision !in the la-that tlird class
clerk., inust undergo au exaininatien as te
fitniess liefere promotion, te bie held by tlie
new commission te lie appointed.
Whiat
posItioni %vultl a third class clerk be Ili
wvlî lias passed tlie prelirniiiary examinatieîî. 'the examinationi as te the duties of
liNý office, and aIse the qualifyiug promoOtioni
exauiiaation?
'We will assume that lie las
îîassed ail the exaniinations necesary for
pîromoetioni.
WiII that officer lie cempe]led
te go before tlie new commission and lie
examinied agalin before lie can lie proernoted?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I tliink net. It ivould
iiot lie fair.
I de net tiinr tlie Bill is Intended te lie ex post 'facto; it is inteuded
The Act whll net corne
te lie prospetive.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn coiitirîned iithaf
opinion liy tlie fact tîtat we retail, for the
present at any rate, tlie present examiiîers.
l)r. Tiierburn 15 stili cliairmnai eof -the board
Tlîe inspecter of qcluoels
ef examiîiers.
liere. Dr. Claslîan. is aIse a minber ef the
board, and the otlier iieiniber is !i the libiriry.
The clause was adopted.
On clause -8,
S. As soon as 'practicalhe after thle corning
!iito force of the Act, the head of exiclî departu:îelit shall cause the orgaization of lus deýai-tineiit te lie deterînîned and dulfilned liY
eidter in counicil.
2The order in counceil shalgive the naines
eýifli the number and clînracter of the offices,
c]s-ikshîps and other position-. iii eccli aîîd
th;e duties, tities and salaries theî-eafteî te
lier taini therete.
hAfter being so determiiied mddetined,
flie ou-ganization of n departinent shliah îîot
4 changed except liy or<ler ini oiicil.
4. Copies of such orders in ýceunci1 -hall lie
urit to the commission.
Lion. ýSir MACKENZIE BOWEL-In
uiearly ail these clauses, poewer is vested in
the Geverner in Couacil, and. as tlie Bill
stands. wve are divesting flie Senate et ail
thic powers if lias exercised auîd enjeyed in
the past: liut wlien yen cerne te clause 45.
t leeks as if tlie pew-ers are ail traîîsferred
back, and that tliey wvill sf111 lie retained liy
the iSenate.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, that is quite clear.
Trle Senate, as a biody, and any of ifs ceinmittees they please te namne, will stand in
tlue place of the department as far as regulations and suggestions and recommnendaTlie w-erds la tlie
tiens and ail tliat go.
Act are that a reseluf ion of the Senate or
1House of Commons takes flie place of any

JULY 16, 1908

re[>resentation that miglit be made by the
head of a department. For instance, If a
,eerk awarded to them is flot satisfactory,
or they do flot care to keep hlm, they have
arig-lt after six montbs to rejeet hlm and
iisk for another.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The intention is that

there shall be as lîttie disturbance as possible.

Hon. Mr. POWER-Thiat is hampering
tue administration.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Would that not tie
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Iln Use bands of the difierent departments?
the Sth clause, I think the words 'order ln
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Of course there are
council ' should rend 'a resolution of the
some men employed lu the departments,
Senate.'
who keep thielr eye on the dlock ail the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That particular clause finie.
,ouly refers -to departments ln the governHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Of course there
ment.
Is flexlbillty about this; It slmply lays downj
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE 'BOWELL-No, a principle.
to all departments.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The arrangement of
Hon. '.%r. LOUGHEED-I tbink we had the salaries lias been fixed according to
better postpone consideration of clause the status of first, second and third-class
45, until we reach It. 1 would point clerks, There inay- be an exceptional case,
out tlhat under clause 8 It would permnit of but tise wliole basis is that the present
the governuiient, ln the re-organization, or status wlll be.maintained.
in the organization of the department proHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWRLLR--DJoes
vided for in the first part of the section, to Use bon. gentleman make the statement
radically re-organize the department to the tlint the Commission intend to, deal with
detriment possibly of many of the officers those 'who coine to their offices and net
and clerks whio now enjoy a certain sta- ns droues and do as little as possible, and
tus. It seenss to me that the head 0f ea-eh apply every year for an increase ? 'If thîs
departmnent should be restricted to main- Bill could only get rid of that class It
taining lu such re-organization the present would be a good thing for the country.
status of each oficer or clerk. It will be
The auseudient wvas agreed to.
seen that tlils gives the widest possible
The clause as amended, wvas adopted.
power or discretion to the bead of encb
department to IL fact ianipulate, If he
On clause 9,
so desires, the standing of the dîfferent
9. There shall
called
officers or clerks in bis department and 1l'4 Civil Service be a commission to beby two
Comisiision a'-sisteti
possibly to the detriment o! many who i,'einbers appointed by the Governior -ii Counhave certain rigbts by reason of their long cil.
service lu the departmnent. I would sugHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thie
gest that tlue clause be amended by pro- object of the goverumnent, certainly the ohviding that due regard should be had to ject o! the Civil Service Commission was,
the present status of each officer or clerk. to reniove as far as possible the appointlion. 'Mr. SCOTT-That is really the
Intention. The salaries named for the different officers have been based entirely on
the standing of the first second and thîrd
élasses. However, 1 have no objection to
the words; they ean do no hnrm.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Then

I

move
ln

that we ndd, after the word 'councîl'

the tenthi lne the following:
Having due regard to the status of each
officer or clerk, as the case may be.
101
REVISED

ments to the Civil Service fromn the poli-

tical Influences whichi are colistantly brouglit
to bear whien these appointments are
made. If this clause be adopted as It Is,
the presumption Is the two gentlemen wlso
will be appointed as commissioners wil
be of the Liberal party, and it Is not
unfair to presume that whether they were
both of the Lîberal party or both of the
Conservative party, thiat ln xnaklng the selection, preference, wll be given, lu ail
probablllty, naturally, to those who hold the
EflITT0O<

1602

SENATE

SEINATE
1602
saine view that the Coimfissiotters hold lte local legisiature, and shie asked hlmi
and who are supporters of the goverfi- the question, 1Wlat po]itiCs are you?' Ile
Site
nient for the titue being. In the United said, 'Oh, 1 amn a h'iindependenlt.'
saîid, smilingly, ' Oi, yes, 1 nnderstauid that
States, ia order to avoid as mucli as possible the use of political power by the exactly; thiat is a mn i vlio is ready to be
commissioners ulîder thc Civil Service Act, boughit and sold at any tinie by w-hoevcr is
1 amrn ot i)repared to say that
I find that their Act In reference bo thc iii power.'
appointmient of commissioners whose du- is rny opinion, but that wvas the lunatic's
0f course
ties are t0 a certain extent simllar to those definition of an Independent.
we impose upon the Civil Service, contaîns If the hon, gentleman from Digby recoin
iiiends the appointment of an independent
thette words:
mian, 1 hope lie will flot be of titat clinracNot more than two of thent shall be ad- ter:
la(rents of the sanie political parly.
This, or sometbing sînilar to, It,
would fit iii very well after the word
' members ' In the 2lst hune of te
clause. If the governmnent really desire
to remove entirely thc political influences
that 'will be brought to bear upon the
«ommissioners and the favouritism whîch
the commîissioners miglit show lu malzing n
selection of candidates, tbey ought lu these
nppoiîîtmenbs not to be both of bue saine
In the appointment to
political characler.
the three commissioners In bhe United
States, provision is made that only two
shaîl be of the saine poIltical party. One
strong reason to my nd. why the pollcy
of selecling, If there are 10 be two commissioners, one from ecdi party, or If tliere
are to be thîree, two of one parly and one
of another, Is that the law provides that
you canîtot remnove amy or cither of those
commissioners 'except by vote of parliameut, and then there must be a coinplaint
against themn whichi would justify parliament iii dismissing thein, or, in other words,
lte commissioners are placed in precisely
the saine position as thc judges of the
courts and the Auditor Gerteral.
Hon. Mr. CO'ME:AU-Do you shut out the
Independent mani?
MACKENZIE BOWELL-Not
Hou. Sir -If you could pick out au independent man,
who had no politics or prejudices. I hiave
flot the most exalted opinion of what you
To illustralte whal
caîl independent incan.
I atu saylng-, I will cite a lutIle incident
A politiciau
whicb occurred in Toronto.
was going througli the lunatic asyluin, and
got Imb a conversation witb a litIle English
womau, who asked hlm what hie was dolng
lu Toronto. He said he was a member of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I think ithere is a
great deal of force in what the hon. gentletuaitlhas sai(l, and when I first heard of
this commission 1 thougit that it would be
wise to follovw the cxatnple of the United
States; but the governrnt took a different
view, and 1 supp1ose the goveruent wcre
There
riglîL. 'l'ey soîtîetitnes are right.
are two or three reasoîts whicli tend to
utake one believe that iny first impression
ln the first place, we are
is itot correct.
supl)osed 'to iiiîltate te English system, and
the systemu Which they liave lu the United
States is not the Eîtglishi system; titen ithere
is another circuntstance to which I wishi to
direct lte attentioni of the conimittce, aîtd
titat Is that when this Bill was introduced
lt did flot coîttalu the provision which it now
coutains, ltat these conintissioners sliould
hiold office during good behaviour. In the
Ilouse of Comons, il wvas fel desirable
taI thiese commissioners should be Independent of the governîneut and that proI tinik that as a genvisiont was put in.
eral thing if an officer feels thiat he is coinîdlely independent of tîte governmnent, he
is likely todo bis duty honeslly and wilhont any undue favour to friends of the goveramnent. Hon, gentlemnen will remiember
that the ex-Auditor General was appointed
in this way, and no one could accuse hini at
any time of uuduly favouring the members
of his own party; and 1 assume that these
commissioners will be something of the
saine stamp. Then there Is anoîher circuniIf you adopt the United States
stance.
lan, and provide that there shaîl be three
commissioners, two of theui beloaging 10
the party lu powver and one belonging to
tîte opposition, I tbînk the effecl will be

JULY 16, 1908

1608

1603
16, 1908
wltb regard to the commissioners beine
only removable by both Houses of parliament, I do flot nttach very mucli Importance to, because 'if the commi.ssionere
Hou. Mr. SULLIVAIN-Thie lbon. gentle- were to -nct as partisans for a political
mati does flot mean to say tluat the United party, you may depend upon It the poiltical party that was discrimînated àgalnst
States officiais are destitute of bonour?
1
think they have more bonourable men than and bad the majorlty ln both Houses wouîd
repeal the clause in the Act which forblds
we have here, and better civil servants.
removal of commissioners by Governor in
Hon. 'Mr. POWEtR-I did flot catch wbat Council. Tbey could do that with the greattbe lion, gentleman said. My vlew is that est ease. Pariament could repeal that
under this Bill, the commissioners are ln- clause, and, therefore, the men wbo would
depeudent and are put on their honour to bie appointed as commissioners could not
do what is fair and right, and I tbink thiat possibly afford to suap their fingers at pubinstead of galning, you would lose if you lic opinion and justice, because a way
put on a third man wbo would be supposed could be lad of bringlng them up If they
to have exclusive charge of the interests were to act as partisans. Apart even from
of the friends of the opposition.
the consideration that we have power to,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I hardly agree -repeal, It bas been beld in cases that aros-ý
wîth xny hon. frlend from Hastings, that la the A&ustralian colonies., where they
It is desirable to insert the provision hie bave the saine provision in their constitusuggests in this Bill, nor do I agree witb tional Act as we have, that judges, for Inblm ln the estimate lie gives of 'what are stance, may be removed by the Governor
called independent men. I think 1 bave la ln Council. In one or two of the Australian
my mind men wbom It would be very colonies tbey put provisions in their law
bard for anybody la this House to state that persons appointed by letters from the
wblch political party tbey had the greateat Gurown couîd only bie dismissed by address,
leanlng to, and whio would be admlrably and the Privy Council bas held that tbat
Act was ultra vires. But anyway we know
adapted for the carrylng out of this
work.*
WJ.at I tblnc would be very desirable and that parliament could repeal its own *Act
fair to parliament Is, that the govern- and therefore tbe commissioners could flot
ment should subit to 'tbe House, before possibly afford to go in defiance of principassing the Bill, a list of names out of pIes of justice and fair. play as between the
whlch they would select the commissioners. two politîcal parties, and make appointI know tbat was the course pursued in tbe meuts of a partisan nature.
settlement of the land question ln PrinceHon. Mr. BEIQUE-The provision ln the
Edward Island. Government submitted a Civil Service Act autborlzes tie president
llst of namnes of the arbitrators that-would to appoint, by and with the advlce and conbe selected, and the llst was satisfactory sent o! the Senate, three persons flot more
to both parties, as long as -the namnes would than two of wbomi shall be adberents, of
be taken -from the list presented. If hon. the samne political party, and tbey shall
gentlemen in the goverament had consi- constîtute the Civil Se;vlce Commission.
dered the matter enrler and had furnîshed The president may remove any commisthe list of naines, it would bave been a sioner, but in filing a vacancy the presiguarantee that the appointments would bie dent and the Senate must conform to, tbe
placed ln good bands. I regard It of tbe first provision as to the seletion 0f a comngreatest Importance that It sbould be doue missioner. I do flot for my part agree
on the blgh plane of fair play as bie- with the suggestion of the hion. senator
tween the civil servants themselves and from Hastings. I hope that the commistheir status, and also as between the two sioners to be appoînted will be persons wbo
political parties. There Is another reason will command the confidence of the counwhy I take tbis view, and It Is this: try, not so mucb because of their political
the provision we are putting in the law views as thelr character and qualification
101j
JULY
that the majority will do as tley please and
that they will feel less bound to consider
the interests of the mlnority tItanl If tbey
were put on tlieir honour.

SENATE

-1'604

It wouid be lmporting a
wrong principie to recognize ln the selection of those commissioners political divisions. It .would tend to create strife in
the Commission itself, and would flot be
for the good government of the country.
1 do flot think that we should borrow from
the United States. Their systemn is flot at
ail similiar to ours. The presideat can dismiss, and as a matter of fact bas dismlssed very readily, an officiai of that kind.
Under our system, it is intended that the
commissioners shall hoid office a's the Auditor General does, whetber there is a
change of government or not. They are intended to be permanent officiais, to be removed only by a vote of both Houses. It
is the correct principle, and in accordance
with precedent, and w-e sliould not recogaize qualifications arisîng- pureiy fromn the
political views of parties.

for the position.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I slbould like to c«-i
the bon. gentleman's attention to the fact
thiat the governmeat have recentiy appointed a cbief justice in New Brunswick, aîid
a chief- justice in Nova Scotin, botli of
whom are Conservatives.
Hon. '.%r. FERGUSON-Tbey were not
original appointments; they were promotions.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Whiat about Judge
Phippea, of Winnipeg?

Hon. '-%r. LOUGHEED-The only reason
they appointed Judge Plîippen was that the
provincial

government

demanded

the ap-

pointment of a Conservative before they
wvould prociaim the Act.
Hon. Mr. ROY-Whiat about Judge Beck?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Jlidge Beck join
ed the Liberai party - and w-as wjthi the
lion. Mr. LOUGHEED-The object of party nt the time the Autonomy Bill was
tbîs Bill la to create publiec confidence as under consîderation.
to appolatmeiits of our public servants.
Hou. 'Mr. DOUGLAS-What about Judge
Patronage wbicb bas heretofore been exerWetmore
clsed by the party ln power and wbiclh
fbey bave dlscovered bas beeni someHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-He was appointwhat to their disadvantage is no-% being ed to the beach by the Conservative govbaxided over to a Commission. An excel- ernment, before he wns appointed to the
lent opportunlty is furnished la this Bill chief justiceship.
to tbe government to introduce not altoHon. Mr. BEIQUE-What about Judg,,
gether a precedent, but a principie whiclî
sbould be weil recognîzed la the publie Nesbit?
ilfe of Canada. It bas been the fortunate
Hon. Mr-. LOUGHEED-Tbis goveralot of this goverament sinýce Its accession ment bad an opportunity of showîag ;
to power to fill neariy nil thie great offices mensure of distinterestedness ia selectin.ýln Canada, and yet I venture to say tlîat political oppounts for highi judiciai offices.
it wouid be difficut-I have ia view ait but they did not do so. The sameremarl;
present the judicîary-in the many mainy appiies to the Railw-ay Board, wbieli
appointments ta- the beach both superior is a quasi judicial body and to the National
and Inferior to point to the ane of any Transcontinental Raiiw-ay Commission. lIn
Coaservative who bas been se]ected. The Eagiand it la entireiy different. The ptîrty
bench bas undergone aimosfl en ýent4re la power there, in makiag its high appointchange. siace the accession of the present ments, does not give consideration to the
goveraiment to office, and 1 doubt if any frict of the appointee belonging to the dobon. gentleman la this Chamber caui put minant party. Thiey recogaize the prinbis finger on aay judicial appoîatment tliat cipie that if pubiec confidence is to be
bas been freely made fromn the opposition crcated. la the higher offices of the State,
party. Tbey have, with one or two excep- gent.emen must be seiected from botb potions,' been selected fromn the party ia litical parties.
power.
abont
Hop. Mr. McSWEENEY-MWhat
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Oh. no.
slon.

Mr: BEIQUE.

Chief Justice Bnrker, of New Brunswick?

1605
10

.TILY 16, 1908
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-He was on the
bench before this governinent icaine into
power. It shows the extreme partisan spirit of this goverument when hon. gentleanen dlaim credit for promoting a judge to
a chief justiceshlp who Uns been twenty
years on the bench. We bave reached that
position lu Canada when the acrimiony of
pcl!tical strîfe should be modified to the
e-xteint of recognizing the services whicl,
our leading public meni have rendered
th(- State, to the extent of appolnting tbein
to the hlher public offices. There should
bL fuir distribution, especially in maklng
app&r.ýtments to the judiary, of men of
ba~h political parties, and aise lu mnakingappo.ntments to the very Important commissions of whîch I have made mention.
Here es an opportunity, if the.governmnent
desie to create confidence in the public
mind that the servants of this Dominion
are to occupy the positions tbey fill entlrely irrespective of any political influence.
Hon. '.\r. DOM VILLE-Would the lion.
gentleman expect the government to be
takin.g positions out of the hands of an
lncoring party if they were coming Into
power to-morrow?'

t ions on the Superior Court bench by the
Conservative governinent.
Hon. Mr. FROST-Name

one.

McLOUGHEED-Justice
Hon. Mr.
Malien, Chancellor Boyd, Chief Justice MeLellan, the late Justice Killain, and I could
mention others. I challenge bon. gentlemen on the other side to point to an equal
number selected froin their political opponents.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT[t only shows they were better lawyers
on the Liberal than on the Conservative
side.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I wvas bopeful
thnt iny right hon. friend, as hie grew older,
would divest hilinself of his unsound political views and show that mensure of gen-,
erosity I would have expected froin hein.
I Nvlll give him the credit of snying that I
arn satisfied. if hie had the selection of
those two comuiissioners bimseif, he would
be wllling to appoint one froin eac.. of the
two political parties. I do nlot lntend te.
move an amendinent aow, but at the third
reading of the Bill 1 shahl move that clause
9 be nmended by addlng the word 'provided both of whom shal nlot be adherents
of the saine political party.' That would
give an opportunlty to my hon. friends lii
the meantîme to consider the suggestion
we have made and follow in the wake of
the excellent precedent set by the United
States in their Civil Service Act.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I was about to
say that ns this goverament is going out
of power at the next general election, tlaey
might recognize the expediency, to say
the least of It, of distributing the offices of
these commissioners amongst the adherents
of both political parties. The saner men
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-We.
belonging to the Liberal party would recaIl take perhaps different views on a quesof doing that.
ognize the expedieucy
tion of this kind, but every one whll echo.
Hon. Mr. lMcSWEENEY-Did the late the sentiment>: of the lion. gentleman from
government always do that?
De Salaberry, that we hope certain things;
take place. It is the old story 'hope
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I will not say will
to
very much more told a flattering tale.' I amn prepared
always, but they showed
say front n somewhat long- experience that
geuerosity lu the appointmnt of political
very littie coniplaint cau be made against
opponents to the more important offices
the judiciary of this country, particularly
than thîs goveriiment has ever shown.
I was rather surprised to hear
of Ontario.
Mr. FROST-WiII tUe hon, gentle- the chorus froni the othier side when my
Hon.
man- tell us how many appointments fromn hion. friend called attention to the fact that
the Liheral party were made during tUe a Conservative governinent had appolnted a
elghteeu years the Couservative party were number of judges who belonged to the
34y bon. frîend froin Toin power?
Liberal pnrty.
'Whetber that was a Judesmiled.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I couhd refer to ronto
sinile I cannot tell, but
many appointmeflts of Liberals to posi- chlat or a sarcastio

1606

SENATE

SENATE
1606
no onie k-uows better tlîan the hou. gentle- ing officers, I have made this suggestion.
mari who lolds a prominent position in the I fully concur lu that clause of- the Civil
profession, that some of the most eminent Service Act which places these commisjudges in Ontario who were Liberals were sioners above and beyond the influence of
It Is an adapp ointed by ýSir John 'Macdonald, among the goverument of the day.
them 1 might mention M3r. -Blake, Judge mirable provision. Though the law may
MoMýahon and Mir. Mc'Lennen, who former- be changed la order to get rid of commisly represented Victoria, and who bas been sioners, it Is nlot so likely to be doue as it
prâmoted by the present goverilment to the would be If they were there during the
S'upreine Court bench.
I neyer heard fauit pleasure of the people who appointedl them.
found with any of those judges.
In MNari- I doneto wishi it to he uuderstood flhat I
toba Judge Kll1lam was appointed by the thiuk two gentlemen appointed to this Imlate government. Every one respected his portant position could not nct judicially
character, and wlll always look back with and witliout prejudice; but It Is the teupleasure, nt bis record as being a man of dency of hunian nature to give your favours
extraordinary ability.
The present gov- to your frieiîds and to act on their sugges1 know wvhen I had
ernment very properly placed hlm at the tion and advlce.
liend of the Railway Commission, where favours to .-Ive, 1 did ns othiers hnd doue,
lie did good service for the country, and bestow themi on nîy friends, but when it
hias ]eft a namne of w'bichi bis descendants came to promoting those already in office,
may welI be prend.
These are only a then menit and nothing else was nllowed to
lu ail the cases to which bon.
teW cases to whilh 1 cotild caîl attention. lîrevuil.
The hon. senator froin Halifax objects to gentlcmen opposite have called attention,
ù*h suggestion 1 made becnuse he says.it whiere judges wbo were Conservatives bave
lu flot English but American.
Those who been given hlgber positions, they were aiknow me, need flot be told that 1 have nlot ready ou the beucli aud had proved their
very' stroug feelings in faveur of United fltuess for promotion. Judge Barker stands
States politicians, or the systear thut pre- high lu bis profession and socially. Judge
vails in that country, but 1 am not pre- Towuvsend was aiso on the bench. I hope
pared to say that everything there is ob- that in the carrying out of this Clvil Service
Jectionable.
There are many points in the Act It wlll be, as far as practicul, removed
churacter of the people and in their legisia- from the political Influences whichi have
tion whichi w mighit wlth profit follow ln surroiinded appolntments lu the past. I
this country.
We should follow English hope the hon. Secretary of State wlll act
precedent bie
says.
Does any one suppose upon the suggestion of the hon. senator
that tue saine prejudices do not exist even from Calgary and consuit wlth bis collu -the case of the Civil Service Commission leag-ues as to the propriety of makîng the
ln England, thant prevail ln other parts of change suggested.
the worId?
Human nature is human naHon. Mr. WATSON-1 think the stateture.
1 know that it is necessary lu Engsenator from Calland to have influence to secure promotion ment made by the hon.
gary, as to -the arppointment of Judge
in the civil service.
A distant counection
of mine writes me that although lie lias Phippen is very unfair, and should not be
I
pussed the promotion examinution, anid is allowed to go abroad uncoutradicted.
do not thînk the hon. gentleman intended
lu a position to dlaim promotion for bis
long services, It is impossible for h lm to get to go so far as te say that Judge Phippen
It unless he cau bring influence to bear was only selected because the local govupon certain persons.
He does not lîold n ernment refused to proclaimi the Act unless he was appointed. I know the conpro minent position in society, and nithougli
lie Is entitled to promotion, hie cannot secure trary to be the fact, that he Nvns seIt wlthout Influence.
It willMe the saine Iected on account of bis ability to fill the
here.
ln order to remove any friction in position of judge. It la a reflection on
the future, and to prevent charges being hlm to say Ohat lie Mwas ouly appointed bemade agnlnst the commissioners In seiect- cause bis polîtical frieads ln the Manitoba
Ilon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JUlly 16, 190S860

1607

bould belong. in conclusion, 1 wisb te
goverument forced the governmeflt at 0V~tnte empbatically that the selection Of
LE
hlm a judge.
tawà te make
[udge Phippen to tbe Kiug's Benchi was
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-I said tbe pro- iot done at tbe suggestion of any of 'the
virtija government of Manitaba refused to bon. gent leman's political friends.
aIlow the Act ta be brought into force by
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Can
oLder in council, until Ithis goverument
the Act la Manitoba
agreed to a Conservative as one of tbe any one tell us wiiy
of .Âp- was held up for about a year and a liait
three judges constitiitiflg the Court
brought in forre ?
peal, and _in tbat wny Judge Phippen before It was
bu was
calli ta be appointed. No daubt
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No. 1 cannot tell.
appointed because of bis abiiity; be was
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTone of the foremost lawyers la the proSpeaking 'witb some considerable expefission.
rience of the Civil Service, 1 say that it
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Doès the han. gen- is emunently desirable that civil servants
ilenian knowi Nbat he hns stated ta be should, as far as possible, be remnoved
t -Uc .?
from politics. In my own department, I
Ilou. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes. I assume bave acted on that principle. I have paid
t'Je rcsponsibility of saying it ls true. If no regard to the political proclivities of
Of
tite Manitaba government hiad nlot takea those under me that I found there.
th.at stand, tbree Liberal judges would course the appaintments I made were for
!3av-, been appointed.
my own f riends, but ny one 1 found
received full consideration froni
Hon. Mr. WATSON-As one of tbe par- there bas
me, whatever bis proclivities may have
tie,, eorsulted. ln recommending judges for
A great stride is being made ln the
appointment, 1 neyer beard of the propo- been.
provisions of this Bill. The entrance Into
tsition whlcb the bon. gentleman bas menCivil Serylice from tlîls time forth will
tioned. Judge Phippen was appointed be- the
be by menit, decided on competition, as lu
cause of bis fitness. I do not tbink it la
Eugland. Tbat is a very great improvea good thing to have a strong partisan apand will lead to great Improvement
poiated. My experience is that wbien tbey ment,
in the service. Furthermore, I can say lu
ar.e appointed, tbey are so very mucb
case of most of my colleagues, and I
afraid of bein- regarded as partisans tbat the
arn bound te say I bave observed it to a
they are luclined to lean tbe otber way.
extent lu the case of my preThe bon. leader of tbe opposition says considerable
decessors, the heads of departments, if
tbat one of the two Commissioners to be
have good men under tbem who are
appointed under this. Bill should be a tbey
caipable of carry iug out their -wishes and
Conserviltive. I bope the goverameut wll
carryiug on the business of the departments,
select men waho are neither Liberal nor
be glad to promote sucb men and do
Couservatîve--men you could nlot brand as w'lll
ail they ean for thein. I tbink that was.
belonging to either party. Tbey îuay be
the case to a very reasonable extent under
hard ta find. but there are such gentlemen
bon. friend opposite (Sir Mackenzie
to bu found. Any minister ought to bave my
it bas been the
toucb wltb hlm, lu Bowell) and I know that
bis officiais la close
ca~se in a good uxauy otber departments.
polîtical sympatby with him, because sucb
1s very uiucb the.iuterest of a minister
men wili try to popularize the minister and It
ln charge of a departuient to bave good
the departmeut. If n change of governcapable servants under hlm,' and aimeut were ta take place, deputy heads and
lowing without distinction of party or prewould be removed If they were bitter par.
every juan who cbooses to go tt
tisans. If the bon. gentleman were Min- indice
the Civil Service ta compete ln tbe form
ister of the Interior, he migbit not be satîsby tbis Bill, ivili, I believe, shortfied wltb the preseut deputy head of that proposed
ly produce very important results. I should
departmeiit. It would be a great mistake
averse indeed to anythlng apta carry ont the idea that we should say be very
proacbiug the United States spoils systemn
to wbat political party the commissioners

1608

SENATE

SENATE
1608
being introduced into Canada. If is per- lu flic course 0f this discussion on account
fectly truc, and I had very bitter expe- of flîcir being- clarged wifh being political
rience of it when I was a member of fthc appointuients.
1 have been a member of
M ackenzie administration, that whcen a uew flic bar for over 45 years ia the province,
government coines into office, and finds ail and during that finie if lins been in.) privithec superior offices occupicd by mcn of lege f0 be constantiy in daily contact, I
strong partisan ieanings, th'at the govera- inîght say, appenrilg before the judgcs and
ment conducts ifs affairs at a very great othiers wlîo have occupied sucli positions,
disadvantage, so great that I amrn ot sur- and whatever goverumeaf bas appoinfed
prised that a great many desire that the f leni, or wiîatever înay have been tileir
chief officers should bie rcmoved.
Neyer- affiliation before their nppointment I can
theless, weighing fthc advanfages and dis- say that I have yet to leara of a single
advantagcs together, I bcg to stafe that I instance of aay judge who bas had
should be very sorry indccd to sec ftic per- flie îrivilege of sifting upon ftic beacli iii
manent hcads of tic departrnenfs removed flic igli courts of justice la the province of
ou tlic occasion of a change of ministry. Ontario whose actions have been promoted.
Tbere arc certain officers, of course, sncb prompted or suggested by polificai conas private secretary, which. must of acces- sideraf ion.
Wc have beca sîngnlarly forsity be changed when thic goveraînenf is tuate la flie province, by. whomisoevcr flie
changcd, and If is desirabie also that tlie appointmeîîts have been made, ia haviag
goveranent should have power to briug in mnen appointed whio wcrc appointed by reaofficers with special qualifications; but with ,oîî of ftic signal ability they displaycd at
that reservation I deprecate. any atfempf the bar, and -their hiigh position, and the
at introducing the United States spoils sys- confidenice thcy enjoycd nof only of file
tem. The English system, with ail ifs de- members of the bar, but also thc public, and
fecfs, and It bas some, bas worked weli, 1 should be very sorry if tbrough any
and is heing- substantially introduced lato observation wbichi bas been made here,
la
fthc United States. Thaf is a point I think the slighltesf degrec the honour 0f'the benchi
on which ail parties can agree. I would ln the province of Ontarlo should be affacligo a liffle furtiier than soxue of xny hon. cd. I do not know of a single instance,
friends la endeavouring to rernove ftic aithougi ina have been appointed wlio
Civil Service frorn ail connection witiî po- have occupied prominent positions la polilitics. I have long thoug-lit thiat, as la the ficai fields before
their nppointmcnt f roui
case of judges, it wouid bie better for thein tue days of Sir John Robinson dowa-I
have
and for us if Uic civil servants had no becît a niember of flic bar
thaf ]ong-iîi
votes and ivere entirely outside tlic political Nwiichî any oiie of those
mca has acted iii
arena; but tlîat is a matter of personal opi[- ,ucli a
w-n*y as would .jusfify flic imputanion, and it is not brought up under flic
tionî that filey had ever been polificians or
present Bill. But the oflier point I say that
tiîcy had ever beexi members of any
ftic House mnay thorougblv rely uipou, that
politîcai l)nrfy whafcver.
I thiak if is fair
Is, that If you throw open fthc Civil Serand riglît thaf this statement sbould be
vice t0 competition iu ftie firsf stages, you
mnade.Ag f0 flic question of appointînent
will lna nvcry short tîrne purge flic Civil
of *iudges. so long as appoinfmnents are
Service from political influences that hon.
mnade with a single eyc fo thle public service.
gentlemen have referrcd to, f0 a very
aad w-itiî due regard f0 flic qualifications
greaf exteat and you wvould insure a very
w-lici~ are essential to ibid flic position on
superior .class fo those thaf have lîten
brought in by their politicai
than on their merIts.

pull ratiier

Hon. MIr. KERR-I should liof have said
n word, except to deprecate and express
my reg-ret that tue naines of inanv of our
-- st able and most honourabie and imparfiai judges have been mentioned here to-day
Hon. Sir RICHARD CA RTW RIG HT.

suci a beacli as tbft is, I think it is a
matter utterly immaferial to coasider for
one moment whcthcr these gentlemen have
or have niot af any timie, cither in the present or la ftic pasf been connectcd with any
politicai party.
I fhink the one t1ilng to
coasider is fhe sciection of mca wlio wiil

discliarge their duties impartially and to

JULY 16, 1908

the best of their ability, and, so long as
tliat is done, no0 government can be biamed
because they may have seiected tbem from
I do flot
otie polîtical party or the other.
mnean to dlaim the right of the political parties to recommend the appointment of
It Is the right of anybody, no
judges.
inatter what party he belongs to, to, expect to have that appointment conferred
1 can say of many of the apupon hini.
polntments made since the present government came In power, that the single consideration was, whether the man wouid be
likely to accept the appointment and whetlier lie would be fit for the position.

and the idea that these appointments were

to be bad by political friends, and you would
find politicians wouid be pestering the govI
ernment of the day for appointments.
think, thérefore. it -wouid be very muchi
better to depend upon the high character of
the men you wouid appoint on the commisI only wish we had a list of the
sion.
names from which the commissioners would
be selected, so that we would have the assurance that the mien appoînted wouid be
men of high character.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I amn
rather surprised nt the hon, gentleman from
Toronto fanding it necessarv to make the
Hon. Mr. -LOUGHEDD-I niight resent speech he did ln laudation of the judges
the Implied charge that any refiection is. of Ontario.
1 think the oniy one who recast upon the impartiality or bonour of the ferred to the judges at ail was inyself, and
I arn sure every hion. gentleman if my recoliection serves nie rigbt I used
bench.
of the clinjber will hold the sanie higli the expression that it liad been our goofi
opinion of the beach already expressed, fortune iii Ontario to have a class of men
but it was simply the principle that was on the beach against whoni no charges of
under discussion.
I do
political Iufluence could be brought.
Hon. ïMr. DOMVLLLE--First of ail, we not understand the necessity at all for a
talk for our own province and what is good eulogistic speech such as the hon, gentleman
Under the made, because it was not cnhied for by anytiiere is good everywhere else.
present Act when they hold these examina- thIng- I sald. and certainly not by auythling
tions, young mnen corne froni colleges or.higli the hon. gentlemuan froni Calgary said.
schools, in the fresbness of youth, supposIng ail they have to do Is to pass an exHon. Mr. LOUGIIEED-I regret that the
amination and then receive an appointment. governiient has not seen its way to give a
They pass the examination, many of fthemn, wider scope to this commission, so that of
but neyer get nny position; but under this its own motion it mlht have zthe right or
Bill I can see, If It Is as I understand it, power to investigate the iffairs of any dewhen an examination is beld, such as they partment irrespective of the minister.
have' in Somierset flouse, England, if there
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The first line gîves
are 500 candidates for examination, and
that authority.
tiiere shouid be 20 opportunities for positions open. those who pass -the highest will
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This would flot
get the position irrespective of polities or permit the commission to investigate the
I think the governiiient are want of proper organization in a departnient,
anything else.
1 do not aiways or the questCon of gross extravagance, nor
doing n excellent thing.
feel lnclined to
ernmnent does,
times; but this
rnend itseif to

back Up everything the govaltbough I swaliow Lt sorneis a reforni that must coni-

the country.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I wish to eniphasize the opinion that I have aiready expressed ln an incidentai way, that I could
not support a motion that wouid insist that
these commissioners should be selected one
I tbink that
f rom ench politicaI party.
would keep alive a feeling of partisanship,

wvould it permit themu to place a limitation
Ail it eau do is
on the number of clerls.
to inquire into the status of the clerks <or

officers under the Civil Service Act.

II

seems to mie, what the government requires
to do Is to have a commission in whoni the
people of Canada will bave confidence that

they can exercise sup *ervisory and Inquisitorial powers, If necessnry, into the disorganization lnto which departments wiil
naturaliy fail lu time.

1610

1610
SENATE

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Tbe weakness la

shown hi the last line, where -they cau only
Investigate under an order ln council. Why
should they not hiave that power without
an order la council?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Our systein of goverament Is responaibi'ý to the people, and If you
transfer that responsibility to officiais, you
are tnking It awny froin the administration
eatireiy.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSJ)N-If the words
'Governor ln Council' were struck ont it
wouid give the commission the power to
make the inquires wbich can now be made
oaly by order in council.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If there wvere aay
Justification wbatever for it, no governmeent
could tural down the suggestion or recoinmendations by the commission that nu litvestigatIon should take place into the conduct of nny officiaIs. or management.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I do not
think lt would do to substitute a commissiOn, irremovable, practlcally, for responuible government.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThat would be tbe effect.
. Hon. Mr. ROSS-You would make the
commissioners so indepe ndent of parliament and so indifferent to parliament, that
you could flot endure tbern.
The clause and subelauses were adopted.
On clause il,
Il. The present Civil Service txaminera
6liall continue to hold office during pieasure,
and shall be undgur the direction cf the coinmission.
2. The powers of the Civil1 Service exauniners
as a boa rd under sections 7 to 15, both inclusive, of the Civil Service Act shall be ve$-ted in, and may be exercised hy, the commiss.on; and for the pur'poses of the said sections,
e ther nuember of the commissýon m-ay exercise any function or power vested hy the said
sections in the chairman of the board.
3. The said sections shal., so far as they
axre applicable and w'ith the ne-esearry modifications, apply to e-çaminations under this
Act.
4. Sur-h further examiners as are deeme 1
iieceasary tnay be appointed by.the commi~ss ion.

neration and whose duty it is to conduet
Ras -iny bon.
examinations and report.
friend looked into the United States sy,;tern? There, when an examination is
made*la connection with appointmnents for
any departinent, the examiners are thue officers of the department. If an exainination
were to be beld for appointinents la the
Post Office Departrnent the ot.her mernbers of the service were detailed by the
commissioners to conduct tbat examination,
and during the tinie of serving on the examination, they were removed frorn their
officiai duties. I can conceive that these
examinations wili becorne a mnatter of expense, and men of dignity and standing
wiil feel that they are ln duty bound to
preserve the bonour and efficiency of the

service if tbey had to pass upon those wbo
wvere to be adnuitted to the service. As
lt stands now, the medicai council is the
custodian of the honour and status of the
profession, and so with ai the professions.
Would we not confer an additlonal dignity
upon the Civil Service If we alloted to
them the task of passing upon tise candidates and their attainrnents and so on,
who were to be admitted by examination
Into thue service?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The varions applicanits
write unter numbers. No one knows whose
paper is being judged at ail. Lt seerna to
me that absolute secrecy should prevail as
to these examinations from thue Atlnntic
to the Pacific. Those examinat;ons take
place on papers prepared by the present
Board of Exarniners, men who arre intellectuaill quite equal to the duties; the parties write under .a fictitious naine or particular number, so when a paper Is judged
you do not know from what source it emanates. No one could tell who the writer
la and, therefore, you secure excellence
without any kind of pnrtiality. Occasionally there is an atternpt at personation
which bas been brougbt to my notice; but
la 99 cases out of 100 the examinations
In
are fuîlly and honourably conducted.
reference to examinations being beld by
those wh> are already ln the service. I
The
shouid not approve of that at ail.

Hlon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-It would
seem the intention of this clause is to pro- promotion examination should be passed
vide exarnîners ad hoc, or ns a permanent
staff wbo are to be paid a certain remuiHon. Mr. LOUGHEED

upon by the deputy minister, because hie
is supposed to corne ln personal contact

JITLY 16, 1908
wltb bis clerks, and forai a good opinion
of those who are to be recornrended for
promotion. I tbink the systern wiIi work
ont pretty weil. The Board, as at present
constltuted, wiil continue. Their salaries
are nlot large, and it is .practicaliy self sustaining. There is a smnall fee, and it very
neariy pays tbe wboie cost of the Board.
Hon. Mr. P..i (Middlesex)-I ar n ft
rinding fanit witb tbe present examîners.Tbey are ail
One was a pupil of mine.
capable men and have done their work weil,
and while not disrnissing the preseat examIners, much assistance wiii be required
la the future la the work of the exam inatien above what thiese men may do, and
la order to do that worlc. I think the-governnment rnigbt. very well consider wvbether the ndditionai exarniners rnigbt nlot
be taken froin men actualiy lu the service wiîo woald be capable judges, even
whetber unauimity was preserved of the
excellence of the answers to the questions,
If the service is what we expeet It to be.

1611

to be made, the commissioners look over the
list of candidates whio have passed the highiest exarnination frorn the state that bas
nlot its full quota, andi fromn thiat iist they
make appolntments for vacancies until the
1 cau see this diffistate has its quota.
cuity in that system; if you have an omnibus iist, representing the best men ln the
United States and take .from tbat list the
persous standing at the head for a vacancy,
there your competition is witb the whoie of
the United States; but If you lirait it to a
state thea your competition is oniy froin
the best ludividuals in that state.
HIon. Mr. SCOTT-In this Bill thiere is no
limit to any- province.
Hon. fM.r. FERGUSON-No. Why shonld
it not be open to ail ?

Hon. *Mr. -ROSS (.Niddiesex)-I arn just
ointing out the two methods. One is that
there rnight be a distribution according to
provinces, and the other is that your nppointments may be made from ail of tiern.
Sometbing may be sald In faveur of both
The clause was adopted.
If yon have the open systern
systems.
the competition is over the wbole of CanOn clause 13,
13. Except as herein otherwise .provided, ada, and if yen have a provincial systern
If you bave a proappoixrtmeat to positions in the inside servic:e it is for a province.
under that of deputy head ehail1 be by coin- vincial systeni you stirnulate the compepetitive exarnination, which éhall be of sncb
a nature as wi1l determine the qualifications tition In the province, and you have this as
of candidates for the particular positions to a guide; the school systerna are not alike?
which they are to be appointed, and shali be Tbey are not ail equaliy.advanced.
You
heMd by the commission from time to tirne -ý"n
accordance with the regniations made by it give to a province wbose educational status
and approved by the Governor in Council.
might be f ar la advance of another, ail
tbe opportunity for young men for positions.
-Hon. Mn. ROSS (Mldd-Jesex)-In
oeatter of appointment, somne care shonld Tbey are nlot barred ont by the superior
be taken to dîstribute the appoiatrnts to educational advantages lu another province.
positions at Ottawa, over the whole Dom- No one province couid snatch ail the prizes.
inion.
I think both systems have somnething to retiern.
Hon. Mn. SCOTT-Tbat wiii be so unden cornend
Hon. %Ir. FERGUSON-I cannot agree
exainination. The most mericompetitive
I thiak menit should
ivith my hon. f riend.
toilons w-i stand. first.
the sucIs my be the oniy test, no matter wlietber
Hlon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)--That
cessful men corne frein British Columbia or
difficnity. -I was golng to point ont that
Island, or where they corne
in the United States the appoiatments at Prince Edward
frorn, and If the educational systern f rom
Washington are dlstrlbuted amoug the
province Is not good enougb to
States and Territories on tbe basis of popu- any one
the men, let the province look to
That is to say, tbe district of Ce- fnrnislb
lation.
Its education and ixaprove It.
lumbia as a district, nor the states lu the
Hon. *Mr. SULLIVAN-I had no idea
immediate neigbbourhood of Washington,
do flot monopolize the appointmeats, but thait lu rny lifetime there wonld be a priawhen vacancies irise, and appointrnents are. ciple estabiished snicb as Is laid down here.

1612

SENATE

1612

SENATE

Thiere are
It is rather too big a leap.
some offices in the governiment îaot worth
With regard to examinacompeting for.
tions 1 would favour the civil service furnishing the examiners as far as tlaey could
They are the men whio are best
do it.
qualified, other thlngs being equal, If
tbey had the techanical knowledge required
The main
for any particular department.
thing is to bave it practical, nlot to have It
given in a written examination which caji
be copied, and whicb students will elude.
The great point
no matter lîow you fix It.
will be. tiiose who enter for the competition ivili be subjected to a practical.
thiorougli examination and in that way the
examiner can elicit in a few ivords, by an
oral examination ten times as much as by
.a written examination which would talie
haif a day. lit is the saine way with universities aud medical exaininations, and it
is found that one minute of an oratl examnation will enable you to forni a better opinion of the depth of a man's knowledge than readiîig over pages of written
Canada does nlot contain sucli a
matter.
The number is conilot of learned men.
paratively small, and I hope the day Is
coming when the goveriimient will furnislb
educational attractions for young men. The
Any
civil service has no attraction now.
yo ung man who will roll Up his sleeves and
get to worlc will do a great deal better
1 hope the
out of the service than ia it.
governiment wiIl flot require men to coine
here te compete for positions at $500 a
yenr where they will have to remnin for
a lifetitue before thle salary reaches $1,000.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 23,
23. Wheni, fromn a teiporaryipressure of work.,
extra -assistance in excess of those whose
names are oni the list of succes-sful comipetitors
is required -ii the ia'.ide service of eny departmnent, the Governor in Couacil may, upon
the reconmmendation of the head, hased on
the report iii writing of the deputy head of
the department that such extra assistance
isi required, authorize the employment -of
such number of temporary clerks as are required to carry on the work of the departwent.
2. Every such clerk shall, however, before
appointment obtain a certificate of qua-lifiction from the commission, to be given with
or without examination, as is determinel by
the regulations of the commission, thxt he
V«ssesses the requisite know'ledge and ahility
Hon. 3fr. SULLIVAN.

and is duly qualified as to age, h(alth, char9eter and habits.
3. No sncb tem.porary clerk shalhl beeployed for more than four months ini aiiy
3'ear.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-How does the
lion. minister reconcile subsection 3, the
four months period, with the six montbs
period mentioned In another section?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-There are tumes 'when
parliament is sitting when there is an extra
Clause 18 provides:
demand for clerks.
No clerk supplied for temporary duty shall
lié. so employed for mnore than six months iii
ny year.
The clause ivas adopted.
Hlon. '-%r. CAM3PBELL, froni the committee, reported thant they had made soine progress with the Bill, and asked leave to sit
again.
The Senate adjourned until 3 pa.

SECOND SITTING.
The SPEAKER took the Chair nt Three
o dlock.
A QUESTION 0F PRIIVILEGE.
Hon01. Mfr. LANDRY-Yesterday, when 1
was spenking on the power of a Standing
Commlttee of the Senate, the proposition 1
made wns that the commîittee hiad flot
Ipower to kili a Bill, the principle of wvhicli
hnd been adopted by the House nt the
second reading. To make this clear -I w-li
cite Bourinot, at page 565, -where lie says:
Though a- committee has full power to
amend, even to the extent nuhîifyinig the prov:sions of a Bill, they cannot iaisert a clause
rcversing the principle affircned b.-j Vie secunid

readiîcg.

Furtbier on lie says
The comaccttee have no power to extiiiguislc
That power is, retaineh by the Honsc

n Bill.
itsei.

1 think tlînt makes It chear.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Not
Tue
at al]. Lt is righit as far as it goes.
committee couhd not kili the Bill, but they
could express the opinion as to the propriety of killing the Bill and refer that
opinion to the Senate, and the Senate cou]d
kili the Bill.

1613

JULY 16, 1908

1613
JULY 16, 1908
Under the Militia and Queen's Regulations,
the colonels have a right to fali in at
the rear of the staff at the saluting point;
but If 1 remember correctly-I may be
wrong-they have to fail in on foot. Would

If
Hon. 'Mr. ROSS (Mýiddlesex)-Yes.
we lid risea wiuiout reporting anything, It
wvould have been killiag the Bill; instend
of doing so we sent the Bill back to the
House.
Hon. ]Nfr. LANDRY-Yes, but the hon.
gentleman said : 1Has the commlttee flot
11 said not. The
power to kUll the Bill ?'
hon. gentleman sald ý that the committee
could clause by clause reject each clause
of the Bill.
The SPEAKER-There is nothing be-fore the Hou se.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-It is a question of
explanation. of whist I said yesterday.

you ask the honorary colonels hiolding important positions-like Lord -Strathcona and
others-to fali ln on foot behind ail the
generals who will bie at Quebec on horseback ?. I think that is wvhnt my hon. friend
meant. The hon. minister might ascertain
whether they would fall in mounted or
dismounted-?
AN EXPLANATION.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Before the orders
of the day are called, I wishi to mnake a
Yesterday wvhen tlie
POSITION 0F COLONELS AT TERCEN- personal explanation.
Bill respectiug the hotel site at Ottawa wvas
TENARY.
before the House, I understood the hon.

INQUIRY.

*Hon. Mfr. LANDRY inquired:
11as any provision been mnade or wsl any hae
.11,.ade by the militia authorities to give honorary colonels and honorary lieutenantcolonels of regimients a fitting position in the
Militaryý turnout at Quebec on the occasion of
the te.rcentenery?
Hlon. Mfr. SCOTT-The answer is : It Is
usuni, at ail Important miiitary reviews, to
reserve a space for the accommodation of
officers ln uniform, among whom hoiiorary
colonels and AUe'utenant colonels of reglmeats would, of course, bie included, close
to the salnting llag.
An arrangement of this sort will be made'
at Quebec on the occasion of the miitary
review, subject, of course, ta the requirements of the National Battlefields Commis-

senator from Wellington to make a personal
reflection on mie, and I retorted as I tlîoughit
Since then, I have
somewhat la kind.
looked at the report of the debates and
find that I heard the hon. gentleman incorrectly, and that hie made no personai reflection. I amn sorry, therefore, that under a
misapprehension I retorted ns I did.
ACCUSATIONS AGAINST J. McGOVERN.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
1. What is the precise nature of the accusations brought forth against Mr. J. MeGovern,
forernan on the Ititercolonial Railway between
Lévis and Rivière du Loup?
2. Who was appointed comuiissioner to hold
the inquiry?
3. When was the appointment made, Dnà

Ail other celebrations in connection when ami where d-id the iaquiry take -place?
4. Whea was the finding givea, and what is
with the Quebec Tercentenary are in the
it?
Battlefields Commishands of the National
sion and not 0f the Militia Department.
HMon. Mr. SCOTT-I would suggest to the
lion. gentleman to put that question to the
.Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Are -we to underminister in the other. House.
stand that the Departmnent 0f Militia surrenders their power to the Crown?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I have not heen
elected to the Gommons.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-On other occasions
sion.

than the review. At *the mllitary review,
800TT-But the hon. gentleMon-3r.
space is reserved for officers ln unlform; man has friends there.
but on the other occasions the Commission
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I have a right to
takes precedence.
put the question here.
Hon. Mfr. DOMVILLE-I would point
Hon. Mfr. jSCOTT-Yes, I presume the
out to the hon. minister the point that my
hon. friend from Stadacona Is almlng it: hon, gentleman has. I thiak with my hon.

1614

SENATE

1614

SENATE

Victoria, B.C., JuIy 14, HO(S.
Hon. Senator Scott,
Senate, Ottawa.
Re Statute preventing sale of opium, Chinese merchants claim that great injustice
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I amn ready to pro- will be worked if Act brought in force at
once. -They have half a million dollars of
pose a vote of thanks at th.e close of the si ock on hand, which wili ha almost a total
session tW the hou. gentlenian for the nid less, aiso a large amount is il0w in transit to
flot
This is the last ques- B'ritish Columbia. Is it stock -possible to give
he bas glven me.
on hand? Imseine time to dispose of
tion. I have, and ire should part on good inedite enforcing of Act means practical
terms, and I arn sure he will try and get confiscation. Again, persons used to smoking
once; they must
etopped
If opium cannot beand if saleatis absolutely stopan answer to the question to-morrow.
stop by degrees
here 1.ed it wili mean the death of imany such perthe accusation was made, it iras made
for smoking and which
In Ottawra, I suppose, and the Department suns. The opium used
is the only kindmanufacturing here. is known
if I a: Patna and is not the same kind as used.'
of Rallways can -Ive an answer.
bad the authority of my bon. friend I would by druggists which is knowa as Persiai
opim
FRED. PETEIlS.'
go to the departmneat direct and .-et an ansirer, but I have not bis Influence.
The effect of the letter froni Mr. '-%e
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I don't know about Innies, was that if the parties were granied
I think I six months they would be willing to give'
My Influence is ebbing.
that.
I
security to the amount of $50,000.
amn loolced upon as a nuisance.
brought it up in counll to-day and counicil
The inquiry mas aIlowed to stand.
did flot favour extending the time beyondf
three months, because it would lead to
THE OPIUM TRADE IN CANADA.
I have brought dowu ail] the
smuggling.
MOTION.
correspondence I know of.
Hon. Sir MACKDNZIE BOWELL moved:
CIVIL SEIRVICE ACT A%,.NINDMEI\T
That an humble address be presented to
I1 IL.
Y-is Excellency the Governor General; praying
that Ris Excellency wii cause to be laid upon
IN COMMITTEE.
the table of the Senate ail corieS.pondence, reports, inemorials and protesta forwarded to
The House resumed in Commlttee of the
the government in coanection. with the opium Whole consideration of Bill (189) An Act to
ti ade in Canada, whether asking for the supamend the Civil Servic e Act.
pression of said tradtý or otherwise.
friend's assistance we bave squeezed out
more ansirers from the various departments than ire bave ever got before.

He said: This question wIll corne up before the Senate for discussion soon, probably to-night, and I should like to see this
correspondence, if the bon, gentleman can
procure It for me.

(In the Comxnittee.)

On clause 38,
38. No salary or additional remuneration,
beyond the regular salary of, the office lie
liolds shahl be paid to aay deputy head, officer,
clerk, or em.ployee in the Civil Service, or to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I asked to-day at coun- any other person .permaaeatly employed iii,
public service, except by -a seîlvotti
cil if any of my colleagues had recelved the parliameat, in which the naine of the
,of
and the reply was that person who is to receive the remuneratioîî
communications,
I asked Mr. Templeman, shah be given; and no vote expressed to ho
they hiad not.
mtade geaeraaly 'notwi-thistaading t!.ythinuý
I in the Civil Service Act' shahl be deemed
Sir Wilfrid Laurier and Mr. Lemieux.
had a long telegram from Mr. Peters lu zufficient ta authorize the payment of aîiy
additional saiary or remuneration.
British Columbia, and a communication such
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-AtI understand, Is
from Mr. 'Mcînnes, who,
acting- for thein. Those are the only two tention iras called in the other Chamber ta
the fact that this clause iras rather conI knom of.
fused. It is somewbat lnvohved. The exHlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI'-What
pression Inotwltbstanding anything lD the
is the nature of the telegrams from Mr.
Civil Service Act' would paot sv ail to
Peters?
carry a vote. I propose to make it clear
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbc telegram is as foi- and after the word 'generally ' I propose
to add the irords :
lows:
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JTJTY 16, 1908

1615

anid they say that sucb -words, or words to
that effect shall fot guide or justify any
votes In the future; but they take the
precaution just before adding that to
provide that unless these special votes
or special increases are given by a special
my bon. vote of parliament. So that it opens
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Does
aetod nth uue
dor
f riend really think that by putting in these thf Uic
hy desire to Increase tie salaries, inrords it wIll deprive parliament of the I
wods
ower0f nsetin hatwll gie astead of using the words ' nowltbstanding
p
werof nsetin hatwIl gie aanything in the Civil Service Act to the
wods
contrary,' is to Introduce a special Bill deimilar meanlng ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, but it will show claring that certain officiais shahl receive
such and such increases of salaries. I
ur Intention.
s
whichi
alogeherdesire to put upon record the use to in the
-I
Hon.Mr.POWE ay c alogeherthe.words 'notwithstanding anything
ay e
Hon.Mr.POWE-I
aistaken about this, but it -m,111 be remem- Civil Service Act' and words to that effect
ered that certain deputy beads have been wei'e used in the very last estimates wbicli
12
n the habit of receiving pay beyond the were laid before parliameut. It will show
ay given to an or(liuary deî,uty. There is when you look at the arnounts, biow caret hie deputy Minister of Justice, the deputy fui the goverument have been to provide
4inister of Raiiways and the deputy Minus- thiemselves with large suins of money to
t er of Finance. It seems to me that some dispose of, Independent of the laws wbicli
They
erlous difficuity may arise ln giving these are on the statute-book at prescrit.
rentlemen the additional amounts which are somewbat Interesting because they ext Is proposed to give them, under the ceed any other estimates that have ever
Pvording ot this clause. T do not know how heen laid before parliament even by the
Fou are going to vote the $1,OOO extra or present goverrament. Turn to schedule A
the $2,000, as the case may be, to any one of the estimates of the suais grnnted to
of these deputies If this clause is to be His 'Majesty, which by the. by, is only -a
portion of the amount required for the
operative.
Is provi- financlal year eridiag March 31,.1909, and
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbere
sion for it being done by special vote. to the purposes for wbich they are granted,
It seema to me that the four Unes might you wil! find the use of those ivords to the
foiiowing extent: Under the heading of
be stricken out with advantage.
'Civil Goveru ment' you will find first,
Hon.Mr.SCOT-Th vot wil aIead
Hon Mr
SCTT-he otewil aleay 'Salaries, notwithstanding anything to the
CilSeveAt'$3,
bave been given and they wIli have gotcntaylth
3,
ivlSevc At'
that saiary under Acts we bave passed, so 253.12n. h
take the next Item of Mllltia uind
tha It'wii wib tem.Thea
fot ntefer
Defence and they asic for $.55,572, and down
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbis
Is adding a clause to tic Civil Service a littie lower you will find coutiagencies
Act IntentIonally to protect the goveru- wlhere they oniy ask for $45,110.63. Tlien
at the foot, the hast one la the contingenme nt agalnst tbemselves.
des they change the wordiug- tbat bas
Hon.Mr.ROSS(lýiddesex-Ye.
been lu use for years past, and tbey use
Hon.Mr.ROSS(Midlesx)-es.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-Tbhey the words: niay be paid to members of the
Civil Service notwithstandiug anything In
have been violating the law.
the Civil Service Act to the contrary,' the
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Like other govern- sum of $38,062.50. On thiat page alone you
placed at the disposai of the differeut
ments.bave
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL- departments no less than $175,988.75, notUsing the word 'notwithstanding anytbing withstanding auythiug lu the Civil SerIn the Civii Service Act to the contrary,' vice to the contrary.

Though qualified by the words'otwitbstaiidtecasconsin coms insuch
Tiien~~~
Thenthe
laus
ig anytbing la the Civil Service Act' and
dd:
a
Nor any words to the like affect.

1616
1616

SEINATE
SENATE
The Marine and Fisheries ask for a very
sîniali surn, $37.50. Ia the Geological Brandi
they ask for $268.75, $125 $625, and $2,255.
Under the bead again of miscellaneous, the
expen.ses of litigated matters and so on
is an ainount of $1,875, and the DepartUnder the bead
ment of Labour $3,837.
of collection of revenue, tiey asic for
$625 wbich is nlot a very large sumn. Takln- thern ail, it reaclhes very nearly $2,000,000. It is quite evident that before
the new Civil Service Act goes fite force,
the beads of the different departrnents desire to bave a tolerabie aniount of money
p]aced at their disposai for proper ani liproper purposes, I cannot say whici, !i
direct contravention of flie la-.iv 1 arn îot
questioning just now whether they arc
asking these surns for legitirnate purposes,
or to provide for friends wbo cannot bc
provlded for under the new law wben it
cornes in force. What 1 an calling attenition to is the extent to Nývbich these words
notwithstanding anything in the Civil Service Act to the contrary, are used for the
purpose of obtaining rnoney to dispose of
wltbout the knowledge of parliarnent. Take.
the Custorns Department in particular, about
$,0,0is asked for. Under the old regîmue, (when the Custorns Departrnt laid
its estirnates before parliament, every port
ln Canada frorn one end to the other appeared, showing the amount that was required for salaries, rents, stationery and
extra clerks, if there were any, so you,
coud take up any port in the Dominion
and ask the governent Nvbat incerease or
decrease there was, and wby there was an
incerease or decrease. But under the present system. parliarnt knows notbiag
about it, and to rny surprise, in the discussion of the estirnates on the floor of
parliamient, thiese particulars bav-e neyer
been asked for. Thiey take just as they did
before the Civil Service Act carne into
force, a lump surn to dispose of just as
they please. That is the manner in wivbih
the government bas been adrninistered, and
you bave a fair specirnen of it in tbese
estimates. I want to cali attention to
the rnanner la which the law is evaded by
Under the
tbe sanction of parliarnent.
clause we are now considering, iastead of
preventing that in the future, the door is

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbere rnaY be oilly
oîie officiai to whielh that refers wlîIO w
be paid, la the group te wbich that exception is necessary to apply.
flon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Iii
the first part it says ' Salaries iiotwitbstand(ing nnything te the contrary l tbe Civil
Service Act,' and then when it coules down
to the Departrnent of Militia it is salari es
again 'anotwithstandiag auything la the
Civil Servic-e Act to the contrary,' andwheil
it cornes to tie coutingeacies it uses the
sarne words, both for the Post Office Department aad contingencies genlerally. On
the'next page ou the itemns 'Arts, ag-riculture and statîsties,' you wvlll find that oe
item alone aunoints to $100,625, and luirnediately under that $13,750, and again a
sum of $39,373, mnaking a total of $183,748;
Theni under tic head of ' 'Miscellaneous,'
there is for railway statistics $3,084, extra
cierks $3,981.25, and for salaries -of engîneers,
draughtsrnen and so on, $33,932, rnakiag on
Then go a little furthat page $40,998.13.
ther, and you wili fiad that under the head
of customs rny successor la that office Is
Salaries,
very rnodest ia his demands.
coatingencies, expeases of~ tic several ports
la thc Dominion, including pay, over-tilne
of offiers-, notwithstanding anythiag in the
the Civil Service Act to thc conitrary, only
$1,491,875, about a quarter of a million more
thani tue whiole cost of the service under the
,late adrninistration. If yen look at canais,
you wlll find there is no less than $21 ,S75,-l
odd for the payrnent of the crnployees:
Civil governent comes up agan under
thc head again of sechedule B, $424, that
is a rnoderate surn, but not so moderate,
bowever, as lu thic administration of jusThey require to pay to one Charles
tice.
Morse $625, notwitbistanding anythiag in
the Civil Service Act to the contrary. Whien
you g-et down to 'Transportation Facilifies' there la a suin of $5,000 required notwithstandiag anything l the Civil Service
Act to the contrary.
Under tbe head of 'Public Works' in
thc item ' miscellaneous,' they require for
one of their branches $2,500, 'and la another $8,125; la the tbird braach $1,875
and la the fourth $9,375. M.Naking a total
of $20,2.W. Leaving out miscellaneous la
tbe sarne paragraph, they ask for $2,500.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE 13OWELL-

JULY 16, 1908

1617

1617
JIJLY 16, 1908
l)erInateIity employed lu the public service.
ieft us wide opeu as it bas been and Is
uow for the rpason just advanced by the &c., under the beadîng of 'canais,' $15,It does flot follow because -large
bon. senator from Marsbifieid w'beu lie ask- 000.
whether the bon. Secretary amounuts appear that any considerable pored the question
We bave
of State supposed for a moment that par- tion of tbeui wll be paid out.
chauge the law to take the bulk sum to NaY outslde officiais
Diament bad not power to
whenever they tbought proper to do so. There who have no status, lu order to puy them
is an actuai provision providiug for that, s0 an extra amount somnetimes, and we have
From time Inhnit tbhs clause Is appareutiy calcuhated to put lu those words.
to deceive the publie. I bope this may be mnemorli l t lias been doue that way.
the last opportunity 1 shah bhave to cal
Hon. Mr. .McMe3ULLEN-Thie Bill before
the attention of the Seuate to the mauner
adminis- the House has flot coîne a moment to
lu %vbich the preseut goverument
Wheu I was lu the House of Cointer the public fuuds lu conuection 'wlth the soon1.
that tbe .mous, 1 criticized the extra pay to civil serCivil Service. 1 am surprised
lion. senator from Wellington lias takzen vants where these words ' notwitbistauding
these evasions of the law so ca]mly and anytbing- iu the Civil Service Act,' appeureoolir. 1 amn surprisedl tbat the ghost of ed. but stili it went o11 froin year to yeur,
the former James MeMnilulen of the Hlouse and no doubt It lias increased siîîce. Clvii
of Commons does not haunt about mid- servants are neyer doue demauding, begnight the dreams of the hou. senator from giag, seeking, to get increases of saiary or
1 would bave expected to uliowance of pay for extra work. It apWellington.
have heard hlm lu the souorous touies lu pears to be a disease thalt attncks every
whlcb be generally uddresses the House, inan wheu he is appoluted to the civil serdeuounciug- the practice wbicb prevailed lu vice, and he neyer ceuses pressing bis dlaim
the past and wblch is so Iuteaslfied. lu the lu every way he possibly cari for some lucreased allowance. That has been the
estimates before us..
policy adopted by the civil service as a
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The preseut goveru- class for many 3 ears, and I-hope that the
ment are folloilng a bad example. Turn passage of tbis civ il service Bill wiil Put
up the statutes anywbere aud you fiud an absolute stop to suchl appeals. The old
items witb these words unotwhbstandiug
goverument was bothered lu that way no
auytblng lu the Civii Service Act to tbe
The bou. Secretary of State bas
doubt.
coutrary.'
pointed out thut it, bas been the custom
Hou. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELIL-I f or years to grant Iucreased allowauces unsaid tbat.der the .item 'Notwithstaudiug anythiug ln
I repeat, this Bill
tbe Civil Service Act.
Hon. Mr. SC0O'l r-The bon, gentleman to amend the Civil Service Act bas not come
Iu
assumed tbioséý sins are paid out.
lu a momueut too soon. I regret It does not
liait a million of stncb votes there may uot go further, but it Is a step lu the rig-bt
be over $100 paidl ont, but in order to justify direction.
I hope we wlll go on improvpaymeats to a single clerk w-ho happeus to iug its provisions and that eveutually it
be lu a departmient, tbose words hiave to will be extenided to tbe outside service, and
1 tara to the ýSupply Bihl of that ail branches of tbe service will be
be added.
1894. w-heu the lion. gentlemnîn himself was made subject to the Act.
It caunot be
premier, and I fiud the foliowiag amounts doue a moment too soou.
I hope some prouppear, 'Notwithstauding auytlîîng lu the vision will be made by wlicb auy civil serCivil Service Act to the coutrary':
vant shahl forfeit bis position if it can be
of Justice $2,455.
-Department
proved that hie made application persoually
Marine and Fisheries $43,S50.
or througb others for au Increase of sahary
and Stationery $27,409.
Printiug
We waut to Put n stop to
or allowvance.
Customs $36,0OO.
a large
Goyerument ail thiat sort of thlug. in the past,
Then ou tbe next page, 'Civil
portion of the time of mluisters was taken
Thein 1 fiud, turuing
$1,400,' aud so ou.
letters of friends urging apover unother page, adfitionai puy to persons up answerlug
* 1012
REVISED

E]JUIUr.

1618

SENATE

1618

SENAfE

pointments in the civil service, and in listening to pleading-s for increases of salary
I hope this Bill will put a
or allowance.
stop to aIl that sort of thinge and that we
So far as the
shall turn over a new leaf.
use of these words ' Notwitlistanding anything in the Civil Service Act' is concerned,
the old government and the new can toucli
tliumbs; the one is about as guilty as the
The expression miay lie more genother.
erally used now than it was under the
former g-overnment, but it is time we put
a stop to It, now and forever.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is it the Intention
of tlie lion. gentleman to move an amendment in tliat sense?
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I sbll consider
my hon. frlend's suggestion.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Iu the light of the
hion. gentleman's former speeches, I expected that lie would.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Hallfax)-In connection
wlth tlie observations by the bon. gentleman from Wellington, 1 may say that
what lie calls n disease in the Civil Service
Is mot confined to them; it belongs to the
human race. There la flot a senator here
that lias not some little part of that disease. We are nIl trying to make more
money, and we sliould not blame the civil
servants or speak harslily of them, because they are flot grepter sinners irn tliat
respect than we are ail ourselves.
is
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW--It
a great compliment to the late government that the hon. Secretary of State could
not furnish further evidence of whiat hie
calîs their dereliction of duty.
Hou. _Mr. SCOTT-I did not caîl it dereliction of duty.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-In
every case wliere tliey were asked to use
that expression 'notwithstanding nnytliing
ln the Civil Service Act to the contrary,'
It was for a special purpose and parilaBut there
ment knew why It was used.
is nothing of the kind in the estirnates
before us. There is no precedent, under
the Conservative administration for sucli
«an item as we find here, asking $1,500,000 for one department, and simply saying
Hion. Mr. MeMULLEN.

it is to be expended on the Civi*l Service
as the minister or the government may
thlnk proper. It is ail very well for tlie
lion, gentlemen to say that while a large
sum .ls taken, only a small portion of it

may lie spent. If the former government
sinned, they erred to a very limited extent
as compared wlth the sins of the present
goverfiment.
lion.
Hon. Mr. L.,)SS (MiddIesex)-Tlie
leader of the House says that the intention of this clause is, to, a certain extent,
to protect the government ngainst a violation of the Civil Service Act. Suppose we
read from Une 20 of the clause ini this
way:- 'Or to any other person permanently
employed ln the public service except by
Act of ParlIament,' and stop there. There
ouglit to lie some finality ln these salarIes.
There sliould not lie estîmates every year
wltli a sort of cavent 'notwlthstanding anythiug ln the Civil Service Act.' It is really
a confession that we are doing something
that la exceptional, presumnbly shelterlng
ourselves under the Supply Bill. 1 neyer
thouglit that the Supply BIIh was lu that
I amn not
sense an Act of Parliament.
sure If the Auditor General construed the
Act of Parliament autborizing Iimrself to
hold his position that he would lionour n
payment of that kind.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--Oh,
yes.
Hon. Mr. 'ROSS (.Mîfddlesex)-If lie would
do that in the formi in whicli it lias been
done, lie would not lie debari-ed froni doiug
it certainly if tlie provision was that there
should lie no increase of salaries except by
Act ot Parliament.
'Hou. Mr. ELLIS-Would not putting it
in the Supply Bill lie an Act of Parliamient?
Hon. Mr. ROSS (iMiddlesex)-Tlie lion.
seuator from Hastings says lie thinks it
would lie sufficient nuthority. I stand corrected from bis superior experience, but I
arn quite sure tbnt the goverument would
not bring down a Bill to parliament providing for an increase of salaries to the
saine exteut exceptional increases are done
under the Supply Bill. We lad a Bill lefore us lu regard to the Auditor General,
and another in regard to the superintendent

JULY 16, 1908

1619

JULY 16, 1908
1619
whole thing was predicated.
I shouid be
exceedingly giad if we couid see a way of
increasing It, but if you change It you
change the whole basis of superannuation,
and it was thought advisabie that that
should not be doue just now because It
If it stood
would lead to complications.
isolated, and flot as a precedent for other
cases it mlgbt be done.

of insurance. Both Houses would get tired
of passlng Acts of Parliament if one was
required for each increase. If the memnbers of the goverament want to protect
themseives agalnst this constant nagging
for Increases, that is one way, and 1 should
mnade
be glad if some provision were
whereby civil'servants kuew that they got
a minimum salary when they entered the
service, and got increases f rom time to
time, and that tliey need flot look to anybody else for special favours or for occasional Increases.

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWFLL-The
hon, gentleman ought to kaow that that is
the law on the statute-book at the present
When tlie civil servant is apmoment.
pointed he enters the service at a certain
minimum salary or whatever may be recommended at the time, and that there are
to be annual increinents; but notwithstanding- that fact the salaries are increased and
parliament sanctions the increases and the
Audito& General passes them, of course, because they are authorized under an Act of
parliament and he cannot help himself. This
clause Ia no protection whatever, because If
they cannot do it one way, they can by
another. The suggestion of my hon. friend
from Calgary makes it clear whea he says
'-Notwithistandiug- anything la the Civil SerBut
vice A&ct or words to that effect.'
Just before that there is a provision by
whîcb they can do ail that by lnftroducing
a Bill lu parliament.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 41,
44. If a person dies while in the public service, after having been at least two years
thereja, an aniount equal to two moaths of
his salary shall be paid to his widow or to
sucb person as the Treasury Board determines.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-Is
there not a proposition to increase that
suni?
*Hoa. M1r. SCOTT-There was, but the
Finance M.Ninister sald the superannuation
fund was based on this aseumption that n
certain portion would f ail in, that If an
officiai dies while. in the service so much
was added to the fund, and pro rata reduced the annual payments the survivors
That was the basis on wbich the
nmade.

Hon. Sir' MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
policy whlch has been ia existence for a
great number of years under botb governments was to grant to the widow or the
heirs of a deceased officer two months'
salary. There have been cases where an
officer had been in the employment of the
for Lngovernment, say a po9tmaster
stance, who had been paying into the superannuation fuad for 2.3 years aud died
suddenly. 0f course neither be nor bis
family receive any benefit from the fund.
A suggestion was made that ln cases of
that klind the goverament should ha empowered to grant lnstead of two months'
salary as at present six moaths or in proportion to the leagth of time that the officer hnd been la the service.- I can understand very readily the difficuity in adoptlag a system of that kind. because we ail
know that the payments wbilh have been
made Into, the superannuation fund have not
been sufficient to meet the demands upon
It, and, consequefltly, tbey have to draw
.from the exchequer a sufficient suni to
make up the deficiency, and I can understand very weil the difficuities la estabiishing the principie of paying a -large amount
to the relatives of those who dia suddanly
aad reap no benafit from the money paid
into the fund. The answer to that is that
If they retire from the service and live
aight or ten years they would be drawing
a sum proportionata to the amount of thair
salaries and the length of their services.
Stili, thera are a grat mnany hardships. I
could lndividunhize If nacessary, t*nd I
was la hopes the governmeat would adopt
thé grnding system and deal with the wldow and the family la proportion to the
length of services rendered by the officiai
of the g-ovarament. Howevar, the goverament.have dacided not to do that. I cau
see great objection to establlshing a precedeat of that kind, but I shouid have been

1620

1620
SENATE

glad if sonie system could be adopted by
which these extreme cases could be met.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIt has not been considered as yet; but I
may say informally that the question off
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think our old sup- the Superannuation Act w-il] probably bie
erannuation systemn was very defective in- considered.
deed, especially la the point indicated by
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Did flot the Comthe hon. gentleman fromi Hastings, that
whule a man might retire la comparatively mission recommend that the Superannuagood healtli from tlie public service after ton Act should be resumed. again ?
havlng served 20 years, lie miglit live 20
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTyears and draw a liandsome retirlng allow- That matter will be under the consideraance aIl that time, but if lie dropped dead tion of the government. No decision lias
at bis post, bis wldow and family got been arrived at.
nothing except this gratplty of two months'
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I do not think
psy. 1 see that the goverument do flot
propose to deal wlth that matter ln this any assurance of the goverrament now Is
Bill, but I hope the leader of the govern- off value. It is a case almost off deathbed
ment will lie able to give the House some repentance.
assurance that, at the next session, steps
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTwill be taken to put the superannuation law I may remind my lion. friend that deatlibasis, to assion a proper and buslnesslike
bed men liave a fashion off living very
mllate our pension system to the systems
long.
whicli prevnil ln the banks and big rallway
companies. -I hope the hon. Secretary of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--I
etate will be able to give us somne informa- think both tliese lion. gentlemen were govtion.
erning the country when an order ln counHon. Mr. SULLIVAN-A gentleman wlio cil was passed declarlng that If any offiwas ln the employ of the post office for 30 ciai souglit to Influence members of paryears, during whilch tîme lie paid into the liament or anybody for an Increase of
stiperannuation fund, died a few months salary, It should be accepted as tantaago, and aI] tliat his motlier obtained was mount to a resignation, and if not a reslgtwo montlis' pay. That was monstrous in- nation that lie should be dismlssed. Tliat
No government or individual was Introduced during the administration
justice.
should take a man's money that way and of tlue Custoins Department by tlie late Mr.
keep ItL Tliey should at least retura the Burpee. I am flot aware that that order
amount that lie pald la, and this House lins ever been repealed.
should register a vow that tliey would see
Hon. ',%r. SCOTT-It is stili in force.
that sucli grievances should lie remedied
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
at once. The government, or any men with
consciences sliould at once rectlfy an in- It lias been a nullity, and mnenbers of parliinent bave pestered the~ heads of the <le-*
justice of that kind.
partment for increases of salary, and presHou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I sure bas been brought to bear, and wliere
tliink the Miaister of Finance, wlien this the minister lad flot suflicient strength off
question was under consideration in the character to deny it, tliey 'wo'uld keep at
Commous, lntimated to the House, thiat lm and worry tlie life out off lin.
fias
their intention wns to introduce a super- thiat samne system prevailed durinig the last
annuation law in the future, somewhat off twelve years?
I)o lion, gentlemen believe
the character of the late law. It miay not
that sucli a clause wlI bave tlie slightest
be exactly in accordance with It. Perhaps effect after it bas been on the statute-book
the lion. Secretary of Sta te or Miaister off
for six montlis?
Trade and Commerce, may inform the
flouse whether that matter lias been conHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTsidered and whether tliey intend to do any- If you make It rend ' No female person,' it
thing?
iniglit bave the effect.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JULY 16, 1908

1621-

1621
JULY 16, 1908
dons Vie rights which they have over theirHon. -Sir '.ALCKENZIE BOWELL-It
they should see ta this being rectiIs better to bave ,it on the statute-book, officers,
fied.
than by an order in council, and if you do
nlot add anotiier clause to impose a penalty
.Hon. Mr. DANDUItAND-It is a case
of $100 on the person who approaches the where there Is more hanour than emoluhead of a de.partment for an increase of ment.
salary, providing tliat when the attempt
was made the penalty would be imposed.
Hon. Mr. PERGUSON-The question
arises whether clause 35 taken in connecThe clause was adopted.
tian with clause 45 wili not place our offiOn clause 45,
cers lu n fair and proper position. I think
45. Wherever under sections 5, 8, 10, (para- the servants nefenred ta lu clause 35 wauld
graph b of subsectian 1), 21, 22, 23, 24, 26 (sub- include the officers af this Haouse and the
section 2), 32, 33, 36 and 37, (subsection 4), any
action is authorized or directed to bie taken Hanse of Commons, and would preserve
Hon, gentleby the Governor in Council or by order in their status as at preseut.
council, such action, ivith respect to the offi- men wha bave given it mare consideration
of
cers, clerks and employees of the House
Commons or the Senate. shall be taken by the Vian I have, wili be able to form a conHouse of Conimons or the Senate, as the case clusion as ta whether clause 35 will premay be, by resolution, and with respect ta
the officers, cierks and einployees of th&.iibrary serve the status of thiose afficers of this
of parliament, and to such other officers, clerks Hanse.
and emplayees as are under the joint control.
of bath Houses of parliament, shall be taken
Hon. Mfr. SOOTT-I thiuk there ls fia
by bath Houses of parliament by rel-olution.
daubt abaut that.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEEJJ-I should like to
know what is propased to be done ta bring
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHFED-I thlink there is
the officers of this House in a proper posi- every doubt.
tion so that they may enjoy the advantnges
Hon. Mn. SCOTT-A resolutiofi af this
they have rit present, and at the same time
Chamber is tantamount ta a ruie made in
be classlfied properiy?
A resalution of the C3hamHan. Mr. SCOTT-The cierks of the van-. the department.
ber takes the sanie statua as an order ln
eus departments are piaced In the division
would Iu reference ta a departto which they belong according to their sal- council
ment.
We have already made provision
aries.
Then It is for the Senate to
for that.
Hou. Mfr. LOUGHIEED-I think not.
place its officers In the divisions -to whlch Those divisions are anbitrary.
The
they belong, taking the standard.
is adopted elsewhere ls the
standard which
Hon. Mn. SOOTT--Clause 35 Is Vie conpresent saiary.
trolliflg clause.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The present salHon. 3Mr. LOUGHiEED-This clause simparies should flot be accepted as the stan- ly deals with reduction and status; that
If that were t «he case, they would
dard.
lins nathing ta da with the question under
flot rank lu those divisions to which they
Unden the clause alluded
*consideratiofi.
wouid be entitled by reason of tie prece.
ta, there are arbitrary divisions, and under
dence that had been accorded them at ai: section 35 there are arbitrary divisions.
Take for Instance th(
state functions.
Nothing the head of a departmetit can do
Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod; hi
by arder lu counicil can change those diviswould be In subdivision B. I do not thil -ions.
The only way, to my mmnd, ta make
the clenks In subdivision A shouid take pre
t it satisfactory, is ta pass a substantive
cedence over him. Hlenetofore that bas fia
i clause that natwlthstafidifig anythlng herein
been the case. Our Sergeant at Arms woulk
1 contained, the Gentleman Usher of the
nlot be In the first division, but In the secon(
r Black Rod and the Sergeant at Arma shahl
division. He occuples a very .much bette came under certain conditions, and then
1
position than wouid be accorded hlm oî there ls no doubt about ItL
Before the Honse abani
the salary basis.

1622

SENATE

SENATE
1622
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-It would be necessary the Sergeant at Arms. Unless there w-as
to make a re-organization of ail the staff. some other clause providing for that parThe House of Comnions bas flot doue it yet, ticular clerk. The clause clearly refers to
but they will do it after the Bill la passed. the organisation of a department and not
to tbe status ef Its officiaIs, whoever tbey
Tbey wére satisfied it was ail right.
mav bie, iu case of state functions or of
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEIDD-My contention anytling of tliat kind. Tbe clause rends
Is that a resolution will flot meet the re- very clearly. It seems to me to refer exAll the beads of the depart- clusively to, tbe organlzation of tbe Senlate
quirements.
ment, wlth au order lu council, eau do is snd flot to the precedence of its officiais.
to place withiu certain divisions hereiu
Hou. Mr. LOUGIIEED-My hon. frieiid
named officers placed lu entirely different
positions frorn the cierks or officers of the the Secretary of State will know wbether
other departmeuts.
There la no parailel it is the intention of tbe Senate that this
case.
They bave certain social status at resoiutiou sbonld bie passed before the Act
state functions. and, in my judginent iuvok- cornes lu force.
ing the Act would put tbi down lu subHon. Mr. SCOTT-The Act wili not lie lu
division B as to Black Rod aud the second
force before September.
division as to the Sergeaut at Arma.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wbatever is
Hon. Mr. POWTER-Does the bon, gendoue should be done before prorogation.
tleman not tbiuk that, under clause 8, tue
House can deal wlthl that matter? la our
Hon. -Mr. SOOTT-Tbe usual course is to
case the Speaker will be liead of the de- bave a recommeudation from the Continpartnient; lie wiil cause the organization gent Accounts Committee.
cf the staff of this House to be defined, not
Hon. 11r. LOUGHEED-It Is better to
by an order lu councl but by an order of
the Senate. It strikes me that this clause let tliis clause stand until tliat Is doue.
would authorize His Honour the Speaker,
Hou. 1Ir. SCOTT-I wouid suggest that
acting under a resolution of this House,- to
they bave a meeting to deal Nvitli it 110W.
pructically re-organize the staff. I understood that our Committee on Internai Eco'Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It mnust be doue
vomy lias been summoned to meet to-mor- by resolution of the Senate.
row, chîefly for the purpose of preparu«ig
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-On a report of the
n sceeme under whichi our officiais and
commlttee.
employees wili corne uuder the Act. The
fdea is that the Cotitingeut Çomrnittee shall
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Then it would
pass the resolution with speed and that be better to let this clause stand until. that
ia order to come witliu the terms of the report cornes lu.
Act at the next session tbe Senate wihl
Hon. Mr. D*AND1RAND-How couid the
ratify what is doue ut the close of tlis
Senate act before the Bill is sanctioned?
session.
Hou. Mr. LOUGUEED-Tliis Bill will
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I understand it ls
be sanctioaed wheu prorogation takes place,
a question of precedence. May I sug-gest,
to cover the point, the addition of the and then we caunot nct.
words, 'with respect to attendauces of this
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Let the cornmittee reHouse,' &c.
port wbat they think proper, lvlng the
It wili require some additionai words ln
saiary aud status of each officiai, and that
order to miaiutain tlie order of precedence
of the officers to -wbicb tlie attention of wiil be subject to the approvai of tbe
the Senate bas been cailed. It seems to Speaker, and may lie confirmed by resoluThere Is
me clause 8 refers only to the orgunization tion of tbe House lu advance.
no one to take exception to it.
only of the department 0f the Senate and
could flot ln auy wuy affect tlie status of
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-The Speaker conthe clerk, the, Usher of the Black Rod or tinues lu office until dissolution, of course.
Hon. Mr. LOUGIIEED

JULY 16, 190S

62
1623

committee would be guided by bis opinion.
I wish to direct attention to tbe latter part
of this clause. It says:
And with respect to the officers, cierks and
employees -of the library of parliament, and
to, such other officers, clerks and employees as
are under the joint contrai of both Houses of
parliament, shall be, taken by both Houses of
parliament by resolution.
-Hon. -Mr. SCOTT-The practice In the
Tbat applies to the joint Committees on
future will be as it bas been iu the past PrInting and on tbe library. It seems there,
Tbe Clerk of the Senate is outside of the tbat you must get thc two Houses to afSS
commission, just as the deputy bead ls. a resolution, and It mlgbt be rather dîffiHe ranks as a dcputy head, and so far as cuit to, get that. I do not move an nmendthe Black Rod Is concerned, althougb lie ment, but I suggest an ameadirent that I
,wouid bé appolnted by the goyerament If a *think would meet tbe case. When pariavacancy were to occur, that would go un- ment is in session, If a reasonable propoder tbe recommendatiofi of the commission, sition is made, you can get a resolution
subject, of course, to the approval of tbe of botb Houses; but if parliament is
Senate.
not sItting, and It is necessary to, deai
ameadment witb the staff of the Library or the PrîntHon. -'%r. FERGUSON-The
there does flot semn to me. to,
suggested by the bon. senator f rom De ing Bureau
be any means under tbe Bill as it stands
Salabcrry may cover the .-round; but 1 arn
to deal witb them, and 1 suggeflt to
flot sure of the effect the word 'prece- now
add at the end of the clause : 'Or If such
dence' wii bave.
"action is rcquired during the reccss of
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-M.Ny suggestion Is Parliameait by tbe Governor ia Council,
tbat the words used should be 'rank and subject to, the ratification of the two Housas
precedence.'
at thc next ensulng session.'
doubt wbetber
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I
non. Mr. SCOTT-I do not apprebctad
wc bave any order as to, precedence, and any difficnity.
if we bave not, that word would flot bave
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLa very distinct meaning.
Would not tbat be In direct conflict with
Hon. Mr. SC4JTT-Tbcre is an unwrltten the object of this clause? As 1 uuderstand
meaning.
it. this clause is inserted In the Bill for
the purpose of continulng la the Senate
Hon. Mr. FEiRGUSON-The wboie tbing
and In tbe Flouse of Commons ail the
turns on clause 35, but 1 arn not sure. Wle
powers and autborities tbey bad In the past
ougbt to get a very good opinion on that to deai wlth questions of this kind, and
point.
wlti questions affecting tbe Commlttee on
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Wý%e will have a ,full *Printing and the Library, there must be
joint action. If tbey couic to, the conclusion
report, 1 hope, before the House rises.
9
FERGUgON-MIy suggestion II that they cannot agree, Uic Governor la
Hon. Mr.
not so mucb as to what the Contingenciec Council sbould act; but I do not tbink
la conCommittee will do, but that we sbould gel flint any confict bas ever occurred
wltb cither of these committees,
good legai opinion to know wbcre our offi nection
and, consaquently, I can sec no possible
cers stand?
On
object ln tbe suggcsted ameadment.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Get an opinion froir the contrary, I should think it lnadvlsable
tbe Mînister of Justice.
to adopt auy clause wbicb would take from
i the Senate any of is powcrs anid autborlty
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-fle will tell ut
that It bas excrclsed In thc past.
that we know ourselves.
the
Hon. Mr. POWER-Our own law clerk 1Hon. Mr. POWER-Having been on 1
the matter carefuily, and the Library Committee for some 30 years,
bas studied

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWEL'L-WhO
Is to bave the appointiuent of the Clerk, the
Sergeant at Arms, and the Usher of the
In the past it bas
Black Rod ln future?
Wlll the
been done by tue government.
ln future be In the bands of
appointments
the government or relegated to, the Senate?

1624

124SE.NATE

ta in 1 a position to say that that committee bas neyer made an appolulmen t.Ap-I
pointients bave aiways been made by the
Governor in Council, or, possibly by the
preier,*because tue library is supposed to
be urnder the special care of the premier
of the day. I assume that the appointif
nients are mnade by order in council.
my amendment were adopted, the action of
the Governor in Council wouid be subject
to ratification by tbe two Houses wien
parliament met again, and that seems to
me a reasonable proposition.

!lot 'Mr. FEIIGUSON-lf that is subject
to ratification, lt would uot lake effeet
until rntified. Wbal is the good of It?

Hou. '.%Ir. POWER-I move to add the
following at the end of lte clause:
Or if ouih actjot. is ireqnired dniriag ithe
recessl of parliameat, by the Governor in
Ccuacil, subject to ratification by the two
Hfouses aI the next ensuiag session.

SOURIS BRAINCI 0F THE PRINCE
EDWARD ISLAND RAILWAY.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It would be acted ou.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Supposing
Hlouse wouid not approve of it?

the

Hon. '-%r. S1,COTT-I thînk lit is conjuring up a difficulty. You bave to meet
lthe emergency ln some way, and I think
wve sball be equal t0 ItL

Hon. Mr. WILSON-I can see no beneft
arising from lte amendmeat. The Governor
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-We bave two
difficulties bere; one ls t0 provide for the lu Counl bas exercised that power for
retention of the status of our officers years gone by, and no injustice bas ceand the other is. bow to bring this eurred.
whole lblng Into operation, parliament not
Hou. 'Mr. POWER-Tbe difficulty ls, titat
beiug ln session. I do flot thinl, any great titis clause we are now coasidering takes
public loss wili occur If tbis Act be not lte power away from the Governor lu
sllowed to go mbt operation until ten days Couiicil and vests lt in the two Houses by
after the meeting of parliarneut. It would joint resolubion. We cannot gel tbe two
give both Houses of parliament the rigbt Houses 10 act belween the prorogation and
to nct of tbemselves. How can ive, wlien the meeting of parliament.
the Bill bas received the royal assent, do
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Elther House bas
anylbing that would be effective In carryTbis clause
the rigit to1 titis autborby.
ing lt out.
wouid not remove the autliority iteretofore
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It seems to me the existing wilh te government of tbe day
opposition to the Bill Is wholly unneces- to exercise ltat jurisdictioa In bte future
sary.
as lbey bave la the pasl. and, therefore, I
see any necessity for it unless you
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-It is flot opposi- do not
are tryling 10, take away f rom bte Crown
tion to the Bill.
rigits and priviieges tbey bave beretofore
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe control in the enjoyed. If the amenciment is inbended
past bas been under the Contingent Ac- to deprive lte Crown of that authority, li-t
counts Committee to be approved by tliis us know it.
Chamber. Wby qcannot the committee mneet
The clause was amended and adopted.
before the House rises and deal wilh the
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL, from the Coinquestion? Then If the Senate approves of mittee, reported-lte Bill with amendmeuts
that disposition of il, authorize the Speaker Nw'bieb were concured la.
to confirm It wben the Act coines labo operTite Bill was titea read tbe third lime
ation. There is no difficulty; il Is smootb
and passed.
saihing-. No one cati contest It.

lion. Mr.
23, could flot
be al)poinled
Hon. Mr.

THIRD READING.
Hion. Mr. SCOTT moved lthe third rend-

clause construction of a brancit Une of bte Prince
LOUGHEED-Under
a temporary clerk on lte listiEdward Island *Railway from liarmnony, on
to MIl n position of ltaI kind? bte' Souris brancit, 10 Elmira.
POWER.

JULY 16, 1908

169-5

that la the majority of cases thiere is no0
change. Wberever a change of Imjportane
liad been made it is indicated by a note
îvhich is attacheci to the section. 1 liad
myseif, as a preface, given some expianation when 1 first presented the Bill to
the House. I say briefly that the Bill is
practically the saine Bill as was presenteJ
to parliament at the last session. The ohject of the Bill, wherever changes are
PUTBLIC LANDS ACT AMENDM-NENT
irade, is to adopt those alterations la the
BILL.
sales of the lands andti tmbered minerais
SECOND READING.
that the experience of the last few yenrs
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second .read- bas prompted. Some hon. gentlemen have
lng of Bill (181) An Act to consolidate and nisked about areas. The total nuumber of
amend the Act respectlng the Public Lands good lands that are supposed to be ln the
three provinces ls 170,000,000 acres. That,
of the Dominion.
he0f course. would not take la the northiera
ANDR -Tht Isnot
Mon.Mr.
ands which are coasiderably north of Bdh
o
I
Mrdr. LlDYTa
n.
Prom that you mny deduct 82,next rder.mouton.
proper order should 000,000 acres of the odd numbered sections,
The SPEAKER-The
be orders of the day for third reading, sales of the lands and tumber and minerais
second, orders wblch at the tume of ad- lhat have already been granted to ralways.
jourrament were under consideration, and 'ihe patents for nearly MI those lands bave
third, orders of the day which at the time been already oranted; between thirtyof adjourament had not been reached. one and thirty-two million acres havc
Therefore, the Public Lands Bill is the been homesteadeti; to that la to be added
next order. If a fresh order paper had the Hudson Bay Company lands and school
ieen printed, the undlsposed. orders would and Indian lands. The number of acres
have been la their proper place and 1 take surveyed at the present tume ln those prolt that is the rule la spite of the fact tha: vinces, I ami advlsed la one bundred and
we have not a fresh - order paper for this twventy million acres.
afternoon. Rule 29 governs the procedure.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is that additionHon. '-%r. SCOTT-I may say 1 amn ad- ai to the one hundred and seventy milvlsed by one of the officiais of the depart- ionj ?
ment, whose view 1 as.-ed as to the main
Hon. Mlr. SCOTT-Thiat Is part of the
object of the Bill, th 'at it was to elîminate
provisions which It was found one bundred and seventy million. -There
froni the law,
ln the public iaterest lnadvisable to retain, are one hunidred and twenty million acres
sucb as the hamiet and coopprative farm- that wouid be open for settlement and
The
iag clauses, also tue provision respecting hoinestead uniesa aiready talzen up.
the unpatented Bill last year permitted the new homesteadregistration of charges on
honiesteads, etc. The new features of the. er and the second hioiesteader, to homeThis Bill limits
Bill relate more partlcuiarly to the grant- stead ail over the arca.
ling of pre-emption, and second homestead the person who bias aiready gait puoe homeentries, withln a defineti district and also stend and wishes to take up another to an
simplifies the mode of procedure to be area that may be described as extendiflg
followed by settiers la obtaining entries froui some distance west of Moose Jaw to
for available Dominion lands and earnlng a point sonie distance east of 4Jaigary on
titie thereto. The numbering of the Bill, the main line of the Canadian *Pacific Railas prlnted for the Senate, does not differ way ana rrom mne international 1oun(lilry to
Wlthin that area oniy It is
nt ail froni the numbering of the Bill la township 44.
the House of Gommons. The clauses there asked that the pre-emptions of the proposed
are ail accompanled by notes indlcatlng homestead shahl apply. That is the radical
the reasoas there might be. I may say difference betweea the preseat Bill on that

He said :I1lnquired of the minister, and
I have been lnformed that the lengthi of
this line ls 13 miles. The Minlster of
Railways did flot thlnk the country was as
level as was stateti. 1 presume It wIll
cost $20,000 or $25,000 a mile,
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was rend the third time.

SENATE
Governor in Couneil to allot to a railway
subjeet and the Bill of last year. The BUi
6,400 acres
the home- to Hudson bay, a land grant of
last year contemplated giving
for that portion of It that passed
per mile
steader a right to, homestefld a second homeof Manitoba and for
This limita hlm to the through the province
stead anywhere.
outside of Manitoba to Hudson
the portion
area defined.
tbat that
il-bay 12,000 acres per mile. So
any
How
ïHon Mr.LOUGEED mny ii-liberal land grant bas beeu on the statuteHon.Mr.LOUGEEDoW
for nearly a quarter of. a century.
lion acres are available for pre-emption in book
No offer, I elieve, had ever been made to
that area?
An attempt was -made
build the Une.
Hon. '.Mr. SCOTT-I arn advised 28,000,- rnany years ago, and I tbink the rails were
settle
000 acres, and the homesteader an
nortb from
Now laid for 30 or 40 miles runniag
either the odd or even numbers.
on
but ilt neyer extended any furand Edmonton;
that tbe rallways bave been satisfled, per- ther.
there are no more grants to railways,
Hon. ',%r. LOUGHEED-If there la not a
sons desiriug to bomestead in any part of
in the Bill for tbat, I suppose
the country can go on the even or odd num- provision
m bon. friend will support an umendmeflt
bered sections, so that the distinction be
move that these funds shahl be cartween the two bas been uow removed, aîîd 1 may
to the credit of a railway fund.
lt la intended tbat the person boînesteadiflg ried
bave described, and takin the area that I
'Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn advised that that
it at
ing up a quarter section shahl pay for
a was the recommendation of the miaister.
the rate of $3 an acre part down and
Hou. M1r. LOUGHEED-There Is notbiflg
Out of the
part la one and two years.
it.
fund arising from those sales, it Is pro- ln the Bihl about
sucb portion as may be
posed to set apart
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbere are a grent
necessary on tbe basis of the calculation
anyto tbe many tbings la tbe Bill I do not know
already made, to build the railway
Ail I eau say to tbe House
s0 thîag about.
Hudson Bay which tbe provinces for
that I am advised of the features of the
years bave desired to aee constructed. Is
many
from the Iaw as It now
61
MCKEZIE BO EU,îaBill that diff er
HonACKNZIEBOWEJ Isexista.
Hon.Sir
that provided for in tbe Bill?
amendHon. Mr. -LANDRY-I suppose
I amn
to the govHon. '%r. SCOTT-I think so.
of the ments will be hardly acceptable
safe lu saying tbat la the object
erament?
Bill.
Hon. Sir RICHARD OARTWRIGHTdo
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
Bill. It They would be cousidered.
uot tbink it is provided for ln tbe
LANDRY-And accepted If tbey
Hon. M.Nr.
bas been mentioued or intimated by the
3.linister of tbe Interio-r, 1 thluk, that that are good.
It la not provided for
might be doue.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTbere.
Coming from the bon.
That dependa.
say that
optional part of gentlemen, I tblnk I arn safe to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The
If they are found good they wihh be nelt would be whether the governmeut wouhd
buid tifie raiiway, or wbether it would be cepted.
At ail events, that
built by a company.
Hou. Mr. LANDIIY-Is the goverument
of
la the policy iu refereuce to tbe sale
determined not to fiud tbem good?
The coat of tbe rahlway,
those lands.
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTfrom a very rougb caicuiiinu, was put
lt would require If they are are not good tbey 'will be redown at $15,000,000, and
5,000,000 acres at $3 an acre to maIre up etd
Hon, gentlemen are aware etd
tbe amount.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It may belp the ehu26 years ago a clause was Inthat about
froID a memo
authorhzing tbe cidation of the Bill if I read
sete l tbhe Lands Act
Ena. Mr. SCOTI'.

JULY 16, 1908

1627
12

1 prepared stating the provisions of the Governor iu Cou uci. been vested anywbère
old Bill tbat are now lef t out. First we
bave ail provisions wltb regard to surveys because tbey are lncluded lu the DomInion Lande Survey Act. We passed a
'law aoeectlng surveys. Then tbe next :
Removing the bar from grantiug re-entry to
a person wbose entry bas been cancelledl
for nonfulfilment of duties except at the
discrimination of the minister. Tbe third
matter Js repealing bamiet and co-operative
farmlng clauses. The fourtb matter la. doing away witb the Issue of certificates of
recommendation for tbe Issue of patents;
then doing awav witb notice of Intention
to appis for patents six moutbs ln advance;
then 'repealing provisions witb regard to
charges against bomesteaders.
Then doIng away witb establishment of timber
districts. Then certain powers of the Governor in council bave been left out. First
the reservation of land for raîlway
construction. Tbat la out altogetber. Tben
tbe reservation of lands for granting of
subsidy ln aid of construction of a railway
to Hudson bay. The clause in tbe Publie
Lands Act of 1884 alloting 12,800 acres
per mile ls repealed. Tbat would only be
repealed on the assumption that provision
would be made for the building of a Ilne
from some othier source. It simply coufirme tbe statement that 1 bave
made,'
that It is iutended to aliot the $15,0Q0.000
from the sale of the land to tbe construction of the Hudson Bay Railway.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-We bad better
put tbat in the Bill.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbeu we biave 'the
grautiug of lands to persons in consideration of the construction of drainage works.
It appears there bave been extra areas
given to persous wbo toolc up land tbat required drainage.
Hon. MT. LOUGHEED-At n reduced
figure.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Theu there are other
matters. Those are powers taken from the
Governor ln Council under the law wbicb
bas been exercised by tbe Governor ln
Council.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Have
these powers wblcb are taken from the

else?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Some of tbem, no
doubt, will be contalued In the Bill-any
of tbem that ougbt to be retaned. It may
be that lu tbe opinion of the Minister of
the Interior Soule of tbem ougbt not to
be exerclsed. As years go on, and tbe land
becomes more valuable, and people take up
land more freely, the Inducements off ered
in past years sbould flot'be coutinued.
Hon. Sir MÂ%ICKENZIE BOWELL-Tbat
provision'ahould be accepted as a movemeut lu the rlgbt direction, ln order to
prevent, If it were Possible, similar transactions to tbose wbicb have taken place
lu the past in tbe disposition of large grants
of lands and timber l-imitsa nd other concessions by order lu counýcil.
It seema
to me tbat tbese orders in council are now
crystalllzed into clauses of the law, s0
that If the Iaw ls adbered to, the whole
outslde world will know wbat la being
done, but I do not understaud tbat they
would prevent otber orders ln counclI
from being passed, changing regulations
which may exiat even at tbe present time.
I ain not goiug to discuse the details of
tbe Bill. for the simple reasou tbat I know
very lîttle about tbem. Tbere is, bowever, one principle luvolved la the Bill,
the clailse wbicb grants a second bomestead
which I tbink la disposing of the public
domain ln too liberal a manner.
Tbe object lu grautiug the bomestead, witb wbich
I tblnk most public men agree, was to
induce people to go luto the prairie contry and become settiers. Does tbe government not think, or NviIl not the country
tbink, that they hive gone pretty uear far
euough wben they give away 160 acres of
land ast a wbole without payment of auythiug except the payment of $10 for the
recordiug of bis name and tbe rlgbt under
the law to pre-empt 160 acres? Under the
provisions of this Bill ivben It becomes Jaw
the man wbo bas gone into tbat country
and bomesteaded 160 acres and remalned
there sufficiently long to secure bis patent,
tben bas the right under tbls Bill to move
to anotber section and enter bis name for
a second bomestead. la the country not
generous enough after they bave given a

SENATE

settler 160 acres and the righit of pre-einption to another 160? To inY immd lt is.
It may be saîd that the bomiesteader who
bas lîved upon bis homestead sufficieatly
long to secure bis patent rnay sel! out to
a new corner wvbo would prefer payiag
somne money for land, a portion of wblch
has been brougbt under cultîvation, than

to go on to a xew section altogether. That
mlgbt be the case ln a few instances wbere

&ettiers live adjacent to each other and one
wants to buy out the other. Ail lie bas to
do Is to purchiase the rlght of the first
bornesteader, snd that homesteader goes
Into another section of the country and bas
the rigbt to homestead agaia for anotiier
160 acres. That is lirnited to the seml-arld
regmon.
Hon. 8fr MACKENZIE BOWEL-It
does not makze any difference whetber lt Is
limited or not. 1 am speaklng generally.
It seems to me that if a man goes loto
that country and bomesteads and gets 160
acres for nothlng, bie ougbt to be satlsfied
and the government ought not to extend
tbe rigbt to give to thnt saine man another 160 acres for nothing because hie
goes la and setties upon it. It does flot
seem to be the vlew of the former government, and this goverament had for a long
tîme in adoptlng the free grant system.
Thiere rnay be speculative men wbo take a
The
different view of this question.
country is liberal enungh when It offers a
bomestead of 1L60 acres to any actual settier. That is sufflient for bim to make a
comnfortable living for himself and farnily.
If bie wants more land, be sbould pay for
It. I am quite in favour of the system of
bomesteading, but thîs Bill extends It aitogether beyond the limits of generosity.
Honl. '-%r. DAVIS--The bon, gentleman
frorn Hastings is probably flot aware that,
generally speaking, one hundred acres in
At
the west is n'>t enoiugh for farming.
une tinie, when there was a large amount
of rallway lauds available, one could homestead 160 acres and buy another quarter
section, but that is flot the case now. if
tbis area is thrown open to homestead
entry, the bomesteader bas nu pre-emption,
and every one wbo knows the conditions
ln tbe west will bear me ont in saying that
it is absolutely necessary to bave a larger
area tban a quarter section.

Hon. Sir .MACKENZIE BOWELL-Could
flot the bomesteader pre-empt the adjoining
160 acres?
ýHon. 'Mr. DAVIS-He cou]d, if thiere was
any to pre-empt; but It is flot easy to get
With referan adjoining quarter section.
ence to a person selling bis bomestead and
locating another. it does flot make much
difference to the country if lie does. *What
If a
w'e want Is to get the land settled.
new settler prefers to buy out a homesteader ln order to get a farm ln a settled
section, witb Improvements, and the pioneer
ls willing to sell and take up another bomnestead, I do flot see bow the country is ln1 would rather give bim another
jured.
homestead than see hlm inore out of the
cou ntry.
The motion %vas agreed to, and the Bill
wvas read the second time.
The House resolved itself into (,omrnlittee of the Wbole on the Bill.
(In the Committee.)
on subclause 8 of clause 11,
8. Except as otherwise provided in this Act.
every person who lias received or receives, or
has become or becomes entitled to letters
patent for a homestead by the performance
of homestead duties, with or without payment
of purchase money, or by the location of scrip
thereon, shaUl be deemed to have exhausted
his homestead riglit and shall not-be entitled
to obtain another entry for a: free homestead:
provided, howevor, that &ny person who, on
the second day of June, in the year one
thousand eight hundred and eighty-aîne, had
obtained or had become entitled to letters
patent for a homestead, shall be permitted to
make a second eatry for a homestead.
Hon. ',%r. DAVIS-Scrip is issued to a
half-breed for the purpose of extinguishing
the Indian dlaim; but the balf-breed is just
as much entltled to enter a bomestead as
Dues it mnean that a balfany other man.
shall fot be entitled to a hornestead
breed
after hie receires scrip?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He cou]d flot bave a
He is given
right to land as well as scrip.
scrip to npply on the land if bie chooses;
but if hie dues not do so, bie Is not eatitled
to a double entry.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. %Ir.COFFEY. fromi the conmnittee,
reported that they bad made somne progress
with the Bill, and asked leave to sit again.
The Senate adjourned until 8 p.m.

JITLY 16, 19M

1629

THIRD SITTING.
Hon. Mr. LýANDRY-As mnecbanics, tbey
The SPEAKER took the Chair nt 8 pan. 1are up to date; but as artists tbey are flot.
Routine proceedings.

FItENCH EDITION 0F SENATE
M'YANUAL.

MILITIA lIETURNS.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I would ask the
Hoti. -,fr. LANDRY-We were promised
hon. minister If hie bas not received this ait the beginniug of the session that we
afternoon a docume nt from the Militia De- would bave our Senate 3fanual ln Frencb.
partment lu answer to one of my ques- We have not recelved It yet.
tions?
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELI,-They
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Did I flot answer tbemn have not had tie enough.
ail?
Hou. Mfr. LANDRY-Tbat was done last
Hon. 3fIr. LANDRY-It Is that informa- year.
tion that the officiai of the 1Milltia DepartHon. 3Mr. SCOTT-Was It flot circulated?
ment proxnised to send to-day.
Hon. ~Mr. S
TThesauadprvisions of the colonels and lieutenant-coloneIs?
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Tbat ivas given.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-W'as
one?

t1r

nte

Hon. Mfr. ILANDRY-Yes.
Field Battery.

The Ottawa

FRENCH

0F

I amn longing
Hon. '.fr. LANDRY-No.
fo1 t
The SPEAKER-I amn sorry the bon. gentleman dld not make bis complaint earlier
la the session.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I lnsist upon having

Hon. .Mr. WILSON-I tbink the bon, gentleman bas a good excuse, as hie bas been
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I have not been able maklug complaints ever since tbe openlng
to see any one since.
I have a note of of the House, and bie Is oniy continulng
it. I wlll send niy secretary over.
tbem on the present occasion.
TRANSLATION
SMENTS.

DOCU-

Hon. M!r. LAND'RY-I think we are not
nt the end of the session yet.
Tbére is
pleut! of time.
Christmas bas not yet arrived.

Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-I would ask mv
bon. friead If we have the translation of
The SPRAKER-I confess that the cointhe document whicb we were promised nt
mlttee tbat bad charge oaf the translation
the beginning of the session?
bas been somewhat dereliet in their duty la
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I made an lnqulry, not seeing that tbe 31anual wvas clrculated.
but the explanation of the Bureau is that It was tbe bon. gentleman fromn Stadacona
tiîey cannot print, from the press of other and myseif.
We will bestir ourselves bepapers.
It lias been made up ia book fore the end of the session to see that It is
form, and they are not allowed to prînt distributed,
If avallable.
froni it. It is said tbey bcd already printHon. 3fr. SCOTT-Has It béen revised
ed the information la differeat form, and
therefore tbey ouight to be able to make It and sent to the Bureau for printing?
up.
They say they bave never made It
"ion. Mfr. LANDRY-Yes. This time It
up. and It bias aiways to be revlsed and put
is the fault of the Bureau.
in book formn and lndexed by the transiator.
That is the explaitation tbey gave me. The
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I spolie to the King's
printing is oaly the mechanical part. Tbey Printer, and I sald I wanted the work done
are not allowed to make any change, and particula 'riy, aud I supposed It wns done
have to tike tbings as sent tbemn.
long aýgo.

SENATE

1630

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In an office of that
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I wilI Dot delay the
kind, you have to Invest the head of it
session for that, but I hope the first day of
are
next session we wii] be gratified with a wlth a good deal of discretion, tbere
cases for which It could flot proso maay
copy of It.
vide. -I had some experience of that when
Hon. 31r. SCOTT-I have been humili- 1 was Miaister of Crown Lands.
ated ln this matter, because when a charge
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I do
has been made heretofore agaiust the
not not tbink that discretion shouid be lef t to
Bureau, it was found the blame was
the minIster. If a man has been found
laid at the proper quarter.
gulty of a fraud, why should it be opHon. Mr. LANDRY-I kept this until the tionlal with the minister to, condone II: If
he thinks proper and let blm make another
The commlttee dld their duty.
last.
favouritism,
MENDENTentry? It might lead toplaced la tha.t and
ANDSACT
DOMIION
poa minister should flot be
NDEN
BILL.
DOMNIN LND
BILL.sition.
IN CMMITEE.Hon.
The House resumed In Commlttee of the
Wbole consideration of Bill (181) An Act
to consolidate and amend the Act respecting the Public Lands of the Dominion.

Mr. LOUGHEED-In addition to
that, you propose making- it an Indictable
offence. It Is tantamount to say that the
minister may condone or compromise an
Indîctable offence.

(ID the Committee.)
On subclause 3 of clause 15,
3. If the minister is satisfied that an entry
for a homestead has been obtained through
personation he shahl cancel the entry, and the
person s0 obtaining entry shahl not be ehigibieH
to obtain another entry, unless the moinister
declares otherwise.
Hlon. '-%r. WATSON-There ought to be
some punishment for fraud of this cha-

Hon. Mr. TALBOT-It does not refer
to the same offence as the one for which
the hon. Secretary of State Intends to make
provision.

minister
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The
states tbat it Is to cover the case of personation. I would suggest to strike out the
words 'unless the minister dechares otherws.
racter.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I thiflk It is perHou.'Mr.TALOT-Te pnishent
biands of the present
that he is flot eligible for another entry ls fectly safe in the
anyway.
severe.iniinister
Hon. Mr LOUGHEED-That iS no0 reply.
Hon.Mr.WATSN-Nt svereenogh,
o tieottewrs'uls
because It bas been found la the past that 1mv
the whole country by the minister dechares otherwise.'
people had blanketed
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot feel inclined
frauduhent means, ln order to sehi lnnds
to accept the proposition, because we canto settiers.
those things.
Hon.3fr SCOT-1propse o ad asnot at the moment judge of circumstarices
There may be extenuating
a
prvsinfrps to
THon.aus 9r, a
or there may be a doubt about the personasn ubclus o, ac prviin ofor unshngan
ffece.tion.
an ofsuc
one uhhy
Hon. MNr. FERGUSON-If a person Is
Hn
r
OGED
Teecnb
e
heecn
r.LtGED
Ho.
guilty of personationa, the minister shouhd
because the clause pronot have the option of letting hlm malte no doubt about It,
for the commission of the crime. It
anoter etry.vides
not merely attempting, but it is a case
anoter etry.is
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-There may be rea- la which the offender bas deliberateir secured the entry by fraud.
sons that wouhd justify him.
Hon. Mr TALBOT-Suppose a man with
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Why
a wife and large family made an entry
shiould the minister bave the power?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JULY 16, 1908
JULY
under another name for a certain quarter
section. It ls flot the fault of the wife
or farnily, but of the man who commltted
the offence, yet the thing ls done and the
famlly ls punlshed. It miglit be that the
minister, under suc.. circunistinces, would
let the famlly keep the property.

16, 1908

1631
1631

free to protect the farnlly If lie thought It
advlsable to do so. Improvement may have
been made by the wife and chlldren, and It
would be a bard case If the minister was
unable to make any allowance.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEFID-Provision la
made for that. The next entrant upon takHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Somebody la ing up that homestead would have to pay
bound to suifer for the man's wrongdolng for the improvements and the representatlves of the entrant would be cntitled to
ln ail cases of that klnd.
the consideration.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-SupHon. Mr. BEIQUE-If it were forfeited,
pose a man stole a horse because hie had
none of lits own; 'would you condone that the famuly would not get anything at ail.
offence on account of the famlly? This la
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-I see in the original
a case where a mnan dellberately commits draft
of the Bill the minister in preparing
a fraud, and taites a false oath ln maklng
made an explanatory note as follows:
the entry. He therefore commits perjury
Explanatory note.-This is a new provision.
in addition to the other offence. Why should As personation in the making of entries is to
the minister be permitted to condone that be particularly guarded agaiast, it is considered there should be special provision so .that
offence and let hlm make aijother entry.
every one may be aware of the otfence and the
resuit of its commission, viz., ineligibility
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The minister ls the obtain another entry. At the saine time it to
is
best judge, and you must leave some dis- thought desirable to give power to the minisremove
cretion to hlm. I thlnk the fault with ter to be a case such iaehigibîlity, for there
might
in which there would not be
thîs Act la that the minister bas tied It up an intention to defraud.
tSo strongly.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWEil-How
ls it possible there could be no Intention
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-He ls tying himseif
to commit a fraud when a man makes an
up too closely.
affidavit declaring hie ls some other person?
Hon Mr. SCOTT-I tblnk hie la making You are actually glvlng the minister who
a great mistake. He Is sweeplng away ail presides over tliat department power to
the orders ln council, and blndlng himself condone or pardon these crimes.
by the Act.
Hon. M3r. KERR-Supposlng n man cornes
He personally does
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED--Can my bon. ln to make an entry.
flint there are conditions about It.
friend concelve of any extenuatlng cdr- flot know%
cumstances that would warrant a man The forai la stilI ln doubt by the clerk in
maklng the affidavit hie la bound to make the office where bie goes to make the entry,
ln schedule (b) In which hie solemnly swears .wlth ail these differeut entries in them, and
to certain facts? He is guilty not only it la handed to hlm and the clerk says
1sîgn that ' and hie does so.
Thiat hiapof personation but of perjury.
pens in the case of very Ignorant men, and
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-He could be pun- sonietimes ln the case of Intelligent
men. I
lshed under the Criminal Code.
believe it la doné. by wembers of parliaHon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-He could, but ment and perhaps even senators.
the minister may grant hlm ail the advanHon. .31r. LOUGHEFD-Name?
tages to whlch an entrant would be enHou. Bfr. KERR-And an affidavit slgntitled, name]y a homestead and pre-emped and sworn which is not strictly correct.
lion.
H1on. Mfr. PERLEY-That is not personai-Hon. Mr. BEIQU-I would be In fatour of enactlng a punlsbment for Imper- tion.
sonation, but discretion should be left
Hon. 3fr. KERR-That ls dolng as solwith the minlster, s0 th&t he inlght be enîn an Act as muaking the entry.

1632

SEX'ATE

lion. Sir M.NACKENZIE BOWDt-N
doulit that is correct. 1 know a case where
alawyer la drawn two affidavits, and
wben one was presented to a man to sigu,
he found the affidavit whieh had been read
to hlm was flot the one whichi lie wvas nsked
to swear to; but the man wbo was maklng
the affidavit knew tixat bis namie was John
Burns, or whatever It was, and I do not
know that there Is a member of the Senate
or the House of Commofis, If a false statement miglit lie laid before blim, who would
flot know certaînly whether be was signing
as John Kerr or some othier mime.
Hon. Nir. KERR-Or John Bowell.
Hon. Sir M'NkCKENZIE BOWELL-Yes,
If an affidavit
but that is not nîy naine.
were preseîîted to nie, I would know If I
was.lMackenzie Bowell as George A. Cox,
and If I swore to the affidavit of George A
Cox I would be commlttlng perjury knowA man who makes an
lngly and wllfulIy.
entry for a homestead must know at the
time what bis owu naine Is.
Hon. (Mr. T.ABOT-Supposlflg a resident ot the Ujnited States or Great Britaîn,
,or some other country, or some of bis tamily got Into dlsgrace, suppose It wns bimself,
perbaps lnnocently, and he came to tbls
country under an assumed name. aud plied for a homestetld?

maxi suffers the penalty for the offence of
personation aud perjury whether he should
forfeit his riglit to make an entry, assumI think we miglit
ing he had a rîglit.
la the clause, that an entry
stop earlier
made through personation could be canIf a man endures ail the punishcelled.
arising from the offence under the
ment
criminal gcode, wby should there lie any condition that he should flot be allowed to
make an entry at all; and If you get rid
of ail that you wlll get rid of this ugly
a
proposition that the minister shall have
wiIl look almost like coudiscretion which
doning an offence.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I move to strike
out the words 'unless the minister declares
otherwise.'
The amendaient was declared lost.

The suliclause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I propose to add as
subclatise 9 to clause 15, the followlng:
.Everyone is giiilty of an indictable offence
Who
and liable to twa years imprisonlflent buy,
linys. ti-ades or sells, or .who professes to
trade or seli land or any interest in or contrai
for whicb
of land open to hornestead gentry. or before pathonestead gentry bas been granted
ent has been jssued.
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-in many cases, In
some portions of the west, where land
companies have obtained the odd numnbered sections, for example the Canadîin
Railwfty, they have got wbat we
Hon. '-%r. LOUGHEED-Thiat would flot Pagcific
cali dummies to enter on the even numbe personaition.
bered sections, and they bave gone round
: 'we
Hon. '.%r. TA.LBOT-I think It would, to people lu the United States saying
the odd numbered section and
assumned name.
wll seli you
because lie Is under an
give you the rigbt to enter on an even
Hon. Sir 3bAýCKENZLE BOWELL- number section,' and then permit the
There Is a provision for that lu the Election dummy to withdraw.
If a man's name is put down improAct.
Hon. '.%r. LOUGHEEDI1 quite approve
perly on the list, lie cau stili vote.
of the principlé embodied lu the amendHon. '.%r. TALBOT-I think it will bie ment; but it seemis to me it may be frauglit
perfectly saf e to leave It as It Is.
mith considerable danger to Innocent parties. The Impression does prevail wlth
Hon. Mr. FE.RGUSON-It occurred to mne
many who are not famîlar wlth our land
with regard to this clause that It wns somelaws, among many homesteaders for Inthing very renrkable tlint the minister
stance, that tbey can seil tbeir bomesteads.
should have the powver to condone the ofSupposing a bomesteader wlio may have
f ence, but probably on a dloser Inspection I
served two or three years, who may bave
would hnrdly come to thnt conclusion. He
completed ail bis duties before the patent
may punlsh the man for personiltion and
Issues undertakes to seil bis ýhomuestead,
perjury, and tIen the question arises If v.
Hon. Mr. KERR.

JULY 16, 1908
lie at once becornes liable for an indictable
offence. He may bave doue it uiost innocently. The word 'kuowingly' should lie
lnserted before the word 'sell V' Lt sbould
be qualîfied.la some way.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It ls flot a case of
that klnd that 15 contemplnted.
It

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I k-now tbat, but
may ocýcur.

Hou. Sir MACGKENZIE BOWLL-How
would lt affect a case lu %vhleh a hornesteader bad occupled bis land for 'the
full tern and liad cornplied wlth ai the
settiernent conditions, and that lie bad liorrowed aîiouey for the purpose of carryiug
on tle oceupation of farmning, and for the
purpose of buying agricultural iniplernents.
would lie le siibject to au Iadictable offeuce, if lie, liefore obtaiuiag a patent, sold
It la order to mise mney to pay bis
debts?

provision.
It practically places a value
upon lands which are*mecognlzed
to lie
well worth three times tlat ninouut at
least. Wb.yý sbould the price remain uowv
at tbree dollars, when values bave gonie
far beyoud that?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I arn sure the lion.
gentleman fromn Cal-ary must kuow that
there miglit-ble lands whlch would not lie
womth more than tlree dollars per acre.
Hou. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL-Supposiag the land wouhd lie wortli double
that?
Hon. Mr. WATSO-N-I mwould expect the
minister to get double tbem price.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-L do flot see
ivbly the minister sliould seli a fractional
quarter~ section. Cousidering w-bat lias aiready transpired in the alienation of lands
lu thls country, this power sbould lie vested
la the Governor iu Couincil and lot in the
mInister.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.

Hon. Mr. WATSON-It is ouly a fracMr. SCOTT-No, that would not lie tionni quarter section whicl rnay lie sold
the spirit of the .Act. Lt Is not wlthout the sanction of tle Governor la
It Conei]. It is only a sinall portion.
to meet a case of tbat klad.
the executive tînt could put the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It might lie very
force in a case of that sort.
valualile land. 1 nmove t1hat the hast three
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-But Unes lie strickea ouI.
as you have vested the mnister with power
Hou. Mr. WATSON-A great rnany sales
to forgive perjury under anotber clause, have been made where there is a fmactional
wly flot add to this clause 'uuless other- piece of property adjoiniag a mnan's homewise decided by the minister.'
stead ahougside of a lake.
Hou.
%vlthin
frarned
Is ouly
haw lu

tbe
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-W1Iy can
Hlou. 'Mr. BEIQUE-The minister is not
given power to condone the offence, but to Governor lu Coiuncil not do it? You inake'
provision for ainytliing, beyoad tînt to lie
permit re-eutmy.
L
dealî w!ih liy lhe Governor in Council.
The suliclause was adopted.
cannot sec why hi? cannot regulate t11e
whole rnatter.
On clause 32.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-It la a1 snal thlig
32. Agricultural lands shial only lie open for
purchase under regulations made by the Gov- to ask lie Governor' iu Council to dea]
ernor in Council ; and there shall le no sale
to one person under such regulations of an witli.
area of land in excess of one section, without
Sir MACihENZIE BOWELL-II
Hon.
a special order of the Governor ia Council:
Provided, however, that the minister may seli mught lie valualile.
a fractional querter-seotion, with or without
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Of course il is a vemy
homestead conditions, at a rate flot to lie les
than thmee dollars per acre.
dîfficuit thlng to judge. Il la only n fracHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Î doulit the pro- tional part la wbicb the minîster la nIFor large
pmiety or expediency of perrnltting the min- lowed to use lis digcretion.
Ister to seli at a rate of not Iess than $3 areas le munst go to the Governor in Counan acre. That seerns to lie a vemy unwlse ciL.
REVISED

EDITION

1634

1634

SENATE

Hon. Mr. LOUGIIEED-Wýe know unfortunately how that discretion bas been
exercised in the past.

tional lots as he may think proper. That
ought to be left to the Governor in Council.

Hon. '-%r. TALBOT-I tbink whiat the
minister had in view in preparing this, was
to meet thousands of cases wliere there are
smail fractions of land on a river front or
a lakze shore that would flot be sufficient
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would not say for a homestead, but which could be sold
I know
to the owner of adjoining land.
as to the area.
of hundreds of instances of the kind. but
Hon. ýSir RICHARD CARITWRIGHTI do flot know of any where a towvn site
There rnay be a v-ery large number of thiese is affected.
small picces, and really it is not the EngHon. -'%r. DOUGITEED-Under secliffii
lish practice, and it is questionable w-bether it ls a good practice to, place tbese 100 of the old law, the niatter is left to the
They Governor in Council.
before the Governor ini Council.
must accept the ipse dixit of lthe MNiister
Hon. Mr. WVATSON-But under that proof tbc Interior for these sînaîl natters.
vision, the value w-as fixed at one dollar
Hon. '.%r. LOUGHEED-I suppose there per acre; wbereas iu this 13111 it is increased
will be lîundreds of townvi sites iii the to thrée dollars.
Igortbwest owing t0 the construction of
Hon. iNlr. LOUGHEED-I (Io not know
rallways In tbe near future.
of any other departînent wbere the minister
is allowed of fils own motion to divest the
-Hon. Sir RICHARD C.ARTWRIGHTthese, there are special pro- country of public property.
Witb respect t0
Hon. Sir RICHEARD CARTWRIGHTDoes the hon, gentleman say that In connection witb small fractional pieces of land
an improper discretion bas been exerclsed?

visions.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTa I admit the possibility of some such cases
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Adjiuiilg
speaks of, but
town site there may be a fraction of a sec- occurring- as my lion. friend
fi-action may be 150 acres. 1 amn inclined to think that the public w-il
tion, and that
the -lîiole by pla,
The minister may not be seized wvith a full be better safeguarded oit
I think the public :ng the responsibility w-here it must uItikinowledge of it, and
M1inister. of the lu1
would bave more confidence if that land mately go, with the
My bon . fmiend's experience, aid
terior.
could only be alienated by the Governor
fi-iend
This would not be a town stil! moire the experience of niy lion.
ln Council.
frorn Hastingýs, will tell hlmii that hli a case
site -but would be land adjoining a town
of titis kzind the council aire lu the hiiffls
site.
of the bield of the departilent, and placixîg
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTtue responsibility on the council wonild
You have .-one ahead so fast in the North- ratdier divest hlmi of a prnper sen",e of re.
w-est that it is difficult to 103y- down general sponsibilitY lu deilluz Wl! il sacli cases :ix
rules.
%ve bave beeni -eferim-, t o.
M.LOUGLIEED-Theref ore w-e
Hon.
lion. Mr. LOUGHEED-I bave confidieire
sbould ho canîjous.
la the present iinister flot abusing t1ue
power. However, I have stated my objecHon. Sir RICHARD GARTWIZIGHTtaken by the de- tion and amn prepared to Jet it go.
I think the precautions
partment w-ill ensure the public any profits
The clause was atlopted.
I know
to be made out of the town sites.
On clause 34,
te question bas been, carefully considerefi
by the minister.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWýýELL-Tbis
gives the iniister power 10 dispose of fracHoi. iMr. SCOTT.

Hon Mr. LOUGHEED-A véry peruicious principle has been introduced hy tItis
government of leasing lands for 21 years.

JULY 16,1908

1635

JULY 16, 1908
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-For grazing?

1635
in trust for the provinces, and tbey charge
the bigbest possible price for sebool landsý

I rememnHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
ber bow tlic Liberal party, previous te 1896,
Hon. Éir MACKDE NZIE BOWELI,-The3r
attncked most vlolently tbe leasing policy are beldA.n trust by the Dominion for the
of tlie old government; but the policy of pirovinces, and tbey cannot dispose of tbem,
granting closed leases, particularly in set- only In special cases such as are contalned
tied districts, for 21 years and thus keeping in this clause, except by public nuction. You
eut settiers, Is te my mind miost perniclous. take power to dispose of flot more than
1 simply point eut this objection, and wbile four acres of land If It Ia requIred upon
clause «.13would give power te the Governor wbich to build a sebool bouse and the
I
In Council te continue those regulations, I minimum charge must be ten dollars.
hope that wll net be the case.
am not objecting to the power. cf disposing
of lands under the circumstances.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is tbis a ucw
On clause 39, previse l suliclanse 2:
the clause?
Previded that if it is establislied te
satisfaction of the ininister, either by report
Hlon. 3fr. DANDURÂ,%ND-Yes, it Is a
or erder of the Lieutenant Gevernor in Ceuncil for the province in which any section, hiaif- new clause.
section or quarter-section ni schiool lands is
situate, or by the request in. wvriting ever the
Thse clause wns adoptcd.
signature cf the niiuister or deputy minister
which lias charge et educaol the deî>artment
Ou clause 42.
tien in sucli province, that it is desirable te
42. Ail moneys frein tinie to tiîne realized
take or reserve eut of sucli section, hait-section
or quarter-section of sachool lands a sinaii por- from the sale of school lands shall be invested
tion thereef as a site for a scheel and for pur- in securities of Canada to form a school fund,
poses properly cennected thcrewitli, the alia- and the interest irising therefrom, after debeaid
ister muay, ferthwitli, seli te the board cf ducting the cost of management, shallho
scl'ool trustees fer the district for which the annually te the geverament of the province
saine is rcquired, nt a mnininmum price cf ten within which sucli lands are situate, towards
dollars per acre, snch portion ot school lands, the support of schools organized and carried
ia ne case te exceed an area of four acres, on in aecordance with the law of 6uch prowhich ninat front on a road allowance, et sueb vince; and the moneys 6o paid shal lie disprice as lie ray consider tair and reasonable, tributed for the purpose by the said goveraand nîay forthwitli, upon payînieiit of such ment in such nianner as it deems expedient.
price, cause letters--patent te be issued for the
portion of school lands so required as a site
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-This Is a vcry.
for a school and for purposes properly con- serlous departure froin tlic old Act.
The
nectcd thereivithi.
word 'public' bas been left ont Ia tise
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If slxtb Une of section 42.
1 inove thait
four acres of lnnd wcre rcquircd by tlie the language of the old Act be restored
trustccs of a scheel section, yen cempel so that it will rend tewards tlic support
tbeai te pay teu dollars an acre.
of public sehools.'
Hon. '-\r. SCOTT-Not less than that.
lion. 'Mr. SCOTT-I hope thec liou. genîlion. Sir MACKENZIE BOW~ELL-But tlemian ýwilI fot raise a controvcrsy on that
in the ether case Nvc discusged a short tinie subjeet.
ugo. the minister ceuld dispose of frneYeu
Hon. ',%r. LOUGHEED-I wvill.
tien., of land lesa Ilion quarter sections at
a minimum of not less than 9,3 an acre. are departing f romn a wcli estnblishied trust.
Yen compel tlie school trustees te pay $10 This fund lias been provided for 411 the
for land whicli, under ordinnry circuni- statute-book for over 30 odd ýears, iu fact
thema without siace confederatien, and you are lcaving
stances, iniglit be g-iven
charge. I de net sec why thiere stuould lie ont tlie word to describe the class of
flua discrimination. If flicre Is anv dis- selhools. so that this money could lie discrimination, it sheuld be la faveur cf the tributed among private and other classes
of achools.
adheol trustees.
Hon. 'Mr. WATSON-This only applica
t0 achool lands. The scbool lands are lield

l03]ý

Hon. Mr. SCOT'.l-I hiope the hion. gentleman: will not press tlie proposition. -It

1636

1636SEN_,ATE

would create a furore ln the Nortbwest and
Wby should we depart
ail over Canada.
from the oit Act ?

The
That does nlot refer to it at ail.
explanatory note when conipared witlî the
Tiiere mnust
clause itself is niisleadinig.
Lie seule reason for tijat.

the proHon. Mr. WATSON-SureIy,
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-It gives the governvince which makes the laws for the scboo]s
It ail1 goes
the xnoney, ouglut to bo ment a little more latitude.
and distributes
back for sehool purposes.
perfectly satlsfied.
HSn. Mr. FIROST-Lt is uiot distributet
by the Dominion governuneut.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-TO5O are lands
set apart since confedoration, and this land
la trust by the
andi the fund bave beûu bit
different goverfnionts of Caniada silice tIi-t
Tliere is thuerofore no îesuwhy
timoe.
the provisionis of he trust slîould ie (listurbet.
li4o1. MNr.~C'T
disturbed.

Tuvhave neot beeu

Hon. '.\r. LOUGlIIED-At the preseut
time aIl schools soparate or public, bo tluey
Protestant or Catiiolic, participate in the
The omission of that word will
funds.
load to a controversy whichi wlll set the
fires burning again.
prothe
Hon. '.%r. WATSON-Surely
vinces bave a righit to distribute the iioney.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-If 1 amrnfot mistaken. by thue other Act it vvas provided
that the soparate scîmools should bave tluelr
share

Hlon. Mr..WI;GIIEED-%ill niy lion.
friend say howv this goveranent will be
justified lu divertinug that fund, wvhicbi bas
licen establishied sinice confederation, ite
cliannels othor thani that whicli lias been
jireservetl by every statute w-luth lias beeuu
'"e bave anieutluassed silice that tillac?
ed tluls .\ct tinuie andi aga iii silice the acquisitionu of Iluperts Landi Iy the goveriiiiinut
of Canada. andi why at tliis momuenît slîould
frouu, pai'tienlaiIy as
this be c).rteýd
Itonuan ('atholic sclîools as well als Puniestant scilools arie publlie sellools limier the
Act, andi have been participatiiig iii the distribution of the fundsz; but private selioQis,
other denorninational sýhools, othuer racial
schools nia! be establisbed aud înay couie
lu under this clause and Jpmnd a portion
of the fund. 1 arn entîrely opposed to aîuy
disturbance of the trust wluich lias reinaiiied
andi been protected !l ail its integrity during
tiiose mnyu years.

are
Ho.Mr. LOUGH-EE)-Aýiidtluilei
public
are
They
gotting their shiaro.
schools under tlîe Act.
Hon. 'Mr. BELQUE-Undor the tonioîinaiition of public schools.
Hon. Mr. LOUGIIEED-Tey aire public
schools under the. Act, just as lunch as~
the Protestiant seliools.
Hon. '-%r. 1,A.\DIIY-They are not teiuoinIlational sclîools but public schlools.

Hon. Mr. POWER-Does the lieu. geîîtleinan not tluinkz that the provincial goveriumneut is the proî>er party to decîde ?
Hon. «M\r. LOUGHEED-Tlhat is iuot the4
That is a sacred lrust whicu
question.
lias neyer been disturbet.
Hon. MIr. POWEll-Trust for m-hat?

lu

thiese lands was givon te the provincial goverrumeut. andi it is the saine iu thîe otîmer
western provinces.
Hon. Mr. LNI-o.The
tlenîian is altogetlser wroîug.

lion. geluhe North-

Hou. *Sir 'MACKENZIE IiOWELI-The west country was acquireti trai tlîe Hudson
Company l 1S75, .Manitoba wvas thieu
cxt)l;tuuatory note î:eats as follows :Bay
Explanatory Note-Tlîis provision ý thié carved out of Ruperts Lanîd, andi the l'est
sanie as in the present law except that the
jurisdiewords 'or territory 'have been strueck ont as of tîle laund w-as put under feJeral
the tarritory referred to lias beeni dii ided ite tion by tihe 11w of 1S75, andi unider that law
ft 187-5, the rnajority iu any sclîool or dlvithe iiew provinces of Saskatchewan and Aiberta, and there are luo sehool lands beyond.'
fluey
It is aiso designed ta avoid emphasizing the sIin bat the riglît te hiave the scllool
diflerence as te educational systeuns andi ta choose. and the miuority a sel)arate school:
e
iwo
lopito
bring the section into conforînity with tlue Ai- 1 u htwsl a
e
iwo
ntepito
btti
borts auud Saskatchwan Acts.
flan. Mr. SCOTT.

JUTLY 16, 190S

13
1637

nomluatioiial schools, because a public
school may be a Catholic school under tbe
law of 1875, if the niajority is Catholic ,and
the miaority separate from the majorlty
formn a separate school whicb rnighit bave
been a Protestant school in a Catholic
reglon, or a Catbolic scbool iu a Jirotestaflt
region.
Wbeu the ordinauces of 1888 and subsequent years came ito force, the denomlnational scbools were abolished altogether
and public schools were estabiied in every
section 0f the province. Under the Autononiy Bill, eacli scbool district under this law
bas a riglit to a public sehool, but the
public school is a neutral sehool. There is
no religion tauglit lu sucli schools except
wberc there is a certain ponrtioil of the
population wlio mnay have a righit to a
separate school; but ln that scliool, religion
niay be only tauglit after hglf-past tliree in
the afternoou.

Hon. '-%r. W-ITSO.N-The explanatory
note of the original Bill said that it is also
desired to, avoid empbasiziug the different
educational systerns, and to bring this ln
conformity with the Saskatchewan Act. It
appears to me that the money given to the
provinces lias to be dlstributed to the
sehools organized ln the provinces, and that
ought to be sufficlent protection that the
funds arisiag from the sales of the land1s
wlll be properly apl)lied.

Hou. Mr. LANDRY-Thiere are no more
denoiniuatioflal schools; thiey are ail public schiool.. The separate scbools are net
separatedl froni the majority ou account of
religion.
Hou. '-%r. T-AL7BOT-They may be, but
thiey are treated so justly lu that country
thant they do flot want separation.

Hon. '.%r. LANDRY-Uuder the law of
1875. the majority iii any school division,
wbether Catholic or Protestant, biad a right
to have the schlool they choose. They have
not that rigbt now. They have public
sebools, but not denominational sciiools.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbere is a distinct
recog-nition of separate sehools ln the Alberta Act.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Plit under the la,%v
of 1S77), ln a sehlool district wvbere the
Catholica are lu a miajority. thev had a
riglit to have the selhools thieY choose.

Hou. Mr. SCOTT-A fair compromise bas
been miade; what is the use of discussing it.
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY-Because you are
Hon. '.%r. TALBOT-Iu ail of the schools,
affect ing the fuuds.
reliion can be taught after hialf-past tbree,
and lu noue of the- schools may religion be
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We are not affecting
tauglit before that bour.
the funds.

Hon. Mr. TALBOT-TIey eau bave separate schlools Yet.
Hon. Mr. LA.\DIIY-A-ý separate school.
is not necessarilî a denomiflatioflal scbOOI.
Hon. Mr. Roy--Whlt is the use of discussing that noNv? The Autonomy Bill iS
*passed.
flou. Mr. LANDIIY-I kuow the Auto*nomiy Bill ris passed, but tbere are grave
*doubts as to wvbetlher it Is constitutlonal.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tliose lauds wvere
granted whieu deniorinaitionaý,l schiools existed. and wlheiu lauds were sold for school
purposes the proceeds of the sales %verekept
for the scheols as they existed at that timie.
The law lias been cbanged aud nieutral
denominational
school., have ,ucceeded
scboels. aud neov the proceeds of sales of
these lands aire to be àiven as the law pro.
vides. That is the policy of this govern.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHIEED-What I object
ment. 1 would bave reserved the lands and
to is that mitbout cousultiflg the tbree
the proceeds as the constitutiona
used
and
rigbits of the people required. We musi provinces, 'Manitoba, Saskatchewan
but 1 do flot think th4 Alberta, a fund wbich bas been establisbed
submit, 1 suppose,
by
Dominlon parliamneut sbould dispose o'. since the acquisition of that territory
constitutienal righti 3Canada for educatioflal purposes sbould
those lands agaiust tbe
to those provinces,
of the people who at that tline luhiabltec 1uow, without notice
from the channels then esbc diverted
those provinces.

1638

SEIKATE
1638

tabiished, and that the words 'publie scbools'
should be omitted from this Blll. This
action of the government sbould raise a
protest from ail those provinces, and I
certainly shall insIst upon my ameudment
that the words 'publie scliools' be restored.
I would further point out that separate
scbools are public scbools. That a Catholle
popuiltion In any district can organize a
separate school wbicb la a publie scbool
witbin the provisions of the Acta dealing
with education. As 1 have said, this f ufd
bas flot been witbbeld frorn those schools,
but bas been distributed proportiontitely
among tbem. Wltb the numerous races
goiag into the west, ail seeking to establisb
racial schools of tlieir own, I protest agalnst
any disturbance of thle law whîcb for so
long bias been on tlie statute book and
whicb is. to-day hein.- carried out with the
greatést degree of satisfaction to Cathoilcs
and Protestants and as f0 -wbicb there is
no difference of opinion. I protest agaiist
any diversion of tbis fund, or any change
wbatsoever being miade la the ternis of the
school lands trust.

because that expression lias been ruled ont
of order la the other cbamber.
IhAILWAY ACT KMEND'MENT BILL.
SECOND AND THIIRD REÂDINGS.
Hon. Mr. SGOTT mnoved. the second rendin- of Bill (204) An &et to amend chap. 3S
or the statutes of 1907 la ameadmeat of thec
R1allway Act.
Hon. Mr. LOUGIIEED--4Jan my bon.
friend explain the object of this Bill?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If ls repealing- one sec
ti<n. of the Rallway Act. The section repeahed denis witb fili:îg of rnortgages, hypo
thecs and otber secarities, but I do net
know wby it bas bec-n repealed.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-As the bon. nienm
ber is flot able to exp'.,ga the object of this
Bill, I wlll bave to do so. The Minister of
Justice la iatroducîng this measure la the
House of Gommons, pointed out that tbils
clause was put ia by mistake hast session;
that the power which1 we seek to exercise
here Is exercisable only by tbe provinces;
that It would be very much in the shape of
a cbattel mortgnge; nnd the rolling stocki,
not comiag practica lir within the Raihway
Act, it being persorn! property, therefore
it wvas tbought to bc- misheading-, and as a
niatter of policy, it vvas considered advisanhe by the Departmc-ut of Justice to striko

Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-We are Ieaving it to
ho distributed by the goverameats of the
provinces for the support of scbools organized and carried on lu accordance witb
the Iaws -of those provinces.
The committee divided on the amiendment, whicb was rejected, contents 3, nonou,
ýcontents 15.
The motion was c,,reec1 to, and the Bill
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I give notice was rend a second and third tinie and
that on the third reading- I shall iove this ý1assed.
amneadment again.
The clause -was adopted.
JUDGES ACT AMýENDM\ENT BILL

lion. Mr. COFFEY, froni the committe-ý,
SECOND AND THIIRD READINGS.
reported the Bill with amendaicuts which
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-'ýhc explauaition of titis
were concurred Ia.
Bill is as follows:
Section 1, by substituting the words 'sixtyHou. Sir M'ACKENZIE BOWELL-I deaine ' for 'sixty-sevea,' provides for two addito cali the attention of the Senate to thec tional district judges in Ontario (previsional
sire
fact that nearly baiff the time that wve bave districts of Fort Francis and Sudbury). Sec2, by suhstituting the word 'eight ' for
been discusslng this most Important Bill tion word 'seven,' provides for one additional
the
with 104 clauses tbere bas flot been a quorum county court iudge in Manitoba. The ebject
of the House, and the question, Is wbether of section 3 às to secure, te the chief
chief commissioner of the Board
that practice Is to 1-e cointiaued. If therp. or assistant Commissioners any tinie servcd by
of-Railway
bring bum previously as a judge wbich, would entitie
Is anything la the world -which would
of Mr.
the iSenate into contempt it would be the' hüm te a pension. On the death offered Justice
to Mr.
was
wheu
this BUI Killani, Mabee, the position out that he would
manner la which we bave rushed
he pointed
Justice
through. I will flot say rallroaded thron.zh. by assuming the office forfeit any right that
Hon. Mr. LOUÇUITTEED

PUEBiaL;o
-Mau SI naI41 i~ SI wri
d 'tqgli 'qi
mi8 U! sîBeilg Plt.à: BAIIlQ art; JO
iî aîaiq
;iodai aili jo uoill4adai
paldopic
7, -09 &UgdtUaU ;OTJOS.xîPtOS 0tJ4jo ;Oud x<tjvp (-a) uaA2 si II su 1.1odaz aut; jo ;IEd pa;ulad art;
elWUEI99j,
eiqI SEBA le4Am IUUçOTIS
Ut;i asoddns
10J
t~ L.IueO ils
ol
-eo'Oaj Ou. .UUî
-9981 pIu'

JO ;.umliadeaj ar;-oi
-PiA9IG *.WO 17[ puB 1'iif
-sas ;uasaid art; 2a.lap Ouop suAi Sie -xeam.
uaea&;q pe2uT1itoxe aorepuod6&.iioC eil (q>
jo aeli alqi lur laioda.r ujaua.rq auj;
xit l;.Eih& euqmurt;osea at io luedsa îad çit
-qoj
seS
rjpju ia
Itm;iaauiiuaj
rJ E
But EDIpu! ;u01e9
s;unouis exil
aîuus
art; IPtMý' Ium.c
uld
al1di
auj; 4u 'uoisses ;uesaîd ai uj;rinp pe.xap.o si.un~~î~ -n~*o],
arruloflo;
Wi[aim JO uoilonpoid auj; IsluQ*,UnaOpoi ONUi aq art; MQuiniruuWoa si
et esuloil Sit;l jo elqu; aq no £9e
&AmO1 ;.xod
.iflnU0) ou am~ pltoo
sir(l II UT
-ai ati; Mt;dopu UT SIid. emil u M2ulPeea
ilq UriOH
-0.111 lou am~ aiY-Àl<iNvrI

x1ilINV'i *uni *UoH 1g
PaIIua 2ulaq Sainbui jo az>llon aiLL

ssaîid auj; o; s2ujpeaaoid arj; jo sisdo
*dn -US.S auj; sE>qsiuzn rim ji a;.xodai arli o4 pjEM2
ja -al rt;lm UOISSas art. po pua auj; 113 apuin
uaNiul Si .xatum aili uarjim £îaspad aaoru
sLUumME liodei tlEuli auj; si stiLj :plus aBp
*iq *UOH
-suui art; OA12~ jjtim î-Sai'a
auj; jo 2al
UB a;ua5
ulasioun In 'M *uoildopE s;tPOi po
*og siIl
art; jc
-in -at OT' odan PUE s;4qaQj no aallimmoDJ
suoi4naOi jada aql put;sjIapl
iodai ieq; paluasaîd [,flb[>I£j *ijç -u0H
;~oda auj-~iUNV ~ OH
suotuau
*SN~1LL~1Q~SY1~U

etSLus ail uau .1Ja ni O ;ouui 991LYatI
Ea, u
*EU011upa~î
-at4P'2 *Uou auj; SIý--JIxiv'I -in
-uanriopE aj;

JU~ Sapipui

;Eutj

snu
-Ion 10

NO SHMIIZrKNX>O10 111Odau
auflnol puu siElci3
*urixg 3[D0pDf
ajj,
-100; UZNoo;

naAaIRa lE ilEuq0 ril

Muillis eau am i au4ajAL ,pjaua~ Eç Ç~saxp
15 O -ils
;ullýriIamoi zlizNi3KYTýOVW

'LTr £plja1 'YVIO

H

3

IV

îioi Çî PUB 'Ijaahi E3 etîalioda.i
;uflou aut;
aili îoj 2U14SoD SI 4j
ujs!1Mrr
sna si qu-nÔift1El *ujiï *UOIaunm.u 0;
upuai)uaj;

tET T
4aa4liïamoa 51111 JO
Ilun pont.inorpu alloues aqjI
4;1oda.n auj; uodn pasnnq 'uoissas suj;uotu lujMa JE3 mi.ouu-o4
*:flas UiN *UOH--.4z>Y sa!ljiliaL ;Sa;
sltJ4; uoi uaaq sinq £urumus ssazd auj; jo Is03
a1t4 puaTUE3 o; lay UV, (Ot;) 111£
aEulras art; liai uuuumatua2 *Uoq art; -qjO,
;Erji
arj;
JIH.UV UIN0Oas
*SCIva
ptflo-T],AIMol SJZX.51IO[Viq is -uoH

M;s îuu F-1 uj2noiut; pSasEd S1.
*uOissas ;xau jo Z2ujuui.Maq aupj; ît;n pa.nuaj
IBsi aaliumoa
-ap aq o;, EaEn MM i lej
PUE 'o4 paJeJ SUA& Uot;or DiTt
*SUOMMODi ;0 esflH ar; JO a841111u1113 iiia atl
ail,
p~pan~îS1
oo; Z2u!aq Il1
iL
axil; u1jim uoissas aj;. UiT a;Eî
.1
t¶uolt
UX
iL
WSOt
o; alqssodrui ISOlUIt -0uuîdS 1
'ua;;xru auj; dit aiju;
ID
GAtem; JO poliod a;u8201iS8exail lxqous S'a 9.1,89
SEM. Il pa.napiSuOa Lauj; ;nq 'ZOuluiou sjuj;
J!
paU9odxS SIEGL0 U 0A poiimS qUIiei a2p 10 ai
-IV *rrOH.
bja
;aru aa;;ttuumOa arul-a
&,xujttEHl unoiJ unU[apluaz

*uoq auj;

Leq

.£1ES 0; et ;uuqj

~

esiîoL o 0a 1 o;Sivex nea;

'O
-inne. 0~ SïT pouJe eu .EOSti
ielsiss-a .10 eiOOsstiffoz si uoisuad s!XJr as
as
ieuoisszwuo Ea Lq paix

moi;

peaom uot;rujosai aili uodn 'sa;uqap art; jo
ati uno; Ulmqs jtuj aput .sue
U014sanb. ati; iz>plsuo;) o; ;aum aa;;îamo3
;Ert; opiaoid 0;
I L 1 snoiAaid oui; art;*uoistredi[ans io; si uoX;E
uoisiâoi
auilj; Joa~tqo aqij,
RIZNUH~OVK lis 'UOH
sEH1-ýrIqIM0a1

~
o
*sax-afltjI~
*î

~

~
uauoE
o ~

u0
~ ~~~
a;j

a'9t
ou6 iov lmluOq
Â'f

o

iU1

nliE

n

1640

1640
SENATE

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Stand until next sesSion.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Unfîl

this evening?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, unt il next session.
l.
There bas been more donc for flic
gentleman than for any member of elfher
House. He has faken up a greaf deal of my
fime and made me a nuisance with many
of the dcparfmcnfs 'by the way I have
been hammerlng at fhern. ail on bis account.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I ýwil bave fliose
questions nnswcrcd before I leave.
The motion wvas allowcd fo stand.
QUEBEC

BRIDGE COMM\I'%ISSION
PORT.

RE-

band when fuis Act icomes in force.
I
have discussed the point wifli fie-Minister
of Inland Revenue, and we have corne f0
a decision that, with the approval of the
committee, clause 17 sliould be amended in
thls way. The clause reads : 'The Governor in Council may make such regulations
for glving effect to any of the provisions
of thils Acf,' and It Is proposed f0 add after
the word ' Act ' ftc following :'
lu respect of the sale of patent or proprietary
medicines In the bands of tlic refail merchant at fhe fime of fthc comilng info force
of tbis Acet.' He suggests thaf, and if bas
been changed under thie direction of flic
solicitor. He thiniks that should mneef tlic
diflilfy.
lion. 'Mr. SCOTT-Tlie aiendmrent should
read, nof af tlie time of fthe Act coining
into force, but aI tlie passage of the Acf.
They miglit load up before flie Acf is put
in force.

Hou. M.%r.LANDRY-Beforc flic orders
of flic day are called, 1 sliouid lke to
know if appendices No. 1 and 2 of flic
report of the Qucbec Bridge Commission
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN -That is beffer.
are available?
Thcy have ail flic other
We probably could flot agrec here as to
appendices. Wc are fold that these appenwhat would lie a reasonable lime.
The
dices form part of anothier volume, but 1
clause 17 leaves if f0 the Governor l Coulicannot find thaf volume.
cil fo make regulafions.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I suppose if is af flic
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have no objection to
Printung Bureau.
ftie amendinent; il throws fthc responsibulify
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It ouglit to have on ftli Governor In Council.
been prinfcd long ago.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOW%ýELL-Will
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I will iniquire and iet
lint the effcf of fhe ampendmnicn
passed
flic hon, gentleman know.
last nigbf lie fo render if alinost imnpossible for a druggisf f0 put ni) a prescrip)PROPRIETARY OR PATENT M.\EDItion? I so understanld froin people eagagcd
CINES BILL.
in the frade. If that wvill be the effect, we
liad better change flic tifle of tic Bill and
THIRD READING.
call if 'An Acf for tue protection of the
The .House resuîuied lii Coininittee of flie
Niedîcal Profession.'
Whole, consideration of Bill (146) An Act
respecting Propriefary or Patent 'Medielie
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The amieudeuf bcines.
fore flic House denis witli another point aitogethler.
(Ia flic Conimittee.)
Hon. Mr. MýcM,%ULLEN-Tlic
objecf in
Hou. Mr. KERR-Tlie arnendment will
holding over clause 14 was for flic pur- only give rise f0 trouble.
Mliat is flic
pose of providing means whcreby retail nxieaning of fthe expression, 'beliin flicir
merchants could dispose of flic balance of hinds7 ' I fhink if sliould men in stock.
their stock of pafent medicines on band at
flic time of the passage of this Acf.
Hou. Mr. MITCHELL-If fliey bouglit
No
doubf country merchants will lic cauglit' by coufract, tbcy could nof bave a large
wifli a considerable stock of sncb godds on stock in their storage.
HIon. Mr. LANDRY.

JULY 17,1908

1641

JULY 17, 1908

1641

I-Ion. Mr. WATSON-I sbould like to ask
If au order Is placed for a quantity of
patent medicines, would thiat be considered
lu Stock?
Hon. 'Mr. KERRt-No.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Should we pass an
Act t0 interfere witb the contract whlclî
lias been miade?
Hoa. Mr. ICZERR-I mov e that the wvords
'The bauds,' be struck. ont, and inake it
rend 'In stock nt the time.'
Hon. -lr. SCOTT-I object inost decidedThis Bill bas been discussed a great
ly.
deal. A comnpromnise was ag-reed upon with
I ]lave consented to approve
the ininister.
I thiulc It is goIing a long w-ny.
of that.
Canada is beliind the rest of the civillzed
world on this question of drugs, and I think
'the tl-ade requires somrý reasonable 17eThere is a safeg-uard ln the Bill
straînt.
by witbbolding its comiug into force except
No doubt tbe Governor
ou proclamation.
in Couucil will bave many applications ou
The hion, gentleman fromn
the subject.
VeIllington has bad conversations witb a
good many parties interested, and lu conversation witlî thein, we agreed to this
1 hope tlic House wvill not
compromise.
If is a different niatter wlien
go furtbcr.
we are dealing witb substances w-hieh beneHere we aedaigwt
fit Society.
Wby sboul1 w'p exdrugs wvbicb poison.
tend the delay wherc hunian ]Ife is at
Wc should liave some respect for
stake?
Witb regard t0
the lives of our people.
.the question of opium, thc deaIers represent
tint tbey bave $40,0000 investcd iii opium
and its manufacture. and tlîey desire front
6 to 12 mouflîs to dispose of it. I anii opI have consented f0 tlîrec
posedl to that.
They give bonds tbat no
mionths timie.
part of their stock shall go iuto circulation
If we are going to allow
lu fuis country.
two or tbree years extension what w-ill he
the nse of tbis law?
ave
Hon. '.%r. McULNPrisw-ll
to get an order la counceil by w-hiclî dealers who have stock will -be able to sell It.
Immediately on the comiug int force of is
Act, there wiIl be notice -iven that ail refail merchants holding inedicînes will have

to make a distinct statemeut of whiat stock
they have on baud. It will bave to be refurned to the government and sworn f0.
Ou receipt of that statemeut the government will Issue a label thiat will bave to lie
placed on every bottie of medicine that they
lîold, which w-lll show that they are authorized by order of tbe Governor lu Council
If lu
to dispose of that specific niedicine.
the statenient that they send lu, there is
sncb a thlng as cocalue or any dinngerous
tlrug of tbat kind, the goverrament reserve
the riglit f0 cancel tint and not grant any
license for lfs disposaI, but aayfing. that is
returnied, wbich the goverrument think Is a
medicine tbat migit w-cIl be disposed of, the
dealer lias to put a label ou If, wvhici shows
they have authorify to selI, but only the
balance of ftic stock they have on band.
H-on. Nlr. SULLIVAN-In this list there
are tbe most terrible poisons known to
We have Prussic Acid, Spanisli
science.
Ply, Cliloroform, and every possible mixture
of muoriine, coula, Indian Henip and every
The man who
poison lu materia mnedica.
made this 11sf must bave bad a terrible
op;uion of buman nature when he piaced
The
these friglitflul ageneies on, this 11Sf.
only w-ny of settling it is this; let encli
deaIer send f0 the Minister of Inlaud Revenue a list of the drugs be bias i stock.
If any of these zuedicines confain nytbing
noxions or daugerous to life, tie stock
Thiere are many
sbouhd lie destroyed.
patent mediclues tbait are harmless-somethiug to play with. mnade np of harniless
ingredients by people %vhio wauf to Make
nîloney fast, but wvbo have a conscienceTiere are tw-o classes of people mlaking
patent niedîcines, one class haviug. a conscience and the othier class no conscience.
If the minister permifs drugs f0 be sold
w-hichi are devoid of noxions substances, let
But if the
themi do so; that Is aIl riglit.
mediclue contalus drug-s thant are noxions.
pioisonis tbey shonîd be destroyed.
Hou. 3fr. Mc)IJLLEN-As the bion. gexitlemnan bas given us a list of those medichies w-bicb contain poison, hie might give
us niso a 11sf 0f those ouf of wic no
poison can be exfracted.
Hon. 3fr. SULLIVAN-There are lots of
harmless medicines.

1642

SE.'NATE

SENATE
1642
lion. Mr. SULLIVAN-Never.
Hon. '.%r. WATSON-I must admit I arn
neot very well posted on medicine. I neyer
Hon. -Mr. KERR-Under the -circuniused mucli of it, and hope 1 neyer sbalL. stances, 1 tbink we can easily afford to
But it seems to me the hon. leader of the let this Bill stand over for one session.
House is'extreme ; be looks, on ail these
Hon. Mr. SUIiLIVAN-It would be a
soine people
drugs as being poisonous.
thlnk tbat beef, pork or mutton are nlot good thîng.
I know tbat ia pregood for the systeni.
Hon. Mr. KERII-And deal witb lt lnscribing, doctors use a great deal of tbese
tellig-ently. If the sale of patent medicines
proprietary mnedicines put up by responsible
is a crying evil, and if the use of noxious
firms, and I arn lnfommed that the safest
drugs ls somethiag that should neyer have
of these medicines are put ln tablets. Docbeen allowed, tbien sorne person bas been
tors say tbat tbey are ail. riglit and preresponsible for niot Introducing the legiswith
We sbould not iinterfere
scribe theni.
lation long ago ; if, on the other band, a
orders that have been placed with manulittle common sense is to be used la makfacturers who hiave carried on business for
ing the provisions proposed here protecting
vears andi, we should not bring this pro- the publie interest and at the saine tilne
vision iiuto force until the Act'is proclalin- not iajuring those who bave establislied
If a dealer lias ordered a stock of rigbts, and if those poisons are properly
ed.
patent ineicine and the manufacturer is introduced into tbe best medicines by' niedpreparing it, unider thmis clause the order ical nenI do flot
would bave to be cancelled.
That is net
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. no.
think It Is fair.
so. I have given a study to this question
Hon. Mr. KERR-It seenis to me that for haif a century.
we are bere to deal w-ith this Bill delibeHon. Mr. KEItR-Tbose wbo give a
rately and la a way to makze it a workable great deal of study and attention to a
law, and at tbe saine turne to do justice subject on one line, sometimes get into a
to ill the different interests, or we are perverted state of miud over it, not tha"t
bere simply to record our approvai ot the bon. gentlemnan's mmud is perverted,
Bis withiout giving thein any considera- but 1 know b6 bas peculiar ideas on this
tiou at ail. The fact thiat the hon. minis- as well as on some othier matters, dietary
ter, eonsulting soine particuinu interest, questions as well as niedicinal inatters.
bias arrived at an understanding about the Who is tbere to say hiow this tbing oughit
parti%ýular phraseoiogy of. a clause, whilst to be denit witb at large? How many of
I inigbt bave every respect for bis opi- us kaow absolutely that there is a large
nion, I *tbink that is bardly a reason wliy nutuber 0f proprietary niedicines do;ng such
w-e sbould unintelligeatly go into a mat- harni? How many of ns know%bow far
ter involving large interests, wbicb is a we sbiould go to protect vested înterests lu
referni of a siveepiug character brougbt this inatter? How far sbould we go in
downu at the last inuite of the session, the w'ay of disturbing trade and iuterfering
wbiei there is -no opportinity to obtaiu witlh nièehants and manufacturers %vlo
expert advice except that w-bich is lu the bave stocks of goods on band, who hav e
In invested their money, and -%bo not only
bauds of timose promoting tbe Bill.
view of the wbole situation withi reference iinvested their money, but made a life
to this inatter, tbe law w-hicb bas been iu study of tbe preparatida of proprietary mego te show we
force ail our lives, giving freedomin l deal- dicines ? Ali these tbings.
sliould basteil slowly. and, in order that
ing with these matters, bas been acconimay be fairly tested, I move
panied by an education on tbe part of the this inatter
that the comrnittee rîse.
people, and they are generaliy careful what
tbey do take and takze only that %Ybich is
Hon. Mr. DERBY.SHIRE-Ti5 is a queswell recommendéd-and nearly ail tîmese tion la wbicb I amn vîtally interested. The
miedicines are recommended by soine medî- Flouse of Commons passed this Bill witli
cal men.
the ininister fully charged witb the enactHon. Mr. SULLIVAN.

JULY 17, 1908
ment of this legisiation, after a consultation wltb the druggists, the wholesale men
and the retail men and ail parties coucerned ln the manufacture and sale of
the
now
aud
medicines,
proprletary
measure cornes to the -Senate and the
Senate have commenced to lnsert ameudments that these parties who have spent
in the preparatlon of this
so much tie
Bill, and ail Interests concerned, have no
opportunlty of corning here and being
beard ln counection with. I think It Is
a very grave Injustice to pass these amendments, and I amn satisfied the House of
Commous -will fot accept tbem when they
are sent to them if we make any serious
changes. We are not partiýcularly concerned about the amendment of thec bon.
gentlemnan f roml Wellington; but we do
take decidcd objection to the amiendmdnt
proposed by the hon, gentleman f romn Edmouton. It means that no one exccpt a
doctor could prepare any medicine, and a
doctor would have to recelve bis fee in
prescrlbing It. It means that the doctors wlll have to see every bottie
of medicine, and bie consulted about maklng it up. For years, this patent medicine
business bas gone on, and no one lias been
seriously bit. These medicines have been
a great benefit to the conntry, and we do
not want legfisiation passed tbrough this
House wblch Is not properly matured, especlally a Bill o! this Importance. The next
sessidn will be brought on ln a fcw months
and no barrn would be donc If we postponed tbis rnaasnre until tben. A Bll
that w'ould meet *the views of aerybody
could be prepared. The Senate is responsible If hiasty legisiation is perrnitted to
pass througb this Chamber, and I say that
these ameudments w'hich are now being
put tbrougb at the elcventb bour bave flot
been properly consldered and matured and
the parties 'concerned have flot had the opportunity of beiag heard la support of the
Bill. I support the motion that this coinmittee rise.

1043
14

cription of a doctor, but ail the other articles can lie.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-Who is to
know wbàt is in it, unless yon go to a doctor?
non. Mr. ROY-We bave not bad tiunc
It Is a
to discuss this measure properly.
serions question, and If it coules up next
year I shall certaiuly urge my arnendrnent
I do not thlnk
and stick to It for ever.
patent medicines containing opium or morphine should be sold without the prescripMy hou. frieud says
tion o! a doctor.
wbeu this Bill w-as presentcd lu the -House
of Cornmons, that evcrybody w-ho belonged
to the trade was consultcd lu the niatter,
I w'as
but tie p)ublic wcre not consulted.
looking for a protest by the tradesinen.
There is no question about it, that sorneYon cannot
body is golug to be injured.
pass a Bill relating to patent or proprietary
medicines now without puttlng some amnendment Iu the shape of providing that no
patent medicine shial be used If it coutains
Natnrally, wben the criminal code
opium.
was farmed some acqnired privileges must
have suffered, for Instance, thiev es and
That was n0 reason why rot'
murderers.
should not bave passed or ameuded the
1 iniitain that thousands
crirninal code.
and thousands of children die every year
f romn the use of patent niedicines containIug opium or morphine.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIIRE-I w-ould be
perfectly satisfied witb the Bill as it camle
fromn the House of Commons, or I would be
satisfied to strike out this amenumeut proposeà by the hon. memlber, and let the Bill
pass; if w'e cannot have that, I should like
to bave It laid over and give evcry interest
an opportunity of being bieard lu perfecting
the measure so that w-e would have a proper law.

Hon. .1]r. iSCOTT-This Is cvidently a
question of greed for gold agaiust human
This Bill xay be postponed for one,
life.
Hon. Mr. *BOY-My bon. friend from
two or three years, and there will be the
Brockville says that my arndment pre-'
Thiere are millions of
saine opposition.
vents anybody but doctors preparlng medimoney invcsted lu patent miedicines, but, ln
cinles. That is not so. Your aquendment
the rnds of ahi advanced medical men, the
says that no article contdlniug opium or
of human life thirougb patent
morphine-sbould be sold without a pres- destruction

1644
SEINATE

1644

cries, gives it soothing mèdicine.
he
niiedicines is far greater thanr auybody cati
goes to sieep, and site tinds that f0
witbia the child
I have !ni my ntlind
picture.
be the qulckest way of keeping ber chiid
iasf two weeks ftie (leatits of two clilîdren
quiet, aud finnlly a funeral is held. Any
Iu differeut places froîn eating tabiets whiclî
one who inquires into the subject, must
ivere thrown in at fthe doors of dwellings%
corne to the conclusion that the use of
The effect was fatal. 1 say it advisediy
day is doiug a vast
Mien of the day dis- opium at the preserit
that the flrst medical
nimount of liarm. Otîter nations have waapprove of drugs and patent ntedicines.
kened Up to the effeet of it aud are legisOne of thte ieading mêdical men lu Engto remedy the evil. It is ail very
laud, w-ho had been the officiI physiciati iating
weil to say Unit opium bias been uised for
of the Queen, addressing a body of medical
centuries, but it is noue the iess ani evil.
students, said the experience of the past
Wbat rigitt miuded persoti could defend
few yerars teacmes us fhat those botf les you
Great Britain, ini forcing oit
short titue he the policy of
see ou the siielves w-I l a
China the opium of India ini order that
aIl sweI)t away, and( the duty of the docthe natives 0f India mighit mnake nioncy
for w-ill be ta teacli fte iietitoi of preservThe
on the destruction of the Chinese?
ing life so thiat it cati he iîiaiintaiined lu its
-world is getting wiser, and Caniada oughit
bligliest condition witlîout tIhe uise of a1
to be behifld la the race of civilizatiotl
That is fte utteratice of auî flot
single dr-.
iolweutmîe
and enlighteninient.
ninher of fihe p)rofessionl w-ho lbas
(-liîltent
into the scales as against butuiian life ?
Near.ly .50 ye;îrs
badl a long experience.
We canuot escape the responsibility. 1 do
ugo, niy attention m-as directcd fo titis subflot wholly approve 0f titis Bill. because,
Ject by the fact tijat one of ftle leaditi
the hon. senator front Kingston says,
country refuised to as
inedical men lu titis
if is loaded up wvlith poison whichi may be
pass uMy life on air application for a poiicy
Thte lion. senator
put lu prescriptions.
1 immiiediately took issue
of iusurince.
from Edmonton, who is a doctor of large
flot only w-ith Uit inedical mari, but w-itli
says titat lie finds opium is dootiier menibers of the professiomi, experience,
Matr
vasf deai of itarni f0 imrman life,
a
and front that date until now, tire subjeet ing
w-heu le asks titat in any p)rescripbias been engrossing iny attenîtioni because and
morphine is used, it
discuissed if over tions where opium or
of fliat very facf. I have
sbouid appear ou the label, 1 ask is tîmat
and over again w-ith iedicai mn, and a
Surely ,vliîen -\ve are givlarge majority of tîtein hiave adinlittcd fa goiug too far?
ing our chiidren drugs, w-e slîould know
nie thiat the evil effects of drugs were untein. Our resdeînatîded wvlat drugs %ve are giving
hliilited. btit ftat tlie people
than miany imiagina(.
prescriptions or advice ponsibilify is greafer
If simple
tbein.
Kîag.ston drew atw-ere offered it was not accepted. The peo- Tire lion. senator from
tention f0 the drugs xvhich. under tlîis
f0 the htigiiest
pie were flot educated up
standard. A body of legisiators well rip Bill, are free to al]. Opium is perhaps rio
of the otimer drugs lu fli(
itn life, like titis Senlate, ouglit to pluse 111 %vorsetitan îny
Its
liesi- iPst. but it is more generalir used.
I do0 not
dealing with titis suhject.
babies are kiiied influence is so delusive fliat it is not nofate to SasY titaqt 10,000
patienît itîto
every year il, the Provillce of Quebec frotîl tieed. It does îlot tlîrow the
ini
a paroxysil of auy kind, but i., sootiiî
the use of tuotrphine. I have beeti tracuiig
The patient goes asleep and
Syrup, so its effect.
ît up. 'Mrs. W'inslow's Sootltiig
and the niatural concluuniversally used, is being put up by a me(l- sieeps for hours,
sion of those who do not understaad the
icai mtin ii the City 0f Motîtreal, anîd sold
if bas doue good. Yet titis
everyw-iere fhrougbi the province. I have drug is that
Bui is opposed because ail fliat is asked
l)eeu foid hy one w-ho lias ntadé an iîîquiiy
confains opium,
of fte cbiemist anîd w-ho lias faken Soute for is tbat if a mnedicine
the proportion of opium la it slial he
iîîterest la the subject, titat tbe people
ln order fhat the public
must bave the drug. A labouring ivoran stated on the label
are getting. Is that
i-ho bas not the timle f0 look after lier may know what thiey
a concession thaf is f00 much ta ask?
baby, prifs it lu a cradie and if thie baby
lion. Mr. SCOTT-

JULY

17, 1908

1645

JULY 17, 1908
1645
Hon. 'Mr. SULLIVAN-This Bill is a
As the
bbe government lias taken n charitable andt monument of sublime Ignorance.
humnane view o! this question, andi I ain lion. Secretary of State bas sa*d, l puts
ni
drugs
eatirely opposedti o the postloiieineîtt of the the most powerful poisons
Bill. Tbe-sooner It goes into operation the known, -«l helter skelter togethier, andi
It
better.
Wbile it may not be up to wvhat does flot say bow tbey are to be used.
w-e woulti wish, 3-et on the l)riticil)le that makes a doctor, au analyst andi a toxicolobaîf a Ioaf ls better tban nio bread we gist of tbe Mi1nister of Inland Revenue.
sbould accept It. I have rend recently the How is tbe minister to know whatt is a
opinion of a very einient physician in Lon- dose for n chilti or for a mian, Or for il
don, wvlo salti that lu at very short blîne womnia, sud what would lbe the effects of
there wonld be very little medicine nised. It '! The minister ivas neyer matie who
that ail that is required to prolong life, is wvould kuow ail thut is involved ini this
pure air, simple diet, and plent3' of exer- Bill. 1 would suggest that every one of
,else.
I alu o! that opinion myseîf, andi these drugs mientioued, lu the schedule lie
Ilere is
bave folloNvet the prescription to a large throm-n ont. They are all bad.
extent, and attribute îny, present geood bealth the way Mbs works :Suppose 1 -%vaut to put
andi sonnid condition ta having donc so. The strychnine, morphine or cocaine or aur other
plea is useti that the country inerchants dig iuito n miedicliie, andt sncbl drugs eau
Hon. 'Mr. ROSS (1-allfax)-Tlie leader of

rnay have too miuch stock on liand. That
w-hI not lbolti water, Ibee.iiie ln these tinys
o! quick transportation you eail 01(er your

goods anti get them on very short notice.
and it is unnecessary to keep a large stock
on baud.
Iu the oldti imes, ivben we hiad'
bo procure sufficient stocks lu the f aIl to
lest until the following spring, it was different.
The olîjeet of the Bill is a huimane eue, andi the sonfer it goes into

operation thec botter.
Hon. '-%r. C.-X--If I nnderstand the hon.
Secretary of State righbt, this Bi11 does itot
go into effeet until proclaituet by ortier ln
ceunhil.
Does Dot that give ail nlecessar-v

protection. betb bo the dealer anti the publie?

It

.-ives bte Governor in Council an

o1)portuuity
questions

to

carefully

on %vbichl few

consider
of us are

position bo vote iintelli.-ently here.

those
lu a
I dIo

net kniow wvbich way to vote, anti the prolier th!ng is to let the Bill pass, andi it wvill

oiily go inito effeet by proclamation.
If
inatters are lu tite position stateti on hotli

onily be used lu very smnall quantities, vhat
have 1 to do: I haveto seniff the naie of
tlîat niedicine aud a stateient of the ingretiients to the minister. andi the iuiister
i-, stil>posed to 1ook ait the formula andi recoîiiend. what is to be done. He gives
permission then for the bottliug of that
In administering drugs, the
preparation.
quanîties should vary wvith the age aud
Wbat
physical condition of the paUttezt.
woffld be a perfectly safe dose for a boy
or girl w'ould be.fatal for an infant. No
oxie l)ossessed of nuy kulowledge of mcdiedue dreams of gîvlng morphine or oplium
or any tirug of the kinti, to a ebilti. The
inan wvho tioes that is striking at humanl life.
The miedical profession is not, ns oue inîghit
imagine from some of bte speeches we have
heard bere, n body of mien bandeti together for the purpose of usiing recklessly
tingerous agents. regardless of tîxeir effeet
The physician must be
on the peop)le.
anti is a rnost particular man.. by the riides
o f bis profession, ant i e takes a solemuii

Iobligation

the day hié graduiates that: lie

ýwill do everytbing in biis power to upliolti

sides, the proclamation miglit not be issueti
the bonour of bis profession. No one wilI
until next session of parliarnent, and per*- dare to say that the physician is a mnan

sons iinteresteti lu the manufacture anti sale

devoid o! conscience, or of the qualities
wvhieb adoru bumaaity. If you want te
inake their representations to the Goveruor find virtues of the biigbest ortier. you eaui
ln Council.
Altogether it ivould enable us fluti themi equalir as wvell lu bbe metical
la the meantime to arrive at an intelligent profession-anti probably more than in the
decision as to wbat is righit to do, anti 1 clerical. I amn ot tryiug to make aîîy
would support that view of it.
nd captandum speech. I looked tbrough
of drugs wonlti

bave

au

opportuuity

to

1646
SENATE

1646

this Bill carefully with a viem- to inmproving
For my part 1
It as much as possible.
would throw out the Bill, and w~hen they
introduce another let it be prepared by
some one wbo knows something about the
subjeet. This gives the minister authority
to sit ln judgmnent and say what amount
of aconite, chloroforme or morphgne or
prusslc acid or strychnine should be mixed
wltlî any medicine. Heî'e is a drug at the
It is giveti
bottom of the list, veratria.
for the purpose of loNvering the pulse; aconite ls used lu1 the samie way. Any one
who uses that drug should sec the patient
before administcring- it, and visit thle patient cvery time it is useti. because no0 one
but an educated physician can tell to what
If such a
extent it should be emiployed.
dru.- were Ieft in the liou':,e, to be adminlstered by any one Nvho happened to bc
with the patient, aud administered. often,
It would lower flie pulse until it stops altogether. I do not reniember ever prescriliThere are two preparations
tun- aconite.
of It, and botlt are given only in the very
snaallcst doses. Iit the EIst. I find corrosive sublimate. Who mwould thiak of putting corrosive sublimate lu any mixture
aud hauding it outtf0 licpublic? 1I0w uLcli
would yon put !i a bottle f0 give f0 anybody? Hlow conîci it be regulated or how
could the effeets of it be knowii ? There
here. cantharides.
is ailothier 'preparation
It is a powder made of Spanislb flues, and
thiere are only t,%vo preparations of if thit
1 klow of. Onie is a blister and the other
is a tincture that is itever used internalîr.
1 never used it lu my-o life. So tîxere is *a
trernendous 11sf of terrible drugs wiihl
no0 lead of flic departilient could recolleet.
1 anil mrilling te admit tlIat the minlister
nî:îy be the inot shhairly ma insul Canada;
but tlis is îîîposing onI hlm a duty that
i., abstird. If thcy biad called ini any cîmuntry lihysiciau sud askced hlm aîbout tieýýe
drug-s and flec use nide of them, it would
If thie
bave reljeved hlmn of ail diffhcult3-.
drugs inelifionied lu titis list are put formward as ag-ents used by the medical
profession, I say if is a litiel and falsehood,
Wherc flîey
and I denounceý if as sncb.
got thiat list froiu, I do not know;
but it
is the mosf ugly list I ever read. If y ol
do what is iglit %vith this Bill, you will

Hon.

M.Nr.
COX.

It is
at all events suspend if for a while.
a serlous mieasure, by far more important
titan measures whichi we hiave hceld baclc
I do not
for years hefore passing them.
know *the iniister wlîo got Up fuis Bill?
lon. 3fr. LANDRY-Dr. Borden?
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-No. hie had
to do wltli If.

nothing

Hon. Mfr. DERBYSHIRE-Mýýr.
mnan, Minister of the Interior.

Temple-

lIon. 3fr. SULIVAN-Mr. Templein
was a memiber of the Senate, and al man
of the hîghesf respectability, and 1 arn suie
lie would not do that. If I could have live
minutes with 3fr. Tempiemlan. I would exp>lain fthc Bill t0 hlm so fliat lie would drop01
it altogethier.
I wvould utove tliat if lie
rejccted.
lIon. Mfr. FERGU.,SO-Th-rle
lisf?

Bill or the

lion. 3fr. SULLIVAN-The list. Therc
are patent mnedicines whiclh are harilules-m,
and 1 would let dealers selI as many of
fhemn as they Ilked. becanse people watt
I do îlot know if any patent mcidithent.
cille ever coutained otte of the drugs incaiI do iot kulow wlhat
tionled lu this lisf.
the contents ol alny pateut niedicines are.
I f theclhon. scuiator froii Edlinoliton, ltmows
fthc formula of ally jarricular tuedijîtie that
The
is sold, lic could itilormL us abouit il.
Bill is sufficielit to cover the case ef al tian
deliberafely cxposing for saite Wlit lic
Ili tlle 11sf
lzilows is a damîgerous drug.
von ind carbolie a(-id; if is never used internaily. If you do wvhaf is r;ght for r-oi'
country, anti the professiont, anti the noble
armiy of patenit nedicinle sellers. 3-ou w~ill
l)ostl)oii this Bill for siiother 3-a;r.
WATSON-I
Hlon.'Mr.
niove au amcnidiîeit.

shlîoid

like

te

flon. 3fr. LAINDRY-Anl amtendient is
The motion is tîaf flie coinîîot iii order.
înittee risc, and thaI cannot be aineidted.
Hon. 'Mir. WATSON-If flic hon. senator
frein Kintgstont would hiave a coîî1fereîîcc
be able to
ifh the uittister, they miiglf
It coîttaitîs some
strs-ighteii ouf thils Biil.
gooLi thîiugs. and I'propiose to niove that the

JULY 17, 1908

commnittee tise and report progress. If the
Bill is a good one, we should not take
chances iu throwing it out. After the discussion this morning, an opportunlty sbould
be given to see what eau be doue withi the
Bill, and 'It Is mucb better to rise and report progress than to kill It.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (.Middlesex)-'1'here are
two questions before the House, the ameudmeut of the hiou. senator from Wellington
and the motiou of the hon. seuator from
This
Toronto that the committee rise.
Bill was before us last year for ineditatlon
a nd consideration, and It was wlthdrawu.
I t is here before us this year for cousideraWe have
tion with a view to legislation.
The
dlscussed It at considerable length.
ameudment of tbe hon. senator fromn WelThose
lington is one that shiould pass.
i-ho have goods. ou baud sbould uot be
prejudiced by the sudden action of parliaThe ameudment wouid correct that
ment.
Thierefore nothing remains except
evil.
the amendmnt of the bon. senator f rom
Edmonton, wbich is debatable. 'We should
The Governor lu
itot debate tbat uow.
Council bas power to say w-heu this 'Act
shahl coine into force. and that will give
people witb goods on thieir shelves a chance
For any goods
to seli out witbout loss.
uusold, labels couid lie furuished, and then
tlîey would not be contraband, so the case
Then wby' should the
is l)erfectly clear.
The House of (3ommous
coinmnittee rise?
lias g-iven a great deal of time t0 the Bill,
and we have discussed it at soine leugthi.
Let us dispose of the first amendaient, aîtd
if the Bill is shipwrechced at ail, It will bie
shtipwvrecked iii the House of Conimous and
Let us dispose of the auîendDot Itere.
ment 0f te litou. sentor froiii Wellingtou
first, and titen w-e can dezil w-itli the amneudnment 0f the hou. senator froin rEdmnontoni.
Titis is a vexed question and a serions quesWe took a great deai of paius lu
tion.
Outario trying to dispose of it, and falled.
Thiere Is no legisiatien on the statute-book
w-hidi covers te grouud as well us titis
It sitould proteet life and ut
Bill does.

A man as
the saine tume be reasouable.
learuied as the litou. senator froin Kingston
cau rend us lectures f rom the Materla
Medica and te Pitarinacopela that wlil

1647

make our bends ring, but that is flot necesLet us show the country that we
sary.
eau legisiate even on a different question.
Hon. -Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWEL-I
want to repeat wlhat I have frequeutly said
lu years gone by, and it Is more applicable
at the present moment than lu any past
session, aud that ls the impropriety of sulimlttiug such coutentions measures as titis
lu the Seuate a few hours before prorogation. There are couflictlng opinions which
It la difficult to reconcile lu consldering this
questiou, and If anythlng would luduce me
to vote for the motion of tbe hon. senator
from Toronto, it would be a desire to bave
the mensure thoroughly iuvestigated and
cousidered by those affected by It before
Any one whio listened to the
passiug It.
enthusiastie speech of the hou. Secretary of
State to-day must cornmeud hlm for bis
laudable desire to place noxious drugs beyoud the reach of those who use them ludlscrimlnately, and to the dlsadvautage,
The fact
partlcularly, of youuger people.
that the Bill, If passed, eau ouly corne Into,
operation by proclamatiou of the Go'veruor
lu Council, does not affect in tbe least the
objectiouable clause, and for this reason:
suppose after cousideriug the merits and
demerits of the aill aud the effeet It would
have ou the trade, the Goveruor lu 4jouucii
wvould have no power to change or ameuti
oue single word of It. Ail they could do
would lie, If after investigation they find it
would be impolitic and iniproper to bring it
into operation lu its preseut state, is to aI10w it to rennalu a dead letter on the statuteTihis, with other Buis we are asked
book.
to cousider, and particularly one of 104
clauses w'hichi went titrougli last niiglit i
ailmost as miany minutes, deserves mtore colt:
sideration thita it lias received nt the bands
W'e have becii represented
of the Senate.
as beiug mnere echoists of the 1-luse of Coninions, simply because the governuent bave
a. mnajority in the Senate, wlio wvill support
wîtbout proper consicleration auy mensure
If there is anytltey many bring- forward.
tbing thiat will bring the Senate into -contempt in the miuds of the people, it is the
maniner in which we are in the last hours
of the session dealiug with niost important
I shalh
questions affecting the couutry.

R 4SSENATE

164S

vote that the commnittee ise, flot because 1
aîn opposed to mauy provisions of the Bill
-for 1 think it is in tlie riglit direction as
a whole-but because it 15 a grave question
as to wliether it does flot go too far.
Hion. Mfr. COFFEY-I ar'n entire accord
witb tlie hou. leader of the -House, 'when
he says tliat Canada Is behind the rest of
tise world la legislation of this klnd. About
a year ago, I visited some large cities lu
the United States, Detroit, Rochester and
Buffalo, and having takien quite an interest
ln tbis Bill, I consulted some of the. proumilent drugg-Ists in those cities. 1 found
that w-hile patent mediciiies containing cocaline. opium and a great mnany of thcmn a
large perceutage of very badl whisky arc
freely sold iii Canada that flot one of those
irostruîns could be obtnilicd ln the Uuited
States exce t 0o1 a doctor's eertificate. Sure]y it is tinie that Canada made a start to
guard our people, espccially the young,
igainst the terrible Influence exerclsed by
the free sale of those drugs. Not very long
ago, the newspapcrs of the city to which I
belong. London, found it uecessary to entcr
ou a crusade f0 prevent yonng people obTbey
taining cocaine la the drug stores.
ivere îrevented getting the pure article over
ftie counters, but they found other means
of gcttîng it. Tlicy could find plcnty of if
If
111 the patent medici"es offercd for sale.
h, ab)out timie we mîade a start t0 preserve
our people from thie terriffly inîjurions cffects
of tise free sale and gencral use of medif0iake moficy,
ciîîes preparcd priinsarii to
w-itliout consideration for thse liealth iid
safeiy of our people.
Tise cominittce divided on thse motion to
1ise, wvhicli was rejected; contents 17, nonconîtents 20.

Hou. Mr. Me.\ULLEN-I would suggest
that fisc bon, gentleman allow fisc amendment to clause 17 to lie ndoptcd anid then
put bis motion.
Holn. Mr. WATSO.N-No, I think fliat
ameadment could lie lmproved, and It wiil
be improved by the minister w'ho reaily bas
charge of the Bill acccptinýg if with somé
My obJect is to harmonize thse
changes.
opinions advanced by members here and get
this Bill passed lu better formn than lt is
at tise present tinse.
Thse committee divided on thse motion,
which was agreed f0; contents 21, non-contents 10.
Hon. Mr. DAVID, fromn tlie committec,
rel)orted fliaf fisey liad mnade soîne progress
with thse Bill, and askced leave f0 sit agalin.
GRAIN ACT AMEND-MENT
BILL.
CDMMONS AMENDMENTS CONCURRED

MANITOBA

IN.

A message w-ns xeceivcd fromn thse House
0, Commons refurning Bibl (ZZ) Au Aýct to
amend the Manifoba Grain Act..
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTAithougs I thouglit thc measure as It lef t
fisc Senafe was quite as good as it cou Id
le..- made, I do nof feci disposcd at this
stage of flic session f0 dispute flie amendmuents ma de lv tlic Commoas, and 1 mnove
fliaf they bie concurrcd lu.
Hon. 3fNr. PERLEY-Whaut arc flic nmndmnents?

Hou. 3fr. YOUNG-There are~ only f wo
One is makbng
important ameudments.
Iii thse p)rolvi
WVinnipeg an order point.
sions whicli tliey made in th flilouse Of
Hi. 31r. WATSON mnoved thiat fthe coin- Commons for making Winnipeg an order
iiiittee ise iiud rep)ort progress, ammd ask point, tbcy wvcnt furtiser flan w-as pî-oposed
beave to sit again at tise next sitting of the in flic Senate, and 1 thinik iu flic proper
Ilous-L
direction, in providing for flic adjustmcnf
Holu. '-\r. FERGUSON-Wliaf is tie ob- of freigist rates, and aiso giving a longer
Is it to give furtlier tise lu whidis a shipper mny take advaniject of this motion?
as
timie to fthc leader of tihe House to cousider fage of fhis àidjusfîncnt of freiglif rates
lietwcen flic initial and tise terminal
thec situation and amieudmients; if so, I feel
like supporfing tlhe motion, but at fisis vcry points. Tliaf was aui ameadment numberof imuporlate pcriod of thse session, if tisat is miot tu)e cd 99C. The next amenidment
with it tance is a radical deparfure pcrliaps, by
object. w-e had better get tissougs
.fhecflouse of Cossons, lu our liandling of
ât once.
lin. si,, M&iCKENZIE BOWELL.

JULY 17, 1908

14
1649

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-We bave given this
grain at terminal points uy permitting of
Bill a good deal of consideration, flot only
speciai bianiag under certain conditions.
Conferences
the Gommons.
Leave to, do s0 must be obtained from bere but ln
bave been held and averybody interested iu
the warebouse commissioner. It la limlted
flot oniy the deaiers but
ln Its operation from tbe 15th December to the grain. trade,
the rairoads, bave been represented and
the lst September lu the following year.
to this Bill. 1 advocated
That Is, no speclal bluning Is ailowed up wve ail agreed
the establlshlng of the order point, but 1
to tbe 15th December.
It bas
had to -withdraw the motion here.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Why Is tbat?
been inserted by the Commons, and, pracHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- tically, everythlng we want bas been put
To prevent congestion.
ln and I tbink we bad better pass it as It
reason assigned stands.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The
by tbose wbo are discussing this matter
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I am~
wvas that lu the event of a congestion be- flot golng to objeet to the adoption of the
cause the special binning of grain must ameadments now, for the reason that those
bave the effet, If indulged la extensively, wbo are more deeply interested and know
of iimiting- our terminal elevators' capa- more about it than I do, are satistled witb
city, the special binaing clause gives power
the Bill. Tbe ameadinents proposed and
to the wareluouse cominissioner to grant
rejected in this House have beau adopted
permission to specially bin to the sealn tbe Commouis by a considerabie majority,
hourd in our terminal and transfer elavaand the hon. 'Minister of Trade and Conitors, and as a consequance the impairunent
merce stated a few montbs ugo tbat nt
of the usefulness of a terminal would he
this late period of tbe session lie was flot
the resuit. It w-ould he dungerons to have
going to object, tbough the Bill was of bis
permission grunted during the rnsh season
own creation and passed by him tbrougb
which must necessarily occur hefore the
this House. Tbe constant reference to the
close of navigation. Hence the restriction.
tact that wve shoul d iiot discuss these meaI caniiot say offhand bow far the effect
should not eonsider thein
It wil sures, and tbat xve
of the special binuing whll reacb.
as we otherwise would on account of the
lessea the usefuiness of the terminal eielateness of tbe session, is anotber strong
vators, and lessen the average quality of
reason w-by ail sucli amndments, brouglit
tbe grain iu tbe standard grades, because ln at this late stage of the session sbouid
If special binuing la induiged in to any
ha objected to.
extent, it must bave that effect. And %vbeThe motion -%as agread to.
ther tbat Nwll produce good resuits or bad
resuits, time ouly will tell. There la anBILL INTRODUCED.
other feature wbich I desire to point out
to tbe minister; that sbould it be granted,
Bill (212) An Act to amend the Criaulual
thera are not sufficient bins la our terminal Code, and to rapeal section 415 of tbe Railand transfer elevators to furaishi every one way Aet.-(H-oi. ',%r. Scott.)
wvho applied. You could not treat ail applicants alika. Thera is a danger of thiat,
INSPECTION AND SALES ACT AM-NENDespecially. possibiy ut NVast St. Johin. Thue
MENT BILL.
opening of the spaciai binning season is
December: the first affect w'ould be feit iii
A message wvas received froin the House
West St. John, on tbe ail rail cars. I draw of Commons with Bill (CCC) An Act to
the attention of tbe minister to this tact, amend tbe Inspection and Sales Act as
In order tbat he may flot find himsehf lu the regards grain, witb amendinents.
position of baving to refuse the, privilege
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The amencdments have
to some after baving grantad It to others.
with the
is aiso tbe danger of lessening tbe beau made aftr a conference
There
varions lnterests, and thare is no serions
However,
average quality of the grain.
as it left this
I am offering no objection to the umend- departure from the Bill
House witb tbe exception of providing aaments.

1650

SENATE

1650

SENATE

ditional grades in law which have been
used ln practice.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wich were refused
here.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG--No.
The motions
made here did flot by any manner of means
agree with the amendments of the House
of Commons.

Hlon. Mr. LANDRY-I oppose that.
It
is asking this House f0 pronounce ltself in
a different way, on a question on whicb It
lias already given Its opinion.
We have
already settled the question, and the Commons are trying f0 have us give a diff erent opinion now from the one already
given. I think the Bill is out of order.

Hon. -Mr. FERGUSON-This is attemptHon. Mr. LOUGH3EED)-Is my hon.
ing f0 amend a private Bill by a Bill of
friend froin Kiflarney satisfied with the
which no notice hias been given.
It ls not
amendments?
a public 'Bill, and there can be no proceedHon. Mr. YOUNG-I would not like to ings behlnd It: to warrant Its production.
say that, but I think tbey are in the right
Hon. Mr. POWER-It is altogefber irredirection.
gular.
It is a private Bill with no petiThe motion was agreed f0.
tion.
Lt refers f0 a Bill of this session
which is not yet assented to.
DOM-NINION GUARANTEE CO'MPANY
BILL.
Hon. Mr. BAKER-I ar nfot at ail inThe Commons could
A message was recelved from the House terested ia the Bill.
have made ameadments that miglit have
of Commons with Bill (211) An Act t0
amend the Act of the present session en- been accepted by us, but instead of doing
titled an Act respecting the Dominion Gua- that fhey determined, ln the profundity of
their wisdom, f0 give us a new Bill. I do
rantee Company, Ilmited.
not see any precedent for it in the law or
Hon. Mr. BAKER-I had charge of a practice of parliament;
but I saîd I had no
Bill of this name whlch passed the Senobjection f0 looking after It in the ýSenate.
ate, but was flot sanctioned. I understand It Is rather an anomalous proceeding f0
this is a Bill to amend that Bill.
amend a Bill which bas flot yet received
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want f0 k-now if the royal sanction.
the Bill which this purports to amend bas
The SPEAKER-There are three quesbecome law?
fions to be determined whîchi I connot: deHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thc termine af this stage.
The firsf is, is this
Bill passed this baouse, and was ameaded a private Bill or a public Bill?
If if is
in the lower House. The amendments were a private Bill, la it presented under the
sent here. A resolution was moved re- notices governing such Bis, and could it
fusing concurrence ln the amendments. be?
If If is a public Bill can a public Bill
The House of Commons, as I understand be presented f0 amend a private Bill, and
if, have accepted the Bill as it was sent t0 could if be presented when the Bill it seeks
tbem with their amendiments flot concurred to amend bas no valid existence, mnasin. They adopted it and now they intro- much as if bas flot yef received the royal
duce another Bill to amend that Bill.
sanction?
Under the circunistances, I
Hon. Mr. BAKER-The oiject is f0 ac- would ask that the -Bill be either laid on
complish la part what was sought f0 be the table or that if be put down for second
accomplished by the amendments made ln reading at the next sitting of the Huse.
the Commons to w-.ich tbe Senate refused
Hon. lMr. POWVER-If the Bill is flot prof0 agree.
The promoters of the Bill would
perly bere, how an it be put down. for secbe better pleased if they had the Bill as
passed by the Senate; but they have agreed ond reading?.
to accept it as modifled in this unusual
The SPEAKER-I arn not asking for a
way. I believe it would be only an act second reading, but merely f0 let if lie on
of good faith, to concur la this.
the table.
I do not know if there is a
Hon. Mr. 'YOUNG.

JULY 17, 1908

1651

The Commons may have amending it, and chang-ing the word 'Act'
petition for it.
proceeded on the notices for the preceding into ' Bill,' or'passing it as it is witb the
understanding that it ivili be only sanctionBill.
ed after the previous Bll lias been sancHon. M1r. LANDRY-Tbere is no report tloned?
on the standing orders.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbere is a danger
BILLS INTRODUCED.
tbat It miglit be sanctioned befome. I tbink
Bill (209) An Act to amend tbe Canada tbls Bull Is nlot In order.
Shipplng Act.--(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
The SPEAKER-It is undoubtedly not In
Bill (109) An Act to authorize a bounty order, unless ail the mules le suspended.
to volunteers wbo served the Crown in
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I object.
South 'Africa.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
HMon. -Mr. BAKER-I inove that ail rules
The Senate adjourned untîl 3 o'clock p.m.
*be suspended, so far as tbey relate to tbis
Bill, and tînt biaving been consented to-

SECOND SITTING.

The ,SPEAKER took.the Chair at Tbree
Prayers and routine proceedings.
DOMINION GUARANTEE COMPANY
BILL.
REJECTED.
Tbe SPEAKER-The Senate was wltbout Information as to the procedure followed on a Bill wbicb a message from the
House of Commons transmitted to us entitled 'Au Act respecting the Dominion
The bon.
Guarantee Company, Limited.'
senator from Bedford stated the understanding wbicb had been arrived at, but did
not know what bad takea place In tbe ComThis private Bill was introduced
mons.
on the demand of the Finance Departrnent,
as a private Bill, to amend the private Bill,
wbicbi thougli passed by both Houses of
parliament has not yet been sanctioned,
by suspending ail ruIes in the House of
Commons as to notices, petition, deposit,
.&c., in order to safeguard wbat the Finance
Department tbought to be the public interest, after an understanding witb tbe proinoters of the original Bill already passed,
but wbich bas not yet become an tAct of
The question for the Senate
parliament.
to decide is, If they will llkewise suspend
ail rules. If tbat were done, we would be
facing tbis difficulty : that tbis Bill undertakes to amend an Act wbicb bas flot yet
been sanctioned by His Excehlency'tlie GovCould tbe case be met by
ernor Genera].
iffl

Hlon. Mm. LANDRY-No, it is not consentLet
ed to, and I wil nlot consent to it.
the bon. gentleman give the regullar notice..
The SPEDAKER-Thc bon. gentleman can
give notice for another session.
Hon. làr. LÂ-NDRY-Tbat will not le ln
Three partîcular rules bave to be
order.
suspended in regard to Bis, but there are
mules that pertain to tus Bill othei tban
those tbmee.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It occurs to me tbat
It would be a very dangerous precedent for
us to pass this Bill now, and it aise occurs
to me tbat the difficulty could le met by
passing an amending Ac next session.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes, we shahl not be
long away.
Hou. Mr. POWER-There is no precedent
for amending a Bill whicb bas not yet le0f course, you can suspend
corne law.
ail notices, but that is aise a dangerous
It occurs te mie tint if tbis Bill
practice.
becomes an Act, it may le amended at the
next session, wbicbi will le only about
four mfontbs bence, I suppose.
The SPEAKER-I draw attention to tbe
fact that the principal responsiblty lies
witb the brandi of parliament that Initiated
this procedure. «Rules bave been suspended lu the otber House wltb a view to further the public interest: but If the House
decides to concur lu the course taken by
the Commons, it is witbin its own power.

1652

1652

SENATE

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I would feel like
straining a point, as far as it would lie possible to go, to meet any view of the hou.
gentleman fromn Bedford; but I really thiulc
that this would be askiug us to go too far.
The mile of parliament has been laid down
very often that you cannot nmend a private
Bill by a public Bill.
The SPEAKER-lt is a private Bill now.
Hon. '.%r. FERGUISON-If so, it bas not
been based upon a petition.
The SPEAKER-Because the mules were
suspended la tbe other House.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY--One of our rules
says that nîo mule concerning a petîtion can
lie suspended unlcss it is recomînended by
the Standing Orders Committee.

certain miles lie suspended in a general
wvay so far as thiey relate to Bis.
DELAY IN THE PUBLIC PRINT(NG
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
1. Has the Clerk of the Crown in Chancery,
in compliance with section 15 of chapter 6 of
the Revised Statutee of Canada, 1906, ordered
the immediate printing by the King's Printer
of ail the copies duly received of the electoral
iists for use at Dominion elections ?
2. When were the electoral lists actually in
for-ce thus transmitted to the King's Printer ?
3. When were they printed ?
4. Did the King'a Printer, immediately after
the printing of such lists, transmit 20 copies
tliereof to the niember representiag ecdi cocuty of the Dominion, and 20 copies to each candidate defeated et the last elections?
5. If ail thèse obligations have iiot been fuifiled, is it hec-e the law lias been chaiîged?
(i. And if the law bas not been changed lîow
cn the infraction of it be justified or even
explained ?
7. la it the intention of the governinent to
see immediately that the law which govemuis
the matter shall be observed, and that copies
of the electoral lista actually in foi-ce shai,
without more delay, be sent to the persons
who have a right thereto P

Hon. Mr. BAKER-If tHe Senate is
unanimions, it has the power to suspend that
rule, and there Is this to lbe said of this
Bill: altbough lt is a private. Bill it is introduced at the instance of the Dcpartment of
Tbe Bill wns drafted liy the
Insurance.
Superintendent of Insumance himsehf, and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In reference to the
the object of lt is to limit the powers of voters' lists (questions 1 aud 2) I have the
the Guarantee Company ia mortg-aging its foffowing from the Clerk of the Crownv of
property, for the protection of the insured. Cbancery :
The Bihl is commendable as comîng f roni the
1. As soon as the lists of voters are
vigilant Superiatendent of Insurunce, but 1 received from the custodians, they are e'xsuggest that no great evil will probahhy nrnined and counted and are then forwarded
arisc before the next session of parliainent. to the King's Printer, la accordance witb
It was intenided'to get it tliroughi this ses- section 15 of the Dominion Elections Act,
sion of parliament, but it is impossible to and a receipt therefor is taken and tiled
secure thec suspension of thc mies. As the in this office.
promoter of thec Bill whîchi lias alrcady
2. Answered by above.
i)assed the Senate, I pledge m3-self, if ny
Tie renîainiug questions refer to tie
life is spared, f0 introduce a Bill anew, on King's Printer, and can be answered only
In the by hlm.
the exact lines of flua mensure.
mieantime I nsk that ail rides of thc Senate
In reply to thec third question, they are
lie suspcndcd nnd tInt if lie perindtted to transmitted ivicn they corne, and soîne are
Thcy
coming every mionth of the year.
pass during the present session.
are not printed. It costs ncarly $50,000 to
The SPEAKER-Tîere is a rule whieî print the lista, and they are only prinitcd
says thnt Bis coming from the House of on the occasion of a by-el ection or on tic
Comînons, wlien not precedcd liy petition, eve of n general election.
Question 4 is
go, as a matter of course, to tic Standing answcred by the reply to No. 3. The reply
Committee on Standing Orders, and as fhis
to the fifth question is, No, the law is not
mule la not suspcnded, if w-ill go f0 the Coin- changcd.
In reply to the sixtb question,
lnittec on Standing Orders.
there was no election. It would be waste,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tlie motion of tic liecause the lists are cbangcd monthly. It
hou. Secrctary of State was special. that is very liard to have tbern printcd, evecn for
The SPEAI<ER.

JULY 17, 1908

1653

JULY 17, 1908

165~3

a general elections, because, under the law,
the lists to, be used are the lists ln existence
provided more than 60 days had eiapsed between the nomination and the election. We
often have to throw the iists -af ter they
are prlnted into the 'waste-paper basket
When
because they corne la. lrreguiarly.
the government controlied the lists, they
could do as they iiked. The reply to, the
seventh question la:- Not when there is
. more pressing business. The capacity of
thse Printing Bureau la flot equal to the
demanda made upon It now. The printIng
of the departments and that of a long session of parliament render lt quite impossible Îo perform ail the work at the Bureau.
Iu reference to the appendix that the
hon, gentleman asaied about, I am. toid that
they have the type of eappleindies.- No. 1 ani
No. 2, iv'llb seven huudred andi flfty piages
of volume 2. There are 141 haîf-tone plates
la the report. The work la of a very technical nature. It will be finlshed lu about
threc weeks.
I also made inquiry about a much more
a(rnous charge, that tihe Bureau was responcible for the omission of furnishing the
Mannial. I have a memno from the Acting
King's Printer whieh rends as follows:

,Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-I suppose the one
hîm<lred copies he refera to weie the English edition.
N-on. Mr. SCOTT-No, the French edfThe rules make Up 80, and the ballion.

ance of the translation bas yet to go to
th-e Bureau, so you can see thse Bureau la
flot; to blame after ail.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I suppose the pninter did n6t find tise balance, because it was
sent.
Hou. Mfr. SCOTT-Oh, no.
wlthin thse bounda of possibllity.

It la flot
We bad

a grent deal of trouble, as I explained before, with thse trauslators of tise Frenchs
They
edition of thse llevised Statutes.
took a k-ink into their beads that the translation made la 18() was not a good translation, and tbey persisted ln trying to force
on tise Bureau n new translation of tise
British Norths Amenîca Act which tise
Bureau very properly refused to accept.
Dr. Dawson sid it w-as perfectly mous-

trous, after tise Frenchs copy hiad been la
use nearly 40 years, tîxat it should be ail
changed, sud it wvas witis very great difficulty that the transiators gave wny.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Refenring to thse
electonal liats, tise law says tint tbey shall
be made every year.

Ottawa, July 17, 1908.
In the Sonate the Hon. Mfr. Landry referred
to the French translation of documents. Upon
Hon. 1fr. SCOTT-As I said before, it is
looking up the proceediaga of the Senate 1
fin(! that Mr. Landrv calied attention to the quite impossible to, do ItL
Tise cnpacity of
French translation of the following reports~t
thse Bureau is not sufficient.
The Civil Service Coxnîission.
As before stated, copy came inl on the lst of
Hlon. Mr. LANDRY-The law has not
May and on the 29th of May we had but tive

signatures of copy of translation out of nine- been observed.
teen. Nothiag furtiser came in until July
whea we received eight more signatures rnakHon. 1fr. SCOTT-No, it bas--not been.
ing in ail thirteen. There are yet six signatures of tihe translation to corne in ini order
Hton. Mr. LANDRY--Then tise law should
to comploe this work, so we are still waiting
for copy of this report.
be auiended, because thse law provides that
House of Commons Journais, French.
On the 3rd of .Iuly 1 reported to you with those lists slould be prepared and thse type
respect te the journals of the House of Coin- k-cpt standing, and every year when a new
mons and nsy statemejit was that the Bureau
they have to
was in receipt cf translation of the journals als cornes la tise only thing
That is w-bat thse lawv
up to December l3th, 1906, îuaking 65 pages do is to correct tiser.
out of a total of 676 pages. No further trans- says.
lation bas been received at the Bureau since
that ime.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-IL is a good deal

French Edition of the Senate Manual.
On Noveînber 2*2nd, 1906, .%e printed olie cheaper and casier to commence anew thani
hundred copies of the rules of the Manual for to take the forumer lista, because thse changes
the use of the Senate. The rules make eighty in nine-tenths of thse electoral districts of
pages and a companison with the English copy
goes to ehow thait there aTe two hundrd and Canada are so serlous eveny year that the
thirty-two pages of translation of this Manuai older lista are no longer of use.
If the
yet to, corne to the Bureau, if it is to corne.

SENATE

-1654

Hon. NIr. LOUGHEED-I refer to secsuggestion of the hou. gentleman were
taken, It would simply mean an absolute tion 42.
waste of $50,000 a year, because the lists
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I could flot tell the
have to be burned; there is no space to
lien. gentleman whether it was or was flot,
hold themn.
only in a general way; there was a consoliHon. Mr. LANDRY-Then wby flot dation hast year. They have had nnother
change the law? I amrn ot saying It should year's experience. I do not know whetber
be done lmmediately, but under the law as that section was la or flot.
It exlsts every representative of a county
Hon. lir. LOUGHEED-Could the hon.
and every defeated candidate shiould have
20 éop les of the list as soon as 'tbey are gentleman say nt whose Instance this change
That requirernent of the law has w-as made la section 42 frorn the original
printed.
I asi, why do Act and the word 'public' stricicen ont
flot been complied. with.
we flot get our lists iminediately, and 1 amn
Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-I nover hoard.
told thiere 15 too mucli work ia the Bureau.
The law bas been infringed with the cogHon. '.fr. LOUGHEED-Was kt made at
nizance of the g-overnment.
the instance of any province or at the instance of this goveramoat?
Hon. '.fr. SCOTT-Ttie governent must
Tbey do not
exercise common senise.
lon. 3fr. SCOTT-I know notbing nt ll
spend $50,O priating lists to malze a bon- about it. I did flot know lioNv the original
fire of them.
Act xvas. Once I took part la the settie-,
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-How can we tell ment and considorod It settled, I tbougbt
tiiat on the eve of au election we shall get It 'was buriod forever.
the list?
rn
lion.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Because the w'hole
force Is turned on, and an overfiow Is sent
to Toronto and Montreal and officiais have
to go thiere to be preseat at the printing
where there is an office that lias the
capacity.

Hon. Mfr. uMITOIIELIL-W7hen
law corne into force?

did that

Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-Eleven years ago.
DOMINION LANDS ACT AMEýiND.\IZNT
BILL.
Hon.
of Bill
arnend
of the

friond tbought that the school question was
dead and that the obsequies had been perforrned, it seorns to me very undesirable
that thore should have been n resurrection. I find tbis Bill wbea introduced into
the Couinions at the ]ast session of parliament had tbe word 'public' in section 42,
and w-as practically a reprint of the exist-

ing law. -I find that during the session of
that parlianient-at least I arn iuformed 011
very reliable authority-that afttr the Bill
had lmssed
its
committee
stage
the
Bis were quietly gathered up, and a reprint was made last session leaving out
the vvord *public.'
Wo have before us
this session w-bat I migbt terni a mutiîated

THIRD READING.
Mr SCOTT inoved the third reading
(1S1) An Act to consolidate and section. I take exception to the rnisîeadthe Acts respecting the public lands ing character of the note attached to secDorninion.
tion 42, and I wouhd direct the attention of

Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Can my hon.
friend say whetber this Bill before us is a
reprint of the Bill whicbl the Hlouse of Coinmons had before i hast session of parliament?

bon. gentlemen to it. Hon. members w-'ll
have in tboir possession tbe Bill witb tbe
annotations to each section, and thîs expîanatory note follows section 42:
This provision is the same as in the present
laiv, except that the words ' or territory ' had

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-It does flot coniforrni been struck out, as the territory referred to
altogether,

but the whole subject was be-

fore the 1-louse of Commnons.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT.

haq been divided into the new provinces of
Saskatchewan and Alberta, and there are no
school lands beyond.

JULY 17, 1908
JLLLY
.The word 'public' bas been strickien out,
and no mention bas been made la this expianatory note of that particular and Important word baving been eliminated. The
explanatory -note, wbether lntentionaliy or
otberwise, is certainiy rnisleading, and had
the effect o! misleadlng tbe members of
the Commons when this question was Up
for consideration. Owing to this the omission was not dlscovered. I take exception
to tbe omission of tbe words
'public
scbools' and the insertion la lieu tbereof
1 might point ont
of the word 'schools.'
that as far back as 1872, the government
o! Canada appropriated for educational purposes the lands referred to in this Bill,
namiely two sections la ecl
township
tbrougbout ivhat wns then Manitoba and
the Northwest Territories, and provided
that the proceeds of the sales sbouid. be
applied for educational purposes. ln lb.9
the governuient of Canada specificaiiy provided that the proceeds sbould oniy be
used towards the support
of 'public
schools therein,' and from tbat day down
to the present, tbis bas been the iaw.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (MlddIesex)-Was that
a variation of the original Act?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The original Act
of 1872 provided that the funds should be
applied nccording to regulations of the Governor in Council; but in 1879 parliament
specifically enacted that these funds should
be applied towards the support of public
schools. From then down to the present, altbougli there bave been several
revîsions of the Act, and many amendments thereof, the law bas remained as it
is to-day upon the statute-book. There are
three provinces particuiarly iaterested in
the appropriation and distribution of this
fuud, nanieiy the provinces of Manitoba,
Saskatcihewan and Alberta, and It is now
proposed to change the character of the
terms of the trust, and to divert those
moneys froim the trust whîch wvas then
made by the government of Canada and
contlnued from that time down, so as to
permit of a very mucb wider apPlication
than, during those 30 years, was Intended
by parlament. Prom the passage of the
Act until now, in fact public schools have
lncluded separate schools tbroughout tbese

1655

1655
17, 1908
provinces. No matter whetber they were
Protestant, separate scbools or Cathoic
separate sehools, ail those schools participated ln a proportionate division of the
fund. There bas neyer been nny dispute
upon that question,. and I challenge hon.
gentijemen to point out wherein there bas
been any difference of opinion, or any difficulty created by reason o? the distribution
of these funds among ail the classes of
ehools that were estabished by law. When
tbe Âutonomy Bill came into force, It was
provided that ail the rights of separate
schools under the ordlnancés whicbi were
ther ln force should be preserved in their
ertircty.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middiesex)-But tbere
were no separate schoois.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes, there were
sC1pa'i-zte scbools then, and there are separate schools to-day.
Parliament iu 1905
piovided under section 17 of the Antonomy
Act-I arn referring now to Saskatcbewan
17. NothinR in any such law (the British
North Âmerica Act) shall prejudicially affect
any right or privilege with respect to separate
schools which any class of persons have at the
date of the passing of thie Act under the terms
of chapters 29 and 30 of the ordinances of the
Northwest territories passed in the year 1901
or wîth respect to religions in:struction in any
public or separate school as provided for in
the said ordinances.
2. In the appropriation by the legisiature or
distribution by the goverament of the province
of any money for the support of schools organized and carried on in accordance with the
said chapter 49 or sny Act passed in amendment thereof, or in substitution therefor, there
shall be no discrimination against schools of
any class deecribed in the said chapter 29.
Notwltbstanding the authority of those provinces to pass educationai ordinances, the
ordinance referred to in the Act w'hich 1
have just rend is the ordinance lu force todny, nnd under .whicb this distribution o!
înoney is made; consequently it cannot be
said that any discrimination takes place
wlth reference to the distribution of tbis
fund.
It is recognized that this fund is
dîstributable anongst the schools wbich
were then estnblshed.
Consequently the
rigbits of Catholica and Protestants bave
been guarded by this parilament as to the
appropriation and distribution of those
moneys.
Siace 1872 those school lands
bave been set apart for educational pur-

SENATE

1656

placed, and the door thrownl open for the
distribution of tfuis fund aniong- other kinds
of sebools that ma1y hereafter be organized
ln the provinces. I desire to point out to
Hon. Mr. ROSS ÇMýiddleex)-I under- hon, «gentlemen wberein possible. miischief
stood my hon. f riend to say that all the may arise under the proposed aniendinent.
schools of the Nortbiwest were public It will permit of denominationni schools bescitools.
ing- established by the provinces at the lnposes, subject to the specitic provisions in
the Act 0f 1879 and have remained so down
to the present tinme.

Hon. 'Mr. LOUGIIEED-Yes.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlescx)-And I see In
iection 17 whichi the lion, gentleman quoted
the word 'Public' for 'public or separate
schools.'
Ain 1 to untlerstand there are

stance of the many denominations that are
scattered throughout those three provinces.
It wlll permit of racial schools belng estabIished at the Instance of the mna nationalities wbi:ch are scattered tlirougbout those
province..
sno h
esr
f ala

ment, nor of the western people, itor of
those tliree provinces, that there should be
Hon.Mr.LOUGEEDTheyareallany machinery placed upon the statutebook, by which pressure and importuniity
oui Mrho. LUHE-b3
be brouglit to bear upon tiiese legispubli schols.shonld
latures to establish scliools other titan tiiose
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-No, no0.
schools whMch are at present recognizeil and
Catholies and Protese liasED- sayn yores. bTue autîiorized by law.
otine Mr.
tants have to-day their sehools, recognizedI
bforh
rinamne ofiCanaba bnee crnvirmed
~ o b aw, enjoying all the privileges and ad~
~ rvso
~
parliament ~
0fCndmks
separate schiools as well as public sehools; vantages whiclî this fund clin possihir give
but that is siniply a (lesignatioli.
Tbey tiien; but It is not desirable titat other
are ail, iii law, and so treated as public nationalities should join together withinthie
achlools.
It makes provision for a kiuder- different electoral districts, sny, of a progarten school as a public scheol.
vince, aud by coînhineci pressure say to a
separate schools !i
ns public scbools?

the Nortlnvest as well

legislature or governinent, ' Lu the event of
your establishing- for us a racial scitool rewvicî~e
bepresenting the nationality to
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEEI) There is no dif- long. and distributin1g this pulblie ruoiey
ainongst Our educational institutions. we
ference.
shial -ive you Our approval anti support.'
franoettt
Honi. Mr. RO'SS (Middlesex)--Or !i prac-Ltcîiobeotud
tcnobccrtffefoamoetht
tice?
a condition of affairs suecb as tuat is. deIs il desirahîle that the iîuany fania
LOUGHEE'!-Or in practice. sirable.
Holu. M-Nr.
They are nil regulated by the liepartnient tical religions organizations NvIiich exist
of Education. and are ail establ islîed by the thronghout tHie lengtli and breadth of that
lsaine educatiOlnal statute, and are likewise " sucounitry slioild exercise tii
it desinih- tîxat
entitled to a proportionate and canal dis- filnelce zind po-%er ?Is
Thoughl tlîosc organizations shîould, by a comibinatribution of hile public mloncys.
' We wnill giv,one sehlool be termed a public school. and tioti, Qay to a goverjument
another a separatte school and anoti ier a yon our support if yon distribuhe this fund
J
kindergarten sehool, vet they are ail publie amlongst our educatiolnal institution.--.,
scbools under the lnw. That %vill uiot be say, no. There are two great divisionîs Ii
That bas been establislied thils country, Roman Catbolics and Protescontroverted.
Ili practice, and it lias been observed inlost ta uts, that are recogilized and treated alike
Wo find a Bill before us lu whîch by lawv, and it ia iiot desirable that any
strictir.
it Is proposed, wîthout the wisli of the pro- fuirthier division slioluld be made or wvalls
eshabl:slied. I say inost einphatically Iliat
vinces being ascertajîîed or expressed, tat
thîs very important fuîîd should be diverted w-ben those lands were.set spart by lthe
froni the chiannels lu whirh lt was f1rsth goveramient for the educational piirposes
lHon. Mr. ROSS (Mîiddlesex)--What
difference in practice?

Hon.

M.LOUGHEED.

is the

JULY 17, 1908
of that western country, it wvas neyer
contemplnted that that fund sbould be
subjeet to any furthier distribution than
the applic *ation whidli was tlien proLet mue point this out to lion.
vided.
gentlemen-and I ask consideration of this
proposition-lt was lntended that tbose
lands should be for the endowment of our
common schools lncluding High Schools,
but flot for the endowment of tlie higlier
educational Institutions, [t is not desirable that this fund sliou]d be distributed
for any other purposes than for common
sehools. I would lpo:nit out to my lion.
frilend that tînt is another reason wliy the
term 'public schools' was used la the
Act in contradistinction to the Iiglher educational Institutions which miiglit demand
fi om the goverîiment a distribution of tîmis
fund nt any future time; Is tlîis parliament justified at this tinue, after this
trust lias been upon the statute-books
for nearly 30 years, in saying: 'We
shall divert thnt trust from the application to which it should be made

the word 'scliools' the word 'public' so
as to read 'publie schools' as now ln the
present law respecting Dominion lands.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I bad always been
under the Impression that the bon, gentleman rose superior to religious prejudices,
and represented the people of the Northwest Irrespective of the denominatioîî to
whidh they belong, but It is qulte evident
from the speech made by hlm this xnorning,
and fromn tbe references made last ngr
that lie now desires to introduce ln the teror
ritories an agitation for the abolutiii 0fý
rerarate schools.

Hon. Mr. LOUG;HEED-I înnist take exle
ception to iny lion. friend's remnark.
las no riglit to impute motivez. I raise
Ille point of ortier, tliat nîy lion. friend lias
I
neý riglit to accuse nixe oif tliils umotive.
aippeal to hon, gentlemen In tlîis House if
any observations 1 have aide were of sucli
.Iu inflammatory character as to wa' ant
t'le observations of the bon. Sec:vhirv (f
State. He lias nlo right to asperse mle %vith
towards the support of comimon scliools, miotives of tÉuis na9tUre.
to the support of those higlier educational
I1.ni. Mr. SCOTT-I decline -to witlîdraw
Institution wlidh are beginning to become
any expression.
numerous.' I am diappointed tliat my
hon.
friend represeating the government la iiiHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I maise the questroducing this Bill, la making sudh an fintion of order.
portant departure froxu fixe law 'uvhieli,
tLrough its hein.- 30 years on tlîe statuteleei'
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I did not
books lias crystallized itself into a sacred
i uthe lu*.gentlemian.
trust, yet never deemed it of sufficient liHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Well, 1 shlai1 -o
portance to give to parliameut the reasons
Aîî-erfere wiNth xliv lion. friend as to stop
for this important change. No explanation
Las been given. No vindication lias been Liai il, the nîalting of tliese remarks resouglit to lie made by the governinent, 0f garding mîy motives.
-tlis diversion of a miost important fund,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think I have a riglit
and we are left to simply speculate as te te dri
<<d;cv os
the object of titis change. I tlîereforc subon. mieiuber lias
liEAE-N
The
mit to titis House that these words 'public
on the lips of another lion.
sehools' shiould be restored, so fliat luis a r1,tlt to piir
g-etlein a statenient whîchi lie disclainis
in its hiltrust wlîieh lias reiied
lîxvin, nmade, or if hie does sd erroneously,
uplon our
tegrit'y
for a generatioxi
Le î.îu st accept the word of tixe lion. genstatute-book, and bas been applied w-ltl
tl<'inan that lie did not use tlie expression;
the utmost satisfaction amongst the eduthe province of the
cational Institutions of that western couin- lixt it is flot within
chair to prevent a speaker frorn drawlng
try. to tlîe unity and lixrmony of ail.
froin a speech.
I therefore inove conclusions or deductions
should flot lie disturbed.
tîxat this Bill lie flot-now rend a third time,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-r miay sny, ln the first
but that ut bie nmended by restoriug to sec- place, .tliat
I was inot aware wliether the
tion 42 la the sixth uine thereof. before word 'public' was ln tlie Act or not.
1

1658
SENATE

165S

amn awnre it has been in the Act before
the establishmeat of separate schools ia the
Northwest, by the government off wbieh I
was a member some 30 odd years ago. It
wvas made very plain then bow those lands
were to be distributed; -wbether the word
'public' was or was flot there ivas a matter off perfect indifference. If it was considered that any point could be made off it,
It could have been removed many years
ago. I was flot aware it wns there to-day.
The effeet off tbe boa. gentleman's proposition wvould be a declaration by thi's parliament tbat the separate scbools were not
to sbare in the distribution of moneys amising from the sale off those lands. WVbolly
ai)art fromi the Aet passed la the '70*s, the
constitution &f Alberta and the constitun w-as mnade very
t*;on of Sakth
ui.Clause 17 reads:
-Nothing ia any such law shall prejudiciaily
jpffect any right or privilege with respect to
separate schools which any class of persons
have at the date of the passing of this Act
under the terms of chapter 29 and 30 of the
ordinances of the Northwest territories passed
in the year 1901 or with respect to religious
instruction in any public or separate school
as provided for in the said ordinances.

H-on. Mr. SCOTT-If after ail those years
parliament should make a change and say
that the proceeds off those lands shall only
be applied to publie schools, it would be
most unwise. Separate schools do flot corne
under the denomination, because the hon.
gentleman himself spoke off them as separate sehools. Wby on eartb should we 110w
seek to raise n question in the NoTthwest
whicb is sure to create bitter feeling, sure
Why
to maise prejudices and animosity.
should the words ln the Bill1 be lnterfered
The lands belong to the Dominion.
with?
Tbey are public lands in a sense, but the
proceeds of those lands are to be distriIf you now debuted in a certain way.
liberately change the Act and state that in
the op)inion off this parlianient tbose moueys
should on]y be distributed among public
schools, you can easily raise a question
whetber the separate schools corne under
I bave no doubt if an
that denomination.
appeal wvent to the Privy Council they
would decide against separate schools, because tbey made a blunder on .the former
occasion, as they offten do in deciding questions, in thieir desire to, do what they consider best in the laterest of the Dominion.
If some one were to start proceedigs, and
the case should go to the Privy Couacil, I
have flot the slightest doubt that the Privy
Gouncil won]d .-Ive the decision again ns to
They have done so
the separate schools.
It is flot iii
before and would do it again.
the interest off the country that a question
off that kind should be started now for the
There
purpose off makiag an agitation.
are papers that would be g-lad to takie it
nil, because there are people whio would
like to abolishi the separate schools. 1 quite
This wis a kind of comappreciate that.
promise, but compromises are sometimies
W'e made compromises about tbe
broken.
school question before, and I bave known
tbem to be brolzen repeatedly.

It goes on to provide for the appropriaWhen this agitation first
tion of money.
arose, a compromise wvas made aad the
words I bave read are the resuit off tbat
In that compromise, separcompromise.
ste scbools are 'distinctly recognized, and
they are recog-nized by thp government of
the province because they maL-e a fair distribution between the separate schools and
There lias been no
the public schools.
complaint tbat I arn aware of. The 1iion,"y
is paid pro rata according to the attendance
at the scbools, in a very fair aad proper
way, and the law bas been so arranged that
tbey could interchange; Catholics may very
often attend Protestant schools, and Protestants attend Catbolic scbools, because
there is no interference with religion and
Hon. MNr. LANDRY-Wbere?
permission ls given after sebool bours for
SCOTT-It is too long te, go
Hon. M-Nr.
A
the teacbiag off religion in tbe schools.
tolerant spirit prevails there, and there bas into it now. Thiere neyer was a clearer law
been no disposition of recent years to dis- on the statute-book than la the case of Manitoba. My hion. friend knows very well that
turb ItL
wnen he voted on that question be stnted
lion. Mr. FERbGUSON-AIi those schools bis opinion to that effect, and yet the Privy
Counceil swept it aIl aside.
are public schools.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JULY l'à, 1908
Hon. Sir. MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
I amn surprised nt is tisat the hon. gentleman, holding tise views lie professes, assisted lu kiiling the proposition which we
made.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-N1\o, 1 did not, but 1
have always recognized ln my political life
thse d7octrine of expediency.
When you
cannot get ail you want, do tise best you
can.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do not know a
better representative of expediency than
iny hon. f rlend.
I-oni. )Ir. SCOTT-Tsere is thse conistitution of Alberta, ia wisici they recognize
separate schools.
If you atteumpt to put iii
tise word 'publie' scisools it wouid be takeil
as certifying finat it is tise opinion of thils
Cliamber that tise nioneys arising from tise
sale of the school lands shail be divided
among tise publie scisools of the country.
Tisat is wisat my hon. friend wouid like.
Tise next stage would be to challenge thse
separate sehools.

1659
15

me make tbis clear if I cau, for I have

looked into it too hurriedly to be sure tisat,
I wili be consecutive in my argument. Under section 13 of tise Alberta Act, It is provided tisat notising in tise Britishs Norths Amnerica Act shall prejudicinlly affect any right
or privilege witis respect to separate schools
wisicis any class of persons have at thse
date of the passing of this Act under thse
termns of the ordinances of thse Northwest
Territories. or wlth respect to, religions instruction ln any public or separate school as
provided for ln tise sald ordinances.
i-t
would appear to be perfectly clear that
that section referred to public and separate
schools; but iii tise distribution of tise
imoney wisat do we find ?
Ia tise appropriation of tise legisiature or
distribution by thse governrnent of thse province
of any mone3-s foir thse support of scisools organized and carried on, etc.
Tise word 'public'ý

or 'separaüe 1 is siot

mentioned, but tise general terni scisools Is
used, so that going back to thse corner stone,
to tise constitution of Alberta, you have tise
word à'sciools'1 wlsici you flnd repeated ln
clause 49- of tisis Bill. The clause rends:

Hon. 3fr. LOliGHEED-Are not tihe
42. Ail mnxeys fromi tme to time realized
sý-epara te schoois of Ontario and Quebec pub- froin tise sale of school lands shall be invested
ils securities of Canada to fori-n a school funld,
lic schoois?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No. At tise tirnie tise
constitution w-as gis-en first to tise Nor-tiswest Territories, w-e foilowed the description as we understood it in tisose days, and
it w-as passed by the parliainent of Canada
without a dissenting voice.
I sisould regret thierefore tisat the House would accept
tise proposition of tise hon, gentleman to
mnake it that those lands shouid bie sold and
used only for public scisool purposes.
Hon. 'Mr. ROSS8 (.Middlesex)-Whlen iuy
hon. f riend froin Calgary raised bis point
last nliglit, I munst confess I w-as slightly
shocked, as I tioughit tisere ivns some difficulty, tisat sorne dangerous issue w-as raised, and tisat possibiy there w-as some prenieditated purpose iii eliiniating tise word
'public ' f romn this clause.
In ]ooking more
closeiy at tise clause, and at tise constitution
of Alberta, I see that tise clau§e in tise Bill
is perfectly consistent with tise constitutions of thse two western provinces coinmonly known as thse Autonomy Bill.
Let

and tise interest arising therefrom, after deducting tise cost of management, shall le paid
annually to, tise government of tise province
witisin whicis suci lands are situate, towards
tise support of scisools organized and carried
on ir. accordance witis tise law of such province; and the moneys s0 paid shal lie distriPuted fer tisat purpose by tise said governînent
in sucis manner as it deemns expedient.

So tise termas for tise distribution of money
in clause 42 to wisich exception is taken, are
precisely tise saine as in tise constitution of
tise two provinces.
So tisat if you* cisoose
te maise a diffictity over tiss matter, you
canssot succeed, because you faîl back on
tise constitution and find tise exact words,
and lu fransing that constitution the terni
public scisools
was purposely omltted lu
order tisat tise question of separnte schools
mighlt be kept lu tise backgrounid, and If it
wvas doue for tisat purpose, it was done for
a meritorlous one.
It Is unfortunate that
ive lu Ontario have fougit so long over tise
question of public and sepamate scisools.
A sepas-ate scisool is a public scisool ln a
certain sense, not in tise sense tisat a Catsolic scisool la a public scisool in Alberta; but

SENATE

iGO

it is a publie schiool supported by taxes, and
to w-hich pupils are admnitted free as distingulshed from private scbools in whiclî
As 1 understand, ii
pupils are charged.
tile Northwest, sehools supported by Protestants, are precisely the same as schools
supported by Catholies because the taxes
are collected and distributed ia ail respects
If ail classes
ln the same way to boIth.
of sehools are public schools, then why use
the word 'public,' for sehools covers the
wbole ground, and in framing the Constitutional Act of Alberta the parliament of
Canada accepted that principle by elimuinating from the clause relating to the distribution of the inoney the word 'publice' and
'My honu. friend
cailed them ill schools?
raises a difficulty, an>d the only one whicbi
confronts me as to schools existing nI the
timie the Autonoiny Bill w-as passed. Thiere
can be noe doubt tat ail classes of schools
then established, wli share eqnally ln this
The distribution, according to the
f und.
Act and the Land Bill, mnust be pro rata
to aIl classes of schîools, according to aItendance. There is no discrimination, but
the difficulty iy hion. friend raises is Ibis;
possibly in the ucear future the governiment
of that province inighit inove te do aw-ay
MWhat
witlh separate and racial schools.
riglit have we te interfere wvith the autonomuy of Ilie provinces?
flon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Mly ains)er is
this: that 301 years ago a fiînd waîs estahlisbied for the purpose of mlainitainling those
sclools andi we have no riglit aiiv moi-e
than a trugtee N-ould bave. te depart front
the ter-ms of the trust.
Hon. MNIr BEIQUE-I have the original
statuite of 1872, undfer whichl certain seclionls l every tow'nship te be surveycd
sboul be set aside for the maini tenanlce of
scîools, anid the fuind created front the sale
of sncbi lands wvas te be devoted to the
The words iii the
niaiiilenanic of scliools.
section aire '.and shall set apa1rt anti publisli
the saille sehool lands by notice la the
*Cani-idlz Gazette."
NvIS
LOUGHEED-Tbat
Mr.
Hon.
changed lut 1879 as I bave alrcady polinîed
lut the Consolidation Act lat 1879,
out.
under subsection à of section 23i the fund
Hii:.

M-Nr.ROS\

(iddle-e'ffi

wvas to be appiied and iimiîed to-wards the
support of public scboois therein, and tlîat
bias remalned the iaw down te tlic prescrnt
time wlthout arnendmnent.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (M'ýiddlesex)-There was
a trust establisbed for education, and the
quolalion te w'hicb the bon. senator from
De Salaberry bas referred speaks of it
as a scbool f und, not as a public sébool
fund. The oniy difflculty that înay arise
As
is the one that I have pointed out.
the iaw stands now, there is no possibiiity tbat separate scbools, w-hctber they
are for Romnan Catholies or for Protestants,
or for anybody else, as long as tbcy ai-e
conducted la conforiuity %vith tbe -iaw%--s
of the province, wl fail to share; they
iust share. pro rata. lit tbe distribution of
this fund. But tbe diffiicuity which îny hion.
one,
out is a possible
friend pointed
nainely, that hli the future, denoininationial
schools imay be estahlished by the legisMNy answcr is
latures of the provinces.
that the provinces bave a riglit te estabave
We
blish denominationai schools.
thait right la the province of Ontario. Are
w-e to sit biere ns outsiders of Ihese provinces and legisiate in regard to educatien, wben the Britisli North Ainorica Act
places edlucation, xvitb a sliglît reservation,
WVas not
exclusively under the provinces?
the great objection taken to the Auitonoiny
Bill, thal the provinces wvere not entîreiy
free? A good many people in tiiose eniiglitened provinces tlîouglît thal the Atutonoiny Bis wvere a restraint on the w'iIl of
tue people. If that be the case, the lion.
genitleman, goes furtiier. and proposes to
put a furtiier resîrailît on thean. He says
voun must îlot establîsi 'elioals for I lukiobors nor denoininatiouial schîools, for any
that
because
deîîoiination yon clioose,
m-ouid be a diversionî of the trust. If tue
provinces are to be fi-ce iii (leiing witii
thieir ow'n educatiouial inatters. as 1 tiiik
tbey ougbt to be, tiien tiîey shîould lic ail
liberty, so far as m-e are concerne,,, to
cshablish sticb sehools as tlîey sec fit. The
bon. gentleman says it is possible thiat
some agitator înay arise-I liope lic his
iîot arisen already-who will suggest Ibis
impropriety w-ith a view to establish lîîmself in the political anajority and clilnb int

JULY 17, 1908

power over the ruin of sonie great educational principle.
Can we not trust the
people of the west to guard theniselves
agalnst interiopers, against those wbo will
flot enter the door, but clinib lu at the windows, and lay sacreliglous bands on the
sacred principle of free and undenoininational education? Can we not» trust theni
to be the guardians of tbeir own Ionour
and their own schools ? I arn willing to,
trust tbem, and I hope this House Is willlng to trust them. My hon. friend bas made
one other point to wbich sonie Importance
rnay be attacbed, and yet It vanishes on a
littie dloser examination. That point %was
that this grant, under the terra 'sebools,'
may Include high schools. Supposing- it
does, who is huit? 111gbI schools are to
be pald for by taxes the same as public
scbools. The money tliat niaintains higb
scbools ln Ontario cornes out of the sanie
pockets that maintain the public scbools.
You may say that public sebools are fundamental; but high sehools are not.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I did not refer
to higb sehools; I referred to unIversities,
and institutions of higber education.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Mýiddiesex)-I do not
think this nioney could go to a uuiversity.
A university is not calied a school in the
language of any educational autbority I
know of. But I bad better not drop the
other subject quite. ln the United States,
as lu Ontario, the high school is really part
of the public school system, and I thInk
the legisiature would be perfectly justLfied
ln establishing schools the upper departnment of which would be equivaient to a
high school.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-They bave theni
now. They are public schoois to-day?
Hou. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-Tlien I amn
on the right track; that they migbt establish scbools that would give- blgher education, anîd, therefore, the diversion of this
fund, If It: were intended for bigher education, npart f rom unîversities, would be
within the nieaning of the Act. I do not
think this grant would go to the universities, but thiat It would go precisely as
provided by the constitution of Alberta.
It will go, by clause 42, w-ltbout tbe word

1661

'public,' where it was intended to go, and
the language is identical la botb casesto public and separate schools irrespective

of religions denominations and If, ln the
future, -other schools were established by
the province, I do not know that thils House
sbould di-etate to the province exactly liow
they should distribute their school funds,
or what kind of sehools they should establish.
We ln Ontario would flot thank
theni If they said to us- You caunot establish any kiud 'of achool of any character

lu your wlsdoni you see fit to do ; and
what we are unwlllng should be a charge
on the province of Ontario. we are unwilli.g s hould be irnposed on any otber proî-ii ce.
11oD. 'Mr. WATSON-I want to call attention to w-bat bas taken place iu the
other Chaniber when this natter w-as nder
discussion. Dr. Schaffuner (Souris) nioved
i~n amndment to this Bill at the thir'd
rmadling, to refer It back to a Conilittee of
the Whole in order tbat It niit
be aniended by provlng that pending the transfer
to Alberta, Saskatcbewran and Manitoba of
the Dominion lands witbln their boundaries,
the school lands and ail funds arisIng therefroni sball be handed over to those provinces. That was voted on by a stralght
party vote. The bon. gentlemnan's friends
la the House of Comnions -ere prepared
to baud over not only the interest on the
fund for educational purpose, but to transfer to the provinces the whole of the
funds and lands and 1 thiuk there ouglht
to be a reconcillation between the bon. gelhtlenian and bis friends ln the other House,
before lie takes ,exception to the provision
of this Bll which, as stated lby the lion.
senator froi 'Middlesex, conforîns exactly
w-ith the w'ords of the Alberta Autouoiny

Act.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Thie course pursued by the Minister of the Interior w-ho
bas had this Bill. lu charge w'ith regard to this subject does not appear
to nme one that any hon. gentleman
could comnjend.
The change of the

word was doue witbout any attention beiug
called to it lu the other branch of parliament, as far as I can leara; and, further,
tbere bas been a note la the original Bill

1662

SENATE

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
notlfying- members that the only change
'territories.' and does not should Ilke to ask the Secretary of State
wvas the word
make any reference to tbis other change. It if be kaows of any difficulties Ibat bave
seems as tbougb the government, la drop- arisea in the past ln reference to tbe disping this word, bad one of two objects ln trlbutiôoh 0f the scbool funds ln any of
vlew, eltber to accomplxsb sometbing in the the western provinces, oulside of Manitoba
way of affectlng- the status of schools ln as to the character of the schools-wbîch
the west, or te put their opponents ia cxist in tbat country.
the position of caling attention to the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I bave heard
subject, and then belng able to charge nothing.
I thought everytbing was muntbem wlth raising a religious furore as Ding pleasantly and smootbly. I do not
the bon. Secretary of State bas Intimated. tblnk a single member of the governmentIf any sucb trouble as that shall arise, perhaps tbe Minister of the Interior might
wblcb I do nlot thlnk is at ail likely, -knew that and change was made by dropthe government would be beld responsible plng the word 'public.'
I neyer heard of
for lt, ln making this change in a manner it until it was brought t0 my notice bere.
calculated to excite suspicion. Looking- at
*Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWE.Lb-If aay
the change in itself, I do not think that it
is at ail Important. If my bon. friend difficulty bad arisen, tbat might account for
and bis colleagues bave an object in view the leavlng ont of the word 'public.'
to cause some of their opponents by a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-None has arisen,
i!use to object and put themselves in a
everytbing bas been runnlng- pleasantly and
positi on of ralslng a religious furore, they
smoothly.
may succeed, but 1 hope tbey wlll net. I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEIff-In
the change makes any
do not think that
*materlal difference from wbat I can learn reference te the realolution referred to by
of the scbools in the west, and furthermore, the hon. senator from Portage La Prairie,
If there would be ny difference made, it thal is slmply wbat bas been demanded by
would be carrying out the policy of the Manitoba and the western provinces for
They desire to bave tbe
Conservatlve party witb reference to the many years.
autonomy of the provinces ln the mat- school funds from the sale of scbool lands
That position was, placed at tbeir disposa], independent altoter of education.
The bion, gentlethat the legisiatures of the different getber of the Dominion.
provinces should bave absolute control of man knows that wben these lands were set
Iheir own schools. This is simply apply- apart for school purposes, the Dominion
ing that principle, and, as 1 do not tbink government retained power te control the
Ihat the dropping of the -word will make sale of sncb lands, and aise the investiment
any material ýchange, and that it wili be of the funds derlved from the sale of the
sirnply la the direction, if il wvas not clear lands, and that Iben Ihey were distributed
The question arose
before. of giving the provinces con- among the provinces.
trol over their schools, I do nlot feel lni as t0 whether the fund -%onld be safer in
clined to change the clause as it stands. the hands of the Dominion for the sake of
I may be wrong about that, but these are the trust for which it wýas created, than
my lionest opinions on the subject. t0 allow eacb of the provinces to deal withi
When the Auîonomy Bill was before parlia- and expend IL 1 know when the demand
Sir
ment, the Conservative party look a was made ùpon the laIe government,
strong aind determined attitude on this John Macdonald, tben premier of the counfund
question, that the niatter of schools sbould try, declined 10 band over the school
them- to the provinces, on tbe ground Ibat he bebe lefI altogether t0 the provinces
and more
selves. Now, 1 cannot -see that anything lieved it would be muchi safer
sacredly kept and managed by the Dominin this section will bave any different efover
fect, and 1 congralulate my' hon. friend, ion Ihan by allowing It t0 be handed
My own view is that it
the leader 0f the government in Ibis House, t0 the provinces.
proon comlng over to tbe policy of the Con- would be better t0 allow tUe different
vinces t0 handie and manage ail the public
servative party on that subjeel.

T
JL LY 17, 1908

lands than to continue the management of
them by the Dominion governinent. However, lu the setting apart of the two new
provinces lu the west, the present government have flot thought that advisable.
It
ls flot necessary for me to enter into any
reason why they thought so.
I regretted
exceedingly to hear the speech made by the
hon. Becretary of State. There was nothing advanced by tbe hon. leader of the opposition to, justify the remarks which he
made, or to Justlfy a portion of the remarks made by the hon. senator from
Middlesex.
The hon. senator from Calgary neyer lntimated that the provinces iu
the west might pass a law to establish public schools to be controlled by the Doukhobors and other settiers la that country,
whose opinions and views we do not destre
to have promulgated or taught in this country.

1663

arate schools whichi may bie establisbed la
the future would be deprived of their share
of the school fund under whatever regulations might exist.
Now, the country can
understand why the word 'public' was lef t
out, If the hon. gentleman's Interpretation
and explanation be accepted as correct.
But there Is another point; why should the
hou, leader of the opposition be charged,
as lie was directly, by the hon. Secretary
of State, aud, Inferentially, by the hon, gentleman from Middlesex, with having trled
to raise a sectarian cry and difficulties of
which have had God knows enough inl this
country lu the past?
What he stated was
this, and the hon. Secretary of State has
flot said one word to controvert it,
that lu the distribution of the fund *nt the
present moment, they never ask n question
xhetlier a school is organized and controlled by Catholics or Protestants? What lie
stated was that the money was distributed
Hou. Mr. ROSý*S (Middlesex)-He referred
equally according to the number of pupils
to denominational schools.
attending, and equitably among ail schools,
Hon. Sir MACKIDNZIE BOWELÂL-I flQ matter whether they were controlled or
nnderstund exactly what he said. 1 lîsten- managed by one denomination or by aned very attentively to hlm.
What he stat- other or by any particular race. The ouly
ed was this: not that the goveraments of question was as to whether they cont*inued
these provinces might establish these to lie publie schools.
That is the position
schools, because if they establish the the hon, gentleman took, and the charges
schools they would be entitled. to ail the made by the hon. Secretary of State came
riglits and privileges given to other public with an 111grace from hlm when he drew
schools; but lie stated that If this money any such deduction froni my hon. f riend's
was to be distributed to, ail schools, the remarks.
The bon, gentleman referred to
Doukhobors and simular classes of people the Manitoba echool question.
I shahI not
whose doctrines w-e do flot desire to have enter Into that. I had enougli to, do with
tauglit lu this country, might establish It ln the past. My ow-n views w-ere strongschools and demand under that clause their ly lu favour of provincial autouomy and of
proportion of the fund. That has been respecting the riglits and privileges of a
twisted into a charge that he stated that. cbaracter described by the bon. senator
the provinces of Saiskatchewan and Alberta from Middlesex.
1 go further, and say
miglit establish these schools.
H1e knew, that the riglits and privileges granted to
and so does every one else kuow, that If the people of any of the provinces when
they establish sucli schools they will be- they were established,' whether of n seccome public schools at once, and entitled to tarian, a civil or n religions character,
ail the advantages that would accrue from should bie maintnined lu their iûtegrity, and
the fund.
Althougli the hon. Secretary of flot lie permitted to bie taken f roui thera
State only said tlit he had no kuowledge by any of the provinces.
I have taken
wbatever of the word 'public' being left that position la the past; I uni strougly of
out of the clause which we are now con- that idea at the present, and I kuow of n0
sideriug-, le has g-Iven a reason why It was reason why I should change my views. Iu
-omitted or should have been omitted. His 1the settiug apart by the Conservative govfear was that if the word 'Public' was flot lerument of two sections of land lu each
left out of the Bll, denominational or sep- township lu Manitobàannd the * Northwe-st

1664

SENATE
1664

the îaid chapter 49 or any Act passed iii
for the purpose of estalilishing a school amnendmient thereof, or ini substitultion thereail of, thore shall be no discrimninetýion a.gain'st
fund lu nid of popular education for
schools of any class described in the saidgchaptime to corne, it applieti to ail classes Of ter 49.
people vihether Roman Catholics or Prowell .defineti
Tiiere is a definiite nnd
testants.
statement of the fact that this trust is
A Roman Catholic lieing part andi parcel
one vihich is f0 lie cariieti out by the praof the province hnd equal riglits nnd pri- vince; the autonomy of the province is
vileges lu these provinces, anti 1o matrecognized, and under these circumnstances
ter whether it vias separate schools or non1 do flot think if shoulti le initerfered with.
<lenowi national, or public schools. fhe funds The
is in
is proposeti,
law, as it
-%iete intendedti o le appropriated nnd paid accordance
witb that law and leaves
lu proportion to the population of each
it lu exactly the saine shape, because
portion of cadi district. ne iatter of %,vhaýt it says the
io%
vhicli are
ioucys
creeti or w'hnt race they vicre. That vins
from the sale of these
to lie realized
really the intention rit flie tinie. and inl
landis shal lie paid annually to the
so muchi of the landi as vins
s-' îîg a.part
Thiey are
goverrument of the province.
s.-î ni~art rit that tiiine it was dtonce for time madie the distributing baud for flec dispurpose of perpetuatiiig a fundl for cdu- charge of the trust %vithin wihicli sucli
cational purposes in the Northwesf, and %vithilands are situateti; and for vwIhat purp05&'?
!>uep i< management fhev vwiii have n school Toviards the support of schools. That (Io"
faînîl for the î)urposes of the education of
not define whuether tlîcv are to lie pubilic
j.reseiit anti future generafions, unequalleti or private or anything else.
It is schools.
In any part of fhe w-orld, andi every CanaIf the schools are publie schools, then it
oughf to lie prend of the position
dn
If it is sehlools rit large, thoen
is schlools.
tak.en by the goverumnent of the day ia
vie are to have schools rit large; but vie
establishiug such a funti. Wc do not fiid
are not chianging the position of schools
anyvihere lu fhis country any more of the
organized anti cnrried on in accordaîlce
agitations vie banve liati in the past; but If
viith fhlwv of sucli provinice, andti ie
vie are te have speeches of the chairacter
money so paiti shal lie distributed for the
,delivered by thle hon. Secretary of State,
purpose of fthe support of schools organIn the important position lie holtis as à
ized and carrieti on in accordance Nvith
?Jinister of flic Crovia, if is very likelv to
lvi of that province: 'By t1w s-aiti goviili lie pretentis nof f0 de- the
engender fhat -%v
erurnent in sncb a manner i<s it ticeins exsire to exist or to perpetutite..
That enable the goverilîment f0
pedient.'
Hon. Mr. 1,ERP.-I milsh to state uny distribute the money as it is required. If
renson for nof desiring te vote for flic it is n large school, anti larger expendfinnmentiment of the lion, gentlemnan. Tmese turc is required, the province cari so riplandis vihicli vicie set aparf, ris vie havE portion it, and tlie saine viitli the sinallcr
beard, la 1872, for flie purposes of educa. ones.
They cran give it on a fair basis
flou and for wuiicli provisioni NvarSiir
f0 the schlools vihicli rire te ho maintaincti
Inter, lu flic year 1879, have now becoînx uiîdcr the Autonoiry Acft. It seenis o nie
the subjcct of a trust iii coniiection wiifl that this is prrictically a tranisfer f0 flic
Thie conîditions ot
the two provinces.
is 10 go te
Provinces of flec nîoney vil
'%vhieh that trust is to lie lield are set fortl -the
f0 lie distributet iiunder the
provinces
!i fhe Autonomiy Acf, andi t1lat Act des
as it is rit preserit. It does flot change
il 1mw
cribes beyond amy qucsqtioîî tiie inanniiei'
lu one iota, wheîreas the insertion of the
vihich the trust funti vas te lie distributeti -word
'publice' rnay lie a change froin vihat
leaving flic provinces te inakje the distri
wvas intendeti either under the original airTlm,
bufion !i accerdance ýviti t li lawv.
or by the Autonolny Act. Under
-rangement
words of ftme Autonomny Act are verv dcli
these circumrstances, it seemls f0 Ile thait
imite. Sulisection. 2 of section 17, says:
wvhnt we ouglit f0 (Io is to adhere sfrictly
2. lu the appropriation b.y flic legisiafur e
have It.
Ilanguage of the Bill as %ve
the
-o
or distribution by flic goveruriment of tic pro
only interpretritiol %vecrif pu'~t upoI
incc of any moncys for the support of sehool <~The
organized anti carricti on in accortince if
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JULY 17, 1908

1665

JULY 17, 1908
it is that the f und shall be distributed to
such sebools as are by the Iaw entled to
the money.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I would ask the
bon. leader of the House If We are to understand that the whole fund bas been distributed to, the provinces?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The money la Invested
by the Finance Departinent, I presume, ln
securities of the Dominion, and it Is pald
out froni tume to tume to the provinces.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Capltai or Interest?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oaly the interest. On
two or tbree occasions, I do not know whether under this government or the previous
government ln the last 20 or 30 years, I
kuow a portion of the principal bas been
given to the province, 1 presume, at a time
when the province was hard Up.

1665
had a righit to a certain share and that
Roman Cathoics of the territories or the
provinces were deprived, by the legisiation
that was brougblt lu at the tinie, of their
fair share of the pubic moules, because the
legisiation of that province prevented tbeir
baving tbe schools which, under the Act
of 1875, tbey had a right to, bave, and whicb
We were speaking of pubthey had not.
lic and separate echools ln relation to the
Here la what bas been
Autonomy Bill.
Wle remember that
said on that question.
Mr. Sifton, when tbe Autononiy Bill was
carrled, had lef t tbe mnistry some weeks
Ia the House of Commons be
previous.
sald:
Then, where there is a public school, the
minority, Protestant or Romnan Catholic, may
organize a separate school; but every separate
school la subject absolutely to ail the foregaing provisions, and is in every sense of the
terni a public school.

111r. Fielding wvas no iess.explicit lu bis.
Hon. '.%r. WVATSOX-That was to Mani- expression. Wbat d-id hie say:
toba.
From the hour at which these schools open
in the morning up to 3.30 in the afternoon
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It is the saine prin- they are absolutely alike; there is no difiereuce. The teachere have the saine duties, the
cipal?
saine qualifications, the saine examinations,
study, the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think onIr la one the saine course of governmexit.saine books are
The regulaprescribed by the
or two instances bas the principal'been en- ticas are made by the goverament. 1 repeat
hour of opeaing in the morning
croached upon, and that was only a emaîl1 that froni the
Up ta, 3.30 in the afternoon, there is no shade'
part.
of differenoe in ail these scbools in the Northwest Terrîtories.
Hon. Mr. LAXDRY-By this legisiation,
What did Sir Wilfrid Laurier say:
is the capital to bc paid ont, or is it the
Do you not believe that what you cali sepInterest only ?
ara"t sohools in this instance are reelly naHlon. Mr. SOOTT-No, the capital is ia- tional. sohools?
The great objection to separate schools la
vested, and the interest ouly is paid out
that it would divide aur people, but if the
sanie eduSion i-, given oto rwhat às called sepHon. Mr. LANDRY-Legislation was in- arate schools, as in ail other schools, 1 fail to,
troduced into the Sena4te asking that $300.- see what objection there is to such a systeni.
000 of the capital be gîven to Manitoba.
I think that la the face of those deciaraThat was passed in the Hlouse of Coxumons. tions, that were made publicly on the floor
but was thrown out by this House. That of the House, nobody wili have the slightwas legisiation disposing of a part of the est hesitation in admittiag that lu the
Those school lands being sold Northwest the separate schoois are idep~ticapital.
created a fuud. and that fund amounts to calîr the saine as the public scbools. We
a large suni, perbiaps a million nlow.
They are
are toid there is a difference.
ail public schools-ail schools sustained by
Hou. Mr. SOOTT-I do flot kuow; it is
That was my contention yesterthe state.
increasing largeiy.
day, and I always made that contention.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The division we had We ln Quebec are told 'Oh, but tbe minat that time when that legisiation came up, ority ln the territorles have their separate
was founded on the rigbts of the niinority. scboois.' Weil, that la the kind of separate
They have separate
At that tlme we claimed that the xninority schools they bave.
REVISED

EDITION

1666

SENATE

1666

SEXATE

scbools that are really public sehools. Sir
NNIltrid Laurier, Messrs. Fielding, Sifton
and Paterson tell us wbat they are. '9We
must accept their declaration, and we must
admît that there ls no difference between
the public schoois ln the Nortbwest and the
Tbey are exactly the
separate scbools.
Those schools were made
same thlng.
pubie or separate schools when the AutoI sald then that
nomy Bill was passed.
the Catbolic majority or the majority lni any
school division or any sehool ridlng ln the
province bad a rigbt to bave the scbools of
That was the Act of 1875.
their choice.
Weil, If the miuority la a scbool riding happened to be Catholic or Frenchi, tbey could
bave a Frenchi sebool or a Catholic school.
That w-ould be a deaoniinationai schooi.
Tbe Britisli
But that was their right.
The
North Amnerica Act ivas clianged.
legisiation of 1905 not onfly gave an Autonomy Bill to the provinces, but they changed the British North America Act in substltuting the word ' separate' ln the British
North America Act for the word 'denomiThat was an alternation of tbe
national.'
British North America Act for that purpose, ]et lt be constitutional or flot. That
is not now the question before us, but I
want to say that the money that at that
tume wouid have been divided between the
separate schools and the public schools
would bave gone to the separate scboois.
Then tbe separate scboois bcing wiped ont,
nobody couid dlaim the money that otherwise would bave gone to Roman Catholic
I contend that they have a riglit
scbools.
to share in that money, and this question
is flot settled; *but If it is settled, it is settied hi a way by wblcb tue mlnority dlaimi
an Injustice lias been done. It is for tbese
reasons I recall tbe rights of tbe nilnority
to a measure of justice of which they are
if
deprived by the leg-isiation of 1,905.
that legisiation is constitutional, weli and
If it is not
good, -I bave no more to say.
constitutional, I will not bother bringing it
before the court; it Is noue of my business,
but the constitution of that LAct miay be
if
attacked by tbe interested parties.
they are flot interested enougb to do tbat.
I shaîl certainly flot do so.
The amendment was declared lost on di'Vision.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

The Bill was then read a tbird tine and
passed.
PROPRIETARY

MEDICINES

BILL.

IN COMMITTEE.
The Honse resumed ln Conittee of the
Whole coaslderation of Bill (146) An Act
respectlng Proprletary or Patent Medicines.
(In the Committee.)
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-1 amn satisfied
to accept the amendment proposed b>- the
bon. gentleman from Wellington, addlng
the words ln clause 17, after the word
'Act' the foilowlng: 'In respect of the
sale of any patent or proprietary medicine
in the bands of the retail merchant at the
time of the passing of this Act.'
The CHIAIRMAN-Trhe question is on
tbe amendment of the hon. gentleman from
Toronto, to substitute the words, 1I stock'
for the words 'In the bands.'
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I shouid like to asic
if
wbat wouid be the meaning of that?
goods were ordered, actually purchased,
tbey wouid not be ln the bands, but would
I do not tbink they
tbey be ln stock?
would, under the reading. It seems to me
that an order for goods should not be cancelled by an Act of Parlianient.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-The Minister o!
Inland Revenue dlctated that ameadment,
and If he were to, make it open to, admit
goods that were ordered, he wouid be givlng unhlmited permission to parties in the
retal business to, stock theniselves up, so
tbat tbey would be enabled to seli goods for
a long period. 'I do not think we should
add a protection to tbose w-ho bave ordered
stock.
Hon. Mr. MITCHIELL-I think it wouid
be easy to frame the ameudmentso that
it would pass. 1 do not see wby it is confined to retail merchants. 1 do flot tbink
the wholesale man's goods should be confiscated-any goodsý which the wholesale
man bas on hand, or wbich is la a retail
store or Is la process of manufacture.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-The wbolesale
men can recast and remodel their medi-

1667

JULY 17,1908

JUIY 17. 1908
1667
supernaturai knowcines and corne under the provisions of unless the minister bas
this Act. They can register the composi- ledge and I do flot think the Minister of
tion of eacli of the patent mediceines and Inland Revenue inakes any pretensions ta
comply with the Act; but a retail mer- that. This is a -Bill of the utmost consechant cannot do that because hie does not quence, and I say It should be allowed ta
stand untll next sesson. I therefore move
know 'what tbey are.
to strike out the proviso at the end of
The sub-amendnient was adopted.
clause 7.
The clause, as amended, was adopted.
Hon: Mr. SULLIVÂýN nioved that clause
7 be reconsidered.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I object to that. It
Is far better that we shauld disc-uas iL
with the Speaker ln the chair. The hon.
gentleman can bring Lt up at the third
readlng.
Hon. Mr. LANIJRY-The lion. gentleman
lias a perfect riglit ta more for a reconsideration of the clause.
The committee divided an the motion,
which was adopted, contents twenty, noncontents not counted.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-There is a achedule or ]ist appended to this Bill which
contains the naines of the most potent and
virulent poisons known to the world, and
provision ls made ln clause 7, respeeting
these poisons w-nich I think should be carefully considered. My objection is to the
proviso at the end of the clause, under
wbicb the niinister Is autborized to grant
a manufacturer of medicine permission to
Ail
put these poisons into bis mixtures.
lie lias to do is to send ta the minister
the amount of the dose lie gives, and the
minister cau grant blm a certificate and
the medicine can be manufactured and ail
the manufacturer bas to do is to put a
label on tlie package sliowing the quantity
of the poison it contains and then put iL
on the market. Tliere is an Act of tlie
Post Office which provides that every article made up by pharmacists or toxicologists for sale must have the naine of any
poison iL contains on the label. By tis
clause you are superseding the provincial
law and authorizing the 'Minister of Inland
Revenue ta permit the sale of tlie moat
virulent poisons. If tlic minister lias tlie
right to give permission to sell virulent
poisons, it la outrageous, iL la damnable

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Tbe Department
of Inland Revenue bas some of the best
analysts in the country an its staff. Whenever an application is -made to the minister for permission ta put -up a certain
formula, it Is immediately referred to the
analysts of the department where the formula is carefully analyzed. If it Is found
to contain 'any dangerous or injurions ingredients, the minister will carry out the recommendatIon of those anaiysts and refuse
permission. It does not matter wliether
the schedule is struck out or uaL, the department will see that no Injurious drug is
put ln the formula.
Hon. Mr. SULIIVAN-What
non. gentlemnin

or

Met MuInILer

does the
LIUw

ofJ.

the qualities of such drugs 7
Hlon. Mr. McMULLEN-I would rather
trust the analysts of the department than
the doctors ta give a careful' well thouglitout formula. We are safer ln the hands
of the analyst than we would be ln the
bands of the doctors.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The amendaient
would defeat the very abject tie bon. gentleman bas ln view, because iL would per-:
mit the sale of patent medicines containing the druga mentioned in the schedule, provIding there was a label on the
bottle. The praviso Is the proper guarantee, because the minister, advised by experts, will be able to prevent the sale of
medicines containing drugs injurious ta
health.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-That 15
If the minister consults the analyst; but bie
sntrqietods
bti
cae.H
isynotrequire tondo 0 b thsanlase.
ane
mayl not aways consuit the anays, 'adt
wonul e etena d
the
words,'afte
nls
h
cnutn
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-We do not know
whiether the analysts are fit to decide

1668

SENATE

SENATE
1668
what quantity of nny of these drugs ln any but be bas no right to ask tbe committee
mixture would be hiarmless. 1 coatend that to strike out an nîneudment whieh bas been
He can do
this Bill; If passed la lts present shape, nccepted by the committee.
that at tbe third readin.
wvill be a disgrace to, the Senate.
A
Hon. Mr. POWVER-Rule 65 says:
Hon. Mr. L.&NDRY-I would ask the
a Bill is
hon. senator from Middlesex If, in bis opi- senator may at any tiîne before
the reconsideration of any
nion, the Bill la its present form would passed move for
The ruies
lawv on the sut)- clause thereof already passed.'
conflict with the Ontario
whlch appiy ln the House apply la commitject of poisons?7
It bas been the practice at any rate.
tee.
SHon. Mr. ROSS (Middiesex)-I tbink the
Hlon. Mr. LANDRY-You have a right to
Dominion legislation, will supersede the proadd to, a clause, but you have no rigbt to
vincial legisIation la case tbey comne la constrike out an amenament which lias been
flit.
accepted.
Tbe amendaient wns declared lost.
Hon. Mr. MITCH-ELL-The bon, gentleHon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-I niove thiat man from Stadacona just supported a miothe amendaient mande to clause 7 be struck tion of the bon. gentleman fromn Kingston
la other words, I want the Bill to to strike out clause 7, ia wivbi the aîneudont.
pass as it came frein the House of Coiin- ment of the lion, gentleman froui EdnmonHe supported a motion
ton was lncluded.
Mons.
wbich would bave the effect of wiping ont
Hlon. Mr. LANDRY-I maise a point of the wbole clause.
We bave no rigbt to go back on
order.
Hon. Mr. LAýNDRY--I did not support
that.
the ameudment at ail. I wns ngainst IL.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The chairman bias
decided.
The CHAIRMAN-I decide that mile 65
npplied to the clause itself before it wns
Hlou. Mr. DANDURAND-Tbe bon. genamended.
tleman could move on tbe third reading.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I appeal froi the
Hlon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-Wýe passed a
decision.
W'e want
motion to re-consider clause 7.
the amendaient proposed by the bon, genHoni. Mr, eOWER-I move that the cointleman froni Edmonton struck ont, and tbat mittee mise for the.purpose of empowering
ls part of 7.
the chairman to take the opinion of the
-Speaker on the question of order.
Hon. Mr. POWER-It was moved that
Hon. Mr. LAINDRY-We do not require
clause 7 be reconsldered, and that opened
The chairmani bas
Tbe a motion for that.
clause 7 for furtbor consideration.
bon, gentleman from. Kingston moved an given a ruling, and I appeal froei it. Thjis
amendaient, wlîicb wis not adopted, and method wns fol]owed three weeks ago la
now the hon, gentleman from Brockville is the House of Comnions; the chairmnan rits
perfectîr within bis rigbt to move an it la writing and hands it to the Speaker.
The bon. gentleamendment to. clause 7.
The CHAIRMAN-Is it the pleasure of
man from Stadacona referred to the rule the House that I report to the Speakerthat you can alwa3-s re-consider a clause.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Lt is not a question
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-The opium clause of pleasure.
It is a question of duty.
was passed wben the committee defeated
Hon. Mr. DAVID, froi the committee,
my motion.
reported to the S.peaker that the bon. genHon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbe bon, gentleman tleman fromn Stadacona appealed froin bis
bas a perfect rigbt to make a motion to me- muling la commlttee that an amendaient
consider sucb a clause, becanse the mecon- l;aving been adopted by the committee
sideration may be on a different subject; couid not be struck out by the committee.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN.

1669

JULY 17, 1908

JUIY 17, 1908

1669
(In the Committee.)

The SPEAKERt-I amn not clear as ta the
appeal being ta the Speaker, or through the
Hon. Mr. ROY-I think it is very unSpeaker ta the Senate.
fair of ny bon. friend (Hon. Mr, DerbyI
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Baurluat, at page sbire) ta #ttempt toi kfll my amendment.
want to warn the House once mare, that
519, says:
If we pass this Bill as it was presented
An appeal from the rulinýg af the Chokrirann to us, It will kili entirely the effect of the
of the Committee of the Whoie in the House gavernment Bill respecting the use and sale
of Gommons is La the House.
of opium.
At page 516 he states that the rules of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tlie abject of the
the Senate are practically to the same efamendment which appears in the clause
fect as thase af the Cammans.
Io that any prescription or patent medicine
The House divided on the question, and ln which opium Is an element, it shall
sustained the ruiing of the Chairman by the appear on the label. That is a very mofollowing division: Contents 28; non-con- dest request. In view of ail the evidence
tenta 6.
we have of the harm that opium is doing,
It will scarcely do for the Senate ta say
CONTENTS:
that a persan bnying a patent medicine or
The Ronourable Messieurs
accepting a prescription at the druggists,
Jalfray,
Baique,
shall have ta take it without knowing wheV-rr.
14eith,
King,
ther or nat opium farms an element ln it.
Bowe]l,
1-cHugh,
(Sir Mackenzie),
I do mat believe that such a proposition
McKaiy (Truro),
*Campbell,
'wonld be voted dawn In any advanced
MteMullenl,
Cartwright,
McSweeney,
(Sir Richard),
cammunity.
Costigan,

-

Cox,
David,
rperbyshire,]Jomviile,
Uîlis,

Frost,

Gillmor,

Mitchell,
Perley,
Power,

Rilefr,
Rass (Middleeex),
Sullivan,
Watson,
ýYoung.-28.
NON-CONTENTS :

The Horonrable Messieurs
Baker,

Bouchervilie,

Landry,
Lougheed.

The committee resunied.

Hon. Mr. KERR-As I uaderstand the
matter, If the motion prevailed the clause
wlli stand as it came ta us from the Hanse
of Commons.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE--Yes.
Hon. Mr. KERR-And would lu that
respect be exactly what the hon. Secretary
of State haol described. It wauld be a
Bill then requiring that if.tbere ivere any
of those Ingredients inentioned in the zchedule-

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Opium is specifically
Ha. Mr. DAVID, from the committee,
that tbey bad nmade sanie pragres defined.
reparted
with the Bill, and asked leave ta sit again.
Hon. Mr. KERR-I amn stating what tbe
The Senate adjouraed ntil 8 o'clock p.m. effect of it would be. The effect would
be, the clause wauld require, if any of the
THIRD SITTING.
poisons mentioned in theschedule are conThe SPEAKER taok the Chair at Elght tained la the mixture, that fact must'appear on the label.
o'calack.
PROPRIETARY OR PATENT MEDICINES BILL.
rHIIRD READING.
The House reaumed lu Commîttee of the
Whole, cansideratian of Bill (146) 'An Act
respecting Proprietary or Patent Medicines.'

Han. Mr. SCOTT-The hon. gentleman
la mistating the amenduient?
Hon. Mr. KERR-I am nat mistating
the amenduient at ail. If the ameadment
prevails, il will leave the Bill as IL came
ta us from the Hanse of Commons, and
'would be a Bill requiring that If any af

1670

1670
SENATE

the Ingredients mentioned in the sehedule
are 'eontained in the mixture, that tact
must appear on the label. The effect of
the amendment will be to prohit the sale
of anything coataining either opium or
morphine, except upon the prescription
of a licensed physician. I understand the
Bill as It came to us was one regulating
the sale of the article, flot interfering witb
the sale so long as the purchaser knew what
he was buylng. That was the scope and
alm of the Bill, and to the extent of requiring the poisonous material contalned ln
the medicîne to be shown on the
label, so that n person would know
tihere
wns
buylag,
what lie was
and
purchase.
sale
of
treedom
The other would be absolutely prohibitive
unlss It was givea on a license, or on physic*Lan's prescription. It seenis to me those
It
are two entirely different propositions.
may be. that would be an admirable thlng,
but It Is an amendment to the Bill which 1
do flot tbink was contemplated ia the legislation here. I think It would entlrely change
Its character, and althoughi tbe object may
be a laudable one, and one tlat we will la
the future have to introduce, yet 1 do not
think the House is prepared and 1 arn sure
the country is flot prepared for sucli a drastic measure.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--Clause 7 rends as follows :
7. No proprietary or patent medicine ehahl
be manufactured, iniported, exposed, sold or
offered for sale(a) if it contains cocaine or any of its salts
or preparations;
(b) if it contains alcohol in excess of the
amount required as a solvent or preservative,
or does not contain sufficient medication to
prevent its use as- an alcoholic beverage;
(c) if it contains any drug which is included
in the schedule to this Act but the naine of
whidi is not conspiouously (prin-ted -on, and an
inseparable part of, the label and ivrapper of
the bottle, box or other container :Provided
that every manufacturer or importer of or
agent for the sale of aay medicine containing
any of the drugs mentioned in the schedule
may, when applying for a certilicate of registration for any medicine, transmit to the minister an affidavit specifying sucli drug and the
proportion of it contained ia the mixture and
dose, and the minister may thereupoa grant
a certificate of registratioa for such medicine
without the printing of the naine of the said
drug upon the label and wrapper if it appears
to the minister that the proportion of the
drug used is not dangerous to health.
Hon. Mr. KERR.

You vest this power la the minister, and
lie Is flot a professional man. You vest
power la one mian to say, on an affidavit or
represeatation of facts, that any one of the
drugs 'mentioned ln tis schedule may be
used la the prescription and flot prlnted on
the label. I sny It would be discreditablo
to this parlament to Jet that go abroad.
Thiis Is simply a fight between the patent
medicine men and the public. Are the lives
of the public to be compared with value of
the money Invested ln the drug business ?
If we are prepared to say lt shaîl be la the
power of any minister to permît any of
these drugs to be put in a prescription withont its belng on the labelHlon. Mr. KERR-But it must be sliown
to be not dangerous, but healthful.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-The wlhole list is dangerous to health.
Hon. Mr.* KERR-The minister bas ndvisers and experts and that is the way the
Bill comes to us.
Hon. Mr. POWER-If the hon. Secretary
of State wishes to be consistent, hie will
strîke out the wliole proviso ln clause 7, so
that opium will be treated la the saine way
as the other deadly substances mentioned la
Opium, while deleterious
the schedule.
when taken la quantities, is stilI an essential lagredient of a good many vaînable remedies, and 1 think we are sufficiently protected under paragraph C. So that under
ordinary circumstaaces any proprietary rnedIcine which contains opium must bave its
naine consplcuously prlnted on the label anti
a statemeat o! the perceatage of opium
which It contains. If the hon. gentleman
mnoves to strikze out the proviso I shiah vote
wlth hlmn.
Hon. Mr. ROY-That was the motion of
the hon, gentleman fromn Kingston.,
Hon. Mr. POWEIt-He moved to strike
The proout the clause altogethe'r.
viso is a differeat thing. But it is assumed
that the minister at whose Instance thils
measure lias been introduced would niot do
anythiog to render his own measure useless,
and that hie must be thoroiughhiy satisfled
that no barin will be done before hie wil
grant the certificate which is referred to !ni
paragrapli C. The Hfon. Secretary of State

JULY 17, 1908

1671

gives us a counsel of a perfection to which may move to strike out that proviso.
we canuot attilin at once. Here mre havei
been going on ever since Canada was CanHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I will certainly
ada, at least since the union, and these vote to strike that proviso out if that modrugs have been sold wlth practlcally nlo tion is subniitted to the committee. 1 eaurestriction. Now we are very much restrIct- not understand wbat is meant by that
lng the sale of them, and I think the better proviso that the importer or manufacway would be is to be satlsfted wlth a rea- turer *3r agent may make an affidavit,
sonable measure of protection for the pub- and that the minister may then, -on
lic; and If this Bill becomes law and oper- the strength of that affidavit, permit the
ates satlsfactorily, there ls nothlng to hinder sale of the mixture without the contents bethe mînister the year a! ter, lntroduclng more lng marked upon the label.
It does not
drastic provisions wvlth respect to opium. prescribe any particular contents of any
I do flot see any reason why opium should medicine, but reqluires that there shall be
be treated differently from the other deadly publicity, that every bottie shall show, not
drugs. We have ,another Lueasure before
ail its ingredients, but these dangerous,
us intended to prevent the sale of opium lu
which form part of
The amendment Is so poisonous ingredients
large quantîties.
most medicines, and which are perfectly
worded that you cannot selI any proprietory
by a physician, but
medicine of wbich opium is a component safe when prescribed
which are by no means safe in patent niediI
part without a doctor's prescription.
people completely ignorant of
do flot know 'whether that was the inten- cines used by
*what they contain itnd without any infortion of the hon, gentleman who moved the
contain those
ameadment or not; but that is tbe effect of mation on the label that they
If the amendment of my hon.
It First you have to have a doctor's pre- Ingredients.
scription. If there is a well known proprie- f rlend -from Edmonton is carried, It will,
tary medicine and the bottle w-hich contains of course, minimize the evil so far as morI k-now
that medicine bas on the label a statement phine and opium are concerned.
of opliu wbich it cou- they are very dangerous drugs in the hands
of the percentage
tains, Is that not sufficient ? If you wilh of people who do flot know what they are
to use some simple remedy of tbat ki.nc, using-, and produce very bad results, that
why should you be obliged to obtain a lives are lost and mental and even moral
druggist's certificate ? I think that is golng wrecks occur in consequence of the use of
However, 1 am not at ail
reaily too far. I shiah be very happy to these drugs.
Bill pass and the use of opium clear that there Is flot almost ns much
have the
altogether discontinued, but we should flot danger wlth regard to a great many of the
be too hasty or drastîc and should have a other drugs mentioned la the list, and the
true remedy would be to strike ont the
littie compassion on erring- human nature.
a Bll get one
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I Infer from the proviso, and If we are to have
Secretary of State, that of some value. -To retain the proviso wouid
remnrks of the hon.
we are withhis own Individual opinion Is that the pro- leave us--very little better than
come out of the out a measure nt aIl.
viso la section 7 should ail
Bill. His speech Indicates that tlat Is bis3
Hou. Mr. SULLIVAN-All 1 eau say is it
opinion. His argument was ggainst the
will be a disgrace to the Senate to leave
proviso. I bave not compared the Bill, but,
At the third reading, 1 shaîl adthat la.
If I am righthy informed that the proviso
duce circumstances that would make the
was not la the Bill as orhginally produced
most hardeued criminal vote for niy amendla the House of Commons but was placed
ment.
la there as a compromise, I think it was at
The priavery unfortunate compromise.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I shahl vote to
inl section 7 *wthout
ciple of the BilIII
retaîn the ameadment in the Bill as a menthat proviso. and I thhnk it would do a great sure of benefit, but at a later stage, when
deal of good If it were passed la thuat forni, the motion to strike out the proviso altobut that proviso weakens the Bill to an ex- gether is before us I shall vote for that
traordlnary extent.

1672

SENATE

1672

SENATE

motion, and with the proviso this amendment would also go.
The committee divided
ment which was adopted.

on

the axnend-

Ciontents, 20; non-contents, 7.

Hou. Mr. SULLIVAN-I tbink
inost important matter.

it is a

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn quite of the
lion. 'gentleman's opinion, but the House
thouglit otherwise.

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-It should be disI speak nothing
cussed at full length.
here but the truth w-heu I say it is a great
Hon. !%r. DAVID, from the committee, shame and disgrace to the Senate. I would
reported the Bill with amendments, whiChi hike to have an opportunity to tell hon.
gentlemen the reasons I have for saying
were concurred ln.
Hon.
lir e.

Mr.

SCOTT-M-Nouey

over

human

50.

Hon. '.%r. SCOTT moved the third reading
of the Bill.

Hlou. Mr. SCOTTI-In view of the vote
taken just uow, it is just as weh to let the
Bihl go throngh.

r.SULLIVAN-I protest agalnst
Hon.
the third reading of the Bill this evening.
The motion w-as agreed to on a division,
I want it postponed until to-morrow. I
and the Bihl w-as read the third tirne and
have n good many tacts which I want to
collate, and to make statements which con- passed.
cern the dignlty of this Sentte. I have
OPIUM PROHIBITION BILL.
newq arguments to 'put forth that I did flot
touch on to-day.
THIRD READING.

The House resolved itsehf into Gommittiee
of the Wbole on Bill (205) An Act to Prohibit the importation, manufacture and
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-No, I cannot move sale of opium for other than medicinal
It now. When you hear what I have to purposes.
say on the subject, you will admit that It
(In the Committee.)
was wortb w-hile postponing the third rending.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The deaiers in opium,
wvho are chiefly if not altogether Chinese,
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbere is some talk
have an industry lu Vancouver and Victoof prorogation to-morrow, and we must
they are mnaunfactnrîug the
send this Bill back to the House of -Com- ria -where
crude into the refined article. Witbin the
mous with ameudments. Unhess the object
hast nine xnonths no less than 66,000 pounds
ls to khi the Bill, It shouhd be rend the tbird
of the crude article had been imported
time now.
into British Columbia. There was of the
Hon. 'Mr. SULLIVAN-If the Bill is _read refined materiai1 about 300 pounds imthe third time now, I shall consider it an ported. Speaking froin recohiection 1 thiinkz
attempt to choke off discussion. 1 think I the value was placed at $275,000.
can show, when I adduce the tacts I arn
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-What duty is
collecting, that I was justified lu nsking
levied on that?
that the third reading be postponed until
to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think the amount
I got
Hon. ',%r. SCOTT-Could the bon. gentle- paid in duty was about $60.000.
a number of telegranis from British Columman be ready in an hour or two honrs?
bia, and they sent on an agent here, -Mr.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-No, I could not MclnDes. When the Bill came to ns fromn
be ready before to-morrow.
the House of Commons, it contalned just
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I cannot take the re- one clause, and thîs opium wouhd of course
sponsibility of postponing it until to-inor- have been contiscated at once. The object
shouhd be to, get it out of the country withrow at this stage of the session.
Hon. iMr. FERGUSON.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon. gentleman
eau move bis aniendment now.

JULY 17, 1908
out any desire to absolutely ruin people.
At the sanie time, I never would consent
for a moment to the opium being sold
bere. They first asked for a year or two
years to be allowed to get rid of It. That
certalnly would flot be in the public lnterest. I suggested to the agent here tbat
tbey undertake to export It to somne other
country wbere It Is permltted to be used.
0f course, In my viewv, It oug-bt to go Into
the .ocean. Finally, to-day, I got the consent of the PrlI-y Councl to make a compromise, by the owners undertaking to
bond the quantlty 110w In Victoria and
Vancouver to manufacture Do more, and
to give security that the stock would be
exported and not sold in tbis country; tliat
It silould be put in bond and released
from bond wheaever thcy nmade a sale
abroad, and tbey should give security to
carry out tbat arrangement. To carry out
that provision I suggest a' second clause
to d'e Bill. I presume that is the falrest
way. The owners are satisfied wilt .
At first, the time was limited to tbree
months. Tbey said that was too short;
that they would bave to communicate with
their agents la parts of Asia, and If tbey
got six months tbey could accoinl)lisli it,
though tbey wonld make a loss.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It is practically
givlng theni time to look around and make
d'e best bargain tbey can.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, SO long as ut
goes out of Canada.
Hon. Mr. FE-RGUSON-It gives theai ain
opportunity to smugg-le it into tue United
States.
-Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-If it -was not placéd
In bond, ut is probable tbat is wberc it
would go.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELLI do
not rise for tbe purpose of opposing tbe
proposition made by the governaient upon
l moral aspects. Lt is quite commieadable
for any country to stop to the fullest possible extent the use of this drug, but tbere
Is a point connccted witb* it that I tblnk
ouglit to receive tbe consideration of thue
government and of tue Senate, 'and of the
people of the Dominion. The Senate bas
been lnformed by the Secretary of State
that no less tban 66,0)00 p onuds of opium

1673

lias been imported into Canada for the
purpose of being refined, and then, -of
course, put upon the market. Upon this
amount .of opium the government bas received, under the law, the Customs and
Tariff Act, $66,000. if parliament bas perrniitted this industry to be carried on for
a number. of years, and those carrylng on
the business to imiport to the extent Indicated, and the customs bas collected the amounit
of money stated, is lt equitable or just tO
pass a law depriving these people of the
privilege of continuing their business and
at the same time keep thec $60,000 pald in
duties into the coffers of the counhtry? Does
it flot strike evcry one, that living in a
country wherc vested righits are respected,
(.olupensation sbould be miade in sonie way
to t'e importer of this article that lbas
paid duty and is now being practically confiscated. if it were in Englafld, it would
be different. I do not mnean comlpensation
for d'e loss of money invested ln the erection of their reflneries, but sbonld not d'e
government at least refund to the importers
the $06,000 whlch they have taken fronm their
pockets? Look at this tbiag reasonably,
apart froni the desire we ail bave to stop
Let ns
the use of opium in ail forms.
look at It froin an bonest, business standpoint. If tie governmneat periniits a business to be carried on as wc bave done
for years and years ever silice coafederation, until It bas attained tbe large proportion that It bas, and bave received tbese
Chlnamen's money, sbould w-e keep tbe
money and destroy the article npon.wbichl
the money was collected without coinLt docs strike lue that this
pensation.
Bill, landable, 1 admit, in its cbaracter and la tbe intention of tbe gos'crament, is a confiscation of property, not
only a confiscation of property, but it fines
the owners to tbe extent of $66,000 that
they paid as duty. During tbe laSt six
montbs d'e probabilities are that tbey bave
u
u
pna
aqatty0
e
it on tbe market. if I understand d'e
trade, the crude opliai wben imuported
into tbe country, is punt lu what the
Cbinanîen Caî bickee for four or five
days before ut us fit to take into the refinery
and be refIned for nse by the people. Tbey
bave iiorted a large qnaniit!tY Of the

1674

SENATE
1674

crude article on whichi they have paid the
duty. Is it right to take a ma's mouey
under tbe circumstaucès andi at the saine
time deprive hlm of the benetit arisiug fromi
the trade wbîch be bas been carrying on?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-If I were flot a Privy
Councillor, I would say it would be a disbouest tbing for any goverament to do.
H ou. Mr. LOUGHEED-Beiflg a Prlvy
Couucilinr will scarcely warrant dishonesty.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn only one.
Hou. Sir Mý%ACKENZLE BOWýELL-My\I
bon. frieud says that if hle gave his opinion, he would say it w-as a dishouest thing
to do. If it w-ould be dishonest in an individual to do it. it is equally dishonest in
a goverument, and muchi more so because
the goverumnent is able to refund the rnoney
to these people. I do not think it foilows
that because w-e object to the Monigolian
race becomiug numerous i this country, or
simply because they are Chinamen, that
there should be auy different law appiied
to themi lu the management of their business. If there Is, I franikly coufess I amn
unable to see It. I agree with ail the hon.
mInister -bas said with reference to the
deleterlous effects of the use of this article,
but would the hon, gentleman or the gos'erument bave Introduced a bill of confiscation such as this if this business liad beeti
carried on by white people? I doubt it
very much.
Ho1n. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, most certainly.
Wben 'the attention of the governineut w-as
called to, It. If the bon, gentleman w-ere
educated up to It be would come to a diff erAny governument, uf ter
eut conclusion.
kuowing the facts, aud havinz had an investigation and g-etting a report. w ouid certainly feel it their duty to tal;e action.
Hou. Sr MACKENZIE BOWELL-I ain
discussing the question fronm w-hat I consider
a fair equitable clealing lu a business transaction. 1 amn not arguîng lu favour of the
Chinese. I would use the sanie argument
precisely with regard to negroes or w-bite
people. How long bave we been permîttiuig
the carrying on of this trade? Wheu I w*as
Miuister of Customs, I bad a good deal to
do witb the question of the importation of
opium. At that time, about twenty years
Hou. Sir MAjjCKENZIE BOWELL.

ago, the duty limposed upon the crude opium
ivas $1 per pound and on refined opium $5
per pound. In the United States, a duty of
$5 was imposed on the crude opium and $10
ou the refined. The resuit was that in Victoria and Vancouver no less than thirteen
relineries were estabiisbed and they found
a mnarket for their product. 1 do not hiesitate to say, not so mucb In Britisbi Columabia
or in Canada as in the United States. The
United States, learning that large amnounts
were being smnuggled Into th.at country of
the refined article manufactured in Canada,
lowered the duties upon the crude opium
aud jucreased it upon the refined; the resuit
w-as that the United States, being a muchi
larger market for the consumption of tîxis
article, the refineries in Canada w-cre reduced to about three, and they increased lii
the United States on account of the lowerlng of the duty upon the crude material.
Thue revenues fell off upon this article, aud
the crude opium went to the United States
where It was mauufactured. The Uuited
States, finding the exteat of the business in
that country and the III effects arising from
the use of It, passed iaws probibiting the
importation or opium altogether. Out governmnent is uow foliowiiig lu the sarne line.
I find no fault witb that, but I do find fauît
witb taking their mouey and confiscating It.
Looking nt the bistory of this question as
intimated by the Hon. Secretary of State
wlien he made bis first staternent, we knov
that war arose ou this question between
Eixgland and China a great xnany years ago.
England recoguized the fact that in the
interests of humanity the suppression or
that trade would be to the benefit of the
human race. What have they dou&? Ia
Iildia, the great poppy producing country
wlxere the opium is manufactured, England,
India, Hong Kong- and China bave eutered
iinto an agreement by whicb, at a certain
date, the preventiou of the importation or
exportation or growtb of the poppy will
cease, and it is based upon equitable principies. India and Mong Koug, with the consent of England, bave couxe to the conclusion that tbey shall pass a law 1)reventi1ng
the exportation in ten years; that is ten
per cent of the exportation frorn the time
ut which the law was passed should ceuse
every. year, so that.at the end of ten years
no f urtber exportation of the article could

JULY 17, 1908
be macle. HEow bus China met that?
They bave met it very fairly. In
China, the article Is grown to a very large
extent. China has acted upon the samne
principle. They say, if there is 100,000
acres of land growing the article out of
which the opium is macle, ten per cent of
that land shai cease to lie grown every
year. lu this way the whole production and
sale must ceuse, and the importation of
the article Into China must also ceuse.
When one looks ut it, oxie inust corne
to the conclusion that It is a principle
which recognizes the vested rights whicb
tbe landowner and grower and manufa-cturer of thîs article have. We are flot actlng upon that princîple, although my hon.
friend. has given notice of an amendment
recognizing it to a certain extent-that Is
six months Is to be gilven withîn which to
get the opium out of the country.
Hon. Mr. DOM.%VILLE-W'ho is going to
take it out?
Hlon. Sir MACKE-NZIE BOWELL--I
do flot know who is going to take it ont,
more particularly as the United States,
which used to be the great consumer of
this article, resents its Importation altoWhere they will take It to, 1
gether.
cunnot say. They may take It to Great
Britain, because tixat is a free trade country and ail kinds of poisons may lie tuken
there, sud that is one of the advantages of
the system. That is really the position of
the opium trade to-day so far as we know.
The difference is this. England recognizes
vested righits. When the slave trade was
abolished tbey appropriated soine twenty
million pounds sterling to compensate, to a
certain extent, the owners of slaves. It
muy be answered that they dcl niot do
that lu the United States. It Is very true
tuey dcl not, but the abolition of slavery
in the United States was under circumnstances altogether different from tbat of
The southerners, who owned
England.
the slaves, were ln a state of rebellion,
and treason brings with it the rope or the
gallows upoxi many occasions, particularly ia former timies, and they were punishied, insteud of being haîîged, by their property hein.- taken from thexu lu the persons of. the slaves, and there was a good

reason for the policy which was adopted.
The United States neyer would have
aboiished slavery without compensation
bad the slave owners flot been ln a state
of rebellion, nor would they have a'boiished
slavery tat (the time fthey (Md had the
soutberners consented to lay clown arms
and remain without furtber figbting or
Every
furtber rebellion, wlthin the union.
one wbo bas any knowledge of the bistory
of that event lrnows that President Lincoln,
although a great abolitionist, madle thxe proposition that If the rebels laid clown
their arms they w-ould flot interfere witb
s1avery, but wheu the southeruers would
not do that, lie snid .'«We must take the
extreme view, and issue a proclamation
abolishîflg slavery'1 ; and under these circuinstances no0 one blamed him. 1 draw
the distinction betweeu the action of the
Eng-lsb goverament and the action of the
Un~ited States ln order to point out the
iliffereuce of the clrcumstalces whichi luduced the one to compensate ancl the other
not to compensate. While I arn fully lu
accord wlth the sentiments uttered by the
Hlon. Secretary of State as to tbe iuecessîty
for putting a stop to the use of opium,
particulaly lu the manner in wbich It Is
used, those who have been iu British Columbia or San Francisco ancl have visited
the opium deus will recognize the force
of the representations nmade by Mr. King
and woulcl rènder aid to any extent laIMOSt
But 1
ln stopplng the whole trade.
main question again, 15
corne back to tbe
it fair and bonest to prevent tbese people
continuîng their business without comipensation? If the Hon. Secretary of State
would Impress upon bis colleagueS the views
lie lias expressecl bere to-night, I tbink
they would see some rea son lu It. The goverument shouid ut ieast refund the money
which they have taken from them. The
loss on those enguged lu the trade will be
sufficiently severe by destroyiilg their business ancl to 'a great extent the refineries
which bave been erectecl to carry on the
,business. Thiere are at the present nmoment
-five refinerles la British Columbia, two large
refinerles and three small ones. I have been
îuformed tbat the Chinamnen are maleing ait sorts of propositions to take
ýover the smnaller ones. I amn net ndvocat-

1676

SENATE

1676

SENATE

'ing that ;I did not advance it as n reason
-iliy they shauld be permitted ta continue
lun business. One point escaped my inmd;
-iu dealing with this question in Chinaand 1 amn not sure whether it is so il) the
United States-tbey concentrated the busIness lu the bands of one or two people,
,and that, ns 1 have nlready pointed out,
-%vill cease at the end o! ten years l tlie
inanner I have pointed ont. Chinese nnîy bie
an uncivilized race iii the minds of sanie
people, and there may be objections ta
having Chinese lu this country, and ta al
certain exteat I agree wvitlî the îolicy of
the governument on that questiont. but tue
p)oint is whether It is fair ta take their
mouey, keep) it iii aur packets and destrav
the article on wlîich timey iay the moîîey.
Hon. Mr. DOMVLLE-I wvas very glad
ta heur the hon. gentleman from Hastings
make such a nnly speecb. I bad an open
nmiud UP to a littie while ugo. but w-heu I
beard the Secretary o! State say that be
considered this a dishonest mode of deaiing
with tbe question, 1 certainly nccept bis
view. This bas been rather a surprise.
W'e bave been a long timle flindîng tis out.
We have corne at the end o! the session ta
n great moral standpoint. The other day It
was stated w-e were not ta be allowed even
ta have cider la aur celiars. This Bill is too
suddeu a reform. I do think it is a surprise ta the people whicb they neyer cauld
bave contemplated w-beu they were going
into a legitimate business, fastered by the
goveranent and paying duty, ta be pulled
ut) s0 suddeully in this w-ny. 1 hope tue
Hon. Secretary of State w-ll -Ive these unfortunate people sufficient time ta get out
of the dilemmia and nat bie crucified.
Haon. '.%r. KERR-Thiere is a provisionm Ii
the Customis Act under wbicil the Gavernor
in ýCouacil bas autbarity ta refuild duties on
gaods under certain conditions, and the ianiguage of that section appears ta me ta give
the goverument ample autharity ta do so iii
such a case ns tbis. It is as fallaw-s:
The Governor in Counicil may, under regulations made for that purpase, aliow on the
exportation o! goods whrch have been inparted
mata Canada and on which a duty of custaxas
bas been paid a drawback equal ta the duty
eo paid, with sncb deduction therefrom as is
provided ia such reguistion.
Hon. Sir M.&CEENZIE BOWELL.

In cases rnentioned in such regulations and
subjeet ta such provisions as are therein made
such drawback or a sufficient in lieu thereof
inay be allowed on dut y paid goods mnauufactured or wrought in Canada into goods exported. therefrom.
The first provision of the section covers
tbe case Ilu question, of goods iml)arted into
Canada on wbicli duty bas been paid, atnd,
therefore, tbe tjovernor In tJouncil is clatîted with autbority under that section of the
Customs Act to provide for a returu of tbe
duty by way of a rebate equal ta the
amount of duty or sucb part thereof ns tbey
inay deenii l)roler; but 1 appreliend f romn the
expression of opinion of the hon. Sccretary
of State on this question as ta the moral
obligation, and the strong expression of
opinion of the ex-leader, or ratiier active
leader in thîs matter, it is a case in %vblil
we might expect the Governor lu Couincil
wouid exercise that power and return the
duty.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BO-NVDLL-That
drawback section neyer was intended ta
This refers
apply ta a case of thîs kind.
ta duty paid on materlal which bias eutered
into the manufacture of an article lu its
I admit the
construction and Is exported.
fùill force of that clause, and if the goverilýment will permit tbese Chinamneu ta manufacture the 66,000 pouuds o! crude opium
that they have now la store juita retined
opium, and they export that refined article
they cauid get their money back; but the
section wauld not justify the payileut of
drawback under any other conditions. Or
if tbey re-export the crude opium under
this clause 1 take it for granted, as a mlatter o! justice and equity, that they would
give the duty back to tbern; but this section
does flot cover the point unless the article
is ma.nufacture.d. I understaad from a remiark made by the hou. Secretary of State,
that the intention is to s0 construe this
section that bas just been rend as ta enable
the goverument to pay bnck the duties
w-hen the owners export tbe article either
lu the crude or ln tbe mannufactured state.
1 do not wish ta be understaod as defendinig the Chinamen's opium trade or that I
xvant the manufacture of oplim contiuued
in titis country, but there should be at ieast
al refund of the duty, even if no compensation is allowed for other iuses.

JULY 17, 1908

1677

1077
fess I did flot rise so imucih to speak about
opium, as another matter upon which I
feel greatly agrieved. I hope you will look
iuto this question and see whether I was
treated right or flot.

JULY 17, 1908
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I an' glad the
Senate lias got into a medîcinal mood this
evening, and is prepgred to discuss niedicine
to an extent I neyer heard of before.
I did flot rise this eveniug to make a speech
or do anything except to tell the -Senate
what I thought I kuew, perhaps to au equal
extent as auy other memiber here, and as
there Is no other physician here but myseif,
what I knew perbups better than any one
of them. I said the drugs ln the iist were
the most powerful known to science. 'My
object -was to guard the hionour and purity
of the Senate when I asked the favour of
hiavlîîg the Bill postponed until to-morrow
morniîîg, when I could have iny facts coliected for the benefit of the Senate more
than n'y owu. I say there are agents here
for no other purpose but for the purpose
of procuring abortion. Take the first drugon the l-ist. and ergot and cantharides; tiîey
cannot be used for any other objeet.
Hon. Mr. POWEll-1 rlse to a question
of order. There is notblng about cantharides la this Bill.
Hou. Mr. SULLIVAN-I an' taiking- about
drugs,.and the Bill deals wlth a drug.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The Bill deals with
the manufacture and sale of opium.
Hon. Mr. SULýLI'A.N-Hion. gentlemen
have voted for au Act of impurity. 1 was
concerned lu sustaining the public murais
and they ruthlessly voted for the Bill.
They may have the benefit of their ungodly work. und 1 do flot wish then' any harn
about it. Opium- is a drug- whichi, like
everything else. there is a good deai of preindice about. 1 fail to find lu statistics
ailything about the injurions effect of opium
upon the Chinese. They seen' to use it
wlth more regu]arity and caution than any
of us would if we îadulged la the habit.
Many pensons have described the effects
of the use of opium lu those opium deus,
but I do flot think that can be regarded as
satlsfactory. Above aIl thing-s, the Chiinese
having this habit ought to be trented wlth
a great deal of consideration. I ai afnaid
to say anything for fear it would be iooked
upon as political. but any expeuse tbey have
been put to la regard to the payaent -of
duty should be nefunded to theni. I con-

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I suppose n'y
hon. friend can state what the export trade
of opium fron' Vancouver and Victoria Is ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I have no kuowledge of lt.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The ouly question in n'y mind is, If those dealers lu
opium have flot lmported the drug for ex0f course if they have
port purpo-es.
doue so, the question of damages xnighit
flot be so serions a matter as bas been
indicated.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I an' quite in
accord with this Bill. W~e should put a
stop to the opium trade, at the saine time
I agree with bon. gentlemen who think
we sbould treat those who have invested
their money la the lndustry, fairiy. I arn
flot sure but the amount they pald In customs duty should _)e refunded to them.
Altbough I ar n ot declded ln n'y opinion
on the subject, I thlnk It would pay Catiada to have this opium destroyed and pald
for, insteird of Iettlag it go out to other
countries. It wouid be most to our credit,
instead of letting it be expor ted to soine
other country, because it would do injury
wherever It goes.
The ameadment was adopted.
Hon. Mr. McKAY (Aima) from the con'mittee, reported the Bill with au amendment whlch was concurred la.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT, moved the third reading of the Bill.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
seems to me that the penalties imposed If
they sell It means selling It ia Canada for
consuimption Ia this country ?
non. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
thought fron' the manner in which' the
clause is worded that that niight prevent
theni selling It even for exportation.

1678

SENATE

1678

SENATE

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I expiained to the
Minister of Justice the arrangement I bad
mrade, and the clause was drafted in the
Department of Justice on the understanding tbat the intention w-as to allow the
owners to export their stock, and tbey
must export it witbin six months.
The motion was agreed ta, the Bill was
read the third time and passed.

Tite menson for the ameridment is thîs;
Saine months ago the Privy Council passed
an order itr council whlcb declared that
after Jnnuary 1 next thue coasting priieges
gratrted ta a number of i-essels that had been
In existence for mare than baif a century,
should be repealed.
The attention of the
British government was calied ta this, and

CANADA SHIPP1NG ACT AMNENDMENT
BILL.
SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.

affairs, and there were existing treaties; be-

provinces engaged In the coasting trade ta,
make voyages in cbarge of captains havlng
The
certificates for caasting purposes.
coasting voyages are always to a point ýsouth
of the present line, Cape flatteras, and the
vessels require a captain with a seaging
certificate. Prior to 1903, the limits ran
much furtber soutb. The present amendmýent is to, restore the privileges wbich thesp
vessels formerly bad, and ta remove the restriction. There are twa classes 0f certicntes issued. one, amly a coasing certificnte, and tbe otber an unrestricted one. The
first only goes ta Cape Hatteras.

anather order In council was passed repealîng
tirat which had been In existence for nearly

they mrade some sort af remanstrance, caillng attention ta the fact tbat It -%as rather
hasty, the privilege had prevaiied for conSSECOND AND THIRD IIEADINGS.
siderabiy more than haif a century. Bef ore
Bill (212) An Act to amend the Criminai
canfederation, the practice had existed of
Code and to repeal section 450 of the Railiricluding Canada ln the treaties Great Bniway Act.--(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
tain made in refemence ta, International
tween Great Britain and Nomway and Spalui

aLnd a number of ather countries. and niaturally, they prevailed la Canada. Tbey were
Hon. '.\r. SCOTT iroved the second rend- applied In Canada nearly 50 years aga. hv
ing of Bill (209) 'An Act to amend the an order in cauncil was passed appraving af
Canadian Shipping Act.' He said: This them, but this year it was tboug-ht the urne
Bill is to enable sbips from thec maritime had came for discontinuing that practice. s0

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I think the lion.
minister bas the wrong Bill.
Hon. Sir MACKIENZIE BOWEL-If I
understand this amendment, it is extetrding
the priviieges of cammanders of caasting
i-essels or fomeigners. ta do caasting other
than between easteru parts in Canada, and
ta ga as far as Mexico, St. Pierre, Miquelon,
and Central Mexico.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-The section of tlic Act
whicb is repealed rends as foliows:
The Governor in Council may frorn time to

hiaif a centrumy and statltrg that after January 1 next the priviiege sbould cesse. Rteresentatives then came ta the gavernînent,

chlly fromn Nava Scotia, stating tlîat It
wauid be a serious lnjury ta the ca tmade
if the vessels af Norway, wbich bad been
specialiy fitted for the binging of coal ta
the part af Mantreal, sbauld be discriminated against and taken aut of the tracte; tbat
there weme no vessels ready ta take tbeir

places, and It wouid be a semions matter.
Sa tbnt this legisiation is the resuit.
Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is the purpo-u of
the Bill trot ta permit of greater elasticity
wîth reference ta the admission' of Namwegian or foreign shlps tban at present exists?
1 understand, If you admit certain ships ta
thc caasting tmade, yau bave ta admit the
w-hale of the ships of that natian ; but
ander this Bill It is proposed ta give g-renter
paw-er ta the Governar In Council ta permit of a particular class af shîps of this
particuiar nation, namely Norwegiau sbips.
I uuderstand it is sbips of 1,000 tans, and
upw-nrds, and It is trot for tbe purpase of
admiting smaller sbips which might camne
inta competîtion, witb aur awn smail ships.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, it arase fram

time declare that the forgoing provisions of
this part shal trot apply ta the ships or vessels of any foreign countri- in which British
ships are admitted ta the coasting trade of
tquch ooutrtry, and ta carry goods and passeagers from one port or place, ta another in
represenýtations
such counrtry.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

made by tbe ca

industry

JULY 17, 1908
in Nova Scotia, who cornpiained that, if we
prohibited tixese Norwegian ships frorn
carrying our coals, it would be a serious
lnjury to the trade, as there were no Canadian vessels then built that were so well
adapted to, carry coal to Montreal.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is going to
operate as a restriction upon Norwegian
shlps comlng into Canadian ports, because
1 understand we are takiag power to limit
the coasting trade to any particular waters
ln Canada, whereas we cannot exercise that
restriction now ; but assurning we exercise
tHe resetriction, permitting only a limited
number of* Norwegian vessels to do business
witbln llmited coast, bow will that operate
upon the reciprocal. trade which we
at preseat enjoy with Norway? I understand that Canadian vesse]s do very littie
coasting trade witb Norway ; at the sarne
tirne there is tliat element about it, whether
reprisais wilI take place ln the limitation
of our rights to do coasting trade on the
Coast of Norway.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Theire is very littie
coasting trade doue by our vessels abroad.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I was
under the Impression that the coasting
trade had already. been granted to Norway
by Canada.

17
1679

It seems to me the difficulty bas arisen in
this way; ln looking for an authorlty
tbat they had not for repealing the former
orders in council granting coastlng privileges to -foreign vessels, thie goverament, ln
a moment of, whether it was weakness or
plty, I do not know what it was, against
other nations, assumed a power that tbey
dld not possess. There Is no autbority
given in the section we are repealing for
revoking any order lu council which bad
been passed. Under the authority of 'that
clause, the coasting trade Is granted to
Norway and to other countries, that extends thie same privileges to British vessels. Then the government took upon tbemselves the responsibillty of repealing those
In looking at the Shipping Act
orders.
1 cannot find that they had any autbority
for doing it. It lias beea found that la the
operation the privilege that was given
to, Norway la particular, Nrhose vessels eiigaged the coasting trade under the order
in council passed, were thereby lnjurlng the
coal carrying trade, and now the goverument are recantlng and repealiug the clause
whlch I bave just read giving them the
right to extend the coastlug trade to, foreigu
countMries that have extendL-d the O-amne
rights to Canada. Then they take further
power to revoke or vary such order la
council when they thluk proper. I think
the provision is a very good one, only it
seemns to me that that clause restricts the
privilege to certain waters in Canada. whiie
under the first order la council It perrnitted
them to go into any waters ln Canada. Arn
I not right ln that Interpretation of It?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was in existence a
great many years, but we passed -an order
lu council ln the earlier part of the present
year i whîch we revok-ed ail privileges
heretofore granted in the coasting trade to
ail vessels, inciuding a large number of
Then the remonstrance came
countries.
Hou. M4r. SCOTT-Yes.
that we were goiag to injure the coal trade
Hon. 'Sir MACKENZIE -BOWEfIJ--¶t
of Nova Scotia unless some modification
power throughout 'Canada or to
was made of that order; consequently this gives the
certain waters that may be lndicated lu
authority 'was taken.
the order la council.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The object is to
Hon. Mr. S.COTT-The intention was to
give more elasticity to thie law. The order
limit the vessels to the carrying of coal
in council will operate hard against the
coul trade, while thie object is to conserve from points lu Nova Scotia to ff4ontreal.
our coasting trade to our own vessels
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It wîil be possible
to as large au extent as possible without to mnake that provision by order la council.
materla'lly lInjuring the coal trade.
There bas been no * arm done by the order
BOWBLIL-The ln council as passed. It was not to corne
Hon. Sir -MACKE~NZIE
present proposition is not confined to Nor- Into effect untîl a certain date, and another
foreign vessels.' point la that although -Norway Is not named,
weglan vessels, It says 1

SENATE
1680

1680

the
I presume Norw-egiail ships are the only passed a Bill granting land to tbey veterans
had not
engaged in the Fenian raids,
to trouble us.
are likeiy
ones that

The motion w-as ngreed to and the Bil
was read the second and third tinie and
passed.
-SOUTH AFRIýCAN VOLUNTEELIS
BOUNTY BILL.
SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
Honu- Mr. SC.OTT moved the secoad rendIng of Bill (109) ' An Act to autilorize a
bc-unty to volunteers w-ho served the Crowni
la ýSouth Africa.' Hle said the object is to
grant tu ail the'volunteers w-ho 'vere enlisted Ia Canada during the Soutih Africaii
war the right to two quarter sections of
land up in the territories, or to the descendants of those w-ho have died, w-itb tbis privilege, that instead of acc-eptîng the lanid,
scrip to the airnount of IC0 acres inay ho
granted. There are conditions attached ta
the grant. Where the land is taken up, the
recipient must either by Iiiiseif or by sone
representative, comply wlh the ordinary
settiement duties. Thiat is, by living on the
land for the requisite time and niaking liprovements. It applies also to the nurses
who went ont with the miulitary forces, and
Is limlted to British subjects or naturalized
British subjects.

the remotest idea of the quantity it was
going to cover, and after a number of townships liad been absorbed, the Linister of
Crown Lands told me they would have to
survey three or more townships before the
dlaimfs could be ail satisfied. A great rnnny
in my district neyer made applicationi, mnyself among the number. I lid the documents ready but never took the trouble to
apply, because I thought 160 acres two or
three hundred miles back in tbe country
would-not compensate for the trouble taken
to secure it.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
w-ns rend a second and a thiird titue and
passed.
The House resolved itself inito a Conimittee of the Whole on the Bill.
(In the Committee.)

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wiil the hon.
wbat is
Secretary of State explain
meant by 'nurslng sisters'? Lt seexns to
me it -wouid be better to say nursing
Sisters would imply that tbey
females.
belonged to sorne sort of order, and I understand the nurses were not confined to any
after
particular class.

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Naturalized
the war or before?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not ]cnow particularly; before tbey get tbeir patents. Applications must be made before December
2tst, 1910.

Hon. 1.r. SCOTT-They were suj)posed tu
be all certificated. That is, they heSld diplomas f rom institutions cither in Canada or
the United States.

Hon. -Sir -MACKE.NZIE BOWELHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That would be
Would the hion, gentleman inforni the no0 reason for designating theai sisters.
House the probable nuniber of volunteers
who would corne under the operation of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved to substitute
this Act. Tbe proposition made by the female nurses ' for ' nursing sisters,' in the
governiment is a very laudable one, to re- second clause.
cognize t'le services of tbose iwho volunThe amendaient w-as agreed to and the
teered to assist the ariny lu Soutb -Africa.
of the clause as amnended was adopted.
Has the departaient any knowledge
number who would bejikely to apply, and
Hon. Mr. CA.MPBELL, from the cointhe quantity of land likeir to be aquired?
mittee, reported the Bill witb aineudments
Hon. Mr. ISCOTT-I arn told it muis over whiciî were concurred la.
5.000 possibly 7,000.
Tbe Bill was then rend the third tine
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW-EL-I
that w-ben tbe Ontario goverument and -passed.
know
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

JULY 17, 1908

l1

waere there is no regular list, to prepare
one. Since 1897, when an election took
place ID those districts, the Governor ia
,COMMONS ÂMENDMENTS CONCURRED Council appointed parties to prepare a list.
IN.
This list was revised in the ordinary way
A message "vas received from -the House before judges. Now, a list cannot be pre-of Commons returning Bill (NN) An Act pared by the Governor Ia Council If the
to amend the Canada Shipping Act, with provincial goverament bave already made
amendments.
any. la the elections which took place
recently In Ontario, the government of that
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the amendpr-ovince liait made a rather hasty list.
mieats be concurred in. He said: This
As the time was short, they were obliged
Bill origiuated in the Senate, and when It
to cnt down to n very short period the time
weat down to the bouse of Commons somne
the list and also for
are familiar allowed for making
of the gentlemen there who
al)peals to the judge. 1 am not going to
-with the coasting trade, more particularir-s
dlscuss the controversy ln the other bouse,
on the Atlantic coast, called attention to
but it was alleged that Damies had been
the fact that a change liad been inade in
àdded without the parties really being sýen
the law in 1903 by which the coastiîîg trade
and that there was no time whatever to
wa Iimiited to Cape Hatteras in Virginia.
appeal to the judge, because the period was
Forrnerly it extended il aiong. the easternl
so short betweea the preparing of the lists
side of the continent, including the West
and election day. This Bill authorizes the
Indies. It made this difference, that certijudge
some men for coast- Governor In CouaclI to naine the
ficates were granted to
who wlI be associated wlth two other
Ing and to others for seagoing, and It
judges la the adjoining counties to naine
*worked a great hardship, because the mates
persons who shall prépare a list in those
and captains whio liad been in the habit
unorganlzed districts and after they have
of running to the tropics were prohibited
the list, It will be for those judges
«during- the last two or three years as they prepared
slttlng In court to hold a revision, ample
enly held certificates as coastlng mnasters,
given for persoas to npply to
aind not ns seag-oing masters. The amend- time belng
strike off or add Dames. That is the
ment simply widens the limit. lnstead of
Tinere are other clauses
Cape Hatteras, it goes to the end of the principal part.
tbat it would take too long to explain tocontinent and the Wnest'ladies. Other anmendments increised the tonnage liniit of nlght.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
vessels which may go on a coasting voyage
master.
was read the second time.
-Yvithout carrying a certificated
The motion was ag-reed to.
SALE 0F ORDNANCE LA4NDS 'AUTHORIZATION BILL.
DOMINION ELECTIONS ACT AMENDFIRST, SECOND AND THiIRD RE-ADINGS.
MENT BILL.
A message was received from the bouse
FIRST AND SECOND 1IE-4DI-NGS.
of Commons with Bill (218) An Act to
A4 message was received froia the bouse authorize the sale or other disposition of
of Commons with Bill (115) An Act to nm- certain ordnance lands iii the cities of
end the Dominion Elections Act.
Toronto and Montreal.
CANADA

SHIPPINO ACT AMENDMENT BILL.

The Bill was regd the first tume.

The Bill was rend the first. second and
third time and passed.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readSATURDAY SITTINGS.
lng of the Bill for to-morrow. be said ;
the Bill sets out first, that it becomes necesbon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the bouse
sary to have a revision of the lists for do now adjouru until il a.m. to-morrow.
certain electoral districts north and west
MACKENZIE BOWELLHon. Sir
of Lake Superior. Under the Franchise
to-miorrow
Act the Governor in Coulicil is authorized, Tinder the rules. we cannot meet
106
REVISE2D EDITION

1082

SENATE

1~82
unless a motion
mous consent of
House adjourns
tintil to-morrow,
slttings..

SENATE

is made witb the unani- Bowell, seconded by the Hon. Mr. Angers,
the House that when the and it was ordered, 'that when the Senate
to-day It stand adjourned adjourns to-day, at the second sitting thereand that there be tbree of, it do stand adjourned tili to-niorrow at
elev-eu o'clock ln the momning, sucb sittlng
to continue till one o'clock, unless sncb sitHon. '-%r. SOOTT-I mnove that the ting sooner adjourn.' And the motion proSenate adjourn until to-morrow morning vides for sittings at three o'clock and at
at eleven o'clock, for a special sitting, and elght. I do not find any notice of it. It
to-morrow afternoon for a special sitting w-as simply a motion made at the 'sitting
fromn three o'clock tilI six, and to-morrow 'on Friday.
evening from eight &'clock tili eleven, unless
Hon. Mr. LANDIIY-Tbe notice would
43ooner adjourned.
not appear in the Joumnals. It migit apHqu. Sir .MACKENZIE BGMWELL-Ti'e pear in the proceedings.
mile provides that, whien the House adjourns
The motion was agreeâ to.
on Friday, lt shail stand adjourned until
Monday, at a certain hour. That is the
eleven
matil
The Senate adjourned
standing raie. That lias flot been interto-morrow.
o'clock
fered witb, furtber thon the motion made
by the hon. Secretary of State, <lelarings
that, until otherwise ordered, after the
adjournment on Friday, %ve should meet
on Tuesday at 8 o'clock. That is the only
THE SENATE.
,order upon the record. No order bas been
made by the Senate to change that order.
OTTAWA&, Saturday, July 18, 1908.
The motion made by the bon. gentleman
and carried, did flot change the rule, exThe SPEAKER took the Chair at Eleven
cept ln regard to adjourning fromn Friday o'clock, a.m.
until Tuesday, until lie made the motion
Prayers and routine proceedings.
to hold tbree sessions a day ; but there ls
no motion, nor -is there anything to justify
0F COLONELS AT TELtCENthe contention that when we adjourn to- POSITION
TENARY.
niglit w-e shall meet to-morrow.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think we can gii-e a
Hon. Mr. LANDRY (in the absence of
liberal initerpretation to the motion I mide
that, when the House met on Tuesday it Hon. Mr. Domville) inquired:
would sit every day tifl the close of the
0f the government à£ honora.ry coloaels and
session. We can narrow tbat motion by honorary lieutenant colonels of regiments will
have the right cto tura ont mnounted at the
Interpretation, or enlarge It.
military ceremonials in the rear of the stafi
at the tercenteaary at Quebec?
Mr. LOUGHEED-I do not think there
can lie any doulit about it.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The number of the
officers permitted to appear mounted and
Hon. Sir MlACXDENZIE BOW-ELL-I do
to accompany the staff at a review held by
not desLre to object to prevent business
His Majesty or a member of the Royal
proceeding; but I wish to point out thiat
Family is always a matter of arrangement
this is one of the irregularities w'e are conbetween the mllitary autiorities in coinstantly committing, fromi the manner ln
mand of the troops and the royal personw-hici w-e are conducting business in the
age ln whose honour the review is held.
Senate.
It Is regretted, therefore, that as bis Royal
Mr .SCOTT-I have before me the Highness the Prince of Wales lias flot yet
Hon.
Journals for 1904. On Friday, 2Oth July, arrived at Quebec, it Is not possible to
there was a motion by Hon. Sir Mackenzie give an answer to the question.
Hon. Sir MACKEN ' l} BOE}LI,

JULY 18, 1908

1683

JUIY 18, 1908

1683

anything happening to prevent His Excellency attending, he should attend to proprogue parliament, but as lie had an ImporINQUIRY.
tant engagement, lie was unable to leave
Quebec in time te reach Ottawa for proroHon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
to-day.
When does the government thîuk -it will lie gation
able te lay on the table of rthis House the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It Must have
ioilowdng documents, the production of which
was ordered durin-, the tpresent; session, qat the been a very serious engagement indeed
dates .mentioned:
that wouid prevent the deputy of His Ex(a) The sta.temenit indioating the amount-s
spent on the Deschambault wliarf-February cellency frein attending to prorogue par4?
liament. I amn giad te have the assurance
(,b) The oorrespondence exchenged between that the deputy wiIl be liere Monday.
and Lieutenant
the Departmexvt of Militia
Colonel Davidson re thle latter's dismissal and
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is there anything
the promotion of Sir Henry Peliatt te te
rank of colonel-Februery 14 P
paid to the deputy for his attendance?
(ec)The &éatement showing what was the
daiily puy of the ýsoidiers of the company No.
Except when
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-ýNo.
2 of the Ottawa Field Battery ini 1865 and 1866
Under the
His Excellency is absent.
-March 17?
rule, when His Excellency was abread in
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.r-'fhe answers are:
former years the representative was enDe&ebambanlt. Quabee-Statement of expendi- titled te one-third, 1 thin-k it was, or one.
ture of this department since May 1, 1904.
fourth of the salary. Tbat wvas the rule
Amount of contract
for construction of
Up tili, I suppose, tliree years ago, when
$15,840 0
-whzf.. ......
some remonstrance was made that that
159 75
of extras. Âmount
-$15,999 75
suin seemed unreasonable te deduct from,
Inspeotor's weges, advertisthe salary of 'the Governor General of
53
ing, L...........729
Canada, and a correspondence took place
.$16,729 28 with the colonial office, whlcli resulted ln
Total construction of mâahrf.
175 14
Fenders added 'by departinent .. ......
25 0 the allowance te the deputy being cut
Legal services re purchase of site..
495 22 down, but I do net know te what figure.
Placing trestie roadway.. .... ......
Remoea of rocks from approacli by
wide margin te the Gev23 But it allowed a
water..............2,314
ernor General, 1 think thirty days, witli64
Building o.pproach by land. .$4,393
Punolias of riglit f way.. .. 326,17
the representative or depaty being en4,719 81 out
titled te anything. Hon. Mr. Fitzpatrick
Building waiting room, &c.... .... 1030 25
had, on that occasion, however rendered
$25,489 93 very efficient service, and receive a cerPROROGATION.
lain ameunt as compensation.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before the erHon. Mr. LANDRY-Besides the $1,000
ders of the day are proceeded with, May I paid two years ago, Iast year lie received
ask If prorogation is about te take place paymeiit againto-day? I notice by the merning pres
that It wili be inconvenient fer His Exexpenses, Hon. Charles
'Unforeseen
cellency or the deputy te attend.
Fitzpatrick, expenses w-len acting GoverHon. Mr. SCOTT-I was asked by my nor General, $500.'
bon. friend froni Wolseley iast niglit as
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I theuglit tlie iast
te the prorogation. At tliat time I unpaymfent was $1,000.
derstood His Excellency intended te be
here tels xnerning-, and that if we could
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I suppose the date
close matters we could bave hlm prorogue. of prorogation of parliament was unforeBut it appears afterwards lie sent a fur- seen by hlm. Wili lie be paid fer that?
ther telegrain te the premier that lie weuld
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Those payments are
be unabie te be here. The deputy gevon net made as a matter of riglit. Sometimes
ernor had been communicated witli
Friday, requesting that ln tee event of wliere he bas been Inconvenienced and lias
EXPENDITURE

ON DESCHIAMBAULT
WHARF.

1684

SENATE

lion. Mr. SCOTT-None that I arn aware
been obiiged to attend, and avoid courts, ~f,except the Election Bill now ou our
c
a sum of $500 or $1,000 bas been paid.
ist. oehe Boundary Bill, Subsidy Bill and
accouaI Of thtt lhe Supply Bill are stll in the House of
Hon..Mr. LANDRY-Ofl
is going ,ommons.
engagement he bas for to-night, _c
to lose $500?
Hon Mr. WATSON-I think it is a great
ity that members of parliament, wlio have
Hon. Sur MACn-ýENZIE, BOWELL-Did
the hon. gentlemanl's reinarks not refer 10 )een here for some elght monthis, should bie
to
the acting Governol' GeneraI while the aconveaienced. to the extent of baving
here probabiy 48 hours or miore for
Governûr Generai was out of the country', ,emain
who
and not visiting other portions of the Dom- lie simple convenlence of a gentleman
jnlon? That Is my recoilection. Perhaps ought to be present for the purpose of closing parliament, and I hope the littie disI may be ln error.
cussion whilh bas taken place here may be
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The bon. gentleman
communicated to the people who are reIs qulte rlght. The honorarlumi, whatever It sponsible for delaylng prorogation.
was, under the original regulation wvas only
payable when the Governior Genierai n-as
lion. Mr. POWIER-I arn sorrv the lion.
outside of Canada.
gentleman bas feit called upon to make the
if
Hon. Sur MACKENZIE BOWýELI,-Hfts statement whichi he has made, 'because
given to the acting any officer whose duty Il is to prorogue
any honorarurn been
corne here to-day we
Governor when he cornes down for tbe day parliamnent were to
are flot ready for hlm, and I quite agree
to sanction Bis ?
with the hon. gentleman from Hastings who
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, there bas been
lias lnslsted that there shall be plenty of
no agreement to compensate the chief juslime to dlscuss the measures 'which corne
tice for bis services on those occasions.
up at the end of the session. 1 was glad 10
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It Is oniy a lurnp hear the hon. gentleman say he p ,roposed
sum.
to devote considerable time to the Supply
MACKENZIE BOWE)LL--Are we to Bill, and what sense would there be in askSir
understand that prorogation ranuot take ing His Excellency to corne here to-day ?
place to-day on account of the Chief Jus- lie will be here as soon as we are ready for
hlim. If It can be shown that any harrn or
tice baving a dinner party to-nighlt ?
wrong bas been done to parliament by the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.
action or Inaction of anyone outside, I
have been should be qulte ready to endorse the con*Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELI-I
lnforrned thant the absence of the Goveruor demnation, but we have flot suffered.'
Generai Is on account of the dinner pxrty
The SPBIAKER-It wlll ail depend uponl
that Is to be given by the Chief Justice of the wny this House expedites business.
the Supreme Court, and parliament is to be
lion. Mr'. WATSON-What I wish 10 say
kept In session for a day or two in order
to accommodate the Obief Justice. It seerns is tbis :that the officiai whose dutv it is
to prorogue parliament ought 10 be ready
to me that Is pretty-weil, 1 won't say it.
parliarnent Is ready to prorogue,
Hon Mr'. SCOTT-Perhaps la rn answer here wben
not have 10 w-ait for
frank and iîot diplomnatic. and parliament should
I arn a 11111e 100
hlm two or three days.
We Eire not rendy for the Governor General.
There are several bis yet 10 corne up. The
TliE SENATE DEBATESl.
Sulbsidy Bill bas not yet corne up. nor the
REPORT 0F COMrn1VrEE ÂDOPTED).
Railway Bill.
lion Mr. BEIQUE-M-%oved the adoption
Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbere is
of the report of the Standing Cornrittee on,
enough business for ail of next week.
Debates and Reporting.
Hon Mr. -FERGUSON-Are there any
He said :The question was asked on the
other bis but these the hou. gentleman ba s
presentation of t11e report as to whetber the
named coming from the Coinmons ?
Hou. M4r. SCOTT

JULY 18, 190s

1685

revised report this year and witb the excep?tion of occasions wben there are late sittings at night, it bas corne to us just about
the same tirne as the unrerised of the House
of Commons. I have a very strong op!nion tbat this unrevised Issue wbicb we are
now getting and 'whicb is so sntisfactory,
sbould go to the members of the House of
Commons the same as theirs cornes to us,
and that It sbouid go to tlue Press Gallery
la order that any newspaper man or mernber of tbe House of Cornmons can look
It over and see w-bat we bad'been doing
the day before. M'y view bas flot prevaiied
at the present tirne, but the rnatter bas
been laid over by the committee to be considered at the beginning- of next session.
1 tluink tbat bon. gentlemen when they
corne to look at it and consîder thue satisfactory character of that unrevised report,
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Tiîe Eligiish repor- Will agree wltb me tbat it [s desirable that
ter is making a synopticai report for the it should go to the other House and to the
press, and follows the debate ln the House. nernbers of the galiery ln order that tbey
The otber officer miereiy takes a copy of rnay make use of it ln their discussions,
tbat synesis and prepares a translation. as weii as ln the gallery correspondence of
He bas flot to be bere at ail, and there Is the newspapers.
a great difference betw-een the w-ork of tbe
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I think it
tw-o.
is very Important that our debates, wbiie
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I amn tbey are f resb, sbould go to the rnembers
flot going to discuss the question furtber of tbe House of Commons, and to the
tban to say that 1 w-ili rote against thue Press Gallery. A comrnon expression with
report altogetluer containing that clause be- newspaper men is that tbey want 'hot
cause 1 think the expenditure for the ser- stuif.' 1 do flot know 'whether our debates
vice rendered-that is as far as the out- are hot enoughi for the press or flot, but
aide is concerned, I ar nfot cornpiaining of certainly If tbey do flot reach the gallery
the reporter-la useless. It is se rnucb until tbey are three days old, they are far
money thrown aw-ay.
too cold for distribution.

arnounts were proPerly mentioned. 1 arn ln
a position to answer affirrnatively that the
amounts are correctiy mentioned in the report. Mr. Haunay is paid at the rate of
$40 a week' during the session, and tbe
Frencb reporter is paid at the rate of $15
per week during tbe sîtting of tbe House
only.
Hon. Mr. LANDLIY-I wouid ask why tbe
Frencb reporter is paid only $15 whlen the
English reporter recelves $40 ? I want thern
to be on the sanie footing, or, if 1 cannot
get tbemn on the saine footing 1 wili move
te strike the clause out.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It ia because lie is
net eailed upon to do theý saine work at ail.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If lie has ne w-ork
to do w-e do flot w-cnt him at ail.

Hon. ',%r. FERGUSON-Before the ques- 1Hon. Mr.,ELLIS-It is a serions rnatter
tion is put, as a member o! the committee, to pu n circulation tbe observations o!
I arn net chalienging the action of tbe bon. gentlernen w-bo have'not had an opOriginrerise their remarks.
Ito
committee. but I desire tiîat the attention portnt
o! the House shouid bo directed to a mat- ally [n tbe Senate, the first shoots were
We decided
ter that w-as before the cornmittee w-hidi slips of paper, galley proofs.
bas been laid erer until the next session it w-ould be more convenient to make tborn
o! parliament. It Is w-itlu reference to ln the form of an unrorised 'Hansard,' as
the distribution of the rerised debates. We they are now. But tbe cormlttee shrinks
arranged last year for tie tirst tirne te get !rom ordering tborn to, go into generai cirHoworer, the suggestion that
out an unrerised issue. We bad prerious culatiou.
te that somne w-ay of gettinýg proofs w-hicb they sbould go to the Press Gallery Is a
w-ere corrected, and it w-as days and daYs good one. The matter w-lI be takon up
aftor before the unrevised came eut. Last next session.
The motion was agreed to.
year xre w-ero perimitted to bring out an
unrerisod issue and I think hon. gentlemen
The'Senate adjournod until Tbree o'ciock.
will admit w-e hare got ont a rery good un-

1686
1686

SENATE

SENATE
was shortened witbin wbich the judge must
SECOND SITTING.
revise the liste. It was repr,2sented that
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three this had acted very unfairly.
Naturally
o' dock.
when the federal government appointed enumerators, tbey appointed friends. When
Routine proceedings.
the government of Ontario appoited. enuELECTION LAW AMNENDMENT BILL Inerators la those districts they naturally
appointed their own friends. We know very
SECOND READING.
well how easy It ls to Influence even the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read- most bonourable men where polities enter
Ing of Bill (115) An Act to aniend the Dom- and Lt .-vas alleged, and pretty strongl3'
supported by proof, that those Ilsts were
inion Elections Act.'
nlot falrly made up, that tbey were partial,
He said : The first and the more impor- that the Liberal party had nlot an oppor.
tant clauses of this Bill relate to tbe pre- tunity to be represented, that the reviparation of a llst in what are known as sion by the judge was bastily carried on,
the unorganized districts of Ontario. Un- and varions accusations of that kind.
I
der the Franchise Act, as it stood in 1897, ar nflt going to say -wbetber those accuthe Governor in Councîl was authorized t0 sations were true or not, because 1 m-ould
appoint enunierators to prepare a list in flot bie safe In making any statenient. The
those districts wbere the liste n-ere nlot liste may have been fairly and justly
prepared annuaiiy. Tlhe liats ail over the framed and submitted to the judge, anti
Dominion, wherever they were prepared lie may have carried out bis mission; but
by the municipal authorities, were always where liste are prepared by one political
accepted. Tbey were transmitted to the party If any frlendly aid can bie given ia
Cierk of the Crown ln Cbancery and print- the preparation and ln the revision of the
ed at Ottawa, and were the liste used In Est, It is pretty well recognized the3 party
the general election. There -were, however, In power take advantage of those opportucertain districts the number of whlch la dim nities.
inIshing but it s0 bappened a numnber of
It was alleged In the House of Commons,
districts north and wvest of Lake Superior as I have said, that the liste were unfairly
are not organizeti. There wýere no voters' prepared, and a battle royal bas been going
liste, and, consequentiy, in thae elections on for several menthe In the other House on
that have been beld for many years béfore that question.
I wlll admit that the
the change of governuient took place, liste provisions for the preparation of the lists
bad te be prepared in those unorganized as laid down in the Bill as first introduceti
districts and tue ordinary procedure was, in the House of Gommons rnay have been
after the liste were prepared, provision was considered unfair to a certain extent;, conmade that a judge sliouid hold court and sequently complaint was entered that the
the liste were revised by the judge. Ap- existing lists were prepared by n goveriaplications to strike off or add namnes were ment adverse to the presenit governnentThe Act contineti a clause, by the Conservative party. If flic opposite
admltted.
bowever, that if there w-as a liat that list side, the Liberal party, were to prepare a
should be taken. Hon, gentlemen who fol- list in which their own supporters were to
lowed the history of events in Ontario lu have a prominent interest, then Lt would
May, June and Juiy iast, wili bave noticed be only fair to say they might be considereti
that at the end of the session held ini partial, aise. To avoid that, the goveirathe local legisiature at Toronto an Adt mient declded that they would depart fromi
was passed authorizing the lieutenant gov- the principle that had se long prevailed,
ernor to bave lista 'prepared. The tume and they enacted tibis clause:
was short, because the elections were tû
2. For rthe purp<6e of prepawing, revising
bie held on the saine day ail over Ontario, and giv'ing effeot tx, such votera' lists there
and, consequentiy, a tume that was cons! r.hàl be a board of Seg'istration for each elecor
dered neot long enoughi for the preparation torai distnict rwbieh is composed wbolly orpartly of s-uch territory flot onunicipaIly
the time ganýized.
of those lista was given, and also
Hon. Mr. ELLIS.

JULY 18, 1908
3. The judge of the dietrict court having
juriediction -ia snob electorei district ci' som
portion thereof, or, wihere there is more than
one sucli judge, the senior cf sueh judges, together with -two other judgee to be selected
by hirn froni the judgee of district courts next
adjacent to hà-e owa, shaU ia each case formn
euoh board cf Tegieration..
4,. Such board of registration shall appoint
for its eheotoral dietrict -as many einumerators
as are neceesaxy, and îît shaili be the durty cf
such enumeratore, under the supervision and
in accordance with the directions cf such
board of regisgtraticxi, (o prepaSe the vrers'
lis for those parts of (the province, &c.
This takes the matter entireiy out of the
bande even of the local authorities. The
judges bave tie appointment of the enumerators. This Bill carrnes out the principle
The Board of Riegistration
tbroughout.
shahl deflue and establisi the polliug divismore
Ions. The federal liet used must be no0
thail one year oid when the writ'was issued,
and provision is made for the revision of
the liste after the enumeration has been
made, se that this provision le not open
realiy te any serious political criticism as
giving undue advantage. Were an election
to take place during the coming year, under
the law, the goverument of to-day -wculd
be obliged to take any liste that happen to
be prepared, provided they were not more
than one year oid, and these liste were prepared Ia the- months of June and July, so
that they wouid stand until the middle cff
next year. Thea provision is made for the
better preparation of the liste in the District
of the Yukon. The plan edopted in the past,
1 tbink, by botb goveraments, lu fact I do not
know that tetre was an election there unthi
the present government came la powerhowever the plan existing 'there was the
plan wbich had prevailed for years la that
Prodistrict of appoiating enumerators.
vision is made in this measure for the appointment of enumnerators. If the judge of
the court le, by reason of absence or ilîness,
unable te act, the judge next in senionity
ebaîl forthwith appoint a number of enumerators. The notices shahl be posted, land it
describes how they are to be posted. The
Bill also contains corne more stringent provisions la respect to the marking of ballots.
It will be remembered tiat la the county
cf Wentworth, at the ast general election,
the candidate who received tbe larger nnmber cf votes could not be declared elected
because the deputy returning officer had In-

1687
18

advertently placed his initiais on certain of
the ballots, and these ballots, under the law,
bail to be thrown out. It makes provision
for the punishment of the deputy returuing
officer who la so unguarded, because under
the Election Act - t le made perfectly plain
that lie must not put bis initiaIs on the ballot; lie must put them on the counterfoil.
There is a counterfoil attached to the ballot on whlch he pute bis Initiais in order
f0 ldentify the ballot after the voter bas
made hie mark upon it. Then there are a
number of clauses to prevent corrrupt practices. Contributions for political purposes
lir companies are made unlnwful and there
are a number of other clauses in the samne
direction. The details eau be further considered In commlttee.
Hon Mr LOUGHEIED-Owmng to the peculiar conditions which surround us at the
present moment, chiefly tbe Impatience to terminate the business of the session It would
be very unwise and inexpedient for me to
enter upon nnythlng lke a review of this
Bill It le one which peculilarly affecte the
membere of the Commons and does not of
course so directiy affect the members of
thie Oliamber Yet there are certain priaciples embodied in the measure that are
worthy of some attention In looking over
the Bill as presented te this Chamber today, and comparing It with the Bill which
was lntroduced in the House of Comunons
la the montb of tMarch iast, It Is a case,
apparentiy, of the base metai biaving gone
througb the reflning fires, and biaving
emerged from the struggle in suci a way
as te find lt difficuit to identify the original
matter. I need not remind. tbis House that
no Bill of the present session received the
measure cf public attention, and lu fact
acrimon-lous discussion wbich this Bill received, owing to the insertion therein of certain very objectionable prînciples, and whicb
practically threatened an uplienval at the
time la parlia ment. 1 need not refer lion.
gentlemen to the fact that one of the cardinal planke of the Liberal party during the
last twenty odd years bas been the
abolition of the dual franchise, and the adoption of the provincial franchise for federai
elections. Hon. gentlemen on the opposite
side, during the many years they were la
opposition, tbuudered forth tbeir condemn-

1688

SENATE

1688

SENATE

ation and indignation at the federal government adopting a franchise in contradistinetion to the franchises of the provinces. -And
1 would give credit to the present government to say, that upon their accession to
power they dld not liesitate to put into practical shape and form that plank of the platforin whlch they had adopted, by wlping
out the provisions of the Federal Eelection
Act, respecting franchises and adopting th#o
provincial principle; but, strange to say, no
sooner had the provincial goveruments
cbanged their politîcal complexion In the
provinces of British Columbia, Manitoba
and Ontario, than my bon. friends on the
opposite side at once conceived the idea thnt
this provincial lists policy possibly might
work to their disadivantage, hence w-e find
this Bill introduced. I venture to sayand it may be said -witbout any exaggeration-and I think the attitude taken by the
Prime Minister brniseif after the introduction of the Bill will warrant the statement
that I make--that neyer was a Bill lntroduced Into parliamient conitaining so objectionable a principle as that wflich n'as enibodied In the firs-t clause of this Bill when
it was introduced into die Couimons la
Marcb last. In fact, when one for a mnonment considers 'that it n'as the deliberate
intention of the government to practically
legisiate themselves into pow-er. by an election Bill in the province of British Colunbia. Manitolba and the northern parts of
Ontario, one is astounded at that measure
1 hesitate t0 use the term of colossal impudence, w-hich would seek to thrust to one
side ail the safeguards whicli had beretofore surrouuded the carrying on of elections
.in the Dominion of Canada. Hou. gentlemen representlng the goverament, ut Ieast
ministers representing the goverunient, have
been promising for the last tbree or four
sessions lu the address from the Throne to
Latroduce legislation f0 stop -the fi-auduleut
practices w-hichi had been prevailing for
mnny years in the elections w-hici w-ere
carried on froni time to time. It woul1 l>e
difficuit to take up a Speech fronithe Throne
presented by His Excellency during the last
three or four years, without finding expressions deprecating the corrnpt practices
which w'ere being followed at elections, and
the frauds which were froin turne to fine
being perpetrated, and the expression of the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

intention of this government ito af once lntroduce legislation to purify our public elections.
This neyer assumed practical shape until the present year. I arn not using- foo>
strong an expression when I say that public opinion ivas staggered w-len it n'as discovered that the vien' which this government held as to starnping out corrupt practices was to Introduce a Bihl prftctically
leglatlng theniselves lnto powver wifhout
the electorate having anytiîing to say abo)ut
it lu the provinces to wbich 1 refer. 1 say
first, that clause 1 of the Bill as introduced permitting the goverameaf to appoint their own officers after the issuance
of the wrif, nnd empowerlng theni to prepare the electoral lists, w-as calculated to
strike the severest blon- at the electoral
liberties of our people that lias ever beeil
attenipted lu the Doininion of Canada. Ail
the safeguards w-hich had been erectedl,
whichi had been the resuit of the legislatiolî.
that from tîmne to tume had been passed
from confederation down to the present
day In those provinces, were swept aw-ay
by one fell swoop. If n'as the intention of
the governmenf t0 deliberately baud the electorute over to their own purty and officers appolnted after the w'rits lîad been issued, nnd authorize and empower those officers to prepare a iist of their 0w-n mnanufacturing withouf any of the safeguards,
wbich heretofore had guaranteed a fuir
ieasure of security fo the electors of the
Dominion. I arn aware that the language,
of that Bill did provide, that se far as possible, the safeguards then existing sbould
be invoked, but any lion. gentlemnan faular
as w-e are ail no doubt, w-ith the practical
carryLug out of the preparation of the lists,
wvill knon- vers- well that the provisions
to wbilb I refer offered no safeguard. The
government are to be congratulateC that after the agitation w-hidi nas carried on
froui the Atlantic to the Pacific, they bowed
to the storin of publie indignation. and
have consented, simpiy through the force
of public opinion, f0 drop this clause containing the enorrnity to w-hichi 1 have ref erreti.

There n'as ne ground-w-hatsoever

for the goverumeut ussuming thaf
ficulties to which inv hon. frieud
w-ould coufront the preparation of
at the coming elections, wheu w-e

the difreferred
the lists
consider

JV-LY 18, 1908
Unit in the two provinces to whicb this Act
was particularly directed, naniely Manitoba
and Britishi Columbia. there were 17 members elected on the permanent list 14 of
whom were Liberals. The practical results
0f the elections did flot la any 'way demonstrate that an injustice had been done
to the supporters of the goverament. If
fourteen-seveateentîlis of the representatioli
of those two provinces is not eaough to satIsfy lhon, gentlemen. It seems to me they
are the very quintessence of selfisbness.«
Hon. 31. WNATSON-If we bnd hiad good
lists, we wotild bave had tbeml ail.
LOUGHEED-That was the deHon. M-%r.
sigu of this Bill. My lion. friend understands the enld tliat is iii view. The goveriment coniceived the bDIpe that by brute
force they would have the power to appoint partisans to prepare lists, and thus

!usure witbont an! doubt wliatever their
success la every constituency lu those two
provinces. But 1 am very pleased to observe froin the Bill as It is introduced here,
thiat the very objectioîîable feature bas been
dropped. I suppose tbe goverament considered it necessary to do something to supersede the thin red line iniquity which had
been perpetrnted previous to the last election in 'Manitoba, and 1 quite conceur lu the
praposition. whichî lias been made to the
goverîîniieîît b! soine of iny western Liberal
friends. that if a clause simihlar to that were
passed by thils parliament. it wvould do
equalir good work to that whicb was done
by whiat is knowii as tue thin red hune. So
far as the provisions conicerning nDrthern
Ontario are concernied. iny bon. f riend grew
Patbetic when lie referred to what hie calhed
the partisan action of the Ontario goveranment iii tie preparation of the lists for tbat
part of the province. Thjis Bill was siot
onlv drafted but introduced into parliamelit
purîîortiîig to c(infiscate, so to speak. the
riglîts of the provincial goverient and as$uie theîîî by this goverument before the
difficulty referred to fl the lists ever occurred. so that this goverunment could not
bave then anticipated tbat those difficulties
would arise ; consequeriti! the statemeat
madie that this Bill, which has been madE
to encroach upon the rîghts of the province.
is siniply a pretext to justify w-bat miust bE
termed a most iniquitous act. My bon.
friends wbio bave been strugghiug la thiE

1)

chamber for the rights of the provinces,
would have acted an excelçnt part when
this Bill was introduced by the governileiit
bad they protested against nny sucb encroacbient. The adoption of the provincial franchise by the federal government
for Dominion elections ln that province
shouid have been observed in ail its lntegrlty. The Liberal party for years struggled, as I have said, to Introduce that policy,
and they no sonner introduced It than finding
the affairs of the province administered by
a Conservative goverument, they at once
are wiiling to sacrifice ail principles of fair
play and consistency and seek the ad'vantages wbichi are sought under the provisions of this Bill. It would be unwise for
me to say anything at this stage of the session as to the merits of the diff erent svstems w-bich prevail in these provinces. That
would involve a discussion which would be
very undesirable at this late stage to enter
upon ;but it is a matter of satisfaction, after comparing the Bill now before us with
that whlcb was introduced Ia March hast,
to find that the government have bowed to
the force of public opinion and dropped the
more objectionable features, and objectionable as the features stili are with. reference
to nortberni Ontario. have safeguarded them
very much mojre fairly than la the original
Bill.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-TIîe bon. leader of
the opposition bas said that at this late
stage of the session lt would be out of
place to take up mucli tinie discussing this
Bill, as lt more particuhari! pertains *to
the House of Commons; but I want to occupy a very few minutes ln making a
statement. The franchise and the preparation of voters' lists have been very rontroversial questions for a number of years.
Reference bas been made to the action of
the Liberal party in 18S5. At that time,
the Conservative party did not hesitate to
takze awav the powers of the provinces,
by assumlng control of the preparation of
the lists for Dominion ehections. Tbe hon.
gentleman bas forgottea that bis party at
that time were chearly of the opinion that
the federal parliainent ougbt to make their
own lists, and 1 have 'no doubt the bon.
senator from Hastings Is of that opinion
sthi. When the Liberals at tbat time were

SEiNATE
1690

1690

'ertised to sit and receive personai appliproîtesting ngainst some of the provisions i
cations that they neyer showed up in at ail,
of that Act, they clalmed that the local
no possible chance was given the eleclists sbould be used, flot lista prepared by ind
ors to be registered wbere those registrathe provincial goveramnenta but lista pre- t
Tbe reton clerks negiected to appear.
pared by the municipal authorities, aud I t
gistration cierks are appointed and ait proamn stili of the opinion that that Is tbe
bably at one or two places In a constiproper list to have. It sbouid not be madeI
tuency, and in some cases in the sparsely
incouvenient for auy elector to have is
have
That is settled districts of Manitoba electors
name put on the votera' list.
sixty or seveuty miles to have
to go fitty,
what was ndvocated at that time by the
their votes registered. I know one locality
Liberai party, and la Manitoba. It was
be made east of Winnipeg, at White Mouth River,
necessary that a change sbouid
where the registration clerk was supposed
ln the preparation of the liat. The hon.
to ait nt St. Anne's. about 15 miles from
gentleman bas not toucbed on the election
that place; but there la an Impassable
law of Manitoba. It is a personal regtFsswamp there and you cannot possibly get
tration, nnd you can quite appreciate the
withIn getting- their from Ste. Anne's to that settiement
difficulties the people have
out going 35 miles to White Mouth, takze
names recorded. T he municipal lista are
train there, go to Winnipeg and take
entlrely ignored, and the lista are pre- the
another train to Ste. Anne's. To do that
pared by politîcal partisans for the purit would cost $15 or $20 and take four or
pose of returning their friends to pow-er
five days time. That la the condition we
and they do It very effectively. The bon.
have lu Manitoba under the local iaw.
gentleman says that Manitoba and the Teraway
of repre- These are facts, there la no getting
ritories returned a large majority
from t'em. Evidence can be produced,
sentatives to support this government unon declaration If necessary, that this state
der d'ose lista. They had to work very
of things has existed within the iast few
bard-to get those lista properly prepared.
Thie hon, gentleman
weeks Iu Manitoba.
1 know aometblug of It, because I worked
the 'thin red line.'
I bave said, the opposite bas referred to
bard ut It myself. As
If he had read the debates lu another
election law of Manitoba requires personal
place, 1 shonld thiuk he.would neyer bave
registration however long one may have
A great
mentioned that subject again.
lived In d'e province or bow much prooutcry was made about it. Several names
perty he *may own, and he may have to
struck off the llst in Manitoba-why?
go ten or tweuty miles to make that regis- were
because the Dominion constitueiltration lu order to bave a vote in an elec- Simply
cies do not co-incide with the provincial
tion. We dlaim that la unfair. An argua list bad to be made
ment vas made lu another place that when districts, and wheu
to take
w-as passed ln Manitoba up for federai purposes, having
the Act of 1903
the provincial lista, part of the local constithere was flot much fanît found with it,
would be In one Dominion constiand that it vas as fair to one îarty ns to tueucies
and part lu another. Take the case
the other. That wns true. because, at tbat tuency
and Portage La Prairie. The
time, the judges appointed the registration of 'Macdonald
make a list for
lu their control the making returning officer bad to
clerks nud had
both, and what did he bave to make lt of?
But in 1904 the Act wiia
Up 0f the lista.
to take the liats as he found them
amended aud It provided that registration He had
there, and la maklng the list for Portage
clerks should be appointed by order in
he would strike out aIl the
council, takiug them entîrely out of the La Prairie
that list that were in Macdonald,
control of the judges, and those men so uames on
use only the namea that ought to be
uppointed can ait at times and la places and
The reGovernor iu on the Portage side of the hune.
proclaimed by the Lieutenant
turning officer of Macdonald took the sanie
Council. In the revision of the lista that
erased the naines that belouged
have beeu revlsed within the last few lijt, and he
Portage constituelcy. The provinweeks In Manitoba there were differeat to the
bas done the same thiug,
places where registration clerks were agd- cial governmeut
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

JULY 18, 1908

169

Hon. Mr. WATSON-It was doue by the
only instead of using réd litk they used
black lnk. That liad to lie doue by the re- returning officer.
turning officer.
lion. Mr. FERGUSON. Under tlie direction of Mr. Leitli-is not tliat correct ?
Hou. 'Mr. LANDRY-Wlien ?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-At the last election.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-By wliom ?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-By the returulng officer. As sooli as lie is appointed lie lias to
make Up a' certified list to lie used at the
polis.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The thin red Une
was made on the eve of the election.
Hon. '.\r. WATSON-It is always done
on the eve of ani election ; the returning
officer is liot a standing officer or one who
is appointed for nionthis or years.
Hou. 'Mr. LANDRY-He lins no standing,
Hon. '.\r. W.lTçON-Noiie except as a
returning officer.
Hon. '-%r. FER GUSON-What notice was
given thie voters wliose names were struck
off one llst and who were supposed to lie
allowed to vote in another constituency '?

Hon. Mr. WATSON-No, I do not know
tliat it ls correct. I do flot tlink it Is correct. Trhe returulng officer* could flot possibly do it aIl bÏmxseif, because tlie lion.
gentleman quite uppreclates tliat one must
bave a personal knowledge of tlie elector
to kuow whetlier lie voted la one constituency or the other. Anotlier objection we
have to tlie formn of the Ilsts tliere is tîls :
la a great many Instances the post office address of tlie elector is given, but not tlie
location of bis residence, and It was necessary la eacli case to find tlie location because every elector must vote in tlie district
wliere lie lives under the one man one vote
system. I conld produce lists miade by tlie
returnlng officers lu the local election wliere
one-tblrd'of thie fumes were struck ont la
black ink. No doulit mîstakes occur sometimes for thie reason thnt it would lie impossible for the returning officer la ail cases to
know whether a man lives ou one side of
the hune or the otlier wliere only bis post
office address was gîven.

Mr. WATSON-Tliere was no more
than the tact tliat every elector
'Thie SPEAKER-I would draw thie bon.
wliere lie sliould vote, and if an
knew lie liad to vote ln a certain gentleman's attention to tlie tact tliat lie is
diVISIOýwanderlng away fromi the Bill mbicli is
knew tliat, betore tlie House.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-He
and when lie came to vote lie tound a red
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Tlie gentleman wlio
Une drawn tbrougli lis name.
preceded me took exactly the same hune.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Not at ail. Tbe lion. Moreover, tlis is an election Bill nffecting
gentleman lias been reading Tory campaign tlie province of Mdanitoba, and I am giving
literature again. I Tenture to say that la some reasons wliy legisiation sliould be
thie wliole province of Manitoba wliere Pro- passed here to ensuire the riglits of tlie elbahlv seven or eiglit tliousand namnes were ectors lu Manitoba lu elections. Tlie lion.
erased from the list, tbougli very f ew lier- leader of thie opposition did not confine hlmsous ivere disfri'anchised. and If you take self to the Bill before us. He took up the
the numnber disfrandliised and Inquire into Bill as It was introduced in tlie House of
each case you will probably find. that tliere Commons, and pointed out that it was a
were as many ot one political complexion as most Iniquitous mensure-I tlink le sald
of the otlier. There was but one way to colossal impertinence-on thle part of the
maké tlie list, and tliat plan was adopted la goverameut to luterfere witli tlie making.
thie local as8 well as la the Dominion eiec- up of the lists lu -Mauitoba. Tlie Election
Act as origlnally lutroduced lu iManitoba by
tions.
goverument, provlded for
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Was not that the Conservative
fthe judge prepariug the lists. Tley apwork doue under tlie direction of Mr. Leitcli,
govthe party organizer of the Liberal party la polnted. tlie registration clerks, -but tlie away
ernmeat ssw fit to 'take tliat rigît
Manitoba 7

Hon.
notice
knows
elector
poIllng

1692

SENATE

o power to extend the tinie for the hearfroni the jndgcs, and tbe registration clerksn lig of applications to be placed on the list.
Lieutenant Gov- i
to-day are appointed by tbe
s that rigbt or just ',
ernor lu Council and tbe places at w-hidi 1
Tbey
Hon.. Mfr. FERGUSON-lu ail registratbey sit are fixed by proclamation.
for certaint ions there is a time for closing.
can only sit at those places and
bours on certain days. It does not make
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Yes, but if you are
any difference bow mauy people are w-ait. ~oing to close at a given tume, you shou'ld
ing to be registered, wben the tune is up, 9.llow ample tume for registration. Tberè
the bootb is closed, and tiiese people bave as no court lu the land where a judge bas
only one opportunity, tben to get ou the iist l iot the righit to extend the Unie, or adjourn
and that is by applylng to tbe Court of Reglie court to complete the trial of a case.
istration. If tbiere is a fair Court of ReHou. 3fr. LANDBY-In the city of Quevision, we probably would not complain,
to malce a
look up the 'Manitoba election bec, .they bave only t1hree days
but If you
revision of the list, and at tbe end of the
law, you w-i find that the Court of Remlot completed, the revisioîl
vision Is contreolled by tue Governor lu hird day if it is
s closed.
Council agaîn, exactly as l the appoint- 1
ment of the registration clerlcs. WbVlile the
Hon. ',%r. WATSON-Tbe case I have
judges are to revise tbe lists, the districts referred to is in a rural district m-here it is
iu w-bich they are to revise thein are pro- inconveniient for people to go to the court
claimed by tlîe Lieutenant Governior ii of revision, perbaps 50 or 100 bundredmle
Councli aud tbc bours at w-hidi the judges away.
shial hold court are fixed, and no judge bas
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Your principle is the
tbe rigbt to change the place or extend tue
saine.
tume for tbat irevision. I know one parHon. 3fr WATSON-Oi1 acouflt of the
ticular case wbere the proclamation stated
take place betw-een arbltrary carrying out of that provision, a
tbe registration should
the bours of one o'clock and six on a certain revislng- officer lu Manitoba saw fit, because
tlie
day, but tbe Officiai Gazette said that the lie w-as flot tbrough witb bis w-on: at
should be froni one to four in the tiie allowed hlm by proclamation. to cinbours
afternoon, and the judge w-as guided by tinue bis court of revision, the following
tbe officiai gazette ratber thani by the pro- day, to complete bis work. He put 3S naines
clamation. People w-eut tbere betw-een four on tbe list, aud although those names w-ere
and six o'clock and fouud lie place w-as certifi4Qd to by the revising officer, the Atclosed. Tbese are thingis w-e complain of, torney General's Departmnt erased theil:
flot tbe Act particularly. We object to the froin the list.
manner in whichi it Is carried ont. A judge
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If tbey were put
goes t0 revise a list. He bas to be at a cer- on after the turne required by law, they
tain place in tbe constituency between the slîould be erased.
bours of one and six at a certain date. one
Hon. '.fr. WATSON-The lion. gentleman
Court of Revision for the w-hole electoral
24 approves 0f the metbod adopted.
district. Takie an electoral division say
miles east and w-est and 48 miles iîorth and
Hon. '.%r. FERGUSON----lf it were admissouti-I speak of one now that 1 know sable to place -tbem on Ille list the iiext
about, one place foi a court of revision in day, It would be admissable tbe next w-eek,
tbat large district. 1 bave spoken of the and so on. There must be a tinle w-hen
difficulty tbere w-as lu persona] registrationl. the revision sball stop.
At tbe court Of Tev ision a man w-ould bave
Hon. Mr. WATSON-If there is going to
to go tbirty, forty or fifty miles l fiat dislunit, make it long enougbi for the
trict f0 appear before a judge. The bours be a turne
revising officer to complete bis work.
for thnt revision w-ere fixed betw-een one
Hon. 3fr. FERGUSON-Yes.
o'clock and six !in the afternoon. Lt miakes
lion. '.%I. WATSOFN-Tbe lîours illowed
no difference if tbere w%ý-ere fifty applicants
w-aiting to be beard before tbe court, at six for that particular w-ork are not sufficient
given a cono'clock the court closes and tbe judge bas for its completion, aud 1 bave
WATSON.
Hon. lii-.

JULY 18, 1908

1693

JULY 18, 1908

1693
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I beg pardon, they
did not in 1885 or 1895; they sald that the
Bill should not go througli la its then condition, When the Premier said that the
Indians of the Northwest. who were netuaUy la rébelion at the time, would be
They
entltled to vote if tbey quallfied.
dld flot hold up the supply, but tbey held
up the Bill. I took part lu It, and for
cight weeks the opposition held up the
goverament upon the Franchise Bill of
1885. in 1896 the opposition did flot bold
Up supplies.

crete case wbere the judge felt in (Iuty
bound to revise that list and adjourn bis
court and completed the revision next day,
but the 3S namnes then added were struek
off by the Manitoba governmeut, and thosu
People were deprived of 'the riglit to vote,
aithougli the registration clerk and returaIng officer declared that they were entltled
to vote. Surely the bon, gentleman will
flot tell mie ýthat is fair. 1 regret very mue!>
that the government saw fit to abandon the
provision they asked for In the province of
Manitoba. Whiat did they ask for?~ They
asked tha-t the lists should be prepared ln
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes.
Manitoba under a board of judges. That is
the grievance the hon, gentleman refers to.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-They did not. They
Has lie no confidence in the judges ? The held Up the Remedial Bill, but îiot supgoveramnent did îiot ask to have partisans plies.
appointed to do this work. They said the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Both.
judges should do the w-ork.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I on-ly discussed
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No, they held the
the original clause as prepared, where it House ou the ]Remedial Bill.
was utteriy impossible for the lists to be
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-They obstructed
revised by the judges. It was owing to
that unreasouable provision that the gov- supply.
erament sbould appoint their own officers
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The hon, gentleman
to revise the lists.
must know-and lit Is the best possible eviHon. Ï11r. WATSON-No, the judges had deace that I can give any bon. gentleman
to revise the list. Does the lhon, gentleman la this House-that some time in Aprfl
contend there wouid flot be -time? Tben when the life of parliament expired, the
lie must condeu the election law of Maui- opposition havlng tnlked theni ont, about
toba. because I wil give the House evid- the 2Oth of April, supply had been voted.
ence they had not time under their law to They gave the government supply that carrevise the list. I know it ivas suggested ried themn u'ntil July.
Pariament went
by the ý'Manitoba government, wlien this par- out la April. This session, the supplies
ticular clause in the Bill was dropped, thiat ,vere obstructed to sucli an extent thnt
the goveranment would give ample time to the mails were very nearly closed, and
revise the lists. Gentlemen in the House or publie work stopped until the Premier saw
Commons were flot trying to defent that fit to comporomise on this Bill. I th!nk
Bill, but were obstrueting supplies, and they It was a mlstake to do so, but la bis Judwould flot allow $100 worth of supplies to ment it w-as the best tbing to do, but with
go through unless the Bill were nmended.
the understanding that ample time should
Hon. %Ir.LANDRY-Hear, hear.
be given to revise the lists la Manitoba.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I thoughit the oppo- You vannot by order la council or by any
sition woulif bave occupled a better position regulation, interfere with an Act of ParIf they bad obstructed the Bill lnstead of Diament, and tue Act of the province provided tint ail the iists should be closed
obstructiug Suppfly.
completed by the lst dày of July,
Hon. aIr. LANDRY-The Bill was kept up and
so that It was impossible to extend the
back by the goverament.
time for n Court 0f Revision and give ample
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No. In 1888, the time. Conservatives as well as Reformers
Liberal opposition did not attempt to hold have been left off the lists in Manitoba on
up supplies.
account of the fact that there was not
ample time to, revise the llsts. No persons
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-They did ln 1896.

1694

1694

SENATE
SENATE

should have to travel 40 or 50 miles at nu
expense o! $10, and the loss of four or five
days to have their narnes placed on the
lsts at a court of revision. I tbhink the
electors shiouid have every opportunity to
I
have their naines placed on the lists.
arn not asklng any advantage for any poltical party ln this matter, but the manuer
Ia whlch the lists have been made Up lu
Manitoba Is as I bave stated. My lion.t
frlend referred to the majority the Llberals have in the west. 1 behieve they will
corne back stronger a! ter the election.1
Hon. Mr. LOUGHDED-Leave that question until next session.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I bave no0 besitation la saying that it bas cost thousands
of dollars wbere it should not have cost
bundreds o! dollars, to bave these listsprepared, and a great deal o! inconvenience to the people. I believe in a fair
list, and that the judges sbould bave the
entîre control of thern. If tbey liad, Nve
should flot Eind fault; but under the sYstern adopted at the preseut tîrne in M-Nanitoba the governrnent have controlled the
preparatioxi and have even controlled the revision o! the lists, because the timie is
fixed by proclamation and the judges cannot
extend tbe time if the work is not doue.
There are two or three other features of
the Bill to wbich the Secrets.ry of State
has referred. There is one tbing which I
thlnk wlll bave to be cbang-ed and that is
subclause 9 of clause 1, whichi reads:

Lt seems to me that it would be practicyou any
ally impossible, and I cannot give
etter evidence than at the present day the
b
j udges that have to do that work may be
t ied up* lu court work.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED - They rnay be
Lead. Other judges will take their places.
Hou. Mr. WATSON-I do flot thinl, the
!rne is sufficient. 1 think you should extenditI, say durlng the rnonth of July, and
not later than August 15. Give thern a
ittle more time. I do flot think any person would desire to see the Judges tied fl
tbis way, and it seerns to nie thiat 'some
slight change should be made.

Hon. '.%r. PERLEY-I do not iutend to
liscuss the -wickedness of the past, but to
confine rny remarks to the Bill before the
House. After listening to the remarks
made by the lion. Secretary of State--wbich
were a rehearsal of the viliany, the rascality and wlckedfless of the election Iaws ln
the past-I was pleased that bie expressed
a desire to make the law as perfect as possible, and I arn sure nothlng can be more
commendable lu a public man, particularly
a man who bas to do with an election, than
to make that law as good as it can be made.
Under the best of clrcurnstances, there wll
be sorne wroug comrnitted in elections. That
is the hIstory of the country lu the past,
particularly If you judge by the speech of
the hon. gentleman who bas just resumed
bis seat. This Is a late period ln the session to bring down such a Bill. Every one
mnust acknowledge that an election Bill is
0. In -the province of Manitoba the s-everal
of -the county courts shahl coastitute probably the rnost Important measure that
judges
a -board, of çwhich a majority shal be a quor- cau possibly corne before a legisiature. It
moafli of
uam w3iich board shall durng the o! Winnii- has to do witb the representation la parliaJ.uly in each yeax meet in 'the City the senior
ment, tbe rnaking of the laws, and the govpe- on a diay to be named by
county court judge resident in Winnipeg and ernment of the country. Therefore. it is
di-tiict
appoint for ~bc Dominion electoralone or of
the election
in the said province a conrnmittee o! coxurnittee beyoud question or doubt that
of the rnost important laws tbat
three of such judges, and such
law is one
shahl thereupon proceed te define aud establish possibly could be made, and one that sbould
the polling divisions into which, for the purevery
poses of the next following Dominion election, receive the rnost careful attention of
appointthe electoral dietrict for which it ladistribute man having a seat iu tbe House of Coined shall bo divided, and shall
Canada, where we
the
a-moag suech different polliag divisions sucb mous or the Senate of
of the -esters entitled to vote in
a right to revise legfisiation if we see
naine
the have
ehectoral district as such names appear on pro- fit. 1 arn prepared to show hon. gentlemeniast revised lists o! electors for the several
to one or
vincrial eleetoral districts in said province, and 1 bave rnentioned the matter
eo that enah voter shail be assigned to his two rnembeis of the Hous,? of Commons,
pToper pol as establishieddjor the purpo_ýes o!
tbey have a sirnîlar law lu
such Dominion elootion, a.nd such distribution that although
be oompleted before the firet day of Ontario, tbey bave not taken that cogniz6hail
October àn each year.
Honl. Mr. WATSON.

JULY 18, 1908

1695

1695
JUIY 18, 1908
ance of It that 1 think they should have. open to the saine objection as the New
One clause of this Bill is very faulty. 1 amn Brunswick law. '.%r. Hazen said he would
flot going to blame the government and say certainly repeal that section, aud change
that they purposely inserted It, but if it is the provision. The section whlch is fauity
aliowed to pass as It stands, it ls possible is section 21, which reads as foilows
that flot one Conservative or minber of
21. Section 173 of the said Âct is arnended
the opposition can be elected at the next by adddng ait the end of iparagraph <c) the
Dominion election. I may say that I hap- foUlowing èprovieo:Provaded, ihowever, that -no ballot paper
pened to be at a certain poliing place at a sheM ble oeejected. on sccount of any writing,
recent election ln New Brunswick where nuinber or *maTr plaeed itheron *by any deI dlscovered tbat they bad made a inistake pnty returning officer.
In the law. The election law of the provIn one respect that is a commendable
Ince of New Brunswick was made by the clause. I hold that no elector should be dehon. Minister of Public Works. He was prived of bis ballot If he la honest and has
attorney general ln the New Brunswick gov- flot been bribed, he should flot be deprived
erument, and had the framing of the iaw. of bis vote by the action of soine returning
He is a ciever and able lawyer-none more officer.. If thal clause passes, a mani causo than Mr. Pugsley. -\r. Hazen is a clever vassing for the votes caui bribe people and
lawyer, and tbere are otiier clei-er and able nobody wiIl know a thing- about it, and it
lawyers lu the New Brunswick assembly ; wiil be conducted as the nicest aud pleasstili they enacted a law the effect of which antest election you ever saw, and it la for
flot one of them knew. If they had known, me to show you how it can be done.
and bad been so disposed, and If there bad
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Doies the hon. genbeen enough government supporters, and
enough voters that could have been bought, tleman charge for this ?
there would flot bave been one member of
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-No, but it la a pathe opposition elected in New Brunswick. tent. In order to Illustrate my case correctly, I wili take my own riding, and I WIhi
Hon. Mr. McSWE.ENEFY-How Is that ?
ixot get the naines confused.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I wiii tell the House.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I do flot thlnk that
This Bill has a clause -in It which can be any hon. gentleman who believes he has a
operated In the saine way, and parlianient scheme on hand whereby he Is able to deshould know how to do it. 1 amn ot re- *fraud the electors or to carry an election
flectlng upon the law because the Hon. Mr. by corrupt methods, should be permltted,
Pugsley framed It, and did not kaow wbat even with the consent of the House, to dilie bad miade. The hon, leader of the op- vulge the secret.
position was in the saine position, but two
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-1 anm glving it away
fellows in a backwoods settiement found to my hon. friends opposite.
out how they could successfully manipulate
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The hon, gentlethe ballot, and the resuit was that ln two
iridings ln rny old county-I was down there man from Portage la Prairie Is afraid that
to see some of my friends and saw how the hiis own virtue will be affected.
law worked-where Mr. Hazen expected to
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I will not use the
have f rom 35 to 40 of a majorlty, bie had 10 word 1unfortunate' because no man shotilld
of a minority. In another portion, where use that word ln a wrong transaction, but
he expected to have quite a majorlty, he perliaps it la unfortunate that there la only
was ln a mlno'rity, slhowing that the iaw one party can use this device and that la
was capable of the construction these mien the government party. It is loading the
put upon It, and If the legislature bad dice, so té speak, because, the goverfiment
known the eff ect of lt they would not have have the appointment of the returning ofpassed ItL They dld flot take advantage of ficer. And it was argued that these returnthe law to carry ont an extensive system of ing officers were. strong party men, who
bribery, because they did flot know about it, would do most anything in electiou times,
except lu one or, two places. This Bill la and they did do ItL

1696

1696
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-ThCe
ment were defeated.

A
S E INTT E
SENATE
govern-

Hou. Mr. BELQUE-There is a penalty
or tive years imprisonnieut for that.

Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I see the bon. genHon. Mr. PERLEY-I amrn ot going 10 tlemian -froni DeSalaberry does not underaccuse the goverlnent of biaving done any- stand this natter.
The agent sa3-s:
thinig wllfully wrong. I will show you that 'When the ballot cornes out I 1-ill see the
the New Brunswick goveriment made a dot and see if you v-oted for Brown. That
mistake and did flot know it aud there is is ail rigbt: 'You deliver your goods and
the same mistake la this Bill. Takze my get your pay.'
own rlding-, the electoral division of Qu'ApNow the returning officer would tiot have
pelle, and take Wolseley, wbicb la a subAlready mnrked the ballot at ail ; but by virtue of
division la that electoral district.
clause 1 make the elector believe that
there is nomninated Mr. Brown, a very credi- tis
for hie will mark it, and I take out my book
table and wortby man, as the candidate
anîd show hlmi where 1 bave inarked it, and
niext election. Mr. Lake, the present memwill uîîderstand thiat the returning ollicer
ber, is the Conservative. At the last elec- lie
mark the ballot and he will know how
lion they bad foir returuiug oliicer a Mr. will
hie voted. A nian may be curions to see
Roachi. 1 kuow nothiug abmut hlm, but he
the returning officer does, but inost of
is a strouig party niati andi a good many what
the electors are in a hurry 10 get away.
bave not a bigh opinion of his political
penalty for placing any improper mark
experience. Supposing thiey appoint hlm; The
ballot is a beavy fine. The returniing
1 will take the bogus nainle Toul Johuistoni, on the
1
to officer w'îll neyer mari, the ballot, but
a stroug friend of '.\r. Brown. He goes
clause to show the voter bow it
a man, Bill Smith, or any man who Is a have this
done and make hlm belleve it. I do
frlend of 3fr. Lake's and he says . 'Bill, 1 can be
not biesitate 10 say that the resuit would be
wnnt You to vote for Brown.' He says
under that system of voting, a large number
' Weil I an a Lake mani.' He says 10 hlmi
of men can be brlbed lu every subdivision
' I wihl make lt worth your white 10 vote la the whole of Canada, and If there are
for Brown,' and they finally agree upon euoughi disbonest men among the electors
a price which he is to receive for bis who wlll seli their votes to carry the elecknow tion they can succeed la every riding. Wbile
opposite
vote. Hon, gentlemen
thing la Mani- it is very commendable tbat a returang offithat that is a general
That bargain la made a week cer shiah flot be allowed 10 spoil a ballot,
toba.
in the way
or ten days before the election, before stili the clause is open to abuse
I have mentioned. laI committee 1 shall
anY election work la going on. Nobody
I tbink it is the
knows about it. Johuston coules la 10 Bihl suggest an amenament.
the governuient 10 make souie
Smith and they make their arrange- duty of
amendmefit bo that clause, which wlll prement. The momlent he makes that arrangethat class of bribery. 1 do not besitate
ment the agent w-ili take out his pocket book vent
to say that tbe government have plenty of
and write the nane of Bill Smith and the
men wbom they could appoint 10 a
price. however it may be, andi he wiIl make lionest
position of that kind w-ho would be above
a dot ln front of the name. He will say to
but the great majority of mni
Bill Smith 'Do you see that mark, ? Now suspicion,
that are appointed for these positions are
there is your mari. below. I will be inside
are known to bave beeu guiity
by the returuing officer. You will corne men -tvo
of wrong doing.
and get Your ballot and go bebind the
district of ]Prince
acreenl and mark it. I will show my book * What do you find In the
A man beld an election there liu
w-ho is our f riend *Albert?
to the returning officer,
w-as no subdivision at
and -knows our business andi show hlmu the a place where there
there
and the returu- *ail and put down 150 names, though
dot in front of Your namè,
a vote polled. He retu'med a man
ing officer will put that mark on your halbi twas flot
minority ln the bundred real
when you briuig it back.' The man will see who was la the
and kept the man who should
he is going 10 be discovereti which way Il evotes polled
bave been returned ont of bis seat for two
votes.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.

JIILY 18, iffS

years. and the nien who did this were re- wrong eau be done under this clause, to
1 dc
warded by the governmeut for their ras- amend it and prevent wrong--doing.
thlnk they realize how the fraud eau be
cality. 1 amn sure when 1 point out this tiot
1 would nlot if 1 had net
tact, the governent will feel it Incumbent aýcomplished.
seen it worked in New Brunswick and *bad
on themi to inake it rigbit. 1 take It that
did Lt hiow
this governent ls wllliug- to do what is nlot learnèd from the man -ho
Lt was doue. 1 shall move an arndment
fair and rIglit, and lu the matter of elecof the
tions theré Is nothlng se important as that to this clause, iu the Oomnrittee,
they should be pure and honest and the Whole.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It is
volce of the people should freely bie expressed. Under this law I arn perrnîtted to go only wasting time I know to address the
te a maxi and say : 'Vote for us and 1 will Ilouse on this subjeet. When aul hon. genshow you hiow to vote safely and the returu- tieman was pointlng out ln a very practical
Ing officer will see to it, and you wlll get niauner how elections could be stolen under
your money.' In the election in New Bruns- the provisions of this Bill, the inemibers of
wlck there w-ere four candidates runuing, the goverument thought proper to absent
each party nsing their own ballots, aud tbernselves, thereby treating withi conteulipt
these were the officiaI ballots. Yeu w-eut the rernarks of those who have opiuions on
to the returning officer as a voter and lie tlie subject of a pure and fair election law.
gave you an envelope, initialled it, and you For tliat reason, 1 do flot kznow that there
went behiud the sereen and put iu that eu- Is any use in speakin.g, unless it is to use
velopEý w-hatever ballot you pieased. That an expression w-heu f eh a few days ago
was the secret ballot. The w-ay it was man- fri-c th2 hion. seiiator-fromn Middlesex, -wheu
aged was this : A voter wvould bie banded hie w-as advocating the coutinance of the
*a ballot and told that there w-as no other officiai reports of our debates; eue wants to
ballot like It, and If lie put it lu, properly embalm bis opinions and vlews. For that
marked, lie wonld get ten dollars. Bachi reason 1 shall express rny views in coinballot was different and they had forty com- mittee on the clauses as they are taken Up.
binations of thiat ballot, no two of -whidh The hon, leader o! the opposition cougratuw-ere sIlike. Every man wns on the agent's lated the government on haviug receded
books witb the price agreed upon for is from their first position ou the Bill as iuvote, and when the returning efficer, on1 troduced, because they feit cornpelled to do
counting the ballots, found that lie had de- so by public opinion. Tliere is no credit for
livered the goods the voter got bis mouey. their retreat, because they only receded
1 lenrned hov it 'was doue froi the maxi when they could not heip theaiselves. Froni1
who did the trick. When 1 saw that the' the attitude of the opposition. they saw
man who should have been elected was de- that the Bihl could not pass until its Iniquiclared defeated. I iuquired and found ont tous provisions w-ere abandoned. Whiy is
how Lt was doue. I know that that was Quebec omitted frorn the provisions ef this
doue In two ridings and that If they lad Bill, se far as the unorgauized territories of
It may be
nlot doue It, 'Mr. Hazeu would not have been that province are concernedl
elected himself, because in a place where said thaï: most of thein are under municipal
lie was a very strong juan, instead o! hiav- Institutions, and the votera' lista are proIng a majoritY 0f thirtY-five lie was defeat- videi for; but the National Transconltiniened by ten. This wLl w-ork juat as well in tai Ilailway passes through a very sparsely
the unorg-aiized districts, la tact very much settied or w-bolly unsettled portion of the
easier, and It cannot be worked ou the op- province of Quebec and a large body of men
position aide. You have to make the elec- are working on the railw-ay. la it not just
tor believe that you are lu league with the a$ important. tiiat those wlio are employed
Ln the unorgnized districts of Quebec
returniug- officer.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If the hon. gentle- should be loeked after as that a similar
man is trying to convince the goverumeut, p)opulation Lu northeru Ontario should b2
after, as provided for lir this Bill.
.looked
hie Is losiiig tinie.
is the duty o! I càn only corne toi the conclusion thnt
.Hlon. '-%r. PERLEY-It
under the
the governuient, whieu I point ont ivbere the province o! Quebec bein.107

1698

1btN
1698 ATE

this government should perforin the dutY
wbich the opposition ini the House of Coinmous compelled. them to relegafe to the
judges. Thiat proposition was mnade by
the hon. memiber for Algoina, whnthe
Bill was first introduced six nionths ugo;
but it was rejected by the majorif!. Afterwards, tbey chunged the provisions of
the Bill so as to relegate that duty to the
jndg-es of the land, thereby restoriug, to a
very great extent, the confidence which
the people have in the judg-es of the counAs soon as the clause~ relating to
try-.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Then why was
Manitoba came under the notice, of the
Quebec mentionéd in the original Bill?
Manitoba goverament, the premier and Mr.
SCOTT-I do not tbink there Rogers af once carne t0 Ottawa and lhad
Hon. '.%r.
wvas any occasion for If. I amn speaking so an interview with Sir Wilfrid Laurier.
far as niy ow-n knowledge is concerued, Af ter the interview, 'Mr. Rolilin returnied to
and that, of course, is pretty general: be- Manitoba with an assurance fr0111 the precause 1 have had charge of fhe elections mier here that the clause relating to 'ManiI think there toba wvould be changed, so as to leave the
for the lasf three occasions.
are only a couple of sucli divisions, but arrangement aud chariging of the voters'
no incouvenience seems f0 have arisen. be- list with the judges, who would so perforai
cause fIe people lu fhe districts managed the duty that the red line iuiquity could
1 give
the ]ists tbemselves. Since the last elec- not be repeated in the future.
tion, I quite recognize that there may, be them credif for fliat. They ]eft Quebec In
parts of Quebec ýwhere considerable popula- n position to perforni those iniquities, If
tion bas gone la, owing f0 railway building, they thouglif proper, that they clinrged
but my attention bas neyer been called against the Couservatives of Ontario. Whaf
to any serions incouveflieuce likely f0 arise bas occurred in the province of Ontario
Ia Quebec.
since the Whitney governiilent came into
that would justify them lit suspectHon. Sir MACKE'NZIE BOWELL-The power
that the local governett would be
explanation is very.lucid, and ive maY ac- ingullfty of any of the acf s which bave discept it as correct fromi the fact ftle hon.
graced some portions of this country in
gentleman says hie does flot know anytbing
iii reference to the voters' lists?
about lt-that he did flot even know that the past
is that
w-as included iu The only coînplainf against Ontario
tbe province of Quebee
of the unorganized districts sufficient
in one
the original Bill.
time was nof gîvea for a proper reg-istraHon. Mr. SCOTT-I liuew thnt, I saîd 1 flon; but does any one suppose for a moknew of no reason for if.
muent that if the saine courtesy had been
of Ontario thafBOWELL- exfended to the premier
Sir MNACKEN-ZIE
Hon.
shown f0 the premiers 0f the other
w-as
Tbere was no reason for if, because the3provinces, and lie had been coiisnltedl. thaf
confrol. if, I do flot suy improcould
nle would not have assnred the premier of
perîr, by their owu party organizafion. Lt
would be muade in
u.e
Canada thaft
is very strunge that if is oaly the prothe law f0 prevent a recurrence of the
vinces that are now ruled by fhe Couserdiffienlty thaf arose ut the lasf election?
vative parfy that w-ere iucluded in tbce orirhese unorganized districts are of very
ginl Bill. Brifishi Columbia thev were
recent existence. It is only since fhe disobliged fo abandon. The clauses relating
covery of silver ut Cobalt and the conf0 Manitoba were s0 alfered and aniended
struction of the Toronto and Norfhern Onas to render tbe Bili f0 n very greaf untario, Railway fhroughi norfheru Ontario
objectionable. Originalir if ivas înfeaded
thaf that portion of the country bas been
In Manitoba that partisans appoinfed by
Hon. Sir MACIRENZIE BOWEDLL.

coutrol of the Liberal party, the Dominin goverument bad sufficient confidence in
baving their sympaflis and support.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn not aware, uor
bave 1 been advised, that any inconvenience b as arisen lu the province of Quebec. I kaow in former elections I bave
flot been advised that any inconveuleuce
arose In conseqiience of our makiug- no
provision for electors in unorganized distriets.

JULY 181 1908

1699

1699
JULY 18, 1908
populated at ail. Some littie irregularities 'vaste time lu reading them. They wiil do
or difficulties may have arisen such as no good here, 1 arn convinced, and 1 arn
mlght bave been expected to occur in a sure tbey w'ili bie no benefit to posterlty.
new and unorganized district, and théy
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-This Bill does
shall be remedied ln the future. The fact îlot concera the Senate, and it lias been
lu clear that Ontario bas been treated wlth
very f uily discussed elsewhere. The speech
contempt, si.mpiy because the province is made by the hon. Senator from Portage la
I Prairie was rather surprising to me. The
under a Conservative administration.
shall fot dweli on what miglit have been reverend edItor of the Toronto'Goe
done ln the unorgauized territories of On- said sorne weeks ago that w'ith due regatrd
tario If the original proposition bad been for truth It should be stated that the Concarried out, and the preparation of the servatives had gained nothlng wlth regard
voters' lit bad been 1,4 t ln the bands of to the Election Bill by their long and tedpartisans appointed by this governinent. I ious obstruction, because Sir Wilfrid Laurwas a littie arnused at the rernarks of the ier lu bis first speech ou the subject had lubon. senator from Portage La Prairie in tiinated fliat he w-as ready f0 do. exactly
reference to the lists lu the west. ind the wbat bas been done. Ail tbe Liberal press
frands that bad been coliuniittecl. as lie ai- in. the maritime provinces bave liad teleleges, by the Conservative party. I could grains declariug bow complete and perfect
occupy tbe attention of the Senate for the back dowvn of the opposition had beeu,
bours, if It would do any good, lu poiuting and hon- completely the goverument had
out how, some elections lu Ontario were triuullhed. on this question, but the hou.
carried.
Seuator from Portage la Prairie does flot
appear to be of that opinion. His speech
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex) -Order. or- las been a compiaint of the terrible state
der.
of thiags ln Manitoba and that there was.
notblng in this Bill to furnlsh a remedy.
Hon. SIR 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn There was another point lie made to which
flot at ail surp)rised that the ex-premier of I wisl to direct attention. I leard It elseOntario calis order, order. He is sittiug where, andi read It in the press, that
with fear and trembling, 1 have no doubt, the opposition lu the Coîumons w-ere very
that I sbould relate a few instances with blamable for holding up Supply in order to
wvhicb be bas been so fauilliar. and whtch bring about an amelioration of this Bill,
I have uo doubt. cousidering the resuit of and it lias been stated very freely that the
the last election, hie deeply deplores, because Liberals ln 1M9 w-heul tbey fought the
the probabilities are if thoDse thing-s had not Remedial Bill gave ail the Supplies ueeded
takeu place hoe would stili be ruling the but fougît the Rernedial Bill. I happened
province instead of seeking thie calmi re- tu be a member of the goverumeut at that
pose of the Senate and placiug himuself time, and I know that they did not give
auîong those he once called ' old women.' us one dollar of Suppis for the incoming
However, I congratulate the goverumeut ou 3-eir. They voted the supplemnen taries for
bavlng appoiuted him. because it bas re- th
lecurrent year up to the first of July. but
inDved hlmi froin the temptations that s-ur- zaithioligl parliameut was closing near the
rounded hlmii in the associations and lu the e11( of April they absolutely refused to
atmospliere lie w-as breatlîiug iu Ontario. grant further supplies and every time an atM'e cau. deal wvith the question of marked tenilt w-as made to go into Suppîs they
ballots, wvlieu w-c corne to dîscuss the clause talked us down. In proof of Élis I quote
o f the Bill in commlttee. I do uot imagine from the 2ud volume of the -'Hansard' of
that anu suggestion we may make to per- lSgi1., page 7140 :
fect this law wili be accepted by the govMr. FOSTER. ln the main estimates -there
ernent, especially at this late stage of the are tw-o 'iteme that I 'wculd. like *,o ha-ve PIShaving sed. Wihat I wanit to aek, hon, gentlemen OPI content myself vtt
session.
is és,
unneces-sarv thst the
stated ilv views. in order that they mây be posite should ma-ke it here in July e-nd have
assemble
Houe
embnlnîei lu the -Debates.' for thle benefit a summner gfessaii, wbich lu inoonvenient; and
1 'would
of the future generations. if tbey cure to expensive as well. The propostion
107J

1700

SEINATE

1700

SENATE

,make to'thein is, if they canuot see their
way clear to give us our woring estimates
for next year. to give us at leeast two or thre3
months' estimates in order that ýparliameat
may find it unne-cessary to -meet eo soon. I
think tuere is .nothdng nreasonable ini that.
Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT. lb is utterly inpossible.
That w-as the attitude of the oppostion
ail that tîme. Not a dollar of Suppiy was
aiiow-ed to be voted. Parliament would expire by an efflux of time, and they took adý
vantage of tbat and would not let a dollar lie voted for the foilowing year. Ever
since the Liberai party bave been in power
w-berever I have bad occasion to, meet
their representatives on the platformn, I
bave asketl them to point out one single
plank lu their platforms of 1887 and 1893
w-hich tlxe' had c.irried ont. On one or two
occasions I was answered 'We repealed the.
Franchise Act.' We promîlsed to repeal the
Franchise Act and revert to the provincial
frranehises and we- have carried that out.
There w-as some point In that, but here we
bave in the Bill before us a reversai of that
principle. The bon. member from Portage
la Prairie said It was flot the policy of the
Liberal party to take up the provincial
franchises, that It was the municipal lists.
I can turn up the qclause whicb eutirely
contradicts the statement tbat the Intention of the Liberal party was to take the
municipal lists and not the provincial lists.
The very opposite of that statement w-ould
lie correct. It w-as the provincial lists that
w-ere resorted to.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (M.Niddlesex)-Tlhe proposai w-as that w'e should follow the municipal
iists as the basis of the Dominion lists. and
not a list prepared by the provincial government.
Hon. Mr. FERGUTSON\-I will read section six of the Dominion Franchise Act,
which1 w-ll make it verv clear:
' For the purpose of any Dominion election held within the limits of the province
the voters' Eist.
Shall except asl herein other-wise provided by
those prepared for the several polliag divisions
e"tbl4shed and which on the six'tieth day
nexrt preceding the day fixed for the nomination of candidates for such Dominion election, were ia force, or <were last iu force under
the la.ws of that provinee for the purposes of
provincial elections.
Hon. -Mr. FERGUSON.

ln some of th,, provinces the provincial iists were based on the municipal lists, but the federal parliament
did flot conceru ltself with how they
Nvere got ; it was the lists used in the
last provincial election ' Uat 'were mnade
legal by the Dominion Elections Act. That
one soiitary dlaim put up by the frlends
of this government that they carried out
one of thieir promises vanishes lu thin air
Ný,beni we take up this Bill.
It Is provided In clause No. 1 that the
provincial lists are set aside ln parts of
the province of Ontario entirely, and that
the llsts are to be prepared under ibis
fLederal law, therefore, the dlaim whicb the
party made that tbey carried ont their
pledges disappears In view of the Bill
wvhich we have before us. There is n grent
deai of danger in clause 21 wîtli regard to
the aiiowance of ballots containing marks.
Lt is true some wronga have arisen lu connectiou wltb this question where judges
at recounts have been obliged to throw
out ballots wbere the voter bas doue no
wrong, but that some other person committed a wrong. I am afraid this clause
wiii lead to wrongs and evils Immenseiy
greater than thiat whlcb It is proposed to
,env.The bon. gentleman fromn Wolesiey gave an illustration of that, and gentlemen seemed to be amused whn lie was
leading up to the final point which lie
was trying to make ; but every hon. gexitieman wbo listened to hlm *tiroughiout
wiii see at once that tbere is a possible
chance of a great deal of wroug-doing in
You mnay
connection with tliat clause.
have the most houest returning offcers lu
the worid, who wouid not put a mark ou
a ballot that wvould Interfere wiith the
riglit to vote, but you could get agents
outslde, without auy collusion witli the returning officer, persuading the voters that
tbey wouid; put marks on a ballot and thus
make the elector beijeve they could identify bis ballot. This 'question w-as f ully
argued eisewberce, and no reasonis were
offered for Its adoption. I regret to find
any voter losing b is vote tbrough an error,
w-vhether doue intentionally or fraudulentlv by the returniug officer, but I am afraid
the wrong that miay arise to th* voter
under that wlu be slight compared to the
There bas be-n
wrongs doue under 21.

JU.LY 18, 1908

1701

and afterwards they are counted or nlot
il great deal of attention draivn to aounted when the matter cornes before the
,h.is electien law since it was introduc'ed c udge.
in the Hlouse of Commons. 1 amn glad It
Hon. .Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
bas been ameliorated. The difficulties under
the first Bill would have been immense inderstand the hon, gentleman front De
If It had bieen allowed to pass ln that form, Salaberry te say there are no electoral llsts
but they have been greatly minimlzed. .n the unorganhzed districts of Quebec, and,
There are some other provisions in the Bill consequefltly, there is ne provision in the
whIch will help the fair conduct of elec- Law of Quebec for glving to the people who
are ln the unorganized districts the frantiens.
chise unless they retura to their homes
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The hon. gentleman where they are upon the Ilsts.
form Hastings Inquires wby the Bill deals
Hou. 'Mr. BEIQUE-The law does not
with the unorganized portion of Ontario
provide for thie nîaking of a list in au unorwhenl it does not deal wltb the unorgailgauized portion of the province.
Ized, portion of Quebec? There is a very
ln Ontario there are
good reasonl-because
Hou. Sir .MACKENZIE BOWELL-It Is
electoral lists for unorganized districts, an evidence of the greater liberality or
whereas there are no electorai lists made democracy of the Conservative party ln
for the unorganized portions of Quebec be- Ontario than of the Liberal party in Quecause it is not worth whi]ie. Tiiose who bec, because they provide a list for those
are tihere are therc temporarily, and they who are away front homte.
are qualified to vote ln unorg.inized porThe motion was agreed to, the Bill 'was
tions of Ontario. The elections of the proread a second time.
vince of Quiebec took place a few months.
The House resolved itself into Comilttee
ago and there were no election lists, because they were not called for and there of the 'Whole on the Bill.
was no necessity for It. When thie state
(la the Oommittee.)
of thlngs was ascertained the government
the nnorganized portion of Quedropped
On subclause 4,
bec. In connection wlth the cirltlcism of
4. Sueh board of registration shail appoint
clause 21, whlch provides that the ballot for its electoral district as m«ny enumerators
of
shahl not hie rejected because of marks as axe necessary, and it shall be the dutyand
by the returniing officer or poli clerk, I such conitraetore. under the supervision sueh
macle
in accordanca with the directions of
mnerely caîl attention to section 173 of the board of registration, teo propare the -voters'
Ontario Act, ýwhich Is to the saule effeet lis -for those partis of -the province without
organizatiou iu such electoral disas that adopted last year. By the Act municipal the Gocvernor in Coluncil mnay confer
trict, and
passed in 1907 it is prov-ided that thie re- upon each enumnerator -so appointed any powturnIng officer shahl reject any ballot w'ich) ers necessary for the diacharge of his duties.
contaIns any mark by whbich the voters
Hon. Mr. FERGUSO-N-Wbiy should the
can be identified, other tlîan the number Governor ln Council Intervene lat this case ?
placed on tlic ballot stulh by the returuing WhyIl
should we not give the board of regisIf the returning officer pu's the tration power to appoint these eliumerators?
officer.
number on the ballot iastead of on tie stub I think the ohject Is te hring in the political
of the ballot, as is often dhone, thcn It will element. It will bave that effect.
nlot lnvalidate the ballot, and this clause
Hon. 'Mr. SOOTT-The Governor ii Counfollows that principle and makes it al penal
for ýwhich the party guilty may cil hans ne dItscretIon as te the natines o! the
offence
parties.
hie imprisoiled for a terni of five ye-ars.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-WVill you give me
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY-I biave not read the
any geed reason why -their action should
law of Ontario, but 1 know that ln Quebec
appoint a board of
whea a ballot is objected to at. the end of coule ln at aIl ? You and the provisions
registrationi of judges,
the poil, a number is placed on it by the
Why net
te be ail well guarded.
returning officer, and the objected ballot Is seemi
allow tbem te give that authority ?
accepted or refused by the returnlug officer,

17 02

102SENATE

Hon. Mu. SCOTT-Do you flot think the
Hion. Mr. SCOTT-you cannot; you would
bave te' recast it ail. There are specifie Governor In Counchi wouid have a riglit te
Instructions prepared. It would take some say whlen the work would be done ? They
time to do It. The judge may nlot be fami- might jotherwise takze two or three montlis.
liar with the electlon law.
.Hon. 'Mu. LOUGHEED-Tlie oniy power
Governor lu I can think of tbat the governmuent would
Hou. âIr. FERGUSON-The
Councl wouid fluc it very easy to Inter- confer on the commissioner wouid bie to
vene, and it would lie quite an easy matter enable hlm to exact information from elecfor thein to exercise an opinion as to the tors and things of that kind.
choice ëf men.
Hon. Mu. SCOTT-No. All the instrucHon. Mr. SCOTT-There is a great deai tions would lie laid before parliainent.
of detailinl the machinery; it requires to be
The subclause was adopted.
guided from Ottawa.
On suliclause 63,
Lion. Sir M-\ACKEN-ZI E BOWELL,-Wbat
6. The boord of registration shall define -and
power is it contemnpiated under this clause
establish the polling divisions iato w-hich, for
shal bie conferred uponi the board of reg-is- the puiiposes of the next foloiving Domninion
tration '!
election, the eleotoral district or portion
thereof for which -the Iyord is constituted
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-The board of registra- shall ho divuided, and .the naines of the voters
on the lLqts prepared and xrevised tas aforesaid
tion appoints thle enlumlera:tors.
shall be ddstributed e.mong such diflerent polliag divisions so that each voter shaîl lie iýsHon. Sir. MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tben sigaed tjo hir, proper poi.
to
the Governor lu Counceil takes autbority
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I desire to let the
Wbit
lnvest them withi certain powers.
House know w-bat these gentlemen are up
would they be likely to be ?
0f
against ln trying to inake the list.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-He wouid give Instruc- course It Is known tiiat a person Is suptions to conform to the iaw. For instance, posed to reside three months prier to the
the Election Act and qualification of voters election in the district in w-lich lie votes
and ail details of that kind.
w-len lie is named on the list. I amn sure
EII«USON-That wouid flot the gentlemen engaged ini this w-ork will
Hou. Mu
find mnies on the list, and o! course they
be conferriuig aDy POWer.
wll naturally ask the enumerators where
Hon. Mr. 'SCOTT-And instructions as to they are, the post offie address. Tbey
the time within whicli the work should be wiil find, for instance, John Smith on the
done. That would be ln view of the possi- list. Weli, w-here shahl lie vote?7 His lobiity of an election ciing on. Once the cation Is not on the list, simply bis post
enumerators are appointed by the board of office. Ask the enumerator. Tbe enlumeraregistration, there is no further politicai tor says 'l do not know. I asked the regisinterference, because they wouid bie ail op- lry clerk w-len the list w-as made up last
ponents of the goverumieutand lie said that nxaine w-as on the list be.MACKE NZI E BOWELL--Tliit fore it.came into my bands, it w-as not addHon. Sir
Is what struck me: but what po'wer Is it ed, and I do not know anythiug about It.
The court w-i sny :'I know that mani, lie
necessarY- to ilvest in the enumerators ?
lived lieue three years. 'W;ehl,' says the
Hon. M-\I.SCOTT-To carry out the law. judge,' He sbould not ho on the list at ail.'
Stili you have got to put liai somewhere.
LAINDRY-I suppose it wouid Yeu w-i find many have lest their votes unHon. MuNl.
be like the instructions to the Governor der such circumstances.
Genierai whlen hie cornes here ?
Hon. Mu. PERLEY-He w-ould proliabiy
Hon. .Mr. FERGUSON-There is nothlng be on tbe list somewhere eisc ?
plainer to my mind than that it ean be doue
through a board of regîistration wbich couid
Hou. Mr. WATSON. He miglit lie out
lie furaished with the necessar document. o! the country.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

JULY 18, 1908

JULY 18, 1908

1703

1703
lion. Mr. SCOTT-T-.here is plenty of
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL. And
la Quebec to make the lists. This rethe resuit would be personation, and that time
fers to lists made on the eve of an election,
would be punishable under the law.
wvhen thei'e is no0 time to nihke tbem Up.
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-Tbere would be the
Hon. '%r. LANDRY-Does the governdifficulty of briugiug that man back to vote
irent accept the amendment
would be off the list.
whien bis vote
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, because there wll
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL. This
registration is different; It Is wbat the gen- iiot be time.
tleman did w-ltb the red lie business.
Hlou. Mr. LANDRY-How -wlll tbey get
They wlll select a person wbo mury be a it ?
resident of a provincial district. and would
Hou. Mfr. SCOTT-Tbie lists are ouly in
not be a resident of tbe electoral district for
înanuscript. There is no object ini printing
tue Dominion. I- that tbe case '
a long list of 2.000 or 3.000 names beHon. '-%r. WATSON-Yes that is, the
cause lu the ineantinie tlue list cornes down
ca Qe.
bere and tbey are printed from It. Errors
may creep in.
The clause -as adopted.
Hon. '%r. LANDRY-Tlie list lu Quebec is
On clause S.
wvritten. If a list is nmade on 'the eve of the
S. It sball l>e -the dutv of the board of regisulot
tration fortiith after the completion of the election andi sen~t to Ottawa, you will
revision of the said lists to transmit to the get It sooner than If the copy Is sent to
Clerk of the Crown dànChueery, the rheriff where vou are living.
of the distriot, the imeinber elot, end the defeated oaiididate, by Tegistered -mail, a stateHon. Mfr. ROSS-lIt is merely a triplicament and description .showing the limits of
the polling divisions so deflned and establish- tion of work., and qui-te unuecessary.
ed, together ;n-ith a copy of the votera' ligts s0
fin.ally revised certified under the bands of
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Wbere lists have been
the memnbers of 4the said board, and -the provisions of sections 13 nnd 14 of -the Dominion lueretofore made lu. ail the unorganized disElectionis Act shall applv to such cerbified tricts, there bas been only one list made;
COPY.
but to make lists wbere there are no typeHon. '-%r. KERR-I nove that the w-ords writers would be difficuit:
lu the nineteenth and twentietb lines. 'The
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-TIle country Is
sheriff of the district, the member elect aud
tbe de.feated candidate.* be struck out. In flot beyond the' bounds of civilization even
point of fact. there wilI not be a nuember there ; tbey will have a typex%-rlter.
elect in those ridings, because tbere will be
Hion. Mr. BOSS-lu tbe case of provinno member before the election. and tbe cial lists, tbey are preî)ared and printed by
whole policy of the*law is tluat there sbould
the municipal council, andl tbat printed list
be one list ouly, as will be seen by refer- is sent down to the Clerk of the Crown ini
ence to clause 12. That list shall be transCbancery to be reprinted, and from that
nwitted to tbe Clerk of the Crown lu Chanrep)rint the deputy returning officers are
eery. and priuted and furnislied to tbese
furnishied with authentie voters9 llsts and
luI making ont the duplicate
parlities.
they have ample tirne to do it. In this case
copies tbere miiglit be confusion as to whichi you .want one copy. *Supposing you typewas the trule list.
wr ite a copy, .wbat use is it ? You cannot
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Iu Quebec we bave -make auy use of IL. Supposing you sent it
to the defeaited candidate, w-bat use could
the same tbing.
be make of It and there would be no deHon. 31r. ICERR-Ther are sent to Ot- feated candidate where tbere neyer had been
tawa. printed bere and sent from bere.
a pre-vions election. You send a copy here -to
the chairman of the board where it is printHon. Mr. LANDÉY-What they receive
the election. It is
Lere le only a ropy of wbà t is sent to the ed and is avallable for
only copy yon can s-wear by or swear
the
registrar.

SENATE
copies
at as the case mas be, by whichi the elec- publication of that list, and twenty
tions mas bo govorned. I think, one copY are sent to eachi of the candidates. Bs this
law the new list is made on the eve -of ftn
would ho sufficient.
electiion, and you cannot send a cops here
Hon. Sir 3.IACKE-NZIE'BOWELL-The and have It printed ln time to be sent out
object of placing this provision in the IaW is to the officers. lIt is for that reason you
the same, I suppose, as that whicb exists provide for copies being sent to both canunder the law. That is, particularls in On- didates.
tarlo, ln order that the parties interestedHon. '-%r. SCOTT-The law requires that
that iýs the candidate or the defeated candidate who mas be the candidate for the ýso soon as the list is priflted a copy bas to
future, sbould have certain information. be sent to each candidate.
Now, by strikiug this out, you deprive those
Hou. '.%r. FERGUSON-That would be
ýwho are equalis intorested. if not inost intool late.
terested, of the priviloge of knowing wbat
the list really contitins of that information.
Hon. '-%r. ROSS <\iddlesex)-I think, the
hon. gentleman had botter not press that
Hon. Mr. KIERLI-N-o. because 1w- the ainendment.
generaI law. undler section 12,. within ten
das after the preparatiôn of the list. it
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is quite impossible
shahl be the duty of the custodian thereofI to have it done.
to transmit to the Clerk of the Crowa in
Hn Mr. KERR-If by ans chance the
Chancery, by registered mail, a copy of
copy is not the same, if saime of the names
the certified hIst.
are spelled differently in the differont
coples, then the one is flot the same as the
Hou. '.%r. LANDRY-A copy?
printed copy, and ail kinds of confusion
Hon. Mr. KERR-A copy signed.
mas croep in. The plan in the Dominion
Hon. Sir MAI-ýCKENZIE BOWELL-That Act now is to furnish the one and onis
La for the purpose of having tbe voters' copy to the printer, and that is signed by
list registered bore and printed. for distri- the officer. Lt is printod, from that and'
bution, but this provision is in order to v-ou have accurato copies for everybody.
couves information to those most interestlion. 'Mr. ROSS (Middlese)-I may apcd. That is now, and lias been for a great
peau to ho arguing aigainst w-bat I said benumber of years, the law in Ontario. If {-oro. Each candidate, and tas înany of
this is struck, ont, tbeýn the defeated can- bis committee mon as choosen, cau rget
didate ~vil11 bo deprived of information uncopies of the pmlinted lists before a copy is
tii the list bas been printed lu Ottawa and sent to the Clerk of the Crown in Cbancory.
eent to a retnrning offlcer wben an election
The revision is in open court, and ail tbey
is to talie place. Is it imot advisable that have to do is to add to the printod lists.
the parties mnost interested sbould bave So inany copies are sent to each candidate
ail the tinformiation possible before an elec- .n
n
to others in eachi constituency.
tion takes place? There mas be irregulariyou can procure ans number of copies.»If
ties to w bich tbose p)arties wvho are inte- 1 were a member of the House of Comrested wvill eall the attention 0f tbe governmions I would strongis oppose this amnonidment or this board of registration and bave ment. You are working up a campaign and
them ame"ded. 1 amn surprised that the
you have no copy of the electoral list la
government accept tba)t proposition, unless
your district, becauso the onîs copy went
tbey desire to withbold from those most into the Clerk* of the Crown in Chancery.
terested lu the election information that
In my flrst election, in 1872, -when there
tbey sbould have.
were no piiinted lists, I sent some one ta
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-In the provinces, the clerk of the poace, who had the a*nly
the list is made by the municipal authority. cortilied copy of these-Iists, and had copies
ýA copy is sent to Ottawa to tbe Clerk of made 0f ail the voters in my constituency
the Crown in Chancery, w-ho orders tbE and had them prinited at my own expenlse

JTJLY 18, 1908

1705

I.rbltrary dates are fixed for the revlsion
f the list, and po,%ver la given tbe Governor lu Councl to cbauge those perlods,
and the candidates inay be on the eve of
an election without auy knowledge of tbe
printed ln-1 ista.
Hon. Mrv. SCOTT--Tbey are
staiitly.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Those lists have never
copy ibeen priuted beretefore. Now the Intention
Hou. M1r. ROSS (Middlesex)-Tjhe
which is final and concliusive ls the copy La to print them.
sent to the Clerk of the Crown lu ChanHou. Mr. LOUGHEED-This is uew
cery. It may be open to this refiection, legislation. There is nothing parallel to it
tbat if the mines are omitted by the KiIig'
the very fact of its
the iu tlîe statutes, and
the list supplied,
frein
Printer
lu au unorganized territory seemis
beiug
eharge niay be made that they were to me tbe greater reason why Information
oinitted purpesely.
so necessary shiould be facilitated lu every
the candidates are conHon. Mr. KERR-Tilere is not auy wvay, sO far as
party baving tits own cerned.
trouble about ecd
copy of the list. There sbould be but one
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My boîî. friend
copy of the officiai list, aud tbat la the one wlll see tbat froîn tbe staudpoint of tue
sent to the Kin,'s Printer.
opposition, this Is a very serious thing.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Mlddlesex)-But there
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is precisely tbe
are any number of copies lu the cons tisane wlth the government.
tuency otber thau the ones sent to the
King's Printer. In this case there are only
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We bave reason
three; but ln the case of tbe lists prlnted very strongly to suspect tbat tbe frienda
for -other coustîtuencles, there may be of the goverument would get a copy froni
forty or fifty. It bas happened lu previous the Clerk of tbe Crown lu Chaucery, wbieelections, and it may bappen again, that ther the opposition candidate would get It
naines certified to by the clerl, of the peace or not.
were somneti'nes dropped lu priutiug tbe
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-No.
list iu Ottawa here. Thiese niistakes bave
with 'the old constioccurred iu conuectien
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-A provision of
tuencies, and tbey rnay occur lu connec- tijîs kînd at once suggests tbat sometbiug
tien -with the unorgauized dlstrirts.
la wrong. Wby is there any difriculty lu getlists lu those un- ting these lists? Could tbey not be typewritHon. Mrv. SCOTT-Tbe
They would ahl be the
orgauized districts could only be made on ten and mauifolded?
Hereafter, the elec- saine then. Tbe r7easen set up by tbe bon.
the eve of an election.
Toronto, that there umigbt
tiens are to be heid If possible on the gentleman from
tbere la realiy be contradictions and discrepancies, does
saine day, and, therefore,
typewritten cono tirne te de it. I amn quite sie it lins nlot apply to manifolded
pies. Tbey would be unîfori. But now
nlot been doue lu Ontario.
yon sbut dowu ou tuiat, aud send the list
Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-To do whiat? to the Clerk of the Crown lu Cbaucery and
Hon.
there Is a possibility tbat the goverument
Hon. 31r. SCOTT-In Ontario tbey made 'would furnisb facilities for forwardlug coa special Iaw for the preparatlon of the pies t0 their friends wicb tbey would deny
liats lu tbe districts wve are talkIug of now. to their oppouents. Is thiat fair or rigbt ?
1 amn quite sure thiat iu thiit Ian, no pro- Iu vlew of wbat we bave known to happen
vision was mnade for supplying three co- ,in Canada wltb regard to ballot boxes, we
pies of the lista.
bave good reason to object. It la only the
other day sornetbiug bappeued w1tb the
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-How are the ballots ln tbç Clerk of tbe Crown iu Chancandidates t:) know wbo tbeir electors are .9

for the beneflt of the electors. If you bad
to do tbiat in this case you would bave to
go to tbe Clerk of the Crown la CbancerY
and g-et a copy.

1706

SENATE

1706

SENATE

cery's care. I do not say it was anytbing
but by accident, but it creates some degree
of uurest in the public mmnd. An election
was being contested, and it -was -found
that the ballots bad been destroyed.
In
view of that, the opposition can see nothing
but sonie possible disadvantage for thein
lu this clause.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I can understand ho-w
niy hon. friends, who are flot famuliar witb
the practice, can conjure up difficulties.
Neither side wlll get copies.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSO.N-Oh, yes, the govertimient candidate will.
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-Tlîe hon, gentleman
can put Dr. Dawson on bis oath and le,
hiu' ,av' wvetber copies have beeni sent to
the govcrnnient candidates.
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON-Tlhe governnient
candidate may by sonie means get a copy
of the list earlier than the opposition candidate, and have It printed.
Hion. Mq,. -SOOTT-To mneet the hion. gentlemian's view would involve a delay of ten
days and, now tbat the elections are to be
held on the saine day, tlaat would niake a
great difference. Neither candidate bias an
advantage over the othier. Botb are on an
equal plane. It Is provîdeti that this officiai
llst is to, be sent forthwith to Ottawa to be
printed and wbcn it is printcd, copies are to
be sent to ail parties iuterested at once. if
you are 'going to wait to bave it copied
after it is revised, If will involve delay. In
mmmv cases, It bas been imPossible te print
or even make copies of the list in the elections hcld ln tbe Nortbhvest. before the
recent changes. They are nom', I understand, preparing a liste andi I could see
that it gives risc to vcry serions fraud
wbere the list was prepared imnicdiately
after the enumerators had doue their worlt
and before anybody liad an opportunîty of
examining if before it is printed. Wbereas,
In the course now intended. It is ccrtified
by the officiais, by tbe King's printer, and
tbe candidates get a copy just as soon as
If can be of any value to theni. The objectien I sec f0 lt is tbe delay that may arise.
You cannot naine tbe nomination day until
fie llsts are ready.

Hon. Mr. LOIJGHEED-Tbere are no
lists for the Northwest until the writ is
issucd, and about four weeks time is given
and organize,
f0 appôint the enumerators
and consequently 0n13' about two weeks are
permnitted for the preparation of 11515, and
copies are invariably furnislbcd by the enumerators, but whcre we have a provision
under clause 9 that tlie lists shial be
prepared bctween the first day of August
and tlic fifteenth of October !il cadi yearthc wvhole of Augnst, September, and the
wbiole of October-and yet in the -Northwcst to w'bicli my lion. fricnd alludes as au
illustration of the impossibility of doing
this, thc wholc thiug is donc af 1er the returning officer organizes bis district. Where
a rnonth and a baîf is given for the preparation and revision of the list. and
that finie ean be changed te any otber
montb of tie year, If is idie t0 say that
lists cannot be furnished.
Hon. MT. WATSON-Tie hou. gentleman
is aware tiat lie cannot compare the lists
in the unorganlzed dlstficts witi the lsts
of the Northwest Terrîtories. In the unorganized districts, any elector whose naine
does not appear on the lists, and w-be is
quallfied and preparcd to take the oatb
can go and vote. Tic list is got up for
convenience, but It does not neccssarily fol10w' that only those whose naines appear oni
the list have a rigit to vote.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is there anvtiing to preclude this macbincry fremn 1.einig set in motion sufficiently early before
an election f0 permit of those lisf s beîng
Every hon, gentleman must
furnlshed?
freely admit that tbe first es-eaiti-LI to :1
candidate In conducting an election is to
bave thc list, and f0 say that .%Ou xvisb
f0 send fiat candidate fbrougli fbe barren
wilderness of an unorganized terrifory
wltiout a list. Is to, Impose upon biin bardTbcre is no0
sihips of a serions character.
question the governnieaf candidate, w-betier Conservafive or Liberal, will be furnished witi thc list and tic opposition candidate wll nof.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If ticre is any suspifiat thus Is being done for a purpose,
I siould flot for a moment consent to its
being struck out. 1 cannot myself conjure

I don

JULY 181 1908
JULY
fraud or favouritlsm that can take
Up any
place; but if there is an Impression of that
klnd 1 would rather yield. So long as there
is a -suspicion that the government are tryIng to do sometbing that Is unfair I will
flot proceed with It. At least let It stand
until I have an opportunity to make lnquiry as to the reason for maklng the
change. The Bill affects the other Chamber, and I want to consult somebody belongl ng to the other Cliamber.

1707

1707
18. 1908
specting the National Bitttle--fields at Quebec.!
The Bill was rend the first tune.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then
I shall fot discuss it any further.
The clause was allowed to stand.
On subclause 12,.
12. Ear-h enurnerator for -pre'parýing, -%d
oeach judge for revising rthe said lists or doing
any of the work above described. shail be en4titled to lie paid for the time during- whLch
he is actually engaged theredn the sura of five
dollars a day, together w-th his aecessary
disburfflments for ibravelling. The ex-peness
.o! preparing and revising the 'votere' liste and
distriburting ee- names ibhereon ias hexeia
desaribed shall le pa'id out of any moneys
approprialted by parliament fer that puaWpse.

Hon. Mr. POWER rnoved the second
readlng of the Bill. HIe said : This Bill
is intended to enable the National Battleflields Commission, subject to thie approval
of the Governor in Council. to purchase,
acquire and liold certain landis ai Quebec,
including the site of the battie of St. Foye
and part of the Plains of Abrahami. Lt
is a matter, I suppose, about -hidle there
can be no differ4ence of opinion.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose this Bill
is the result of the entente cordiale, anti I
think we should have it in Frenchi.
Hon. Mr. POWEll-I think great care
will be taken that the Cherk of the Crown
lu Chancery shall reati the title of this
Bill in Frenchi.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose the hion.
member wll be in a position to tell us that
the Governor General lias giv.en his sanction, as it Is a money Bll,?

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It is very doubtHon. Mr. POWER-Yes.
fui whether w-e should vote $5 a day to a
We
judge wbule he is doing this work.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The Anditor GenImpose this upon him as a judiclal duty. eral is authorized to -make known to this
the County Court judges have the softest flouse that the Governor General lias given
job of any people 1 know.
is sanction.
Hon. Mr. KERR-They are not very
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think there is reahigbly paid.
son to, assume that, because there is a very
vigilant opposition in the flouse of ComHon. Mr. FERGUSON-They are not, mus and If the proper sanction had not
but I think, the principle involv-ed in this been given the Bihl would not have, been
clause is a bad onse.
praesented.
Hon. «Mr. PROST, froni the committee,
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We have known
reported progress and asked leave to sit that to happen before, and the leader of
again at« the evening sitting.
the government mnust be able to speak positivelr on the point or w-e cannot proceeti
The Senate adjourned until S p.m.
w-ith the Bill. Ruhe 70 is very clear on the
snbject.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The money is ahThe SPEAKER took the Chair at eight
ready voted and parliament is giving aup.m.
thority to apphy the money in such a way.
Routine proceedings.
Hon. Shr MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
Bill Involves the expenditure of a large
NATIONAL BATTLEFIELDS BL
amount o! money, and 1 thiak we should
FIRST. SECONDI AND THIRD RLEÂDINGS. have a lucid explanation. For my part 1
A message was received from the flouse d'eslre some Information before I permit
of Commons witb Bill (219) 'An Act re- this to pafis.

1708

1708
SENATE

Hon. Mr. LA,ýNDiLY-The preamnble reads:
W.hereas the National Battleflelds Commission hes requeeted that it 13e empowered to
purchase, acquire and to hoid the land or
immovable pýroperty herein referred to and
it is expedient te convpiv with its request,
therefore His Majesty, &c.,

nuiderstand that it cunitains ne more titan
thte areas that are reaily required for tite
purpose named.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Is titere a power
ef expropriatien?

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is it
Now cornes the flrst and last clause:
te be paid eut et the appropriation veted?
The National Battlefields Commission may,
ýsubject te the eipproval ot the Governor in
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, paîd eut ef the
Council purchease, acquire and hold the lands
and immomabla pro.perty set forth and des- contributions received.
0f course if titere
cribed in the schedule in this Act.
Is any balance et the $300,000 It w111 be used.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-How catt titis
Wbat property are we 1p
urcbasing and-wliat
l)arliament give authority te the Battlelields
are we paying for It? Is it thte property
Commission te make an application et titat
beld by the Ross Rifle Company?
fund? That fund is flot wititin tite centrol
et this parliamiient. andi it wvas nrit ilttend(ed
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Tite question bas titat applicationt sitould be made te parliabeeni raised whether titis w-as a Bill Invelv- ment te authorlze thte cemnissioners te exing an expenditure of rnoney, and whether pend that fund. Quite tbe ceutrary. Wien
It had received the sanction ef the Gev- thte Bill was befere titis chamber for the
vote ef $300,000, we were then given te unernor General.
derstand by my rigbt hon. frlend that parlueHon. 'Mr. SCOTT-I can say it bas. In ment weuld be put In possession et tite fullthe first days of thte session, a commission est possible Information respecting the purwas appointed known as the Commission of chase ef ail lands by tbe commission.
the National Battlefields ef Quebec, and parHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTliament voted $300,000. At flrst it was assumed that part ef titat money wonld be Undoubtediy tbat Is se.
spent in acquiring the propexty necessary ;
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-Wý%e are askpil
but It soon becarne apparent that tite now
te give authority te the commission to
whole ef thte rnoney wouid probably buy a number
ef parceis et land withit
go in fireworks
and -celebration !n itavînz any Information
before us'as te w-iat
Quebec. That Bill contained a clause titat these lands will cest, w1thout -lny Informane property sheuld be bougit witheut the tien as te whetiter It will cemplete tite conauthority ot parliament. Titat seems to tempiated purcitase te be made by- the coinhave been overleeked, and seme inentis age mission. Titere Is sncb a pancity et inforwhen the subseriptions cemnmencedi to pour mation lu the Bill that I think tite -overiiIufor the purchase of tite grounds titat were ment sbeuld net asic the chitaber. particuconsidered -sacred iu connection with thte lariv at titis lite heur et thte session, te rass
landing ef Champlain and thte battie ef the npeon the Bill. In tact titere is net oniy a
Plains ef Abraiam, it w-as decided titat ne pancity ef information, but te use a parapart of that meney sheuld be appropriated doxical expression, there. is ne information
fer any ether purpese titan tite purcitase et as te w-bat it is geing te est the country
the battlefield, and it was alnounced titat
frein time te time.
the deeds were te be in ehape fer the Prince
of Wales te hand over tite titie on bis arrivai.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is net possible to
However, this statnte stared thema in the feresitadew. because thte moment yen taik
face and they were unable te make any pur- about it tite price goes np, and then thte
chase, and that Is the necessity for titis Bill. cemmissieners feel tbemselves bound np.
This measure autherizes thte commission The statute that we passed absolutely dewbicb bas been appeinted, te acquire the privei titem et any power te acquire lands
lands whicit are censidered aecessary te except with tite .autherity ef parliament, a
cemmemorate the important event, and I very foolisit thing te de.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JULY 18, 1908
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Surely mny bon.
Hon. '-%r. LOUGHEED-Tbey have powei
under the Act which we passed -a few friend bas sorne Information about it.
niontbs ago, to expropriate land.
Hon. Mr. 8COTT-Oh no0.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-The government
Hon. Mr. 'SCOTT-They have no powers
must bave asked the price or the lands ?
of expropriation wbutever.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Oh, yes. It was
Hou. cMr. SCOTT-No. My bon. frlend
made subjeet to the submission to parlia- Is mistaken. The goverumeut bus notblng
ment of w-hatever action might be taken by to do with ItL We are authorizing the commission to spend that money la the purthe commission.
chase of lands.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-They have certainly
Hou. Mr. FEùRGUSON-What bave we to
power to expropriate and spend 'the money
do wltb themn?
without showiug for what purpose, and this
Bill is evidentiy to show where the money
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-You took from them
is going. 1 think w-e shouid have a plan. the rlgbt to buy the land. It -%as a stupid
The government are not ln possession of thlng to do.
aniv information on the subject.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWILIGHIT-It
Hon. '-\r. LOUGHIED-Tb17ey bave a was donc by the government.
right to ask the commission for it.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
Honi. MrSCOTT-No. because the stutement is clear enoughi. There is no
purchases wili be limited by the umount of question that if the contributions are miot
muoney ttmey receive. This parliament is flot suffcient to meet the amounts required tc
giviug any more money. The mouey ls com- puy off the parties from whom the property
Ing from the public.
was purcbased, it will have to be voted by
we will be asked to vote
LOUGHEED-This Bill asks purliament, and
Hon. Mfr.
,%vhatever balance may be required. It la
-for authority to expropriate lands. Immevery well to say you are flot usklug any
diately they are expropriated and the ail
money ut the present moment; we undor,
amount of money is agreed upon, nothar
It involves the expeuditure
Bill miii be broughit before parliainent to staud that, but
of money, ani Ia case the amount is not
vote that umount.
sufilent, parliament will be asked to meet
Hou. Mfr. SCOTT-Tbeu it wili just cost the derlcit..
dlouble the ainount. We huad no riglit to tie
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-There Is no promise of
it up in the way we did. Options should
that kind.
bave been taken three or -four years ugo
Hon. ýSir MACKENZIE .BOWELL-I
wheu property was ut a 10w price.
understand that, iieither -was there any proHou. '-\r. LANDRY-I think thut was mise with the Quebec bridge.
doue. 1 think options were asked froin euch
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-There is no0 parallel.
-of the proprietors, and ios*t of the propriegiven options.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
tors had
country Is asked to assume the whole resHon. Mfr. SULLIVAN-Wus this $300,OOO
ponsibility; but wbether tbey intend to pay
voted by parliameat to go to any specific the parties wbo subscribed for the stock
-purpose or to the general fuud ?
of the Bridge Company ls not kuown yet,
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-No it was to be spent and it is just the saine w-ithx the Bill be;on the celebrations coming on at Quebec. fore us.
Ail parties subscribing- were given an iissurHon. Mr. SCOTT-I have the former Bill
ance that uo part of tliat fund was to, go before me now. 'An Act respecting Vie
for the purchase of land. We are flot grant- National Battlefields ut uec.Clause 1
ing them money. We are simply allowing says :
-them to use the money tbey had on band
No tland or immovabie proper ty sha-il be
for the purchase of the land, and the longer purchased or acquired by the commi9sion except with the previoua authority of pýtrli'At drags on thec more it wvill cosi.

110SENATE

1710

ment and no expenditure shall he muade by
the eominiis-dofl until it has been approvçd of
by parliainent.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If the sherjiff loses
that list, wbat shall happen ?

FERGUSON-That wiII be ont
Hon. M.%r.
the $300000 we voted ?
off
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-IS it possible the
commission Is In the bands of the land owners of Quebec, when the hon. gentleman
says the prices are going up ? An arrangenment is being muade to purchase these battlefields ilext week. aîîd if no option bas been
secured, as niy hon. frieud froin Stadacona
seenis to think there lbas-

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-A duplicate wvill be
printed in Ottawa.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
cannot understanld why, on a question
of this kind, It sbould be ternied a compromise. There was no compromise asked for. The objection taken to procuriug
these copies was that It w-ould take 'up too
inucb tume, and it was Impossible to prepare tbree copies, one for the sherliff and
one for each off the candidates. Now the
bion, gentleman proposes a compromise to

Hon.' Mr. SCOTT-The bion, gentleman
knows more than I di- about it.

Iu
bave a copy made for the sherlif.
miaking that copy, witb the use off the type-

Hon. Mr'. FEPC.USoN-Ticý governient
sboul kniow%
Hon.
know ?

M'.nSCOTT-How

sbouILI

tbey

w-riter, you can mnake three copies just as
easy as you eau make one. It seerns la nie
there nmust be somle bidden reason.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I
attempt.

\vill niake no more

Hon. Mr. FEIIGUSON-I arn afraidl the
government «iii be far more responsible in
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do;
the end.
flot accuse the goverament, but there
be some hidden reason for dcprivHon. Mr. SCOTT-1 cannot understand seenis .to
Wby
They ing candidates off this information.
how tbey enu be held responsible.
we take so mucli tume and trouble
do flot asl, for any more money. If any should
a natter off this kind,
more money is wanted. tbey will bave to in connection w'ith
made as w-eh as
parliamient for it. 1 say that to when three copies can be
c&nie to
the bion. one, if tbere is flot some ulterior reason
niy knowledgée at ail events, unless
suggested ?
Senalor froni Quebec says they have actu- for tbe course

ally obtained options, that we are only makHon. MNr. LOUGHEED-Does not my
ing it more difficuit for the commission to bon. friend think, it rather unseemiy that
it is put off.
buy the land tbe longer

The motion was ag-reed to and the Bill
was read. the 2-ncl and .3rd timies and passed.
DOMIINION

ELECTIONS ACT
MNE-NT BILL.

AMIEND-

THIRD READING.
The House resurned iu Comnmittee off the
WVhoIe consideration off Bill (115) 'Au Act
to anîendl the Doininlili Elections Act.'
(Iii tbe commnittee.)
On subsection 8 of clause 1.
Hon. MNr. SCOTT-I ivas going- to suggest a fair compromise. iliat in addition to
eending a list to the Clerk off the Crown
in Chancery, a list should be filed with
tbe sherlif and the candidates con get their
copies tbere.
Hnn. Mr. SCOTT.

w-e should attenipt to amend tbe provisions
off this Bill whlch eau. affect only the menibers off the Commons, and w-hidli bas been
carefulir thought out and lengthly di,4cussed
lu that 'House ? Lt seenis to me it is piesumption for us to, do so. True w-e bave a
rigbt to do so, but tbat observation applies
mucb more strongly la this case thoan to
other Bis. If a Ulst is withheld froin a candidate and sent to, the Clerk off the Crown
3
iu Chancery, and then to the ] rinting
Bureau, w-bat guarantee bas the 0ppositiou
candidate that the printed list is a copy
off the rev'ised lst ? I know of an instance
in northern Ontario, in one off those saine
constituencies where this sanie tbing ha.ppened last session. where tbe printe 1 list
oînitted as many as a dozen naines off
th., supporters of the Conservative candidate ia one poil, and it happen-ed that this

JULY 18,- 1908
tbing w-as repeated. He had flot the opportunity of comparing the prînted list with
the revised !ist. aud only discovered it w-len
it w-as too late to have it mended. I do not
for a moment say that mny hon. friend has
any suclb objeet as tbis ln view, but w-e
are fightlng practicaily the coming election.
The hon. gentleman w-ho moved this amendment has evidently had in view an undue
advantage whlch could lie taken by the
government candidate.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I arn not referring to my lhon. friend. I amn referring
to the hon. gentleman w-ho proposed th,
amendment. No one cau doulit that If this
ameudmient should pass, the government
candidate w-ould be furnlbed w-lUs a copy
of this list and the limits of tihe polling
division. aiffd w-ould go into that consti-

tuency -th oroughly prepared w-ith ail tuàe
Information the government could give hlm,
w-hile thse opplosition' candidate wsould lie
entirely deprived of the elementary in-formation whichi every candidate should have.
Undér the circumstances, it cannot be said
that It is unreasonable that we shiould Insist upon those lsts being furnislsed to the
candidates.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I should be very
sorry to hoid the opinions of nsy politicai
opponents that xny hon. friend lholds of
the Liberal oarty. He states what is an
absolute imposslbllity to happen. He must
know that a dozen names could not lie
strnck off. because the provisions of the
Northiwest Act-

171

position of the other House and accepted
by the government, and It Is practically a
breacli of faith to try and strîke it out
bere.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If the hon. gentleman states that on honour, I would flot hesitate -for a moment, but I cannot concelve
what possible lnjury can accrue to auy
However, if
one .from the suggestion.
there Is a suspicion that thiere is any concealed wrong, I wiil let it go. 1 should lbe
sorry to, entertain the feeling the opposition
seem to entertain of the Liberai party.
The subciause w-as adopted.
On suliclause 12,
Hon. M~r. FEIIGUSON-This clause deals
wlth Manitoba, and as there are no new
naines to, le put on in 'Manitoba whiy sliould
tùcre lie enumerators?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It must takze time to
distrîbute, the naines. I venture to say
that la the electorai district of Macdonald
tour thousand names have to be transferred, andit is only a man wlth local knowledge who can transfer those. 1 have a
plan ln my room which shows that tbere
are elght of the provincial districts with
a haif or one-fourth or one-eighth la the
electoral district of Macdonald, and those
namnes have to, be changed according to
the locallty In which the voter lives, and
that can only lie done by a man with local
knowledge.
The subclause w-as adopted.-

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I wish to inove an
amendment to section 69 of the Act. Thiat
Hou. Mr. LOU GHEED-I did not refer section la as follows:
Except amsin this. Âot otherwise .provided.
to the Northwest :I referred te Nortberu
any British subjeet m'ao' 'le a candidate for
Ontario.
election fer a iseat in the House of Couinons.
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-I lsastily saw 'Mr.
1 propose to amend that by adding the
Aylesworth :I had isot tirnie to discuss It following wvords:
lm ; I ask-ed If it w-as important,
w-l
But only for one seat in the House of Coniand lie said it w-as, that tirne iniglt le bast mous.
and' there nsight lie a difference ia the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That 19 a matter for
copies. Supposîng a duplicate ls left lu
the sheriff's office and botls parties have an the House 0f Conimons altogeUlher. I think
ejual chiance. w-hat liariii can lie done we had better flot Interfere.
there ?
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-If that is only for
Hon. 'Mr. FERGUSON-I amn told that the House of'Commons, I do not; see w-hy
this provision now attempted to lie struck the hon. gentleman was so anxIous to acout w-as put ln at the instance of the op- cept an amendment tbis afternoon.

SPNATE
Hion. Mr. SCOTT-YOu~ see 1 did not accept It.
Hon. Mr. LANDI'Y-Well, 1 prop-;se my
ameudment.
The amendnîent was declared lost on a
division.
On clause 21,
21. Section 173 of the isaid .Act is amended
by adig at the end of paragraph (c) the
floig proviso:
Provided however, that no ballot paper
sha ibe rejected on acoount of any writing.
number or mark placed thereon hy any deputy xeturning officer.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thls
clause is open to n great dca! of objection.
Difficultiles bave arisen lu the past on nccount of blunders made by returniug officers in adopting the former prvso of
the Ontario .la-w ni. a Doinion election.
Under the old Ontario law, ns it exlsted
some years ago, you b.ad to put a iinber
upon the ballot sillar to that çvlicb was
upon the voters' list lui order to ascertain,
In case of a protest, whether the party
wbose vote bad been objected to really had
a rlght to vote.
Hou. Mr. ROSS-A scrutiny of the bal-

vote itself would. show for wbom it was
cast. What objection would there be to
adding these words, because our object ls
to prevent bribery and corruption ns far as
possible. I move that the following ivords
be ndded'to thîs clause.
Unless 6uci mnark is of a character to idelitify or ýindilcate who the voter f s.
Hlon. Mr. ROSS (Mlddlesex)-Any mark
might be used as an Identification mark if
there is collusion. Tbere is the danger.
Lt migbt be the figure 6, or X, or aiiy
cypher. For Instance, I bave paid a man
for bis vote, and I have lnstructed that
muax to make a mark on bis ballot so that
wben .the ballot Is counted n certain mari,
will appear on ItL I bave my ballot, and
the scrutineer sees that mark and k-nows
it Ls the ballot of John Sinith, who recelved
$5 to vote for Sir maekenzie or your humble
servant.

That is a mark of identification.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Not by the returning officer.
Hon. Mr. ROSS--It Is on the ballot. The
Ontario Act, VI. Edwftrd, 1906, says :
But no word,, buter or mark, wriittea or
mnade or oznitted to ba writtan or made by the
deputy ratuwrniug officer on ça bellot peaper

BOWELL-But
The clause as it stood bafora the Act
officars
In a numbar of cases the returning
acted upon the provisions of the Ontario of 1906 rend :
Ina countiing tihe vçtes, -the dopUtY Teturning
law &t the Dominion elections, nnd by that
here
dlsqunlified the man in some case officer ehiLi objecit to ail ballot papgrs
rneans
cast for in caliled rejected balot papers:
who bad the majority of votes
) by which net have 'been to hlma;
the (b>mwhih have votesbeen supplied given for
him. I notlced on this question iiiai
,elected
candidates
the leader of
House of Commons uesion:'suposig tie oppo- more upun'which than are any .writing or ma~rk
there is
(c)
a
his
sitin nsed
the -voter can hae àdentified other
Suposin t'by 'wkich
sitin as-edthisquetion
the dereturning officer should write the name of than the niamber pleced thereon by 6eotion
paper, would that 'puty r0bunng officer iprovided for by
the voter upon the ballot

lion. Sir MACKENZIE

ballot ho counted for the party for
It was cast? * And the answer Was:
ln a case o! that kind. ut -%vould
show how the mnan voted, and it

wboin 108.

'Yas.'
clearly
would

At that time we used a numbered ballot,
and aie ballot wvas not to ha rejected on
account of that number. Since the nuni-

laaid to any amount of corruption. Why
should not something similar to his ha
added: 'Provided, however, that no0 ballot
paper shiaîl ba rejeted on accoui of any
writingI numbar or mark placad tbereon by
any raturning officer, unless suchi mari- is
of a character to lden.tify or indicate who
aie voter às.' lIn that case it would only

bered ballot bas been rejected, we bave
added aie provision whicb I read, VI. Edward, 1906. T.bat is the Engllsh law, too.
A voter ls not to ha disfranchised by lnadvertence or by crimliality of the deputy
returning officer. The franchise la sacred.
and lie must not be disqualified by auy'nccident or by the malice aforethought of

apply to a mark wbichi would indîcate the
party who gave aie vote. 0f course, the

be fought out afterwards as best ýit inay.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

the deputy returning officer, that the matter

JUL'y 18, 1908
I tbink the prov-ision iu the law is a good
one. The lion. Secretary of State referred
to the Weutworth election, w-here -the caudidate w-ho had a xnajority ef the votes,
Sir. Seeley, lost the seat ou account of _the
ballot paliers beiug uunbered by the deputy
returulng efficer, and it w-us not showu that
it w-as doue thirougb mnalice or evil luteut,
but lie lest the seat.
Mon. Mr. FERGUSON-The successful
candidate refused to take the sent, nsud
there w-as another election.
Hou. 3fr. ROSS-les. there w-as a new
electiou, and Seelev w-as defeated. The
identifiation of the ballot is' a sniall matter conipared u-ith the riglit of the elector.
Heu. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
flot thluk tis clause refers exclusively te
It
marks made by the returuing officer.
refers te the scrutiuy before a judge, and
no matter w-bat marks may be made upon
the ballot, w-hetber by auy oue. eveu the
voter himiself. by w-hiei lie couid be identified, is allowed te bie counted. I propose to add 'except lu such cases as to
indicate w-ho the party w-ns tiat cast the
vote.'
Hou. Mr. ltOSS-How w-ould you show
It w-as a mark te Indicate that?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
is fer the judge te decide.
If I saw the
ballot, and knew w-ho put the mark upon
it I would know It. Tbe difficuities reterred te by the hon, gentleman w-ho has
just spoken, ne doubt bave occurred lu Outarie. We had a case lu the counity of
Hastings, and that w-as referred te by the
Miuister of Justice, beiug a uephew of the
Minister of Justice libunself. But tbat w-as
one of the cases whîchi shows, shail 1 sur
the dexterity ef lawyers? There w-ere two
lawyers conducting this case. One w-as
James Bethune, a very promninent aud eminent couasel, w.d w-heu the question came
up before Judge Armour for cousideration,
he insisted. that a marked ballot should bie
aliowed: but w-lien lie took that -round hie
w-as not aware that there w-ere other polIag divisions lu w-hich the ballot had been
numbered tu the samne w-ay, aud the contlng of the whiole of thpm or the disailow-

iug of themi would have returned the Conservative candidate, and the judge w-as
about annulllng the election when the late
John White, w-ho represeuted East Hastings
for some time, made thils proposition to
the judge :
I do flot deqire to ocoupy a seat in parli-i.
ment unless I sut legally elected. As you are
about setting the election aside, annul it aitogitiher. anad let eacli party pay his own ceets
and we will figh't it out ag-ain.
That w-as a suggestion mnade by a Couservative, aithoug libe could have been seated If bie had taken advantage of the teclinicalities. He acted in a sirnilar mnner
to Mr. Sniih, of Weutworth. He rau over
inul
and w-as elected by a good majority.
1 can see lu tais clause the opening of the
door to uny anlount of fraud. Uuiess it
bie protected in soîne w-ny, frauds w-il]
arise. MIy hon. friend the Secretary of
State expressed great horror and surprise
that the leader ef the opposititon slîonid
have so littie faità lu certain parties. and
%Ve
particularly In the Liberal party.
know w-here sherlifs In our province, lu
some districts, have been Implicated lu
the grossest possible manner In these elections, and It is a very great misfortuue
that men w-lo are exemplary in all other
w-alks of lite, w-len vou corne to the question of elections they do flot think it nny
harai to perpetrate ny amount of iniquity
lu order te gain tijeir p)oint. Fifty years
experience lu battliug Iu elections bas 'lead
me te that conclusion. If the ameudment
Is rejected. I w-ll mnove it again ou the
thIrd readlag.
Hou. Mr. WATSON-If the hon. gentleman refers to clause 26 hie will observe
tbat penalties attached to deputy returuing officers w-ho shahi place such marks on
the ballot. The clause reads as foliows:
M6.
Paragra-ph (j> and the conchiding paragraph of section 255 of the said Act are repealed sud the follow.ing 'paragi'aphe are subetituted itherefor:
(j) beiug a deput;y returxring offiocer, places
upon auy ballot paper, except es authorized by this Act, any writing, number or
mark qrjth jutent that the -voter rbo rwhoin
such ballot paper is to 'be, or has been, given
May -be iden#bified thereby; or
(k) meanifaetures, contructs, imports into
Canada, has in possession, esupplies ito any
eleotion officer, or uses for tthe purposea of au
election, or causes te be i nmnufactured, constructed, irnported into Canada, supplied to
any election officer, or us.ed for the purposes

1714

SENATE

1714

SEIN ATE
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I move in aîuenid-

of any election, any bal-lot box containing or
including any compartmen:t. appliance, dev4ce or mechan.iosm by which a ballot paper
inuy or cou.ld be secretly pàaced or stored
therein, or, having been deposited during
polling, may be secretly diverted, miispbrced,
affecoted or annpu'lait; or
(1) atteonpts to commit any offence specified
in this section, shall be disqualified from i-ctterni of eight years
election for
ing et any and guiity cdfa an ind-icta-ble off ence
thereafter
and lisble. if hie is a returning officer, electicin clerk, deputy returning officer, poil clerk,
or other officer en-gaged in the election, to
ixiprisonmient, without the alternative of a~
fine, for a terna not exceeding fore years and
not iass ihiax one year, with or w.ithout hard
leibour. end.if hie is tany other person to 4niprisounenit fer a terni not exceeding three
yearns and flot la.s then one year, with or withi-

out hard labu..
The penalties ire very severe.

nient fiant clause 21 be struck. out.
a
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-W7ill w-e bave
statement frona the Secretary of State lu
regard to this question and not merely a

vote? The bon leader of the House was
not in the Cbaniber whien tbe bon. gentleman froin Wolseley exposed the w-hole
worklag of that clause w-hich w-as used f0
mnake an elector believe fiant lie could bie

recog-nized.
Hon. M. PERLEY-Tis issusceptible ta
purpose of causing bribery
be used for fthc
and corruption la the w-ny I have explained.
1 venture to say 1 cau go into any constif n.

It ai)-eut-y Nvhere tic voters are purcbasable and

pears to nie that the roturning officer
who bas the Election Act hefore lîjiii or
the deputy returning offieer or poli dcll,
and tbey kaiow w-bat the Ian- is, there is
yer- littie danger of maý,kiiug am. mar-k.
and 1 think it would hie perfeetly safe
flot
to l)loi-ide that the elec-tor iýlall
be distranchlsed because of any marks on
the ballot. The officers w-ould be verv carefui not to violate the law m-hien the penalties are so severe.

secure the election of any candidate by thîs

menus. The returning officer does not mark
voter casts bis ballot on
the ballot, but fthc
the assumption thaf the returiia±g officer
will, and that serves tbe purpose.

The clause was ndoptcd.
On clause 26,

Hon . '%n. PÉRLEY-Tils is the clause
wbere fthc amendment I have been suggestThe
ing could be appropriately inserted.
first part of the clause is nnnecessary, beHon. Mr. LANDRY-These penalties are
of
only imposed If you prove flic crimiinal lu- cause, as I bave sbown, the bet system
ýcan be carî'ied ont witbout flac retent of a returing otflcei fliat the voice- briberv
tuî-uhug otticer violafiug- thc laNv. I aoticed thA
sbould be identified.
mnomnt I began f0 explain wvbeîe this Bill
tie
Hon. '.%I. WATSON-That is ail
%vas defective, and snggested au aiineudThe fact tlîat the ment, that bof h of the ministers iii this
amiendmeut réferq t0.
ballot can be identified is the ev-idence.
bouse left tbe cbamber, and wben the bonu
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That does liot prove senator from Hastings moved an amendment, neitiier of thena deigneci to give ail
anythinig.
explaatiou, showing that tic lion. SecreHou. Mr. PERLEY-There is only oiîe
tary of Stiîte knows tliat wbat 1 biave said
solution of this inatter, and that is to reIs correct.

peal thc w-bole proviso, ni iii that case
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wc
the retunning officer wvouid uot mlark the
ballot because lie would he tiued: but if bave bail cases m-heî-e people othier than the
you repeal the clause it would not be tiiere returning officer bave marked ballots. Sud>i
t0 be used by n man canvassing a vote. a case occurred lu ftie county of Hastinîgs,
This penalty would not cut any figure. if w-here the ballot boxes were taken luito a
3-ou put a man in the peuîitentiary the re- prinfing office and afterwands it w-as found
mainder of bis life, it wouil makIe no0 dif- fliat quite a numiber of the ballots were

ference, because a clause is tiiere to shio% marked w-ith a small cross. Tbaf w-as donc
Ir by a secret conclave wbere tbey opened the
that a mark, may be put on the ballot.
the goverrument w-ants to hiave an lîouest, boxes.
fali election, tbey w-ill strikze out the clause.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Somefbiiig of the
The amnendment w-as declared lest ou di- saine kind w-as discoveredl lu the necount in
the recent London election.
vision.
Roii. Mr. WATSON.

JTTLY 18, 1908

1715
11

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tliat
is the last election one wour1 expect a Liberal te speak of. If there ever w-as an electien that dlsgraced a city and thie parties
connected w-itli it, it w-as the London electien.

2. Every director, shareholder, officer, attorney, or agient, of any company or association violating the provisions of this section,
wvho aida, abets, advises, or takes part in, any
such violation, and every person wýho asks or
knowingly' receives any money or its equivalent in .violatw~n of the provisions of this

Hon. Mr. WATSON-I refer to It to show
that something similar to w-bat the lion.î
gentleman bas described as baving occurred
ln Hastings took place ln London. Althougli
tbe majority w-as twelve or tiiirteexkhundred.
the defeated candidate asked for a recount,
and it w-as discovered tbat a great number
of ballots were marked as the bon. gentleman descrlbed, w'ltli a little cross, evldeutly
put tliere before the ballots were deposited
ln the boxes.

lars, or to imprisonment for a terni not ext:eeding two years, or to both.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL want to cali attention to an Important omission from this BihI. I do flot find any
-clause provlding for tlic punlalimeat of ministers w-ho promise tbe expenditure of'
public money in constituencies lu order to
secure tbe returu of goverunent candidates.
We bave Illustratious of minsters going luto
constituencies and promising- to coustruct
post offices, bridges, railw-ays and ail sorts
of public w-orks. Is it not a gi-enter crime

Tbe clause w-as adopted.
On clause 33,

section, is guilty of an indictable offence and
hiable to a fine not; exceeding one thousand dol-

for a minister, w-ho la la a position to carry

ont bis promises, tbough lie uses tlie public
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Tlils funds to do so, tbau it la for a private inprovides against the employment, I suppose, dividual to make promises to electors lxi
of strangers to cauvass lu a constltuency. case is candidate la elected?
Oaa my hon. friend tell us w-hy this clause
Hou. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-If you go
la inserted ?
tbat far, you w-i bave to aliolisb SuppleHon. Mr. SCOTT-Tlhere bave been a mentary Estimates.
couple of instances of persons from the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-A
United States belng engag-ed to canvass lu very good suggestion, iudeed. More parelections.
ticularly w-len you consuit, as nxy hiou.
Hon. '-%r. ROSS (M-Niddlesex)-lin the la3t friend no doubt lias consulted, the last supelection, persons carne* from Buffalo and plemntiiy estimates laid before î>arliaiuent,
canvassed ln tlie coulity of Leinnox, and w-bere we find sonie hunudreds of appropriaw-hen tliey w-ere w-auted for witnesses w-lien tions for bridges, post offices and ail kinds
the election w-as protested& tliey could not of w-orks ou the eve of au election. My liou.
be found. The suspicion w-as that thiey hl' frieiîd, the Secretary of State, xnight -consider
If they it iniproper if I -ere te usk iini if there is a
been doing somneting.ý irregular.
could have been caught during the canivass probability of an election before suow fali
you bad thein, but there w-as no law to lu- tîxis 3-ear, becauso the suppleiieutary estiI think, the clause is a good mates furniali very strong indications that
dict them.
the elections are fleur ut liand. Does ixot my
one.
lion. frîend tliink, lu ai seriousiiess, particularly if lie w-ere ou tbis aide of tlie 1-buse,
andi w-e w-ere on that side of the House and
On clause 36,
ho carry out -the promises mîade
36. No coliipanyv or association otiier than lia( pover
one incorporated for political purposes alone by menibers of the preseut governmeut, thiat
shall, diî-ectly or iîîdirectly, contribute, loan, w-e sliould eltiier cease to lie niembers of tlie

The clause w-as adopted.

advance, psy or- promise or- offer to pay anY gov-eruinent or lie severely punislied or dismoney or its eg[iivaleiit to, or for, or in aid
of, "uy candidate et an election, or to, or for, qualified? 1 put tbese questions lu aIl serior in aid of, any political partyv, colinmittee, ousness. I amn strougly of thie opinion tliat
or association, Or' to, or for, or in aid of, any
compony incorporated for political purposes,
or to, or for, ori-nl furtherance of, aiiy political purpose whatever, or for the indeinnifica-

tion or reimbuisement
inoneys so used.

108j

of any person

for

it sliould be doue. Lt la not -a new idea, liecause w-len tlie election law w-as under consideration some years ago, I proposed sucli
an aniendment, but the virtue of tlie major-

SENATE
ity wvas strlkiagly illustrated by the rejectioln
o! my motion. I arn very earaest lu what 1
say. The lion. Secretary of State seems to
doubt it. because le siuiles at the proposition. Give us you honest opiuion on this
question?

HIon. Mr. ILOUGHEED-What
subsidy?

ls

the

Hon. -Mr. -SCOTT-Thirteel tlîousand dolThe w-lîole distance
lars a mile, I thlak.
Lt is a
is elne hundred aad fifty miles.
The securities
guaraatee for fi! ty years.
shall be secured by deed or deeds of trust
SCOTT-I thînk I wouid disHou. M.Nr.
by way of mortgage or charge, approved by
qualify the minister If hie did neot carry out the Governor lu Oouncii.
Such deeds shall
lils promise.
respectively grant a first mortgage or
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I charge upon the said line of rillwsy.
He would
liope that is placed on record.
Hon. .Mr. LOUGHEED-Does it cover the
the minister w-ho promised a
dlsqualify
equipment or the roadbed?
bribe If hie did not carry it ont.
Hon. '%r. SCOTT-Riglit of way, station
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Not at ail.
-rounds, reai estate, roliing stock, equipHon. Sir MACIICE.ZIE BOWELL-I ne- tuent. plant. machinery. tools and other presonal property present and future required
cept tbat as nu evidence o! conversion.
for the said lUne, and so on.
%r. SCOTT-I said nothing- about
Hon. -.
Hon. Mr. LANDItY-Fifty miles at $13,I spoke aboitbribe.
Whiat Is the
000 aud 100 miles at $25.000.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No total?
explanaiiton is necessary after that.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have nlot made it Up.
Hon. '.\r. CA.\PflEIL, f rom the commîitHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-It is $3,150,M00, if I
tee, reported the Bill wlth an ameadmient
arn not mistaken.
whicb was coacurred ln.
The Bill was then read a thiird time, and
passed.

Hon. Mr. ROY-About that.

Hloni. Mr. SCOTT-It is goiag throu'gh a
section of country where the Dominion will
Lt is likely to pay froni
EDMONTON. YUKON AND PACIFIC uiot run aay rlsk.
RAILWAY EXTENSION BILL.
beginning. The coal mines will be
the
valuable.
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-One
A message was received from the H1ouse
whîch
of Cornmons wlth Bill (213) Ail Act respect- or two Bis dealilg with raiiways
are flot Inciuded ln the generai llst o! sublng nid for the extension of the Edmoaton,
sidies that will be broughit do-wn, that have
Yukon and Pacifie Railway.
been I)resented to the House.
The BHi was read the first time.
Hon. 1%r. ýSCOTT-Thiey are xiot part ot
Hou. '.%r. -SCOTT moved the second rend- what is called the Raiiivay Subsidy Bill.
He isaid: This Bill autho- They are independent of it.
ing of the Bill.
rizes the g-overument to guarantee the bonds
Hon. Sir 31AL&CIRNZI E BOnELL-Wliat
o! the Canadia Northern for a raiiway la
W'hichi
evidence bave we of the route!
the vicinity of Edmonton la the province o!
does that 150 miles rua?
Alberta, to a point at or near Brousseau way
riveèr and the head of 'Maclebd river, where
Hon. *Mr. SOOTT-West, northwest froin
It Is said there is a valuabie bed of coal.
Edmonton te the Rocky Mountains.
'Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What is the aileHon. Sir tMMJAKENZIE BOWEjiL-What
age?
pass wlll lt touch ?
Hon. *'%r. .SCOTT-I do nlot kaow that it
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The *whole mileage is
goes through.
150.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.'

1717

JULY 18, 1908

Hon. Mr. ROY-It will flot bring them other, and 132 in another and anotiier flot
It is 250 miles from exceeding 100 miles.
to the Mountains.
Edmonton to the Mountains.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Six hundred and
Mr. S.COTT-About 40 miles are ai- aine miles altogether, which, at $13,000,
Hon.
niakes $7,917,000.
ready bulît.
Hon. Mr. LOtJGHEED-I suppose these
Hon. Sir MACIENZIE BOWELLI-Canf
us of wbom this two ronds are not expeeting any other
the hon. gentleman tell
snbsidy from the governument?
company is composed?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Not that I arn nwarm
Hon. Mr. -SÇOTT-Tlie Canidian Northof.
-ern acquired the lune, and the niortgage
will then be to the Canadian Northern.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That makes $11,.
0W7,000 for the two of theni?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW"ELL,-It
struck me, if it runs westerly at ail, it
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVELL-'Jie
must strîke the Rockies if it goes 150 country is i-irtually building these roads.
Is Edmnuton fuither fr, m the
m ies.
H-Ion. 'Mr. SCOTT-No, they ar-e guaranRocky Mountains than Calgary,
teelug the bonds to the exteut of $1,3,000 a
Hon. Mr. ROY-No, but the mornatains mile.
am~ further f rom Edmow$l,'n than f rom
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If
Calgary.
the interest is not pald, the country willl
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It bave to pay it.
must run tbrougb a portion of the Rocky
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is a part o! the
Mountains, or very nearly, or there would
country -nhere there Is not mucli risk.
not be a difference ln the subsidy.
The motion w-as agreed to. and the Blill
Th2ie motion was agreed to, and the Bill
a second and third timie, and was rend n second and third tine, and
was rend
passed.
passed.
CANADIAN NORTHERN IIAILWAY
COMPANY BILL.

RAILWAY

SUBSIDY

BILL.

FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD REÂDINGS.
A message w-as received fromi the House
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
(215) An Act to
A message was received froni the House of Commons with Bill
authorize the granting of subsidies ln aid
of Commons with Blill (214) An Act reof the Unes of rnilWay
specting certain aid for the extension of of the construction
therein mentioned.
the Canadian Nortbern Railway.
The Bill w-as rend a first tune.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT nioved the second rending of the Bill. 11e said: This is to
authorîze the governrnent of Canada to
asslst in the construction of the Uines set
out, by guaranteeing the bonds or stock of
the company to the extent of $13,000 a
mile to be secured by one or more deeds
of trust by way of mort gage.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-WMIt is the nuniber of miles?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-One hnndred and fiftytwo mlles ln one case, 175 miles In an-

The Bill w-as rend a fIrst tume.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second reading of the Bill. He said : The total anount
would be over $12,000,000 ; over $5,000,000,
nenriy one-hai! of that Is revotes.
Hon. Nir. FERGTJSON-That is oniy the
paitry amount o! $7,000,000.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Over $5,000,000 bas
been voted over and over agaln, and lias
not been taken Up.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tft
is the best possible reason w-hy it should
not be voted.

1718

.SENATE

SENATE
1718
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-How mucb Is given ian and bis i)arty at that time thou.-lt
that was an Improper expenditure of
per mile?
mouey. No doubt bis meinory wll car-y
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Unless they bad gov- hum lack that far, but I should flot hav-e
erfiment aid we would flot have railways. referred to it bad lie not instanced the fact
Canada can boast of the largest rallway 0f the building of the Grand Trunk Railmlleage per capita of any country in the w-ny originally, to which we gave a subworld. It Is the proudest boast I know. sidy of about $15,000,000.
1 forget the
The transportation problem ls the most exact amount, but a certain amount per'
difficuit problem. So long as the money Is mile, I thluk it was $15,000 per mile. to
bonestly handled it w-fl be a great benefit assist thein, wlch bas never been repaid.
to us. My bon. frlen*i can remember the and is a liabllity at the present day against
condition Canada w-as la before the Grand thiat rond. I have expressed this vlew over
Trunk was built. I can remember whien, and over igain, but I tbink it should be
ln golng from Prescott to Toronto, I bad wlped ont of what are ternied the asýzets
to cross to Ogdeasburg and go through of the country. It lias run up to tre.ble
the United, States. Times are dhang-ed very the original amount by this time w-heu y-on
niuch, and Canada bas strained itself finan- add the Iuterest to 11. Subsidies bave becu
cially, no0 doubt. to build tHe railways, but granted for the consti-uction of certain
I think no better iuvestmnent could be made. roads, no doubt forced UPOIi the goveriiment by sypeculators and promoters, aa'l
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--An tbey bave not yet been enabled to dispose
admirable speech for the occasion, and 1 of the charters ln order to pocket a
could flot help contrasting the remiarks lot of money tbemselves.
The Bill just
made to-niglit by the hou, gentleman withi. passed, lu which you are gnaranteehîg
bis speeches when lie sat on this side la
some seven millions of expenditure for the
1894, when lie was denouncing sucb exNorthern Rallway, ls one of that character.
pendîtures with the strong-est possible That road was originally chartered to rua
language le could tblnk of.
from Edmonton lu the directioni laid dowu--i
SCOTT-Tlat w-as the Hudson lu this Bill, but the original promoters
Hon. M-Nr.
siiiiply spent about $20,000 or $30.000 ia
Bay Itailway.
surveys aud bield the charter ntil tliey
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
Is w-bat you are going to build now. lmn- extorted from the Canadian Northerui Railway a large sum 0f inoney whcithey
mediately after the hiou. gentlemn's party
pocketed. It is that. character o? road that
came Into power they not only adopted
we are continually renewing subsidies for.
the principle -which we incoî'porated ln a la order that promoters may seli thein to
Bill and tried to pass. but tbey passed the some great raîlway corporation. The proBill themselves, extending the~ time and
moters pocket a large amount. Two thirtîs
Anclent historv
lncreasing the subsidy.
o? these charters are of tliat dharacter and
is a very good thing to tbiak of and talk
about. I remember w-hieu the party of the the sooner sncb subsidies ire stopped the
better it w-l be for the country. I do ndý
bon, gentleman defeated the governmnt
la Quebec on account of their advancing object to subsidies provided tliey are giveji
the paltry suin of $100,000 to aid the Grand to bona fide companies organized for the purTrunk to run Its road between Qu'ebec and pose 0f constructing railways and who bave
hou.
Montreai, taking the security upon the road tlie moaey to carry on the î%,ork. M.%y
ltself and takling furtlier security upon the friend to my left (Hon. Mr. Ross, M.Niddlepost office subsidies -whicb were payable sex) will remember very well that wlhvii
to the Grand Trunk for cnrrying the mails. the policy of granting subsidies w-as first
The bon. gentleman's party defeated tIe introduced, the late John Sanfield Macdoni
John A. Macdonald and Cartier governmient aId -wonld flot consent to guarantee one
nt that time for advancing tbat paltry sum. dollar ln the province of Ontarlo until eviThat Is the tîme -when one party, at least, dence was laid before the goverlent that
had the Idea of advanclng Canada by as- the parties looklng for the subsidy were
sistlug- the railways, but the hon. gentle. able to carry on the work.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

JTJLY 18, 1908
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-An-id wve followved the Rime practice for a g-ood rnanyf
years.
Honi. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-As
my lion. friend says, the Liberal party pursued the saine policy afterwards for a uumber of years. It is a great pity that the
saine policy w-as nlot adopted by the late
Dominion government and aiso by the present governmet at Ottawa, but it Is qulte
evident to my- mid thint no matter what the
professions of the Libet-al party mny be,
they are not reformed. If they have any
desire to be refornuers, tniey.should dx-op the
practices w-hicii they conidemnec before they
We have
camne into pow-er themiselves.
lcarued the cvii of the systein of Indiscriininate gm-nits of subsidies to railway projects, auid experience ouglit to teach the lion.
Secretary of State and bis party to do better. Next year, howvever, if w-e live to sec
it, w-e shahl find this evii repeated, even
thougbh the parties bave failed to iuake preliminary surveys for the wvork.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What amount Is
paid per mile to these railways?
Hon. '-%r.
$3,200. amid
50 per cent
$15,000. but
$6,400.

SCOTT-Towards construction
If it exeels $15,0W0 per mile,
on the excess of cost over flic
not to exceed la the whole,

11
1719

lion. -%r. LANDRY-A revote is asked
for twenty-six rallways with a total mileage
t $3,200 a mile, wbich
of 1,681 - é
makes a. total of $5,381.440. Then there
'228-55 miles of new rond whlcb at
ire 2,
bhe minimum subsidy, namely $3,200 per
mille, cornes to $7,131,360, making a total,
nt the 10w-est calculation, of $12,512,800.
Hon. '-%r. FERGUSON-Yoii may add 50
per cent for the sllding scalle.
Hon. %Ir. LANDRY-Yes.. at least. because the sliding scale may force the govermmment te pay more than 5o per cent.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-At. 50 per- cent
you have a total of about $19.MMi.0ffl.
Hlon. '.%r. LANDRY-Yes. and it iuay go
UL) to'over $25.000,000l. Then tlîere are a
imumber of bridges.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The ordinary ndvance
on- a bridge Is 15 per cent of the cost, but
there are several cases where there are
specific sums.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbe railway bridge
and approaches over the Nicolet river -wil
be nided to thue extent of $15,000. Then thic
Canadian Pacifie Railway are to receive in
nid of the construction of thxe bridge over
the Saskatchewanf river at Edmuonton n
ainount imot exceeding $100,000. The Quebec, M.Nontreal and Southeru Raiiway Conipany are to get $75,000 for tbree bridges.
Tien we corne to an item to whicl I should
eall speciai attention.

Hou. '-%r. LANDRY-How many miles of
railw-ays are subsidized altog-ether?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I could not say. Some
of these votes bave appeared in the subsldy
Western
4. To
lists a number of limes. Whenl subsidies Rsilway ithe Atlantic, Qnebecithe«nd
constructioli
Comipany, towards
to and completion of the 26 Srailway bridges on
aire sought, they tell us that they expect
its Une of railwyay f£rom Paspelyiac te Gas9Pé,
have the moniey to begin operations.
payable upon tihe coxnpletioxi of -the said line
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tharlit is niot au au- of riulnay between the sa'id points, $250,000.
Thiere ai-e revotes
swer to my question.
Thiese bridges are already bult.
of subsidiles: how many miles of railwny
NZEBOMWELI-It is
Hou. Sir MC
ire covered by tue revotes?
debts, I suppose?
to pay the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have not the figures
I have neyer kuow-n such informabere.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Thuit is' the share of
Then the Intertion to be calhed for from -a member of the the Postmaster General.
provincial nailwny Bridge Compan7 of New
g-overnment here.
the conHon. Mr. LANDRY-I can tell the hou. Brunswick is to get $160,000 for
struction of a bridge over the ýRestigoucee
muember.
Ail thmis added together amounts to
river.
be
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I shah91 very glad to $800.000., and tbat wlth the subsidies to the
get the information. I have not the salue railways brings Up tlme am-ount to $24,000,finie and Industry thât the lion. senator 000.
from stadacofla bas to make It up.

SENATE
Hon. '-Ir. FERGUSON-And ive g-uarantee $11,0000 of bonds and then there is
It looks as
the cost of the Quebec bridge.
If we were coming near .a general election.
Perhaps the bon. Secretary of State wiIl
Say if that is the case?

to take over
autborizes the goi-ernmna
froin the preseut company the railway
bridge, and the Goveruor in Council are
to employ tbe most skilled eng-ineers we
can find for the purpose of prepnring- plans
for tbe uew bridge.

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Is it to be on the
Hon. Mr. SCOTI-I do0 fot think so.
There is a very large ainount of British old site?
money lnvested, and it wvil1 damage the
SCOTT-Tbe old site or wbntHOn.U.
credit of Canada If tbey are brouglit into ever site may be selected.
Notbbng w-ill
such enterprîses witbout this ald. I under- be done for some timie yet.
stand the .money for thiese projects bas 'been
Hou.
Sir
M-%ACKE..%ZIE
BOWýELI-I
furnisbed by British capitalists and we are
not paying more than a small fraction of bope tbe bon, gentleman is prepared ro give
the Hbuse some littie information as to
the cost.
%what dtis bridge bas already cost the counHou. _Mr. LANDRY-We are payiuig S25.- tr3-, and how uuuch It is likelv to eost by
0,(m '0.
takzing it over. and w-betber the guverument
Hou. '-\r. LOUGHEED-We are paying intend, iii taking over the bridge in its
the entire cost of the ronds.
present state, to pay back to tbe directors
or the sharebiolders the mnoney tbey bave
Hou. 31r. LANDRY-If wve take the poslavested in the enterprise?
Tbe bare prosible figures. as the Obligation stands, w'e
bave guaranteed for fifty years the bonds position to take over the bridge and assume
aIl tbe responslbllty of its construction is
0f the Edmonton, Yukon aixd Pacifie Railway at tbree and one-balf per cent, amount- not sufficient Information to justit'y us in
accepting the Bill.
We sbould bave more
Ing to $3,150,000.
The Canadiani Nortbern
information before we endorse the polîcy
Railwav is entltled to au amouat 0f $7,set forth in the Bill.
If tbe legislation to917,000, Nvbîcb makes a total of $11,067,0W
nlight ls to be accepted as evidence of the
for those two railway companies.
-Nom-,
value of the Senate, tbere will sooni bc an
if we take tbe revotes of subsidies at
agitation for the abolition of thi7 Chambe-.
the maximum figure $6,400 per mile, il
"veu tbose who favour the continuance of
amounts to $10,762,S: new subsidies, $14,anu Upper Hlouse, would like to have sonie
2C.2,720, making a total of $25~.025,600. Then
evidence of its utlhity to tbe country.
We
add $800,000 for the bridges, and you bring
are voting bere, withont the slightest inthe amount to $25,825,600.
Add to tbat
formation, millions of dollars, lu addition
the $11,067,000 I mentioned before. and we
to tbe large amount mentioDed by the bon.
bave a total of $36.892.600, apart from the
senator from Stadacona given for railway
Quebec bridge.
subsidies, without any evidence or explanaThe motion w-as agreed to. and tbe Bill tion to justify us ini the votes we are castwvas rend the second and thir1 time ou a ing-.
True, tbe Bill mentions w-here the
divisionu anud passed.
noney is to be spent; but it bas only been
la our bands about five minutes, aund :vet
QUEBEC BRIDGE AND RAILWAY CM
we are asked to pass Lt before we bave had
PA-NY'S BILL.
Can the hion. Secretary of
time Io read it.
State give us an idea of what tbe bridge
First, second and tbird reading-s.
A message wais received from tbe H-ouse lias cost -tbe country so far, wbat it luof Commons witb Bill (217) An Act respect- volves Lu tbe way of guarantee of bonds,
ing tbe Quebec Bridge and Railway Comn- and wbat it is likely to cost after taking it
Sball Lt
over and building the structure?
pany.
be five. ten or twenty millions ? Wben we
The Bill w-as rend tbe first time.
&et that information, we may be able to
Hou. Mr. SCOTT moved tbat the Bill be decide wbether it is our duty to accept the
read the second fimie,
He said: Thîs Bill Bill and put it on the statute-book.
Hlon. Mr. LANDRY.

JULY 18, 1908
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The arrangements between the government and tbe Quebec
Bridge Cornpany were fixed by .-.e statute
passed- some tbree years ago, at the time
thue government was autborized by paria.
ment to guarantee the bonds. At that time,
speaking from memory, It was agreed that
the moneys advanced by the indIvldual
subseribers, to the arnount of $200,000
were to be recouped with five per cent
Interest. The governinient took over the
franchise f rom the compauy. The bonds
the government guaranteed were up to the
arnount in round numbers of about $6,000,000. 0f that arnount, not al has been absorbed, but the bonds were deposited witb
the Bank of Montreal, and 1 tink up to
SO per cent was advanced ou the bonds.
They are stillinl that condition, the goveriiaient being liable of ca)urý4e on the bonds.
irMACENIEBOWLI--I
lio.
ACENIEBOELHon.t ir
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The goyerumenî guarauteed bonds for the construction of the
bridge to the amount of six millions and.
thal guarantee was iodged withi the
Bank of Montreal, 1 tbink Il was, 1 arn
nol quile sure as ho Ibat, and, If 1 arn
rig-itly advlsed, advances 10 about 80 per
cent were nmde bv the batik, ànd thut Is
the present position of it. The goveriinment beiîîg. of course, liable ho the full
anuount of $O,000,00 whenever tbey -pay Up
tlîe bonds. It la proposed now that an expert examnation be mnade ln tihe case, skilied engineers and arcitecîs wvill be ernployed t0 "prepare the best and mosh modern
Planîs and examne bile present site, 10 see
whiehher that should be retaiued, or whether
Il may be iiecessary to select another site.
Thiat is the iwlioie story. ia takiug il over,
the govermiuent have ho pay the cornpany
$:200K.000 thiat hhey subscribed, withi 5 per
cent added.
H10n. Mr. SULLIVAN-For the past ex1îeîîses ?
flon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, and tbey assume
the m;.000,000 bonds Ibid they have guaranteed.
H-on. SIr MACKÇENZIE BOWELL-Tlhe
lion, gentleman lias not stated what the
probable expenditure wvill be lu the reconstruction of the bridge ?

Hou. Mr. SCOTT-We could flot tell that
until after it bas been surveyed and the
engîneers have expressed their opinion of
IL.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Could
the hon. gentlemn give us auy probable
arnount ?
Hou. 'Mr. SCOTT-I should not like to.
Hou. '.%r. SULLIVAN-There is no staff
of engineers appointed yet ?
Hon. ';%I. SCOTT-No.'
Hlon. Mr. LANDRY-ThIs Bill is to emnpower the governnîient 10 buy out the conii)ain ?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. The Act of parlinnent already ini force authorizes it.
Ilii Mr.LN>Ythe government to do IL.

does not oblige

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We shahl have to do
it If a bridge Is ever built.
Hiou. Mr. LANDRY-I deuy that. The
goverumeat bas the rîgbt to buiid a bridge
where it suits without buying out the
company. This is the first proposition
I make. The government, by flhe Transcontinental Railway Act, bas the right
St.
to build aniy bridge over the
Lawrence wlthout being obliged to buy
out' the Quebec Bridge and Rallway'
Wliv does tue governmetît not
Comnin'.
do that ? That bridge fell about the 201h of
Angust last. The whole wiuter bas passed.
We agre now aI the end of Julv, and the
-overnmeut bas done nothing aut ail except
the framlng of Ibis measure for the relief of the shurebiolders of that conupany.
Tivit Is ail. WhIat bas been done for the
public interest ? Nothing at ill. The governrnent has muade no Inquiries. The goverument bas asked no report fronu 'the engineer, bas asked nothing 10 be doue by the
enigineers or by the cornpauy lîself for the
reconstruction of the bridge. I was told the
other day by th1e lion. minister thal there
w-as no proposition before the governmeut
to rebuild the bridge.

SCOTT-I arn not aware of any.
Hon. M_%r.
Ho. r. LANDRY-There is notbing befoeIhe goveramient excepî Ihaft demnnd of

1722

SENATE

SENATE
1722
the ýQuebec Bridge Comnpany to be recouped aniim. He received $16,490 as secrefary
their money, flot only money they Put lu1, nnd $4125 for travelling expenses fromi
Mach 1897, to date. 0f tlie oflier officr
but rnoney they neyer put ln. The compan
began with a capital of $65,000, or $63,700 of tlie Company, thie engineer lias received
to bie correct. I recelved the other . day $45,150 . If you add those different sunis
frein the hon. mînister an answer showlng you corne to a total, for attendance fee
wlîat becarne of that rnoney. AIr. Parent and salaries, wbvhl shows that thie coinwas named the president of the cornpany. pany bias absorlied altogeflier $111,666, while
Hie Is a big man. Hie ls a lucky mani. We they coafributed to thie fund about $63,700.
have the testlrnony givea by Air. Bartlie, Wlien the cornpany uadertook to bulld tlie
wlio said that Mr. Parent had doue bridge, fliey got froin the queliec goveruail lie could ln the public interest; ment a subsîdy of $250,00; froni Quebec
that lie was at the liead of the Bridge city a snbsidy of $300,000, and fliey carne
Company, that hie devoted lils tirne to Ottawa and got a subsldy of $1,000,000.
to the undertakling wlthout getting paid for
Wliat Uinie was
Hou. Mr. SULLIVAN..
the first four years, but at the end of the tîxat ?
four years a resolution was passed by tile
Hon. Mir. LANDRY-In 1899. But fliat
coiiilba xy grantiur tlimselves $10,000. Tliat
wvas flot sufficient. Tlîey wanted fo get a
Wnas la 1901. In 1902 :înother resolutiou guarantee on the bonds flîey proposed to
ivas passed granting $5,000, and so on. Ili float, so tlîey carne back f0 Otttawa in
1903 -a fourth resolution granted an- 1903 and made an arrangernent witli the
other $5,000, and li 1904 another resolutlon federal governiaxent, and wlien tliey miade
according $5,000 to'Parent and $1,000 f0 that arrangement, -Mr. Parent and Mr.
the vice-presldent, Mr. Audette, and $500
Hoare gave the following certificate:
to eacli of the directors of thiat Comnpany.
We the uxidersigned. pregldent and ciief enLet us see how that agrees wlth the answer
gineer cd -the Quebec B3ridge and Terminal
given by the bion. minister. Here la the Comnpany, hereby certify that the Quebec
answer I got, d-ated January, 1908:
Bridge Cornpany has received the following
subsidies, narnely:
Return to an aiddress of the Seaate dated
Froin the Dominioni of Canada. .$374,353
Jaauary 29, 1908, giving certain detailed inFroîn the Province of Quebec.. 250,000
forma-tiqn which las -been .furnished by the
Frorn the City of Quebec.. ... 300,00
Quebec Bridge Comvpany.
.. $924,353
Total........
la this retura it wlll lie found that Mr. and has paid over the amount of said subsidies
<less discount on the bonds issued by the city
Audette. vice-president, received $5,636.
73." of Quebee, to wit, the surn of $9,435) to the
He is a aliareholder for the amount oif contracter inà connection with the undertaking.
We further certify that the cornpany bas is$5,000. %Ir.Vesey Boswell received $3,201.36. '-%r. Dournalin did îlot put a single cent sued bonds in accordance with the conditions
of the contract between the cornpany and the
in the eniterpris.e. He was noîninated by contiactor of the face value of $472,000 which
the governrnent, and hie received $2,000 for have realized the surn of $283,270.
T. N. PARENT,
lis attendance. The Hon. Mr. Garneau, as a
President.
director, received $2,r-0.40. Mr. John BapE. A. HOARE,
tiste received $2,915.65. Mfr. Gaspard LeChief engineer.
Ootober 19, 1903.
moine, $2,000 aad Mfr. Parent, tijis devoted
man wnho, we xvere told. gave bis tirne
Witli that certificate, thle company confor nothing to the company, received $24.- quered the confidence of file premier of thîs
250. sirnply for his attendance, Mr. Price Dominion, and a contracf 'nas enfered Into
received. $3,000 odd, and Mr. John Sliarples, by tlîe gnvernmenf and the comnpaay, andi
who, prehaps, la the only mian that lias in tîxaf confract we flnd thaf tIe interini
actually contributed, lis money f0 the Coin- bonds of $472,000 liave been specially taken
paay f0 the arnount at first of *$50,000 of care of. As sliown by fhe certîficate which
whidh about $25,000 wortli of shares were I have just quoted the interini bonds of
nfterwards taken by the Quebec Central $472.000 haviag realized on]ly $283.279, tîe
Railway. The secrefary of that cornpany companv sustained a loss of $19S,721. Wliat
Mr. Barthe, who, when lie went in, received occurred? In fhe contract witli the gov$50 per montli, is 110w recelv-lng $2,400 per ernméat flua condition was Imposed:
Hon. Mr. LANDEY.

JULY 18,1908

1723

JULY 18, 1908

1723

thiink a question may properly arise as to the
ocrrectness of the. ceriifloate àbo;ve oeeeroeed to,
wh.ioh certificate became the hsis of furtiier
proceedîings iu con neotion with the guturaatee
of -the oomkpany's bondis by thie governmuenit.
I shall b. glad to have a statement of your
I ask lion. gentlemen flot to forget the view of the. matter.
Yours faithfully,
imperatîve condition of the words of this
<Signed> W. S. FIELDING,
clause, 'and to be Immediately pald up In
Minister of Finance.
full.'
The company ýwill proeuie dsubsoriptions for
addidtional stock to the amourt of $200,000,
such aew stock to be issued ut al rce not
below par and to b. imimedistely p&id up in
f'ùli.

The contract goes on to say that the
proceeds of such addltlonal stock will be
applied In the first place to the reduction
of the discount at whlch the bonds of the
company were lssued as aforesaid,* whlch
meant the Immiediate payment of sum of
$188,721. And so did it happen. The company xvent to work. They got the $200,000
lmmediately. Why? Because lu tbat contract another clause bad been inserted by
whiclb the goverfnient bound theluselves ta
guarantee the reimibursernent of the money
that would be pald by the shareholders-plus 5 per cent iuterest from the date of
each payment, and plus a bonus of ten per
cent on the amount put in the enterprise by
the shareholders. In the face of those conditions, It was very easy ta find the $200,000, and the contractor, Mr. Davis hlmself
subscribed for $119,000 of tbe $200,000 whlcb
were payable by the company before they
On
iudertook to go on witb the work.
February 26, 1904, Mr. Parent gave a certificate to the governuent stating that the
,12O0,O00 bad been fully paid. Au.. yet what
do we find? We find that ou january 29,
1908, Mr. Fielding wrote the follewing letter to Mr. Parent:

A very grave question arIses lu tbis conHere Is the president, Mr. Parent,
nection.
and the secretary, Mr. Barthe, under thelr
signatures stating to the Minister of Finance that the $200,000 have been subscribed
and paid lu full, although that was not thie
case, aud, relying upon the word of M.Nr.
Parent and upon his signature at the foot
of that document, the Finance Minister
made some arrangement, and then, thiree
years afterwards, on the report of lits auditor, complaîns of the deception nnd fraud
whidh Mr. Parent had perpetrated on the
government, and to-day what la the reward
The government steps la and
for ail thîs?
buys out the company.
Honi. Mr. CAMPBELL-ýHave
Parent's reply ta that letter ?

you

Mtr.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hle replled ta that
letter ia thîs way. He said -the contractor
bad subscrlbed $119,000 at the first and had
given his cheque for the amount, but ixot
He bad deposited a
an accepted cheque.
cheque lu the vaults of the compauy for the
amount o! $119,000 although not an nccepted
cheque.

Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-If the lbon. gen-.
tleman bas the letter there, it iiould be weiI
Ottawa, Ja-nuary 29 1908.
Dear Mr. Parenit,-Las;t spring, while I was to read IL.
teniporarilv acting as Minister of Railways,
in view of proposed change in the financial
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The letter reads as
arrangements respecting the Qubec bridge,'
follows :
gave directions in the Railway eatett
have a special audit of the copay'- book.
Rp-lving to ýyour aetter of itii 29th ultinoc,
mnade. This audit 'vas idertaken by an offi-the $200,000 of adiditionai
of the department and his report was with reference to Quebec Bridge Company,
cer
stock issned by the
made ini due course.
put upon,
Permit me to dram .your eAtention to the ini coinpliance with the obligations
me say that as
certifloafte which was fuxniehed bv -the Que- thein by the government, let
the. certificate given under
of
be-c Bridge Com'pany te the goverument, daited a mat*er the foolt, o! February, 1904, by the
February 26, 1904, sagned by the treasurer aud date of and26th treasiirer was correct, as
the.
president of the doeupany aeting forth tha-t president re!.rred ta ivas given without eny
additional 9tock to -the extent of $200,000 had tbe cheque wha.tsoever and could have been
conditions
been duly suhscribed qand upaid up in full.
cashed at once or wbenever w. saw fit.
Prom the Âuditor's ireport, it nrow appes
Owing ta, his conuection with our company
th-at o! this $200,00 a sum of $94,900 took the.
aud though hie would have
fooem of a cheque frein Mr. Davis, dated Feb- as a contractor, aillowed ta taire up the. entire
24, 1904. -which oheque remainedi àu the bieen willing, if
ruary
thîs ta be
stock,
hands of ithe compauy aud wes not çoeeseuted issue of the uew did not considering Mr. Davis
approve of
ge
for pay«nent unitil three !eqwre later, on ase a protection,too large a shaire.
22d Februçary, 1907. In vierw of this facit, I c£.ntrolling

SENATE

1724

1724

lu view cf the prospect which we had of
placing some more of the stock with railroad
interests, it was deemed advisable by our
bcard to withhold. this cheque.Wheu finaily the Quebec Central Railway for
-ûne secured what they wanted f rom Mr. Sharpies, who was a stockholder to the extent of
$50.00O iustead of takiug over some from the
block held by the contractor, w-e came to the

conclusion not to have the cheque outstandiug
longer.

It w-as presented at the bauk and duiy

honoured.

M r.
But It took tw-o years to do that.
Sharpies subscribed and pald bis $50,000 in
the mentit of Jauuary, 1904. -Some tîme
after the Quebec Central Rallway Company
stepped lu and got from Mr. Sbarples about
$26,000 of shires and lt wvas ouly two years

after tbat transaction tool.: place that MNr.

Parent forced M.Nr.Davis to hionour tbe
cheque lie bad deposited. anti wbicb, up to
tbat date. had ixot beexi accepted by any
M'ben tbese facts weestated to
b ank.
Mr. Fieldiug lu the witness box, be w-as
asked 'Wbat w-oul(l you bave doue at the
To this Mir.
time If yen had knowu that.'
Fieidiug replied ln effect that the answer
given by Mr. Parent might. te a certain extent, explain the matter, but that he thought
he hiad ouly one thiug to do; that w-as to get
the money. Mr. Davis should have depositAs
ed and paid bis cheque immedlately.
the g-overninent w-ould certaiuiy not have
continued on the basis they bad commenced
That w-as the
If they biad that kuowledge.
ausw-er given by '-\r. Fielding before tbe
Comumittee of Inquiry wbich held its meetlng some days ago.
Hon. '-\r. SULLLVAN-Did
puy the cheque?
Hon. '-\r. LANDRI-He
January, 1907.
Hou. 'Mr. SULLIVAN-He
ed for it at ail?

MNr. Davis
paid

it

lu

w~as not asic-

I did not say
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-No.
It w-as bis fault at ail. I say that w-heu
Mr. Parent stated that the amount subscribed for w-as fully paid up. he d-id not
state tbe trutb .At that time it w-as not
paid. Noýw, how did Mr. Davis puy that?
We see by the transaction tbat '-%r. Davis
w-ns recouped bis claim against the coinpnny. He had an account ag1ainst thé coinpany for $283.000l or thereabouts, and bé
w-as paid by bonds o! the company to tbe
He bad settied bis
amount of $472_.000.
HTOu. Mr. LANDRY.

claim, accepting as payaient tiiose bonds
at n discount of 40 per cent, but wbeu the
goverument came lu and guaranteed the
bonds, and more than that, w-heu they
made it obligatory on the company' to sùibscribe $200,000, tbey made it an obligation
hat from that stock a sum of $188,721.
should be deducted to pay the discount, and
tat was given to Davis. It %vasa clear
profit of that amount to Mr. Davis, and no
doubt wlth that lie could pay bis shares
to the amount of $94,900. This Is the klnd
of fiuancing that the Quebec Bridge Company carried out from the day It came to
Ottawa and first asked for the subsidy and
afterwards the guarautee of the bonds. If
the enterprise had been a success, It wouid
flot bave been so bad; but -,%bat do we tind?
We find tbat MNr. Parent bas eniloyed
friends of bis, %vho wvere not qualified, to
supe "rvise a w-ork of that magnitude, and
the reports made by the royal commission
on the Quebec rallw-ay bridge states positively that the collapse of the bridge resulted
from w-bat? Fromn tue failure of the low-er
chords ln the auchor arni near the main
as
pler. Wbose fault was it? N% it Mr.
Coopers fault? He w-as the consuitiug engineer of the Quebec bridge. He w-as aise
the eng-Ineer eînployed by the compaur, and
Mr. Cooper having been called to apl)rove of tbe plans made by tbe Phoenix
Bridge Company, w-ho undertook to buiki
the superstructure, feéllng that he w-as unable, on account o! bis oid age, to come to
Quebec, asked to be represented there by
Mr. 'Moore. the chief engineer o! the QuiZbec Bridge Company. Wbat does the commissioners say on that point?
But the failure en the ýpert of the Quebec
Bridge and Reoilway Comnpany te appoint anexperieuced bridge engineer to the position
of chief engineer wias a mistakie. This resulterI
in a locse and inefficient; sbuperv,-ision on ail
parts of the work. on the part of the Quebec
Bridge and Riailwey Company.
Here Is the cause of the disaster. '-%r.
Douglas, w-ho w-as the engineer of the government, condemned the plans that were
show-n to hlm w-heu he w-as asked bis apî.rovi. He said: 'That w-on't do; I condemîit thenr.' lu the face of that condemnatlou, Mr. Schreiber asked the g-overninent
to naine another engineer w-ho w-ould w-ork
An
baud lu hand, with Mr. Cooper.
order lu council w-as passed to that effect,

JULY 18. 1908
but mr. Cooper tbought if was nof in keeping wlfb bis dignity f0 accept what lie
called n subordinate position in the wbole
matter. He sald : If I accept another
confrere I sbould confer with hlm ; I
should have his approbation, and that I
won't do.' And the governinent receded
and wenf back on their order ln councl,
and la nother order in council Mr. Cooper
was charged solely wltli the whle conducf
of the bridge construction. By this Bill
the governmeiit Is asklng f0 buy out tbe
company, and Is askIng parliament f0 vote
the company ail the money tbev subscribed,, plus 5 per cent interest on 'the nioney
engaged lu the undertaking, plus a premmum of 10 per cent to tbe shareliolders.
Thaf mneans aii amount of $400eLKM). Tbe
governinent Is not obliged to do that. If
the goverament selects another site for the
bridge. fbey will be obliged f0 commence
ail anew and build a new foundation. If
they want tlie site already occupied by
the pierS, let them buy fthe plers from the
company, let thein bave value for their
money, but the money tbey are glving
now Is being given for notbing nt ail. I
hope the goveriment will nof ask us to
swallow that Bill. Has the mînister really
decided to go on wifh if?

wltb the building of the bridge falled ln
the undertaking ; tlie plan was a dpfectivé
one. If ls very unfortunate, but it cannlot
be belped now. The only way now is for
the governinient to assumle If. and if the
bridge ican be bult they are to build It.
Hon. ',%r. LANDRY-By clause 18. the
government reserves the rigbt f0 take over
the undertakiiig.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tlift is .ail 1 said.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If the governmelit
does flot wanf the plers. wlîere is the neeesslty o.f buying out the cornpauy? I tblnk
the proper course would be. iii the first Instance, to ascertain where the bridge wll
be bult.
Hou. Mr. SCOTI-Tilat cau only be ascertained by the înost caref ni inquiry.
Hon. Mr. LANDIIY-Yes. and If the
bridge is f0 be built at the saine place. thien
make your bargain wltb the company. ask
them liow xnucb they want for thieir piers ;
but tlie governient is flot oblig-ed to adopt
fthe same site.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT. They fakie power under thaf Bill to select another site.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-They bave aiways
if Is a necesslty that power.
Hon. Mr. SCOTTI-Yes,
If the Qnebec bridge Is to beconie a reality.
Hon. Mr. SCO TT-Yes.
We niust bave autb orlty fa fake over the
Hon. Mr. .LANDIIY-Theii wliere Is the
bridge and employ competent persons to
necessity of spending $400,000 to, buy out
prepaire plans that can be reiied upon.
the company ? It does liot advance the
Hon. 'Mr. LÀNDRY-Will the hon. gen- bridge an incb. It Is doing ail for the cointleman refer me f0 the fext of tbe law thaf pany.
shows lie is entitled f0 do thaf?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is quife ciear the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I can only say wbat bon. gentleman bas not any interest lu the
I undersfagnd to be the law. When the compafly.
governinent undertookr f0 guaranfee the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY. I bave more inter$6,000,000 bonds of flie Quebec bridge there
If 1 correct ly remember .(.st in building tbe bridge thani in buying
was a provision.
the goverfiIf, under wbicli they could fake over the ont tlie compnny, and 1 tbink
nment is losing turne ln trying to ascerfain
bridge.
wbat amount fliey will pay f0 Mr. Parent or
Hon. 'Mr. LANDRY--They could7
the other sharebolders. If tbe time was
and the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat is ail I say. Be- given to promoting the bridge Itself
lnteresfs of Quepec, we would be the gainer
fore fhey take if over fhey want f0, know
will be done tbis
wliat if is going f0 cost, and wliat ki.nd of alfogeflier ; but nothing
i-ear in the way of constructlng the bridge.
bridge cnn be bulîf, and wliefler if car'
thie bon.
be bulf on that particular site. Unfor- We are loslng one year. I ask
If anytbuiig should. be doue f0
tunately, tlie company 'who were entrusted gentleman

1726

SENATE

1726

SENATE

remnove the fallen superstructure that is au
obstacle to the navigation of the river ? No
one bas interested himself ini tbat.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Iît Is a difficuit matter
know the exact position of the government. It Is a large and serious problem,
and we do flot know who is lhable for the
loss of the bridge. An inquiry bas been
made. The report of one distlngulsbed engineer has been obtnined ;but it will require
very mucli more consideration than the
goverament bas been able as yet f0 give it,
to decide what shahl be doue, and ahi ftie
governmeut 18 nsking for now%is the authorlty of parlament f0 go on and spend $25,000 la the preparaf ion of plans for a new
bridge.
f0

Hon. '.%r. LA4NDriY-Hns the governmeut
decided as fo their responsibility ?
Hon. M1r. SCOTT-No, nothing is decided.

îproach to address f0 hlm la the ofber way.
The friendshlp that is shown by the leader
of this House and members of the goverument, f0 that particular gentleman lad!cates a danger that the public wlll soon
ftnd out.
The motion was agreed f0, the Bill w-as
read a second and third time, and passed.
THE SUPPLY BILL.
FIRST READING.
A message was received froni the House
of Coinnions wltb Bill (No. 220) 'An Act for
granting f0, His Majesty certain sunis of
nioney for public service for fthe financial
yenr euding 31sf March, 190M.'
The Bill was read the firsf time.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Moved that the Bill be
read ftie second time on Moniday uext.

The motion was agreed f0.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Are the goverament
going f0 filce over the present bridge ?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT moved flint wben fIe
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-There must be sonie Senaf e adjourus to-day If do stand adjournelasticity about the position of the govern- cd unt il Monday nexf af 9.30 a. ni.
ment. We ean ouly decide what can best
The motion was agreed f0.
be doue when we get more information.
The Senate adjourned unt il Monidny, July
That Is the only sensible way. If my hou.
friend was a memb-er of the governrnent lie 20, at 9.30 a. mi.
would flot advise anything else.
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY-If I were a memiber
of fbe goverument I «would go on with the
bridge, and leave tbe company wbere it is.
As a hiember of thie goverhmnent. I would
understaad we bad a rig-ht to build the
bridge wherever we liked. 1 xvould select
the best spot, and if the best spot is where
the bridge is now, I would buy thec compaiiy
out, but I would do if on the report of experts as to wbat klnd of bridge should be
built, and wlhere if shoiuld be builit.
Hon. Mr. SCO1vr-î tldunk thec lion. geni
fiemian lias disqualified imiself frorn tnkiîig
ili
Independent position, because,
n
a bitter bostility
flirougli, lie bas sbownv
against fthe contractors and the comipaaiy.
He Is not a capable judge.

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA, M.\ouday, July 20,l9S
The SPEAKER took fhe Chair at 9.'.0
n.m..

Prayers and routine proceedings.
THE SUPPLY BILL.
-SECOND AND THIIRD READINGS.
Ho. .Mr. SCOTT imoved the second readin- of Bill (No. 220) An Acf foir grnuiting
f0 Ris Majesty certain sumns of moîîey for
the public service for flic financial year
ending 31sf of Marcî, 1909.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-As prorogationi
is about f0 fake piace af noon, niot mmlih
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbie generous friend- time is permlffcd f0 discuss s0 important
ship sbown by the goverument to Mr. Par- n subjcf as Ibis Supply Bill. I 1
flot
ent, does flot Indicate thaf fbey are nof propose f0 enfer upon sncb a discussion
biased also, iu favour of the company. If ia anytbing approacbiug an exhaustive
fthe bon. gentleman bas a reproacli f0 make mariner. I simpiy desire f0 enter my proto me on that subject, I have fhe sanie re- test against whaf 1 regard, as tbe unesHon. Mr. LAINDRY.

JUIY 18; 1908
aînpled extravagance of the governrnent.
1 mlgbt preface what 1 amn about to saY
by remarkling titat It la flot unreasonable
tliat, lu the administration of Its financial
affairs, a goverrument slîould exercise the
saine prudence and economy that Individuais or aggregations of lndividea1a. would
show lu the administration of their own
finances. Il la important for the institutions of titis country, as well as for the
developuient of its great resources, titt
the administration of the goverumnelit
sbould be based upon sound economic priaiciples. In lookiag over titis Bill, oae necessarlly bas to coasider the relation of our
expenditure 10 the revenue. 1 find that
the revenue of titis country lias growni by
leaps and bouuds of late years. Iu 1896,
the revenue frorn taxation was $27,000,000.
That lias ilicreased to $73,000.000 in lthe
last fiscal year. Our* expenditure lias grown
front $41,700,000 in 1896 to $140,957,3S1. as
aprbears by the supplies of the present session. The principal objection I bave t0 the
Bill before us is that there is no relation
whatever between oiir revenue and our
expeuditure. Upon lte accession of tbis
goverumeut to office, Ibe virtue of economy
in public expenditurea was preached from
one end of lte Dominion t0 the other, ani
very properly so; but at ltat lime we were
conducting our public affaira wilbin tîte
scope of our revenue and our credit. Today we are coufronted wlth unexampled
extravagance whiélb far oulatrips our abillthlie face of a falling
ity to puy, and tatIn
revenue. Iu his budget speech of tiis session, tite Finance Minister said titat notwithstandlng our baving a revenue duringthe lat fiscal year of $96A000,000 w-e could
flot count on iving more titan $90,000.000
durlng tue -present year. Sînce tiat timie
titere bas been an uaexpected falling off ln
lte revenue, and it la safe to cotîclude titat
lte revenue l'or the current yeaî w-ill not
exceed $80,000,000. .rhere will be a deficiency Ibis i-ear on tîtat account of at least
Fromn conversation wbici 1
$18,000,000.
have bad with financli experts, I amn told
Ihal tite depreciation it revenue would certalnly reacli thiat ainount. WIl thte lion.
Secretary of State inforn lte House bow
we can posaibly ateet tite liabilities wblclî
face lte country during te current year ?
True, It may be .said that tbe $140,000.000

1727

approprinted bv titis Supply Bill will 'lot
be expended titis year, but bon. gentlemen must bear in mimd that during te lat fiscal year, thte expenditure bad reaclted $112,000,000. Thte difference between . our revenue and expenditure la calculated to create alarmi
ii lte minda of those wito give serions coltsideration to thte financial position Of th',
country. 1 need not sur titat thte only way
te goverument bas of meeting titis' exitendilure is by revenue. If our revenue
does not exceed $80,000,000, then w-e abaîl
bave t0 faîl bick oit our credit. Until a
recent period, Canada enjoyed thte very beat
credit ln the money markets of Europe,
ani it w-as flot difficît to negotiate loutîs
of consIderable miagnitude on vreasottable
terns: but titat is no longer the case. Tbis
government bas ltad tite greatest p-Szsiblù
difficultv within thte hast couple of yeairs
in negotiating its boans in lte Britisît tuarket. Only 47) lier cent of tite lat loa put
ou te market wns subscribed, althougit hl
was on a basis of tbree and tbiree-quarters
Per cent. At tbe saine limie the iuîperial
government lssued stocks under tbe Irisht
Lands Act bearing a lesa rate of intcre.st
titan our Canadii bonds, and the Issue
wus subscrlbed lbirty-five times over. Contrasllng titese two loans, we find ourselves
li a very undesirable position. The Supply
Bill must create alarat lu tte rnds of
every tbiougbhtful matn. Lt la a politictil. a
party Supply Bill. Oue would faîîcy we
bad reacbed a stage in the developuient of
titis country wlheiî ils administration was
0f sufflient importance to coinnatd te
best possible attention fromn a business
staudpolnt, as to te arnounit w-bici sboùld
be approprlaled 10 meet thte requireints
of the Dominion; but no consideration seems
10 bave been'.given to lthe actual requireW7e find appropriameula of tue countîry.
tions for lte various provinces are made,
iol toi -meet lte public requirements, but
front w-bat appears toi lte goverument 10 be.
the mnore Important consideration, that is,
to aid tbe party lu pow-er lu tite approacltIf the public expendiing geimeral election.
lure continues 10 grow la tbe samne ratio
titat It bas incrensed since 1896, w-e shahi
soion rench a stage wbea the uncontrollable
expetîditure of the Dominion Nvill exceed
Titat la an alarîning condition
Its revenue.

1728

SENA
1728 TI

of things to be confronted with. particuiarly
as our credit iu the mouey market of Great
The
Britain bas been serlously impaired.
therefore, demands f rom this govsituation,
erament the closest possible attention along
tbe Eues of economny and wise adminis traWe have inceurred a very serions
tion.
Ilablhity la connection with the National
A w-ork that
Transcontinental Railwaywas caiculated to reachi in the agg-regate
cost. the suni of $73,000,000, is expected to
Involve an outlay of nearly $200000,O,00.
The statement presented lu the House o!
Commons Is Incontrovertible, that tbe expenditure on present lines must reach $180,(A0,000. This is certainiy, a matter for very
serions consideration lu view of the fact
that witb the falling revenue it wlll be utterly Impossible for the gov-erumnent to meet
any portion o! that expenditure out o! revenue. The carrying out of this great work
is a nfiatter of quite as muchi importance to
the Dominion as the question of supply, and
a matter mucb mor e serions In Its conseWbat can be said of the finanquences.
clal administration o! n governmient who
bning down to parliament a scheme, and
make provision for carrying it out at a cost
flot exceeding $73,000,000, -wben now, necording to their own admission and their
own figures and estimnates, the cost w-l be
The refiecone hundred per cent greater?
thon is cast upon the government of belng
either absohutely incompetent to carry ont
an undertaklng of this kind and keep w-lthIn the estimated cost, or being s0 corrupt
as to deserve the strongest possible cenThey can accept either bora of the
sure.
dilemma, but in either case tue goverfiment
What can be said
Is eqnaliy censurable.
0f the inconipetence of a government thnt
wouhd thus enter upon ami undertaking amid
cast upon the Dominion a burden of such a
If, ns is the fact, the
serions character?
cost of the undertaking is to'be one hundred
per cent grenter than was estimated, the
question arises, what is causing this vast
Is it owing to a corrupt fund
dîfference?
secured from contractors and others. or to
the fact of the governiment bavlng underConsiderestimated the cost of the work?
able hope was expressed by the Minister of
Rallways and the Mî%Inîster of Finance lu
the House o! Commonis that this nndertal-

ing would flot be a burden ou the country
on account of its being an interest l)ayiflg
I would point out, that on
expenditure.
the completion of the Grand Trilnk. Pacifie,
it is to assume n1fixed expenditure equal to
the entire flxed charges or the Canadian
Pacifie Railway. Now, that is a proposition
which hias to be seriously considered. Here
is a national undertaking covering 3,500
miles of railway, without having- any traffie branches, and at its very inception it bas
to carry fixed charges equal to the i)reseiit
fixed charges or the Canadian Pacifie Railway that lias a mlleage of ton thousand
Under the circunistances, It cannot
miles.
be imaglned that the company will be able
to pay Interest at 3 per cent for 50 years
upon the cost of constructing the eastern
section of the rond, and it tvill involve a
reconsideration by the governrnent of the
entire scheme from a finaucial stndpoint.
May I ask also, are we receiving value for
the immense increase in the cost of the public servlce'I Wblle tbe population 0f Canada bas increased about 20 per cent during
the last twelve years, the cost 0f our public service bas increased. over 250 per cent.
In almost every branch of the public service
you will lind an Increase to that extent at
Notwitbetanding that fact, lt hias
leàst.
corne under grave suspicion in the public
opinion, and Investigations made from time
to time bave established beyoad question
the Incompetent nature and the unreliable
These
character o! that administration.
are matters whicb are flot satisfactory to
one having tbe Institutions of this country
at heart, and they demand the most serious
iLoyalty to
attention of the government.
Canada compels its people to protest agaiast
tue spendthrift aad corrnpt expenditure to
Yet men stand by
which 1 have alladed.
the party, and watch the sbip of state
îiounding itsel! to pieces on the rocks of
Their loyextravagance and corruption.
alty to party is greater than their sense of
Wbere is this to
duty to their country.
end? Our expenditure bas almost doubled
Are we to be
the amount o! our revenue.
like the prodigal wbo, after spending bis ail
in rnotons living, bad to !eed on the husks
whicb the swlne refused? Tbis is peculianly a time when our expenditure sbonld
be governed by our Inconie, and w-bat reIf our expenditure
mains of onir credit.

--0, 1908
)Y
the government have made a mistakze. Wil
ainy one say that we oughtnjot to have aided
I:he Grand Trunk Pacifie and built the
Railway ? True,
If this House slîould exercise National Transcontinental
tbe world.
this Lt is going to cost a good deai more than
its constitutiénui fuîictions and rejected
we aniticipated. but wbo Is golng to get the
Supply Bill until the unwarranted extravabenefit of the expenditure ? The iabouring
gance o! the government is cbecked, we
élément o! this country will share largely
mlgbt thien bave a reduction ia the pubUc
ln that by an addition of 30 per cent to die
expenditure~ wbich would eîîable us to meet wages that had, been paid before. The
the liabilities w-e bave assumed.
increased cost of material bas causedl n
of Canada.
ýHon. Mr SCOTT-Tbe bon. gentleman Increase of -wealth to the people
must bave forgotteui but the people are far better able to pay
froni Calga-,, surely
were
ai that bas bappened lu the last eleven the iacreased expenditure than tbey
thiere bad beenî to meet the ordinary e-xpenditure ia 1896.
years. H1e talks as though
than $43,
a contination of the conditions that pre- The tax per capita now 15 less
eighit years. 11e wbereas It was nearly $51 when this govvailed during the preceding
There are thie
forgets that thîcie lias. beeîî a financial re- ernimeat caine into power..
Taking a few fig-ures figures, ani tbey speak for thernselves. The
volution sînce 1896.
any parthat 1 bave liastily put down, I Eind tbat bon. gentleman bas failed to naine
ve goverieiiet, frein ISS7 ticular work that -we should not bave underthe Conservai
elsewhiere,
to 1896 added $11S,000,000 to nie debt o! the taken. As lias been observed
o! $6,500,000 a year. bon, gentlemen may coluplain o! tbe excountry, an average
Wbien the present goverîîmeat came lnto penditure, but eacb individual man bas
spendpo'ver, ia 1SP6. tbe3- at once devoted their been accusing the government of not
thougbt to a reductionî o! tbe expenses of ing enougb ln bis own particular constitlmthe country and decreased taxation. In 1897 uency. Public buildings and barbour
diw-e cbanged the customns tariff of this coun- provements have been demanded Ia ail
number of itemis rections. The rallway subsidles bave been
try, addinig a considerable
to tbe free list, and inah-iag a genieral re. enormously lncreased, so 1 tbink tbe bon.
duction ail along the line. Froni 1S96 to genîtleman bas rather exaggerated the conthe end of file last fiscal year this govera- il:tion. As years go on, it -will be fouiud
ment bias added to the publie debt $19,474.- that the crédit of Canada will continue to
000, an average of $1,600,000 a year. The improve. W~e may bave to pay a biglier
hon. gentlemîan's friends, duriag their territ ýate o! interest on new liabilities, but that
of office, added nearly five timies as mnucb,. .s because tbe value of moaey bias cbanged.
on tbe average, to tbe public debt as the Consols, wbicb some twenty years ago ivere
to Si.
present governament bad added since it bas very nearly at par, are down now
Year nfter year, this gov Inivestors la England bave found nîany
been i office.
Tbey have paid ways of getting more profitable returiis for
ernnîeiit bi a1 surplus.
out of the aunual revenue. tlheir money than by putting tbem into conlarge charges
and la this way the average liierease of sols, and tbe consequence ls that tbey have
debt lias been oiily $1.600.000 per annuin. decreased to tlîeir present figure. TEhit iato get
Tbeni, take the per capita charge. in 1896, dicates that nioney -will be barder
to $50.82 cents per hea9d. It bas on the ternis we bave been pnying. 1 do
it biad risen
now been reduéed to $42.84, and yet my uxot iatend to extend my observations, but
lion. friend wvould Iead us te believe that 1 bave givea figures which 1 tbink answver
w-e are going into a state of biankruptcy. completely the criticisins muade by the bion.
There are the figures and w-e are told leader of the opposition on this Bill.
figures cannot lie. No goverument since
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before
confederation bas cirried on public worlcs
deallng with the question before the House.
to thé extent the present 'government bas
Secbeen doing lu increasing the milleage of 1 çwish to eall the attention of tbe bon.
retary of State to wbat 1 regard as unfair
rallways and unaking varions imp rovements
tbrougbout the Dominion. My bon. frlend treatment of one of our members. Ia the
for the
bas fa lIed to point ont la w-bat specifie w-ork present estimates, provision is made
should continue ia the catio of the past feiv

years, w-e shahl soon reachi an empty excliequer and loss 0f credit ln the markets of

109

1710)0

1730SENATFE

payment of the f ulliîndernnity of two memibers of the Commons, and one member of
the Senate, of whose services the country
has been deprived through sickness and
i do flot compiain of this. It Is
death.
following precedent, and the appropriations
have passed wltbout opposition in both
chambers. But lu the case of one hon.
niember who met wltb an accident a year
ago that kept hlm in MNontreai during the
wbole session, no such provIsion Is nmade. I
want to know why this invidlous distinction
Is drawn between a member of the Senate
and a member of the House of Comrnons?
1 intended to have brougbt this matter to
the notice of the goverument last session,
but the Suppiy Bill weut through in about
tive minutes, -wilie 1 was at lunch, and
though I was absent but ten minutes frorn
the House. when I returned the Sp~eaker w-as
vacating the chair and I bid no opportunity
The practice of
to bring up the matter.
full indemnity in sncb cases should
paying
either be stopped altogether under any circunistances, or ail should be treated alike.
1 ask that as a matter of justice. Whetber
the government is capable of doing equal
justice to ail1, 1 arn rather inclined to doubt
from -what littie experience I have had. 1
compliment the hon. Secretary of State on
bis speech. It bas the niient of bein-, brief;
but it is a repetition of an old story to
which we bave listened very often duning
the last eleven or twelve years. He is optimistic nowj thnt w-as not the cbaracter of
bis speeches a f ew years ago. llaving some
regard for the country. I hope bis predictions may prove true. If tirne permitted, I
sbould like to follow him and point ont bow
erroneous somDe of blis staternents are. Tlie
hon. leader of the opposition said a few
montbs ago that the Supply Bill gave evibut
dence flot only of extravagance,
of .a desire to belli the goverumnent
at the coniing election. Evidence of
that is to be found iii the estimates before us, as I shaîl show, both lu the railway
subsidies and the appropriations for public
The railway
w-orks and improvements.
subsidies are divided arnong the provinces
in the follow'%ing manner :
Nova Scotin, 10; New Brunswick, S; Quebec, 20; Ontario, 22: 'Manîitoba. 1: Saskatchewan, S: Alberta, 4; British Columbia, 5,
total, 88.

There Is noue for Prince Eclward Island,
but they are building a branch of the Island Rallway, so 1 presume that comupensates. I turn 110w to the appropriations for
the provinces. First I take up the Supplementary Estlïnates for the single year ending M.Narch 31 last. That Is money that was
spent, for whilh no appropriation had beeu
made.
Public buildings-Manitoba 1; Ne-w Brunswick, 3; Quebec, 1l; Ontario, 6; Saskatchewan and Alberta, 7; Public buildings g-enerally, 1.
Tben we corne to harbours and rivers:
Nova Scotia, 2; Prince Edward Island, 1;
New Brunswick, 2; Quebec, 18; Ontario, 12;
Saskatchewan and Alberta, 1; British Columbia, 5.
Su much for the over expenditure of the
appropriation of last yeir. Now%turuiug to
the Supplemefltary Estirnates for the current year we find the following, commencing with public buildings:
Nova -Scotia, 15; Prince Edward Island. 1,
New Brunswick, 10; Quebec,, 50; Ontario,
71; Manitoba, 12; Saskatchewan and Alberta, 19; British Columba, 18; Yukon Territory, 1.
Rivers and harbours-Nova Scotia, 148:
Prince Edwaid Island, 22; New Brunswick,
41; Quebec, 127; Ontario, 70; Manitoba, 5 ;
Saskatchewan and Alberta, 3; British Coiumbia, 25; Yukon Territory, 1.
Public works chargeable to incoine, drdgiug, $650,000, in addition to the special appropriations to w-bîch 1 have called attenI need flot add that w-e bave that
tion.
favoured expression 'not-,witlistandiflg- anD thing in the Civil Service Act to the c-outrary,' appearing to a very great extent. 1
would cali attention to the last supplemdfeltaries lu wbich w-i *be found the following
public buldings
Nova Scotia, 15; Prince Edward Island- 1;
Ne"v Brunswick, 10; Quebec, 50; Ontario. 75:
Manitoba, 12; Saskatchewan and Alberta,
Terri19; Britisb Columbia, 25; 'Yukon
fory, 1.
Public works chargeable to iucome.-Ontario. 37; «Manitoba, 14; Saskatchewan and
Alberta, 15; British Columbia, 10; Yuk-on
Territory, 4.
Tben we corne to barbours and bridges
Nova Scotia. 58 ; Pr-ince Edtvard Islind,
9 ; Neýw Brunswick, 27 ; Quebec, 53 ; On-

JUIY 2,0, 1908
tarlo, 49; Manitoba, 5; Saskatchewan and,
Alberta, 4; Northwest Territories, 1;
British Columbia, 14; Yukon Territory, 1.
I take the trouble to put these on record,
or, to use Vie expression of Vie ex-premier
of Ontario, to have them ' embalmed ln
Vie *1Debates,"' for future reference. No
doubt lu many cases Viese appropriations
are laudable ; but in nîneteen out of twenty Viey are made for political effeet ln Vie
ceming election. Âpart trom that altogether, we are departlng frem Vie original
Intention of Vie framers of our constitution
In dabbltng lu email provincial matters. I
notice that Ontario bas greater justice done
it lni Viese estîmatos than ever la Vie past,
but Viat does net affect Vie argument I amn
advanclng as to why Viese appropriations
appear lu the estimates. It la a fair Illustration efthVe polîtical, Influences wbich are
brought to bear upon Vie gevernment fer
the purpose ef retalning them, If possible,
ln power lu Vie next electien. If the peopie of Canada cemprehend the extent te
which thls system ia carried, I amn convinced we shall have repetition la Vie cernIng election of what occurre *d lu 1878 and
1896. If Vie people gave more attention te
these matters I am satisfied, Viat the term
et a goverument lu Vie future would not
last se long as Viey have lasted ln Canada.
As educaition prevals, and people read and
thiuk more, it la te be hoped. that changes
wlll take place ettener lu the future than
they have occurred lu Vie past. Frem my
own personal experience, I Vhiik It lB lu
the Iuterest of any country tbat Viere should
bo more troquent changes' et goverument,
and If ever Viere was a time wheu a
change should be made ln Canada it Is ut
Vie preseut moment.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-I do net rîse te
proloug Vie debato ou Supply. Thîs House,
havlng very limited power te deal with
mouey Bis, a long discussion on the Supply Bill dees net seem reasouable. I want,
bowever, betore touohing Vie subject I have
risen te deal with, te point eut te Vie hon.
iSecretary et State Viat the. cemparison
which ho bas made between Vie lncreased
debt under the Conservative administration
and the debt created by Vie present geverument is net fair. Duriug the Conservative administration, a great public work

1731

whichi had been slightly eutered upon before was carried to successuIi completion,
a public work that bas given Canada a
place among the nations of the world- I
refer te the Canadian Pacifie Railway.
That was ln the day of comparatively
smali things.; The country had fot expanded and ertended as It bas since, aud
the people were by no means se wealthy
and able te stand the burden. Therefore,
the comparison ho made between the two
administrations le very far from fair. AItbough there may have been many minor
Improvements effected, In dIfferent parts
ofthVe country since the present geverument came into power, there bas
been nothing done to compare wltti
the great work of building the CanaThe hon. Secredian Pacifie Rallway.
tary of State also remarked that we could
net point out any extravagant expenditure
on the part of the gevernment, or any
work tbat should, fot have been undertaken. One thing wbich should, not have
been done was to undertake construction
of the National Transcontinental Rallway
except to conneet the headwaters -of the
lakes with the prairie country and miake
provision for carrying out the produets of
the Northwest. That Is ail the Grand Trunk
Pacifie contemplated, and If the government
had sImply fallen lu with that proposition
and given another liue of railway into, the
prairies, these enormous expeuditures In the
east and centre wbich mlght. be ail right In
the future, would not have been Incurred.
The expenditure on the line from Moncton
te Quebec and from Queboc through the
Wuterland of Quebec and Ontarlo might
well have beon postponed, and also Vie
construction of the liue through tbe Rocky
Mountains to the coast.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Thero is a good deal
ef force lu wbat the hion, gentleman says,
but I notice he bas always been a stroug
advocate of the Hudson Bay Railway.
Hon. MIr. FPERGUS.ON-If the government had bulit a rallway te Hudson bay,
thoy would bave helped 'tho coun.try more
Vian by constructing Vie National Transcontinental Railway at such au onormous
expense. If Viey bad built Vie Hudson Bay
Railway and facilitated bhe Grant. auunk
Pacifie ln reaching Vie prairies. the country

1-432

SENATE

1732

SFNATE

would be in a much better position to-day.
The prospective public debt would have
been rnucb less, and, my hou. friend, in
making bis statemeut to the House was flot
fair. The cost of the National Transcontinental Railway bas flot yet appeared to
a great citent in the public "debt, but
wve know It wlll appear before long, and
it la a burden that bas actually been contracted and whIch muet be carrled on the
shoulders of the people lu consequence of
the leglalation of thia governm-ent that should
be set Up là comparison wlth the debf contracted by the Conservative administrationl.
I have no hesifation lu eaying thaf the govcrnment bas become ntterly cilscredited before the people o! Canada. If that will flot
be tbe verdict at the poils lu the comlng
elections, 1 neyer wae more mistaken 1.
my lfe. The injury to the country's
credif bas arisen froin the reckless and
wanton ezxpend1ture of the public money.
The Finance Minister bas proved bimscîf to
be a puppet lu the bands of every one that
came to hlm wlth a uchemne. I speak wlthouf personal feeling, because he la my personal frlend, but bietory will record that be
bas been a spendthrlft Finance Mlulster.
Lt would have been otherwise If we had
hadl as finance minister sucu men as the
late Alexander Mackenzie or Mr. Poster
Mr. Mackenzie neyer filled the position of
finance minister, but I coupled tbcir namnes
together because tbey -werc both, lu their
day, practlcally the watchdlogs o! tbe treasury. Had eitber of tiiese men been finance minister, we would flot be iu the unfortunate position ln which we find ourselves to-day. Lt le flot alone la the citent
o! tbe expenditure that the goverunent Is
discredited,, but iu the misinformation it bas
put before parliarnent and the manuer ln
wl]icb it bas cbocked off ail atternpts« at Investigation in another place. All this bas
f0 be rolled up together, and for if tbe goverunent will be arraigued ln every constituency lu Canada, and 1 cannot doubt 'wbaf
the resuif will be. Perbaps this wlll be
rny last opportunity this session f0 address
the iHouse. In a few minutes His -Honour,
tbe -Speaker, -will be leavlng the chair, probably for good. 'The general opinion being
that we are f0 have an clection.
I tbink we shoulId flot therefore allow
Black Rod to corne f0 the door without
Hon. Mr. FERGUSOT-

placing on record au expression of our appreciation of the highly courteous manner
in wbicb His Honour, the Speaker, has preslded over the deliberations of this body for
the Iast four years. NVe have been wayward, many of us, iu some respects, but bis
maiiin bas been 1to our virtues very
kind,. and to, our faulfa a littie blind.' Wbile
ln the estimation of gentlemen who have
corne f rom popular assemblies to this
House, It may be thought that he was
hardly firm enough lu enforelng the miles
as they have been accustomed to see thein
enforced in other places, tbey must bear iu
mInd wbat Is obvions to the old members
of the House that up to the present
parliamenit, the Speaker had very limlted
power. Our system was fouuded on the
practice of the House of Lords, where ln
some cases the Speaker was flot even a1
Therefore, the
meniber of that body.
Speaker of the Lords has flot been
clothed wlth such strong power as the
Speaker of the -House o! Commons o! England. In my opinion the Speaker showed
hie good judgment ln flot immcdlately enforcing the power recently con! erred ou
Wlthout d1sparaglng any, of the
hlm.
Speakers wbo have preslded over this body
since I bave had the honour of 'belug one of
Ifs members, I arn free t0 say tbat noue of
them bas discharged bis duty wltb grester
forbearance, tact and lmpartiality than tic
hou, gentleman who presides over Ibis
House. (Applause). Whntever position be
may occupy lu public life, be wiil carry wlth
hlm the good feeling of every member of
thc Senate o! Canada who bas bad the
honour of sltting witb hlm lu tbischamber.
Hon. ýSir MACKENZI.E BOWELL--I
sbould prefer f0 say w-bat 1 bave f0 remark
about the Speaker wben be is ouf of fthe
chair, but he rnay be back again. Follo'ving the Englisb pract1ce, be may be reappointed and 1 arn not sure -whetber, affer
ail, It -would not be right practice f0 adopt
lu this country. Lt requires a good deal of
fume, atfention and study before any new
man occupyiug the position of Speaker eau
become thoroughly acquainfed wlth the
rules and precedents which guide parliament. I cordially re-echo what my bon.
friend bas said of our ýSpeakIer. There is
just one idea 1 had forgoffen f0 express,
and whieh 1 should like f0 bave ' erbairned'

JULY 20, 190S
JULY 20. 1908
on the records of the Senate. I shouid like
to point out the man.ner ln whlch the press
of this country lias been, to use the Innguage of my righit lion. f rlend. the Minister
of Trade and Commerce, debaucbied by tbe
Liberai goverament. It was a favourîte
forai of attack by bon. gentlemen opposite,
particularly tbe present Mtnis.ter of Trade
and Commerce, during the late administration, to attack the Conservative press and
to point ont how it was lnfluenced by govIf you consuit the
ernment patronage.
Report, you 'wili find that
Audîtor General's
the following sums have been paid to certain newspapers-I amn only talng about
haif a dozen 0f them-by the present goverciment. The larger sums tiiat bave been
given from 1897 to 1907, or la ten years,
bave been the foilowi'ig Paper
Montreal 'le-arld.... ....
St. John 'Tle-groapii'...
Monoton 'ranser¶'pt'.

....

Amt. Recd.
*. .$9,17,480
*

..

*

.
.

97,773

88,831

. 79,138
*
.
Hlalifex 'Chroniele' .... ....
49,410
*
Quelbse 'Solil........
. 49,310
*
.....
Toron-to '1Globe'.
40,958
*
Québec 'Telegreipli'...
Some of the money la paid under the head
of advertising, and other sums are glven as
printlng. it Is known tbat some of those
papers do not keep job Offices, and they get
a rake-of! on the work done la other offices,
continuing the practice which prevalled under the Mackenzie administration when they
subsldlzed the Speaker of the Commons, who
at the tîme owncd the only newspaper ln
St. John, by glving hlm prlnting wltbout
tender, aithougli lie had no job office in connection with bis newspaper. My hon. friend
the Secretary of State, flot being able under lie law as It stood before the change
of goverament. to psy these party newspapers a sufficlentiy high prîce for the work
awarded to them, introduced a Bill amendlu.g the law to enable themn to pay aimost
any price they pleased for the work doue.
1 bave given n few llustrations to show the
extent to wiiicb the Liberai press Is subsidized. N1,ow, 1 purpose reading the language
used by the present Minister of Trade and
Commerce, w-len hie was ln opposition, characterizing this mode of corruptlng the press.
In dlscussing this question la tise House of
Commons some years ago lie spoke as follows :
Tisere -ie eue At which even axnong samages
ansd ibarbarias s looked sipon as -inhuanan,noit te be toleroted even u-nd6r the extremxe

1733
1733

yise'oes of war, and that 4s the poisonaing
ef ti. weils îrom whjcii friends and foos
dike must quencb. their thirst.
But here in ceada Iwe have a governmnt

worse-qç'hidh does not h~eitate decorrupt the, very
eouSes af ànformettion from rwhich alone the
xrdinary voter geau lesrn how publie aflairs
LIre beÜing adai(nmtered, and rwhther h.e is
velor i eerved iby itose te -whoin he must
perferoe eniwtr.ust the guardianship of bis Iaterets, e.nd I eay étb. of ail tihe cSrrpt sets
of the, governmenit, of ail the aigns of tii,
legradiation and debasemnent of -publie opinion
rhich are eveirywhere mani-fest, there is net
one w-t so freught evith evil coasequmuices. not
one eigui ao sigaificant of degradeotion, as the.
ruanner in -wbich the public pre hms b.eu
o.peSiy and eystematically debauched yeur
after '."r wdth the fuli knowledge and, p
pa.rentLy, -the fuil approbaition of almost every
olass of îtii *wel-to-do supporters o! the, governineat, end rwith very f ew ev.idences o! any
gret disapproral even un the -part o! those
who were not supporters.
vhlichl domi

.dber.cely to poison and

That was the language used by my right
hon. frlend la criticizing certain printing- and
advertising done by Conservative newspapers, involving a very mucli smaller suai
than any of tliese paid to newspapers supIt must
portlng the, present goveramnent.
be borne ln mind that for a great part of
the Urne while the Conservative administration was in power, there was no law preventing themn glvlng certain printlng and advertlsing to newspftpers, but, afterwnrds, the
Printing Bureau was estabiisbed and prices
were fixed by statute, and tus law was
amended by the present government with
the resuit whlch I have indicated. I anc
sorry that my right hou. f rI.end is not present, because It would have give me a great
deal of pleasure to rub It into hlm a littie
as to the position in which hie is now, supporting- thse very thiag thnt lie condemned
s0 vigourotisly la the past.
Hon. Mr. ROSS <(Mlddiesex)-I liad no intention of taking part ln a discussion on this
Bill, nor shall I asis the House to assume
that anything 1 may say is really a materiai
part of the discussion. To discuss a Sup1
ply Bill requires a consîderable study.
have not made it a study, and, .therefore, 1
do not assume or presume to discuss this
Bill as I wouid lîke to, were thîs our full
dress debate. Moreover, we have no power
withi regard to Supply Bill.except to rejeet
or accept It. We have the power Of critidasm, the rlght of free speech, whlch ls a
very great privilege, and whlch I thlnk the
House sbould, exercise with regard to the
Supply Bill as it does wlb regard to anY

1734

SENATE

SENATE
1734
Lt bas consubmnitted to us. It would be un- than any tariff we have bad.
mneasure
Having. this
seemly, to say the least of it, If a Bill were tributed to our prosperity.
submitted to us for consideration and wve prosperlty and this large income from these
were not permitted to discuss it with per- varions sources, !rom the increase of popuA great deal of money is lation .and the natural accumulation o!
fect freedom.
ask-ed for, but a great deai of money is re- wealth, what are we to do witb the money?
quired. Twe]ve years have made a won- We are to restore that money to the peoderful change in Canada. It is qulte true pie ln such a way as to add to the generai
that some of this prosperity may be credit- prosperlty. In the matter of aiding railWe ways, the provinces, uow that their subsied to the Canadian Pacifie Itailway.
have spent a large amount of money on that dies have been lncreased, should be entrustrailway, and we sbould bave got something ed *wltb the development largely o! local
We have got more than the railways, and w-heu a eubsidy is ask-ed. for
in retura.
Lt bas by a local railway It must be ciearly shown
most sanguine expected perhaps.
been a great enterprise, and bas doue mucli that that rond Is contributary la a very subflot ouly for the older parts o! Canada, but stautiai degree to a railway o! national imfor the newer portions. Lt hss opeued up port.
I would wlthdraw the subsidy exthe prairies of the w-est and contributed to cept lu cases of that kiud.
But ail thîs
the settiement of the country, probabiy a money spent for the deveiopmcut of the
million lu the-w-est alone. But beyond w-bat country comes back to the treasury in inthe Canadian Pacifie Railway bias donc for creased revenue, and Increased population
Canada localiy, it bas doue a great Geai for and prosperîty and national standing. A!ter
us abroad. Lt bas called attention to the aI, the greater the degree to which the govgreat resources of this country and has been eraxuent contributes to the national standthe means of attractlug immigrants, and a ing, to thiat samne de.-ree do we strengthen
good Geai of the deveiopmeflt w-e bave at- our position, increase our resources and setained and of the expenses we are obliged cure accretions to our population.
The
now to assume, have arisen from the de- Transcontinental Ra!iway w-i cost a large
great entervelopment nrisiug from that
WJiether it wlll be a
amount of money.
prise. Moreover, we have derived a good profitable Iuvestment or not, remains to be
Geai o! prosperity from the wise tariff which seen. Some o! us, at one Pme, thought the
this present government bas adopted. I am
Canadian Pacifie Railway w-ould not be
flot a protectlonist, as that doctrine Is gen- profitable.
The freight and passenger trafernily understood, but 1 ain a protectionist
fic o! the new railway wll be great as the
s0 far as may be necessary to proteet our
country grows, and we trust that it will be
own Industries against the undue competiBut look at the
a profitable undertaking.
tion o! foreign industries.
enormous developmcnt whicb must arise
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-You are flot far from
Beginning at
Its construction?
froin the kingdomi.
Moncton, and running through the centre of
Lt
Hon. Mr. ROSS (M.ýiddlesex)-Not far, but Quebec, lt opens up a new country.
of the pro- costs something to open up a country. Lu
still far enough not to be one
Ail the civilized nations the early development o! Canada, the lintectlouist party.
of the w-orld except Great Britain have ac- peril goverument built our canal; Inter
cepted this doctrine, and w-e cannot be i-ery tbey subsidized the Grand Trunk, Railw-ay
far w-rong w-heu we are In company w-lth and later stili guaranteed the bonds of the
What the Imperial
such great governmenlts as the United Intercolonial Rallway.
States, France, Germiauy and Italy; but goverument did for us from abroad, we
whether w-e are right theoreticaliy, we are ougbt not to be afraid to do for ourselves.
right practically, and the policy o! securing We are no longer minors; we have attained
If we open up central New
the Candian market to the Canadian peo- our majority.
without aliowing Brunswick, sureiy w-e are promoting the inpie, ait the saine time
The saine
combinations injurions and oppressive to be terests of Canada as a whoie.
formed, Is a sound policy for Canada, and is true of nortbern Quebec and remarkably
this tariff secures tliat end better, perhaps. true of northern Ontario, because in this
Hon. Mr. ROSS ÇMidd'lsex).

JULY 20, 1908

1735

1735
JI7LY 20, 1908
Some of the large papers in
province we are opening Up 800 miles of hin- lu power.
terland for development and settiemeut. The Mfontreal and Toronto are used 'by both
littie Temiscaming and Nortbern Ontario parties, because there are no other papers
Shouid a govRallway built during niy administration of wlth similar circulation.
the provincial governmeut, bas been the erumnent, lu order to avoid the charge of
means of proau-cing milIlions of dollars al- subsldizlng tbe press to secure political supready, and no one can say bow many mil.- port, refrain f romn advertising its public
If you do that you are open to
lions more wilI come to the province of On- works?
tario and to Canada from. the construction the charge of doing business lu the dark,
of tliat road. Wbat bas been doue in that lu a hole and corner way. You must give
niarrow ares, may be done a tbousand fold publlclty, and publicity costs a goverument
So tbat
over the larger extent by the construction as mucb as it costs anybody else.
of the National Transcontinental Rallway. those subventions, large as tbey appear,
It is gong to cost more than w-e expected,ý might be expected to be pretty large ln view
The more
but did, you ever bear of au enterprise that of the many uudertakings.
did flot cost more than the original estimate? numerous the. uudertaking-s, the more pub1 do flot know of any building or railivay llcity you milst get and the more you mnust
ln Canada that did. flot exceed the estimates advertlse.
except one, and thiat w-as the erection of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I supthe parliameut buildings of the province cf
piose tbat is the reison w-hy the advertising
In that case, w-e kept w-ltbin ort
Ontario.
estimates and that is, at least, to our cred1f. is confined to the press of one side ?
Hou. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex). Yes, viery
This 'building cost seven times Its original
estimate. Tbe Canadian Pacifie Rallway largely, because the press of the Liberal
cost more than Its original estimate; the îarty is so good that Conservatives must
Intercoloulal Railw-ay cost three times Its rend It lu order to be lnformed. If you adThe Grand Trunk Paci- vertise lu the press of the Liberal party, the
original estimate.
fic Is lu the samne catagory, and, as tbe lion. othier side Is sure to kuow wlîat Is going on,
Secretary of State says, tbat additional cost because It Is indispensable for tbem. I do
It arises fromn the flot say that the Couservative press is flot
may flot be w-asted.
of labour and material. My a good press, but w-e reacb the public lu
icreased cost
bon. friend fromi Hastin.-s bas referred to that way.
Hon. Sir 31ACKENZIE BOWELIk-Tlie
the subventions giveia to the press. If any
Inference Is possible fromn bis observations, lion, gentleman must not forg-et that I did
ltis that these subventions to the press «have- liot use the language* that w-as used by the
the effect of lowering the independence of riglit hon. Minister of Trade and Cointhe newspapers that receive tbem.i of pol- muerce, la referring to government advertislutlng their vlews, and making tbem sub- ing. I compliment the hon. gentleman on
servient to the government of the day. making a speech condeninig sucb sentiNow these subventions to the press are very ments.
bon.
largely in the forin of advertising. and the
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-My
cost of n(Ivertisinig lias iincrcased in accord- friend, I understand, quoted the language
ance w-ith the growtlî of tbe country. We of Sir Richard Cartwright as applicable to
advertised very .freely. I used to tbink. that the present condition of tbings.
in the province of Ontario w-e advertised
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If it
too economically. It may be that the gov- were true then, it is doubly true now.
ernment lias gone to thé opposite extreme;
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex). The lion.
but the new-spapers bave raised their rates
gentleman uses it now because hie thinks
ln the genfrom year to year. They share
It is true of present conditions ; the lufereral prosperity and charge accordiugly. If
ence Is that Sir Richard used it orlgiually
you advertise, you have to advertise lu the because it was true. But is It true that the
There is no other w-ny ot rencbing public press of this country is not as outpress.
the public, and these advertisenients are spoken as It ever was ? Can my bou. frieud
naturally iii the press belonging to the party point to a single Liberal newspaper la Can-

1736

SENATE

1736

SENA TE

îida that does net speak as freely as il ever couid flot fail t0 be foll1b7wed by otber four
did on public questions ? It does flot COn- years of service equally- acceptable. The
demu the goverument. because il does not nian bebiind tie Speaker ls sometinies more
sce anytbiug la the government to condemn. important than the chair, aud bis bonour's
I do not know that the newspapers arc maniy. straigbtforward and impartial Con-

duct bas given us an assurance that
wiîetber be is continued as Speaker or aptunate tbat party politics in this country pointed to some other position, the country
sbould be split so fine that the governmeut wiII bave ln hlm a public servant on ivhom
is almost obliged, following precedent aI ail it may depend and that whatever duties
events and public opinion of botb parties, to rnay be assigned to bim, wiil be discbarged
confine ils advertising very largely 10 tbc with impartia]ity and ability..
stificd la tbeir utterances just because of
those subventions ; but it is a little unfor-

press of its own party.

1 tbinik that is un-

be a greater
fortunate.
breadtbl 0f view lu niatters of tbat kind and
There

sbould

matters of other kind, but %vew-ill siougbi
off Ibis condition of tliinýgs as w-c grow

oler, and w-bat W~ considered necessary in a
country w-beî it is young, will bceconsidered of no moment wben thc conntry becomnes
stronger, and its fibre more virile. I w-isb
to supplement tbe remnarks of tbe bon. senator from Marsbfield as 10 tbe impartial and
kindly mauner in w-bicb bis bonour Uic
Speaker bas discbarged bis duties ibis session. 1 do not know- tbat it is necessary to

acentuate bis career, wbici bias beeni onc

of markcd ability durîng tbe 1w-o ycars I

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Did
1 understand the hon. gentleman to qay that
tbe British government bad aided ini tw Conistruction of the Grand Trunk Riwy
:t
Hon. Mr. ROSS (idex-Itbînkl
endorsed our bonds.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BWEL-o
The lion, gentleman is confouadinz the iiitercolonial Railway witb tbe Grand Trunk
Wben the Intercolonial Ilailiwa.y
Railway.
was built, tbe Imperial goverument insisted
on its hein.- built on the nortb shore. and
guaranteed the Canadian bonds at 4 lier

cent; but I have no recollection of the Bitislb government baving in any way aided

Trunk Raiiway.
bave been ln tis Iouse. Il is very pieasant the Grand
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is very gratifying to
for mie te bave served under Speakers ln
thrcc different departîmelits of public legislation, and. my experience bas beeni uniformn,

tbat in discbarging Ilîcir duty tbey bave
maintained. tbc dignity and sbownv tbe limpertniniung to tbe office alcpartiality
cording te, the best traditions of the
It is a1 pity tbat ln
Britisbi service.
this House, as ln Englaiid, tbere is ne consideration, paid to the Speaker after bis retirenient. The Lord H-igbi Cbancellor, wbho
is Speaker of tlie liuse of Lords, carnies
w~itb hlmii after bis retirenleilt a miodest pension of £5,000. Tbere is no sncbi privilege

or bonour attached 10 our Speaker :tbe

more is the pity. If thiere is no consideralion attacbed te bim., the least wve can do
-vbo bave served at bis feet and observed
bis judicial character and profited in the
discbarge of our public duties by bis services, is te acknowledgc, in few- w-ords il
may be, but iii the kindest inanner possible,
tuie valuable services bie bas reuderël.
Wýi,lter the Crown will ne-ai, .unt hlm -,'
net is another moatter. but we bave a guarantce tbat four years 0f service in the ps
Hgon. Mr. ROSiS (Middlesex).

the

personai

Speaker

10

friends

of bis

bear tbe wel

ments paid bim.

bonour

thc

deserved coînple-

Certainily no gentlemnia,

in 'my recoliection, bas discharged more
fairly the duties of the office, lias beid the
scales more cqualiy between the politicai
parties ln this chamiber. Coupied -with bis
equanimîty, there bas always beenl the
brigbit cheerful and pleasalit w'ay witli ii
tliat bas added very mucli to t1e gratification of baving a seat lu tSe Senate of Canada.
The motion w'as agreed ani the Piii was
read tue second Uie.
HOn. '.%r. SCOTT moved the tird reading
I tbink the bon. seniof the Bill. He said:
ator from Hastings is under à gross mnisconception with regard te tbe suais paid to
The bon. gentleman
Liberal newspapers.
bias been quoting tbe amionnts paid tbe press

under the assumption tiat they were for advertisements.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I did
îîot say so. I said that tbey wçere subsid les

to that extenit.

JIJLY 20, 1908

lu

ciated by me, aitihougli tbey imply considerHon. Mr. SCOTT-Tljere is a large overon tlieir
the govern- able forbearance and indulgence
fiow of work in cc-nection 'with
bas to part.
ment prlntlng. eome of the work
The flouse adjourned durlng pleasure.
lie done outside and the charges are alwiiys
After some tinie the Bouse resumed.
examifled and certified by the King's Printer
O
BLSASNE
before they are pald.
O
BLSASNE
.The motion was agreed to, and Bill was
Sir Charles FiThe Right Honourable
read third trne and passed.
patrlck, X.C.M.G., Chie! Justice of Canada,
acting Deputy of His Excehlency the GovTHE INTER-PARLIÂMENTÂRY CONernor Generll belng seated on the Throiie,
GRESS.
The Honourabie the Speaker comminded
The SPEAKER-I amrn recelpt of a letBlack Rod to
Parliament the Gentleman Usher of the
ter Invltlng ail members of the
to the flouse of Gommons and seproceed
of Canada who wish to attend the Interqunint that flouse: 'It le; is Honour the
parliameiitary Congress to lie held SeptemDeputy Of is Excelency the Governor
ber 10 to 1.% In Germany, to noti!y the
hlm inable to Generai's desire that they attend
chairman In order that they may be
In this flouse.' the1r !Sneaker.
medlateiy
,.Ith
~ ,.~.
send. the delegates from Canada, wlth frea
Who ue'us c a ... .
1
ransportation on German rallways.
The Clerk o! the Crown In CbancerY read
now o! two or tbree members o! the SenIf the Tities of the Bis to be passed, as
a te who wihi be In Europe at that tume.
a .ny others intend to be In Europe in Sep- foilows:
An Ac respecting the Phoenix Assurance
t ember, I 'would request thema to send their
me and I wlU transmit them to Company, Li-mited.
to
t Lames
An Mit for tihe relief of Hattie &PrattOhe president o! the German grouP. I unAtt or -therelief of ECath en Gin cae
Leratand there wll be officiai receptiOlis to
as non.
lie delegates by «the Imperial Reichstag,
Alexander.
An Act for the relief of M!ery Keturcii Stewell as by the clty of Berlin.
Au Act der the, reliei of Ada
we.rt Paiuidl-ng.
GENBL ELECTION.
Au Act :respectin< certain (patents of tiie
Generel Ohemîtel Com!pany~
Hon. -Mr. ELLIS--Some observations
An At rspo ingte.~goa t eh
whlch have been made wouid seem te con- nes and Toronto Ra, w«Z CoMpany.
rsons and ReforainAn Act to almend th
vey the idea that there was in the minds
in so fear «s the anme affects the
tories Aot,
of bon. gentleman the belle! that this would
Ao Oeeaettuing a certain issue of Dobe the lat session of the presefit paria- PRO'X K Notes.
like to ask the bon. Secre- -minbon
ment. I shouid
and
An Act Io acorporate the, -Shugap
tary o! iState If he ceould give .any. Informa- Thompson Ri-vers Boom Comnpany.
theii payment to the
An Act to autiionize
toInregard to In
tioli that matter?
and Alberuta Of
provinces of BaskeieewSt
'uder tiie Land
caiinot. 1 arn not -part of tiie Assmune .Fund
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I
bas flot T!rtles Act. 1l894.
In a position to, do s0. Parliament
mt.teLsetinadSl
another An r.t
f ulfiiied. Its mission yet. There Is
An Aot to amend tiie Qhinese ilmmig.ration
year te run.
Âot.
An Act reepecting tiie Standard Mutual Fire
The SPEAK.ER-InasmUCh as tliis may
naine ta
Insurance Comupany -Inaurnce Comupany.
fuis tiie Standard Bire and to change its
be the last tinie I saol preside over
ei gcrv.rniineit «iseranAn Act ioeepecting
Important body, I desîre to retiiri my very
Ravil-teed 'bonde of tiie &rand Trunk PacfiaMnn
Isc'
hearty thanks for the klndly way in whlch
a ACtmpa ny. iYuo
the iSenate bas treated the present Speaker
At
during bis occupancy of tbe office,.and 1
An Act ta amend. the. Bank Act. Appeal of
the most pleasv.nf rewli -carry 'wlth me
An Att Teeapectiig the. Court qf
myspeaersip.Thever
collctin o
collctin
o myspekerhlp Th vey Britishi Columubia. tiie Yu'kon Att.
An Act ta emend
klnd words spoken by my hon. colieagues
Dry
An Act to encourage the constructioni of
morning ns to the satisfaetory way i
thus
Prince EdAn Atàt respeoting the. Behiaville,
have, in their estimation, dlscharged the
Bridge CSnipany.
duties of my office are must blgbly, appre- werd
110

a-_____

1738

138SENATE

An Act te amend -the Pe Office Adc.
An Att ita amend the Naurs.Iizaticn Act.
An Act t.:)nmend the Boards cf Trade Act.
An Act respeotbing Jurenile Delinquents.
An Act -respecting the sale and markin-g cf
manuf-aûturers of ýGeld and Silver, and (iold
a.nd Silvir-Plated Waoee.
An Adt te incerpoirate -the Alberta and Britishi Columbia Bailway Conspany.
An Att respeoetinig :the Hamilton, Wnteailo
aud Guelph ltailwav Company.
An Act te amend the. Cuseoms Act.
An Att te exnend the. Timber Mark&ng Aot.
An Act respeoiting the payaienit of beunties
on lead centained du led-.bearing ores mimcd
in Canada.
An Adt respecting the. Dominion Quarantes
Comasny, Limited.
An Act respecting the. Lake Champlain and
St. Lawrence Slip Canal Company.
An Act te prend.e <or the payaient of beunties on Crude -Petreleum.
An Att respeoting the salary cf the. Superintendent af Insurance.
An Act ta assist ainei.ntaining an Independent and efficient service cf telegraphie
newe f£rom Great Britain for publication lu
the. Canadian press.
An Aet re.specting the. office cf the. Auditor
Generel.
An Act oeepeoting a certain patent cf WilIia.m B. Smithi.
An Act ifer the relief of Arthur James Townaend.
An Adt ireepecting certain patente cf the
Me&al Shine-le and Sidin-g Comipany, Limited.
An Act te authenize -tiie sale ite the. Grand
Trunk Raiiway Censpany cf Canada cf a portien cf Major's Hill Park, in the. oity of Ottawa, as la hetel site.
An Aet ta restrein the. use of -tobacco by
young persas.
An Adt te anitherize tii. construction cf a
brandi lin. of the Prince Edward .Island Railway f rom Hfrnieny, on thie Souris branci, te
Elmira.
An Att te amend chapter 38 of the statutes
cf 1907 in arnendiment of -the. lailw-ay Adt.
An Act toeamend -the Judves' Aot.
An Att to amend the Northwest Territeries
Adt.
An Act te amnend thse Railway Aet with respect te Telegraphs and Telephenes and the.
jurisd-iction cf the Board cf Railwvay Cerniissioners.
An Att te incorporate the Syncd cf the Diocese cf Kýeew-atîn.
An Act te amend. the Inspection and Sale
Att. as regards Grain.
An Att te amnend the 31amdtcba Grain Att.
An Aat te authoTize the issue cf Gaverament Annuities fer Old Âge.
An Att te anîend the Railway Att as respects tise constitutien cf the. Board cf Ra-ilway
0ommassioners..
An Att toeanîend the Crim-inal Code aMd te
repeal section 415 cf the. Ra-iiway Act.
An Att ta e'rnend the Canada Shipping Act.
An Att te tauthorize3 the. sale or etheir disposai of certain ordncan-ce lands 'in the cities
of Toronto anid Montreal.
An Att respetting the -National Battlefields
et Quehet.
The SPEAKER.

An Att te, amend the Canada Tenîperance,
Act.
An Act ta autiiorize a bcunty- te volunteers
who serred the. Crewn in Sou-th Afrita.
An Att respectiug Proprietary or Patent
Medicines.
An Act te consolidate and emend the Acts
reepectinr thse pubilie lands c£ the. rominien.
l
An Act te amend -the Civil SarvLze Act.
An Att te prehibit the Importation, manufa-cture and sale cf opium for otiier than medicinal p)urnoes.
An Act reepecting certain aid for the extension of tii. Canadian Nertiiern Raiiway.
An Act respee'iting aid. £or the. extension o!
tiie Edmenton-Yukon aas4 Pacifie Railwsy.
,&n Adt to antiiorize the. girantin-g cf eu.bsidies in aid cf tiie construction of -the Unes e?
reilway therain meontioned.
An Adt respecting tiie Quebet Bridge and
Railway Com.pany.
An Att te axnend tiie Dominion Elections
Adt.
Te tii... Bis the Royal Assent iras pronounced by the Olerk of the Senate ln the
follewlng irords:
'In His Majesty's namne tIse Deputy te,
fis Excellency doUa assent te tiiese Bis.'
Then thse Heneurable tIse Speaker cf the.
flouse et Gommons addressed fis faneur
the Deputy et fis EIxcellency the. Geverner
General as follows:
'May It please Yaur faneur:
'The Gemmons ef Canada bave vated
certain Supplies required te enable the Gevernment te defray thse erpenses of the.
Public Service.
'In tIse name et thse Gommons, I present
te Yaur Heneur a Bill intituled:
An Adt fer granting te Ris Majety certain
sus
of tnoney fer thie ýpublic service of the,
financial year endinýg Ma.rch 31, 1909.
Then atter thse Clerk cf thse Cran-n la
Cbancery Isad rend tIse Titi. of tIse Bill;
Te this Bill thse Royal Assent 'vas pronounced by tIse Clark of Hije Senate, lu thse
folawing words:
'In
His Majesty's
ans. His Hoîsour
thse Deputy cf fis Excelleney thse Gavernor General thnnks fis Loyal Subjects,
accepts their ber evolence, and assents ta
this Bill.'
Atter inhich thse Deputy of fis Excellency tIse Gavernor General iras pleased ta
close -the Faurtb Session of thse Tenth Parhanient cf tIse Dominion of Canada initIa
thse fehhawing Speech:

JULY 20, 1908
JULY 20. 1908
PROROGATION

OF PARLIAMENT.

Honourable Gentlemen of the Senate:
Gentlemen of the House of Comimons:
I am glad to be able to relieve you from
further attendance on this long protracted
session, and I thenk you -for the assiduity and
care you have given to the unusually large
number of important subjects that have been
submitted for your consideration. It is, however, satisfactory to note the mnany excellent
measures that have .been passed, end ,which it
is hoped will prove beneficial to the people of
Canada.
Âmong other Acte, attention may be called
to the Manitoba Grain Act end the Grain Inspection Act which. while protecting the high
standards of cwestern grown grain from inferior mixtures, secures to the farmer the increased value attaching to those standards.
In response to en advanced public opinion,
appointments and -promotions to the civil service will be mode henceforth only after a coinpetitive examination in rhich those who excel
will receive the veeward of merit; and, while
the operations of the Act are lim.ited to the
service at the seat of government its provisions Ma-y later on be extended to the service
throughout ithe Dominion.
The Act rev'ising and consolidating the laws
and regulations effecting the disposition of
the public lands will it is 'believed meet with
the hearty approval of the western provinces
One of the
more immediately interested.
principal features of the Act is the permission
to take up a second homestead within a limited
area, and also the right of a homeeteader to
acquire by purchase the adjoining quartersection. It is intended that the proceeds of
these sales shall in the first place be set apart
as a fund for the construction of a railway to
Hudson bay.
The amendments to the Bank Act aflowing,
under certain restrictions, an expansion in
the circulation of notes of the banks dunrng
the period of Mhe year while the crops are being moved, will, it is considered, facilitate the
quic4k transport of the products of the faî.rm
to the markets of the world.
Important amendments have been made te
the Act respecting. elections 'which it is confidently believed will more effectively protect
the righ-ts of the voters and guard against the
exercise of undue influence in electoral coutests.
The proposal to make a free granît of land
as a bounty to the volunteers who rendered
valuable service to the empire in the South
African war will meet iwith hearty approval.
The reduction of the duty on dropped letters
in cities and certain towns, and the enlargement of the aire .within vhich the postage on
certain olasses of newpapers may be carried
free, will I feel be much appreciated.
The amendments made to the Inland Rerenue Act, -whereby the discrimination against
Canadian <rown tobacco created 'by distinctive
labels used in cigars and tobacco 'will no longer
exist; it is confidently believed that those
amendments to the Act .w.i:l have the effeet of
improving and encouraging home grown
tobacco and prove of great benefit to that portien of our agricultural population engaged
in that industry.

1739-

1731>

The increasing demands for iznproved transportation facilities -in a country so -widely extended and so spa-rely settled as 'this Dominion, warrants public aid in the construction
of ira.ilways, and the ex.perience of the past
aanply justifies the liberal subsidies in the Act
thet bas been assented to.
The plaoing of the telegraph and telephone
systems under the jurisdiction of the Railwy
Commissioners will meet with the hearty approval of al classes in the Dominion. The
rapidly inoreasing number of -applications to
the Board of Railway Commissioners involves
the necessity for the appointment of %dditi<qial members on the board.
The ex-tension of the time for the pay'ment
of a bounty on lead ores, and tie enlargement
of the conditions under which (the bounty may
be earned 'will. it is believed, stimulate the
growth of an important industry in the province of British Columbia.
The physical and mental degradation following from the too free use of opium have long
been recognized, and efforts have been made in
all countries boasting of advanced civilization
to sta-mp out its use, except wlien presoribed
for medicinal purposes. The increasing consumption of this deleterious drug in Canada
has prompted the adoption of the Act to restrain its use except when authorized by medical men.
The issue of government annuities for old
age will, àt is oonfidently believed, encourage
habits of thrift and economy, securing to the
holder some provision for declining years.
The subject of immigration from Japan has
received much attention during the year, and
it -was deemed desirable to eend one of my
'ministers to Ja:pan to discuss with Bis
Majesty's ambassador at Tokio, and with the
Japanese authorities. the advisability, in view
of he local conditions in this country, and
other reasons, for restricting such immigration. I am gled to know that a satisfactory
arrangement las been effected, and I feel %ssured that the termis of the agreenient will
continue to be faithfully ca.ried out.
An arrangement vith regard to immigration
from India having aiso 'become desirable, a
representative of the government was sent to
England to discuss the question -with the
authorities of the United Kingdom, and in
this case also with -results that promise to be
entirely eatisfactory.
In both these cases it bas been the desire of
my goverment that while caring properly for
the interests of the Dominion, the welfare of
the empire at large ehould also be regarded.
Ihe Gold and Silver Marking Act will stimulote the manufacture of a superior quality
of those articles composed of the precious
metals, and at the saine time will protect the
public from fraudulent representations.
The Act respecting juvenile delinquents will
enable those societies that have for their objeot the reformafion of children living under
the influence of criminal tendencies, to more
efficiently ecomplieh their purpose, and thus
save the innocent little ones from the evil influenecs of vicions environment.
The Act restraining the use of tobacco by
young persons will, it is hoped, check a growing habit that is seriously affeoting the health
of many Canadian boys.

1740

SENATE
1740

When parliaiment opened in November last a
seràous financialj depression preva.iled throughout the adjoining reopublic -the etfect of fwhich
w«e far reaching, involving in a limited degree ail those countries havsng business relations w-ith -the United States. The orisis in
the money .macket that .followed, coupledc with
the dîminished value Of the erops in the
prairie provincets, seriOusly affected the yearly
increasing prosperity rwhich Canada Jad enjoyed during the .precedi-ng eight years. Thse
present hopeful outlook for an uîsusually
large or-op of the cereals and o>ther -produets
of the soul, will. it is believed, *maoek the beyears of
of another long series of
W"nning end prosperity.
plenty
It -is very gratifying to observe the patriotic
enthusiasm that lias -been aroused not only in
ail parts of the Dominion but throughout thse
of the
'empire, at -the approaching celebrationhundred
fonnding cf the city of Quebec three
years -ago by the heroic French navigator,
To add to the glory
Samuel de Champlain.
of the Occasion His Gracious, Majesty the King
haîs deputed Ris Royal H.ighness the Prince
of Wales to represent hi'm at the iinteresting
pageants that *will be presellted in comiuemoration of the event. The presence also of representatives f rom France assd the UJnited
Statets at the ceremonial will be hailed with

intense 'pleasure by the pe4>ple of Canada. and
will be acoepted as an evidence of friendsh-ip
on the part of the citizens of those two zreat
republics.
Gentlemen of the Bouse of Commons:
I .thank ycu for the liberal provision you
.have made -for the public service.
Honourable Gentlemen of the Senate:
Gentlemen of the House of Commons:
L-et us earnestly hope that when we meet
&gain the present br-ight prospects for a bountiful harvest in ail parts of the Dominion will
have been realized, prompting an additional
reason for expreSiXg OUT heart-delé tha:nks
to a kind, Preovidence for the many blessings
we enjoy in this favouredl land.
The Speaker of the Senate then said:.
Honourable Gentlemen of the Senate:
Gentlemen of' the Bouse of' Commons:
It is the will and pleasure cf Ris HonOur
thý Deputy of Ris Excellency the Governor
General. that this paoeLianient be prorogued
until Tuesday, the twenty-first day of Auguat
next. 'to be here liolden. and this parliament
*îs accordingly prorogued until the twenty-first
day of Âugugt next.

INDEX
PART 1

-

SENATOIRS

Ixt, 2nd and 3rd Rendings; *, without
The following abboreviations are used: lat R., 2nd R., 3rd R.,
B.,
; Adjn., Àdjourned ; Amt., Amendinent; Amts., Amendmenta;
remark or debate ; Accts., Accounta
Coin., Committee; Co., Company ; Conadu.,
Bül; B.C., British Columbia; Can., Canada or Canadian;
Govt., Government ; Ris Ex., Ilis Excellency
Consideration ; Cor., Corrempondencn ; Dept., Department ;
Mani.,
C., House of Commons; Incorp., Incorporation; Inq., Inquiry:
the Governor General ; H. of
N.B., New Brunswick; N.W.T., North West Termoved;
Manitoba; M%.s. Mesu~ge; M., Motion; mn.,
P.E.I., Prince Edward Island; P. O.,
ritories; N.m., N.ova Scotia; Ont., Ontario; Parit., Parliament;
Ret., Returned;
:R.A., Royal Assent; Remn., Reniarks; Rep., Reported;
Post Office; Ques., Question
h., 6 months hoist; Withdn., Withdrawn.
Ry., Railway ; Sel., Select; 6 m

BAIRD, Hon. G. T.
Adjournnets: M., 405.
Bush Pires: inq., 860.
Cannon Divocoe B3. (RR):- Int., 876; 2nd R.*,
M2; Brd R.*, 928.
Pulp wood £romn Canada, The export of:
M., 836.
BAKER, Hon. G. B.
Ohurch cf Engla-nd Missionary Society B.
4.75); lut., 329; 2nd R", SU8; 3rd R.'. 380.
Domiainon Guar.tutee Co. B. MV: M. not
to concur in Commons Aints., 1476.
BEIQUE, Hen. P. L.
Accidents at Railivey C--cssi-ngs: M., 176.
Archiitectural Insqtitute cf Canada B. (87).
Int., 759; 2ndl R.', 778; 3rd R.*, 971.
(hivili Service Act kmt. B. (189): on 2nd R.,
Toem.,

1525; in Com., rem., 1603.

Customns Act Amt. B. (194):- on 2nd R., remn.,
1474.
Dominion Lumbeng Co., B. <RH): lut., 176,
M. 2nd R., 221; rein., 223, 226, 228; M.
agreed. tc, 29-9; on M. 3rd R., oemn., 929; Srd
R. iieed ,to, 837. (See ininder iBidlisGeorgian Bay Canal: on M. (Mr. Casgniin)
irein., 869.
.Juvenile Delinquents B. <QQ): 1.9t R., M. 2nd
R., 971; in Coin., 1038, 1042; M. Srd R..
1149; remn., 1152, 1156; M. 3rd R. carr.led,
1165.
Point of Order on Shuswap and Thcmpson
ORver B. (49)- remn., M170.
Procedure, A Question of: remn.. 949.
Ant. te M. (M.Mc
f the Soe:
WSefoni
Mrullen) 640.
. il
9022-A

Rules of -the Sen&te: Aint. to M. (Mr. Davis)
409.
Sonate Debates: M. ta adcpt report, 1323-,
rem., 1327; M. tc adopt report, 16U5.
Standing ConLnutteffl: on M. (Mr. Boss,
,Middlesex), rem.. 351, 403.
BEITH, Hlon. R.
Camipbellford, L&ke Ontaziio and Western
Ry. Co. B. (14): Int., 97; 2nd R.*, 174. Srd
R.-, 213.
Canada Weather llnsurance Co. B. (37): Int..
640; 2nd R.*, 703; 3rd R.*, 781.
Eehm and Frank Patents B. (E): Int., 175;
M. 2nd R., 219; ard R.-, 380.
Windsor Punxp and roundry Co. Patenits B.
(72): lnt., 231; 2nd R.O, 291; 3rd R.*, 380.
BELCOURT, Hon. N. A.
Âddress, Tihe: M. to adopt, 3.
British Yuko>n Ry. Co. B. (21): Int., 382;
ândl R.'. 430; Srd R.'. 503.
Contingenýt Accounts Coxmittee: on report,
rem., 134.
Gecsrgian Bay Camal: oni M. (Mr. Cagrain>,
remn., 430.
Lakte !Champlain aind St. )Lawu'engce qShip1
Canal Co. B. (SS): tnt., 876; 2nd R.*, 986;
Srd R.0, 1012.
Publie Ownership cf Public Utilities: remn.,
6u1.
Standing Rules cf the Sonate: on M. (Mr.
Comeau), rem., 146.
BERNIER, Hlon. T. A.
Cmtingent Accounts Commi4têe: on Teport,
rem., 75, 132.
Georgian Ba;y Canal: on M. -(Mr. sgrain>,
-rem., 680.

INDEX

BERNIER, Hon. T. A.-Con.
Georzian Bay Canal route, Exploration of:
inq., 61.
Grand Trunk Paoillc Site in Otteiwra: inq.,
.
73.
Hudson Bay, Construction of -a Railway to:
on M. (Mr. Davis), remn., 556.
Maagitoba, The boundaries of:- inq., 215.
Ottawa a;nd Goorgàan Bay Canal: dnq., 45.
SenatoriLl Divisions. rem., 1161.
Stamdi4ng Rules ci the Senate: en M. (Mr.
Comeaiq), rem., 143.
BOLDUC, Hon. J.
Pu1.p ,wood from Canada. The
rom., 13U4.

export of:

BOSTOCK, Hon. H.
Ashorofýt, Barkerville and Fort George Ry.
Co. B. (58): lut., 231; 2nd P.*, 291; 3rd R.4,
368.
Bank of Vancouver B. (32): lut., 501; 2ud
R.'. 539; 3rd R.', 703.
Boundary Ka.mloops and Cari»o R. Co. B.
(36): Int., 231; 2nd R.*, 266: Srd R.', 318.
Calgary and Fernie Ry. Co. B. (33): Int.,
231; 2nd R.', 2W; 3rd R.', 318.
Kamloopsa nd Yellowliead Pass Ry. Cc. B.
(39): Int., 211; 2nd R.*, 219; Srd R.0, 318.
Pacific Coasot Fire Insurance Co. B. (40):
Tnt., 793; 2nd R.0, 805; Srd B.', 928.
Phoenix . nsuranco Co. B. (LL): Tnt., 779;
2nd ýR.', 779; 3rd R.', 862.
Privilege, Questions of: remn., 19-2.
Railway Charters, Renewal cf: remn., 550.
Shuswap a.nd Thompeon River Co. B. (48):
Tnt., 714; 2nd R., 740; Srd R., 1206. (Sec
under Bills--Seratim.)
Vancouver Island and Ea.stern Ry. Co. B.
(87>) nt., 480; 2nd R.', 520; 3rd R.*, 721.
BOUCHERVILLE, Hon. C. E. de, C.M.G.
Businoss of Parliament: on M~. (MT. McMuI.
ion). rem., 9W6.
Georgian Bay Canal: on M. (Myr. Casgr-tin),
-rem., 870.
Juvonile Dolinquonts B. (QQ): in Coin., reOn.,
1037, 1042; on Srd R., M. for 3 m. h., 1152;
M. lest, nu5.
.1uvenie Offenders, An Institution fer: on
M. (Mr. Comean), rom., 1080, 1165.
Standing Committees: Aint. te report, 66.
UOWELL, Hon. Sir M., K.C.M.G.
Address, The: on Il. (Mr. Belcourt) te adopt,
rein., 25, 52.
Adjourninents: on M. (Mfr. Plerley), rein.,
1041.
Alberta emd B. C. Ry. Co. B. (DDD): Tnt.,
10-25; 2nd R.', 1053; Srd R.0, 1172.

BOWELL, Hon. Sir Ml., K.C.M.G.-Con.
Anglo-Ca.n;a&ien and Continental Bqnk B.
MJ): on 2nd R., rem., 263.
Business of Parliament: on Il. (Mr. MteMullen), rem., 891, 968, 1010.
Canadiejn Cattie, British Embargo on: rein.,
263.
Civil Serv-ico Commission: inq., 714.
Civia Service Jmsuranoe Retuirn: rein., 210.
Civiil Serviice Suspensions: inq., 786.
Civil Service Act Amt. B. .(189): on 2nd R.,
rem., 1528; in Cern., rem., 1600, 1601, 1602,
1605, 1615, 1619, 1623.
Comrnitteo cf Seleotion:. on M. (Mr. Scott),
,rein., 40.
Contingent Accounts Committee: on report,
Taom., 74, 129.
Customs Act Aint. B. (194): on 2nd R., rein.,
1468, 1475; on 3rd R., rein., 1515.
Dominion Elections Adt Âmt. B. (115): On
2nd R., reino., 1697; in Coin., rein., 1704,
,1712. 1713, 1715.
Freneh Convention B. ý(57): in Coin., rein.,
707.
French Treaty: inq.. 82, 1339.
Pur Bea] Fisheries: rom., 365.
Hindoc Immigration:-"m., 483.
Hudson Bay. Construotion of Failwvav ta:
on M. te adjn., rem., 567.
Japomose in B.C., MTrest of: inq., 367.
Japanese Immigration: îrein., 94, 270.
Load Bounties B. (191):- on 2ndl R., remn.. 1493.
Major'6 Hill Park B. (89): in Coin., rein.,
1555, 1562.
Mankiag of GoId and Silver Piatod Ware B.
(AAÂ): in Cern., rein., '1216, 1350.
Opium Prohibition B. (205):- on 2nd R., rein.,
,1597; ini Coin., rem., 1673.
Parliament, Sunpplyi.g information te: rei.,
1103.
Point of Ordor on inq. by Mr. Landrv: remn.,
880.
Printing of Parliament: on 31. te adopt report. rem., 781, 1060.
Privilege, Questions cof: -rein.. 124, 125, 3(62.
Prorogation:- rein., 1448, 1684.
Public Bills in Sontate, Introduction of: rein.,
60.
Public Lands B. (181): on. 2nd R., rom., 1627;
in Cem., Tom., 1633, 1635; on 3rd R., rein.,
1662.
Que.bec, Lieutenant G-overnorship of: remn.
212.
Reports te the Sonate, Delay iin sulamitting:
rein., 1394.
Rules of tho Sonate: rein., 317.
Sonate flobates: en report, rein., 1324.
Sonate, Expenditures of the: on M. (Mr.
PoYwer), rom., 851.

INDEX

BOWELL, Hon. Sir M., K.C.M.G--COit.
Sonautorial Divilsions: on M. (Mr. Roe,
Middlesex), rem., -1177.
Standing Committees: on aint. to report,
rem., 64, 68; on M. (Mr. Ross, Middlesex),
rem., 765.
Standing Rules of the Sonate: on M. (Mr.
Douglas>, rom., 241.
Supply Bill Ne. 1: on let R., rein., 287.
SupplY Bill No. 4 (220). on 2nd R., rem.,
1l729, 1732.
Tobaoco Restraint B. ('173): in Com., rem.,
1460.
Trans-Cainada Ry. Co. B. (M): ou 2nd R.,
rein., 292.
'Under Secretaries lu Canada, Appointment
of: on M. (Mfr. Ross, Middlesex), rem.,
324.
Union Jack, Hoisting the: remn.. 906.

1,ARTWRIGHIT, Rt. Hon. Sir R.,GC.GCon.
Manitoba Grain Act Âmt., B. (ZZ): lut.,
905; M. 2nd R., 982; in tom., reim., 1012,
1018, 1037, 1089, 1095; Srd R.O. 1105; M. tD
concur li Commons anits., 1648; I. agreed
to, .1649.
MaTine and- Fuisliries Investigationl: rei.,
1287.
National Battlefields B. (III); lut.. 480; 2nd
-R., 520; in Coin., Tem., 5--4; Srd R.', 537.
Pa.rli&ment, Suppîying informoation toe rein.,
Moi0.
Supply Bill No. 1: on let R., remn..,8
Shipbiadiag Induetries of Canada; reffly to
inq., 550.
Under Secreta-ries iu Canada. appointmnt
of- on M. (Mr. Boffs, Middlese\), rei., 345.

CÂSGRAIN. Hfon. J. P. Il
Committees. Concurrence in reports of
rem.. 293.
Dominion Lands Sur'rey B. (9): on 2-nd IL.
CAMPBtELL, HTon. A.
rem., 217: in Com.. 276. 277. 307.
Georgian Bay Canal: M.. 247; rein.. 871
Âddroes, Thse: soconded, 6.
Railwav Act Aint. B. (PP)i luIt.. 817;1Civil Service Act Aint. B. (189): B. rep.
R.. 818; M. 2nd R.. 863; iu Coin., remn.,
1624.
fromm Com.,
937, 1064, 1073, 1359; M. that Coin. rise
Metalke Shingle emnd eiding Co. B. (HH.
carried. B. dropped, 1373.
1414; 2nd R.', 1l476; 3rd R.*, 1496.
let R.*,
Railway Charters, Renewal cf: rei.. 545.
(BEE).- lut., 567;
Ponutiac Central Ry. Co. B.
Standinu rules of the Sonate : on Il. (Mr.
2nd R.*. 632; 3rd R.0, 781.
Comoau). rom.. 145.
B. (GGGl): Int., 1276; 2nd
Townsend Divorce
Trans-Canada R:v. Co. B. (M): on 2nd R..
".; 3rd R.*, 1343.
rem.. 291.
Water Carniage of Goods B. (Z): lut., 382:
rom., 990; 3rd R.0, CROQUETTE. Hon. P. A.
M. 2nd R., 473; In Com.,
1004.
Canadian Cattie. British Embargo on: remn.,
263.
Excheciuer Court Judge of Canada: in.CÂRLTW1IGHT, RIL. Hon. Sir R., G.C.M.G.
652. 845.
Address, The- ou M. (Mr. Beloourt) to adopt.
Experimontal Farm Reports: ina., 652, 845
rom., 17.
Indianapolis, State Life Insurance Co. cfina.. b0S.
of Parliament: on M. <(Mr. MeBusiness
National Battlefields B. (III): on 2nd B..
iMulien>. rom., 887.
rom., 520.
Canado. Shl.pping Act Aint. B. (NN): lut.,
Point of Order on inci. bv Mr. Landry: rem.,
770; 2nd R., 855; iii Coin., 913, 951; 3rd R.,
878.
1011; Gommons aints. ooncurred in, 681.
Priviloge. Questions cf: rein., 523.
Chinese Immigration Act Âmt. B. (00): lut., 1
Trans-Canada Ry. Co. B. <M:lut., 247:
817; 2nd R.. 874; iu Coin., '1046; Srd R.0,
M. 2nd R.. 291 ; Srd R.0, 368.
in, 1323.
1050; Gommons amts. ooncurred
Quebec Ry. Light and Powor Co. B. (73):
Convention B. (57): luIt., 480;- 2nd
FreunIs
lut.. 480:- 2nd R.'. 520; 3rd R.'. 919.
R., 703; Srd R.0, 714.
CLORÂN. Hon. H. J.
Frenclh Treaty: TOply te i.nq., 1339.
rem., 365._
Contingent Acconuts Committoe: on report.
Fun Seal. Fishonies.rein.. 130.
Gold and Silver Ma.rking Aint. Act B. (CC):
Gammoil Divorce Case :on report. rom.. 551.
-let R., 470; 2nd R.*, 3rd R.', 487.
Jnt.,
Georgian Bay Canal: on M. (Mr. Casgrain).
Inspection eand Sale cf Grain B. (CCC): lot
rom.. 819.
R., 2nd R.', 1053; iu Coin., rein., 1131,1300;
Gîlmore Divorce Bill: on report. rom., 721
ear-ried, 1374; iu Coin., from., 1411 . M.
emt.
Italian Immigration- ina.. 422%.
to concur in aints., 1416; rem., 1419; M. to
Juvenile Offendors. An Institution for: on
Comsuepend ruies, 1437; M. 3rd R., 1444;
M. (Mr. Comeau>, rem., 1080.
mono aote. concurned in. 1650.

INDEX
DANflURAND, Hon. BR. ý(Speaker).-Con.
CIORAN, Hon. H. 3.-Von.
Reforin of the Sonate: rem., 729.
japanese Immigration: rein.. 269.
Rules of the Sonate, Suspension of- on M
Privilege. Questions cf: rein., 85, 126. 448,
(Mr. Douglas). rem.. 88.
485, 522.Rules of the Senate: remn.. 818.
Public Bis in Sonate, Introduction of
Senatorial Divisions: ruling on pt. of order
rein.. 60.
(Mr. Ellis). 1178.
Public Ownership cf Public Utilities: rein..
Standing Committees: on report. rem., 65.
375
aint. ruled out of order. 69;* on M. (Mi
Rules cf the Sonate: on M. (Mr. Davis),
Boas, Middlesex), rein., 346, 3&0.
remn.. 407. 412.
Suspension cf rules: on M. (Mr. Davis).
Robin and Frank Patents B. (E): on Znd
remn.. 62, 63.
R.. rein.. 920.
Telegra-ph System of Canada: on M. (Mlr
Int.. 640;
Restriction cf Divorce B. (HHI)
Davis), M. ruled out of order. 334.
M. 2nd R.. 722;- M. lest, 724.
Spratte Divorce B. (BBB): aint. te Srd B.. DAVID. Hon. L. 0.
1025: aint. lest 1035.
Privilege, Questions of: rem., 452
Standing Committees: cn M. (Mr. Ross,
Reforin of the Sonate: aint. to M. (Mr. Mc
Middlesex), rein.. 768.
Mullen), 184
Standing rules cf the Senate: on M. (Mr.
Rules cf the Senate: on M., (Mr. Davis).
Comeau). rein., 139. 145; on Ml. (Mr. Dougremn., 415.
las). rein.. 234.
Travellers' Life Assurance Co. B. (35): mIn
M to
'Union Jack. Hoisting the: rein.. 906:617; 2nd R.'. 679; 3rd B.*. 781.
adjn.. 907.
DAVIS. Hon. T. 0.
COFFEY. Hon. T.
Adjourninents: on M. (Mr. Baird). rein..
Reforin cf the Senate: rein., 117.
405.
Windsor. Chathamn and London .Ry. Ce. B.
Committea of Selection: on M. (Mr. Scott),
2nd R.,. 291; Srd B.'W, 368.
(N): Int.. 262;
rein.. 40.
COMEÂU. Hon. A. H.
Edmonton. Yukon and Pacific Ry. Co. B.
(68): Int.. 501; Znd R.. 539; 3rd R.O. 951.
Convicts under age of twentv. M.. 29.1
Hudson Bav Railway: M., 455, 561.
Juvenile Offenders, An Institution for: M.,
Inspection and Sale of Grain B. <CCC): in
1075.
Coin., rein.. 1301. 1306; aint., 1311; remn.,
Reforin cf the Sonate: rein.. 645.
1340, 1416, 1429, 1437, on 3rd R., rein.. 1446.
Standing mIles cf the Senate: M. 137.
Manitoba Grain Act Aint. B. (ZZ): in Coin.,
COSTIGAN. Hon. J.
rein., 1013. 1015, 1019. 1020, 1035; nit.,
Inland Fisheries: meq.. 1277; rein., 1277.
it. withdr., 1091; a.'nt.,
1084; rein., 1087;
New Bru~nswick Interprovincial Bridge Co.
1093; ait. withdn.. 1097; on M. to concur.
B. <76): Int.. 480; 2nd R.'. 520. Srd R.',
remn.. 1649.
591.
Privilege. Questions of: rein.. 1452.
Quebec and New Brunswick Ry. Cc. B. (P):
Railway Charters. Renewal of: rein.. 546.
lut., 1.st R.', 2nd R.. 319; 3rd R., 501;
Reforin cf the Senate: remn.. 177.
Ceminons aints. concurred in, F33.
Rules cf the Senate: M., 406; rein.. 415.
Sask-atchewan Pewer Ce. B. (0): Int., 270;
DANDU.RAND, non. R. (Speaker).
2nd R., 306; 3rd'R.', 774.
Business of 'Parliarnent: on M. (Mr. MeStanding Corniittees: on report, remn.. 67,
Mullen), rein.. 968.
69.
Contingent Acceunts Comrnittee: on report,
Standing rules cf the Senate. on M. (Mr.
rein.. 76.
Deuglas), rein.. 234.
Cornmittees, Concurrence in reporta of*
Suspension cf rules: M.. 62; rein.. 63.
295.
Telegraph Systein cf Canada: Ml., 332; rein.,
Juvenfie Offenders, An Institution for: on
M3.
M. (Mr. Comesu). rein.. 1079.
Point cf Order on resolution re Manitobn DERBYSHIRE. Hon. D.
Alexandor Divorce B. (UU): Int., 876; 2nd
boundaries: reni.. 425; ruliug. 471.
Point of Order on inq. by Mr. Landry: rein..
R.O, 926; Srd R.O, 928.
879. 881.
Ottawa, Brockville and St. Lawrence Ry.
Co. B. (74): Int.. 480; 2nd R.4, 520; 3rd
Point cf Order on Shuswap and Thompsom
R.', 721; Gommnons aints. ooncurred in, 798.
River B. (49): ruling, 1171.
Privileffe. Questions of: rein.. 360. 448, 145e
PauldinK Divorce B. (VV): Tht.. 876; 2nd
Procedume, A Question cf: rein.. 950.
R.*, 926: Brd B.O. 928.

INDEX

ELLIS, Hon. J. V.-Con.
Privilege. Questions of: rein., 360.
Reforin cf the Sonate: rem.. 747.
'Senatorial Divisions: on Pt. of order. 1176.
DE VEBER, Hon. L. G.
Standing Committeos: on report. rem.. 68;
Anglo-Canadian and Continental Bank B.
on M. (Mr. Ross), rem.. 351.
(J: lut.. 2nd R.. 262; Srd R., 523.
Svnod cf Keewatin B. <MM): lut., 779; 2ud
Northern Empire Ry. Co. B. <86): Int.. 714;
R.,799, Srd R.0, 1004.
2nd R.*, 740. 3rd R.', 920.
Tobacco Restraint B. (173): on 2nd R.. rein
Western Alberta Hi. Ce. B. <K): lst R..
1410.
214; M. 2nd R.. 284; Srd R.0, 504.
FERGUSON. Hon. D.
DOMVILLE. Hon. J.
Accidents et; Rull'way Crossings: rein., 274,
Âluminum. Imports and Exports of: M., 272
292.
Com-mittee of Selection: on M. (Mr. Scott),
Agricultural Fertilizers B (III). on 2ad
remn.. 43.
R.. remn.. 1487.
Fertilizers. Analysis of: M.. 816.
Auditor Gesieral B. <208): on 2nd R., remi.,
Gold Roserve. Depletion of: remn. 1504
1549.
Hindoos at Vancouver: rein..,02
Bank Act Aint .B. <160): on 2nd R... rein.
B. (205): in Coin., remn.,
Opium Prohibition
1319; lu Coin., rein.. 1354.
1676.
Business cf Parlianient: rein. 896. 969.
Railway Charters. llenewal of: rein.. 549.
Canada Temperance Act Aint. B. <WW):
Sonate, Âppointments to the: M., 501,
in Coin., rein.. 1110.
Sonator Lovitt. The late: rein.. 819.
1
Canada Shipiping Act Anit. B. <209): on 2nr
Shipbuilding Industries of Canada: inq., 846
R.. -remn.. 1679.
St Johrq and Halifax. Tonnage at: M., 1202.
Civil Service Insurance Roturu: ina.. 98;
Standing rules of the Sonato: on M. (Mr.
remn.. 210.
Douglas), rem., 237.
Civil Service Act Âmt. B. <189): on 2nd R.,
Union Jack, Hloigting -the: rem., 905, 910.
rein., 1531; iu Coin., on el. 9, remn., 1603;
DOUGLAS, Hon. J. M.
on el. 45, rmi., 1621, 1624.
Committee of Selection: on M. (Mr. Scott),
Co-operaticn B. (5): on M. to concur in r&'
rem., 42.
port. remn., 1254. 1835. 1337; on M. (Mr.
Hindoo Immigration: remn.. 482.
Soott), rem.. 1583.
Rules of the Sonate: on M. (Mr. Davis),
Delayed Returus: inq.. 4Ç
rem.. 410. 416.
Domànion Lrimbering, &c., Compa.ny B. <HW:
Rules of the Sonate. Suspension of: M., 87.
on 2nd 'R.. rein., 226, 228.
Standing Committees: ait. to report, 63,
tcom-nion Notes B. (159): on 2nd R., rein.,
Standing rules of the Senate: Mi.. 232; rein
1269.
242.
Dominion Guarantoe Co. Aint. B. (211).
rein.. 1652.
EDWARL>S. Hon. W. C.
Dominion Lands Survey B. (9): on 2nd R..
of Selection: on M. (Mr. Scott),
Committee
rein.. 216
remn.. 43.
Dominion Elections Act Aint. B. (115)- on
Georgian Bai Canal: on M. (Mr. Casgrain),
2nd R., remn., 1700; in Coin., on subcl. 4.
rom.. 865.
rein.. 1702;- on cl. S. 1706.
froin Canada. The expert of:
Pull Wood
Exchequer Court Judge of Canada: n.
remn.. 841.
1231.
Standing rules cf the Senate: on M. (Mr
Exohequer Court Act Aint. B. (116): in Coini.,
Comesu). remn., 143.
remn., 1051.
ELLIS. Hlon. J. V.
Gold Reserve. Depletion cf: inq., 1495.
Grain Inspection and Sale Aint. B. (CCC):
Customns Act Aint. B. (194): on 2nd R.,
rom., 1471.
in Coin.. rem., 1432.
.. , Money paid to: ina., 946.
Gold and Silver Marking Aint. B. (CC)- ou
Intercolonial
lst R.. rein.. 470.
Lead Bounties B. (191): on 2nd B.. rein..
1491.
Grand Trunk Pension Schemne: inq.. 965.
Goverument Railways Aint. B. <27): in Coin..
New Brunswick Southern Hi. Co. B. (53):
rom.. 704.
lut.. 735 : 2nd R.', 761. Brd R.'. 920.
Govorninent Annuities B. <120): on 2nd IL.
Point of Order on ànq. -by Mcr. Land.ry:
. remn.. 1489; in Coin,. rem., 1535, 1538.
rem.. 879.
Rigzhwa.r Crossings. Fatal Accident at: M.,
Printing cf Parlia 'ment. M. to adort report.
737.
781; M., 1060.
DERBYSHIRE, Hon. D.-Con.
Péïtent Medici-nes B. (146): ian Coin., rein..

I NDE X

FFBRGUSON, Hon. D.-Oon.
FERGUSON, Hon. D.-Con.
Rajlway Subsidy B. (215):. on 2nd R.. rem..
Hudson Bay. Navigation of: inca., 355.
1720.
Hudson Bay, Construction of a Raîlway to:
Senato Debatos: rem., 1323. 1685.
rem.. 468.
Senatorial Divisions: rem.. 1179.
Inspection and Sale Act Amt. B. (148): in
Standing Committoos: rem.. 350.
Coms.. rem.. 1294.
Standing rules of the Sejiate: rem.. 142.
B. <QQ): -in Cern.,
Juvenile Delincinents
Bill No. 1 (94): on îst R., rem.. 288.
iSupply
-remn., 1160.
ISupffly Bill No. 4 (220) - on 2nd R.. rem.,
Crossings: M.. 703.
Lovel
1731.
Manitoba and other Provinces. The boundSystem. of Canada: rem.. 333.
ariesof. em.,215.Telegraph
Water Carriage of Goods B. <Z): on 2nd
e
e Inesia5.s
rom.,
afd
Marie
R.rm.47
1284.
Marking of Gold and Silver Plated Ware B. PISET. Hon. J. B. R.
Atlantic. Quebec and Western Ry. Co. B.
(AAA): on 2nd R.. rem., 1054; in Cern.,
Int.. 337. 2nd R.'. 368; Srd R.. 617.
I(T):
rem.. 1217. 1247.
rein., FROST. Hon. F. T.
Major's Hill Park B. (69), in Ceon..
1560.
Annunciator System: M., 1204.
Meat and Canned Feods Act Amt. B. (149):
Reform of the Senate: rom.. 745. (Mr. Rose.
Cern.. rem.. 921, 924.
in
Brti-h
Natl Ft o ClumiaDisllo- 1Senatorial Divisions: on M.
anco of: rom.. 336.Midex)rm.17.
ei.
nCn.
8)
akB
MjrsHl
National Battlefields B. (219): on 2nd R.,
Walker Divorce B. (ÂA): Int., 404; 2nd R.0,
rem.. 1707.
434; Srd R.0, 487.
National Battlefiolds B. (111): in Cern.. Onl
cl. 1. rom.. 532.
OUjums Prohibition B. (205): in Cous.. rem., GIBSON. Hon. W.
Canadian Northern Ontario Ry. Ce. B.
1677.
(67): 'Ut., 480; Snd R.', 520; Srd R.', 703.
Supplyîng information te: M..
Parli,ament,
Civil Service Susponsiens: rom., 791.
1098.
Gammoli Divorce Case: on report, rom., 551.
Peint of Order on inq. by Mr. Landry:
Gra~nd Truink Railway- B. (D): In.t.. 175;
rem.. 880.
2nd R.O. 219.
Point of Ôrder on Shuswap and Thempson
Hamilton, Waterloo and Guelph Ry. B.
River B.: rem.. 1169.
(EEE): Int.. 1172; 2nd R.O. 1222; 3rd R.*,
Printing of Parliament: roin.. 1061.
1738.
Pross Summary of Debates: rem., 539.
Hamilten Radial Electrie Ry. B. <25): Int.,
Privileizo, Questions of: rom., 124, 127. 360.
479; 2nd R.O. 539; Srd R.O. 778.
Patont Medicmnes B. <146): in Cern.. rem..
Inspection of Sale ef Grain B. <CCC): in
1671.
Cern., rem., 1300, 1303, 1308.
Prince Edward Island Ry. Branch B. (202);
Marking ef Gold and Silver Platodware B.
on 2nd R.. rom., 1548.
<AÂÂ): in Cern.. rom.. 1215, 1241. 1349.
Public Lands B. <181): in Cern.. rom.. 16W3,
Parliament, Supplying information te: rom.,
on 3rd R.. rem.. 1661.
1102.
Railway Commissioers. Jurisdiction of: M.,
Privilego. Questions of: rom.. 86.
793.
Rules of the Sonate: on M. (Mr. Davis),
Roports to the Sonate. Delay in submitting;
rom.. 411.
rom., 1395.
Standing Committeos: M. te adopt report,
Rules of the Sonate: romi.. 410.
63; on amt.. rom.. 66.
Rules of the Sonate. Suspension of: rem., 88.
Railway Act Âmt. B. (A): in Cern.. rom..AFRY Ho..
FFAIo..
302.
Customns Act Amt. B. <194): on Znd R., rom.,
o.
nCr.
P)
m.B
c
Railway
1474.
1
941. P61, 1066. 1370.
Traders Life Insurance Co. B. (XX): Int.,
Railway Act Amt. B. (3):. on 2nd R.. rein.,
898; 2nd R.'. 951.
153, 157. 163;, on M. te, refer. rom., 167;, on 1
Standard Plate Glass Insuranco Ce. B. <41):
rom.. 309, 310: on arnt. (Mr. Belreport.
Int., 793; 2nd R.O. 805; 3rd R.'. 919.
q~ue), remn., 508. 560; amit., to arnt., -6 3
1 ; on amt. (Mr. Powor). 635; rom., 694. JONES, Hon.. L. MELVIN.
Gammeil Divorce B. .<FF): Int., 591; 2nd R.0,
Railway Act Amt. B. <112): in Cern.. rom.,
632; 3rd .. 884.
1397. 1401. 1407. on Srd R., amt.. 1454.

INDEX

JONES, Hon. L. Melvin.-Cofl.L
Manufacturera Mutuai Insurance Co. B.
(I) - Int., 187; 2nd R.. 244.
Senatorial Divisions: on M. (Mm. Ross. Middlesex), rem.. 1179.
]KERR. non. J. K.
Ânglo.Canadian and Continental Bank B.
(J):. on 2nd R.. rem., 263.

General Chemicai Co. Patents B.

(TT): int.,

876; 2nd R.O. 926; Srd R.O. 971.
Goodwi-n Car Co. Patents B. (60): Int., 329;
2n d R.. 354; 3rd R.*. 380.
Manitoulin and North Shore R,'. Co. B. 'R):
int.. 308; 2nd R., SU4; Brd R.', 684.
Montreal, Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal
Co. B. (47): Int.. 479; 2nd R.0, 539; Srd
R.. 664.
Mooree and Heskett Paten.ts B. (67): Int.,
329; 2nd R.. 351, Srd R.'. 380.
Niagara Grand Island Bridge Go. B. (48):Int.. 231; 2nd R.., 266; Srd R.0, 818.
Niagara, St. Catha.riines and Toronto Ry.
Co. B. <82):- Int.. 617; 2nd R.O. 679; on
report. M. to refer bock, 987, Srd R.*,
1060.
Int.,
Pacific and Atlantic Ry. Go. B. (S):
309; 2nd R.., 479; 3rd R.O. 703.
Point of Order on Shuswap and Thompson
River B. (49): rem., 1169.
Railway Charters. 'Renewai of: rom., 548.
Rehm and Frank Patents B. (E): on 2nd
R.. rem., 220.
Ruies of the Sonate: on M. (Mr. Davis),
rom.. 416.
Standing rules o! the Sonate: on M. (Mr.
.Comeau). rom., 144, f~5l.
Standard Insurance Go. B. (C): Iut., 175;
2nd R.', 219; Srd R.0. 550; Gommons
amts. concurred in, 792.
Standard Mutuai Fîre Insuranco Co. B.
(71): lst R., 2nd R.*. 993; Srd R.'. 1340.
KIRCHROFFER. Hon. J. N.
Gammell Divorce Case: M. to sdopt report.
551.
Gilmore Divorce Bill: M. to adopt report.
721.
LÂNDRY, Hon. P.
Bic Hiarbour Wharf: ina., 1358.
Business of Parliament: on M. (Mr. MeMullen). rem., 967.
«'Canada Gazette,' Circulation cf: ina.. 332.
Civil Service Gommission: inq., 3S6, 404.
Commanda-in-Chief: inq., 717.
Committees, Concurrence in reports cf:
293.
Committeeocf Selection: on M. (Mr. Scott),
rem., 45.

LNDRY, Hon. P.-Con.
Co-operation B. (5): on M. to concur in
report, rem.. 1260; on M. (Mr. Scott).
rem.. 1592.
Delayed: Printing: ina.. 45.
Dela.yed R.eturns: inq., 352, 550, 683.
Deschambault Wharf. Construction of: M.,
231. inq., 168U.
Dominion Lumibering, &c., Co. B. (Il): on
2nd R.. rem.. 224.
Dominion Lande Survey B. (9): in Com.,
remi., 284.
Dominion Guarantee Co. Âmt. B. (211):
rem.. 1650, 1651.,
Electoral Lista: inq., 1566.
French Reports. Delay in publishing: inq..
1414.
French Representation in Seuate: ina.. 211.
Garrison Ârtillery Gompanies: M.. 542.
Grand Trunk Pacific, Location of: ina..
1338.
Ice-lireaker «Montcalm,' Ropairing of: jnq.,
59.
Immigration Act Âmt. B. (135): on M. to
suspend miles. rem., 808.
Intercolonial Railway Tariffs: M.. 122.
Intercolonial Railway Emiv1oyees: ina.. 716.
Inspection and Sale of Grain B. (CCC): on
M. te concur in amta.. rom., 1482.
I.nWeoolonial Railway, Tenders £or iro-nwork on: ina., 845.
Intercolonial Railway, Supply of briiehes
for: inq.. 846.
Ilie Rough Floating Light: inq., 851.
Japanese Immigration: rem., 267.
Juvenile Delinquents B. (QQ) - on 3rd R.,
rem.. 1155; amt. te amt. (Mr. Power),
1158.
King's Regulations: îna*. 271, 273, 331, 403,
445.
Labrador Boundary: ina.. 617.
Lévis Forts, Clearing of lands at: ina.,
793. 846.
Lead Bounties B. (191): B. rep. from Com.,
1534.
Manitoba, The Boundaries of: M.. 420.
McGovern, J.. Accusations against: inq.,
1551.
Michel Simeon Delisie: ina.. 209.
National Battlefieids B. (219): on 2nd R.,
rom.. 1707.
Northern and Crown Bank 'B. (GO)- on
2nd 'R.. rem., 680.
Parliament, Supplying information to: on
M. (Mr. Ferguson), rem., 1103.
Patent Medicines B. <146): in Com.. on
pt. of order. 1669.
Point à Coté Wharf: ina.. 1358.
Point of Order on resolution. re Manitoba
boundaries: rem., 420.
Point of Order on' ina.: rem.. 877.

INDEX
LÂNJ3RY, Hon. P.-Con.

LANDRY, Hon. P.-Con.
Transcontinental
Railway

Commission
Point of Order on Shuswap and Thomps)a
iq., 1148, 1149. 1230.
Rover B. (49): rein.. 1165. 1170.
Trancontinental
Consmissioners,
Private
Printing of Journals of the Senate: inq.
Car for: i.. 85M.
74.
Weter Jairriage of Goods B. <Z: in Coin..
Prjntjng of Parliament: on M. (M.. E1'et).
rein.. 989.
rein.. 781.
Prisoners on Parole: in.q., t552.
LOUGHEED, Hon. J. A.
Privilege, Questions of: rein., 366. 1119.
Procedure, Â Question of: rem., 949.
Âddress. The: on M.- (Mr. Belcourt) to
Prorogation: rem., 1683.
adopt, rein., 10.
Publie Bills in Senate. Introduction of: 60.
Ângdo-Canadi.a
and Continental Ban]. B3.
Publie Printing, Delay in- inq., 1653.
(j): on 2nd R., rein.. 263.
Public Lands B. (181): in Coin.. remn.,
Business of Parliament: on M. <Mý, M(~1637. on 3rd R.. rein., 1665.
Mullen). rein., 888.
Quebec Bridge Disaster: inq., 295.
Canadian Cattle, British Embargo on:
Quebec Bridge Company, Pavinent to Direin., 261.
rectors of: inq., 779.
Civil Service Commission:
i.. 738.
Quebec Bridge: in.' 329.
Civil Service Act Anit. B. (189): on 2nd
Quebec Harbour Commissioners: inq., 904.
R., rei., 1518; M. in amnt., 1521; un Coin.,
Quebec. Leased Governinent lands in: M.,
rein.. 1601. 1605, 1621.
905.
Contingent Accounts Coinmittee: on report,
Quebec. The Militia at: inq., 905.
m.. 127.
Quebec Terminus Committee: inq., 1056.
Crown Life Insurance Co. B. (YY): Int.,
Quebec Bridge Comnpany, Governinent loan
899: 2nd R.*. 946; 3rd n.4, 1004.
to: inq.. 61.
Customns Act Amit. B. <194): on 2nd R.,
rein., 1471;, in Coin., rein.. 1494.
Quebec Bridge axid Railway Co.: in.s . 72,
82, 448. 469, 736, 737, 816. 899, 900. 901, 902,
Dominion Elections Act Aint. B. <115): on
903. 927. 949. 105, 1142 1338, 1392, 1450,
2nd R.. rein.. 1687; in Coin., rein., 1706,
14î8; M.. 176.
1711.
Quebec Tercentenary: inq., 317, 898.
Dominion Lands Survey B. (9): on 2nd Lý.
Quebec. Lieutenant Governorship of: inq.,
rein., 216; in Coin., rein., 275, 278, M0O,
212. 214.
285.
Que bec, Removal of Military Hospital in:
i., 3.
Fisheries Question, The:
inq.. 232, 273.
French Treatv: inci., 1391.
Quebec Bridge and Ev. Co. B. 4217)::in
F.rench repve6enta.tion in Senate: rein.,
2nd R.. rem.'. 1721.
,
212.
Railway Committee, Minutes of: M., 542.
Fur Seal Fisheries: rein., 366.
Railway Act Amt. B. <3): ini Coin., aint.,
ILindoo Immigration: rein., 482.
310.
Hindoos at Vancouver: rein., 502.
Railway Subsidies B. (215):
ont 2nd R.,
Hudson Bay Railway: on M. (Mr. Davis).
rein., 1719.
rein., 559.
Revised Statutes. Frenchi Edition of: inq.,
Jftpanese Immigration: rei.. 93. 267.:>i
484, 614, 861.
Japanese in B.C.. Arrest of: rein.. 368.
Ross Rifle:
i., 45, 77, 618, 683,-816.
Kettie 'River Valley Ry.: inq., 272, 512.
Senate Debates: on M. (Mr. Béique), rein.,
Major's Hfi Park B. (89): on 2nd R.. rein.,
1685.
15.33; un Coin., rein., 1556.
Semiators and Members of H. of C. appointManitoba. The Boundaries of: reîn.. 21.1
ed to Office: M., 1358.
Natal Act of B.C.. Disallowance of: rei.,
Shuswap and Thompson Rivers B. (49): (n
335; i.. 357.
unit. to refer back report, remn.. 1000;
National Battlefields B. (111): on 2nd R,
on 3rd R., aint., 1206.
rein.. 52 0; in Coin., rein.. 525, 532.
Standing Committees: rein.. 350.
i. by Mr. Landrr:
Point of Order on
Standing miles of the Senate: rem . là),
rein.. 880.
237.
Printing of Parliainent: on M. (Mr. Ellis).
St. Joseph, Dlry dock at: inc1 ., 72.
rein.. 1061.
St. Lawrence River, Navigation of the: M,
Privilege, Questions of: rei.. 122, 123, 1098.
231.
Public Lands B. (181): on 2nd R., rein.,
Sydney Steel Works Strike:
i.. 857.
1512; un Coin., rein.. 1631, 1634, 1635, 1638:
Telegraph Systein of Canada: on M. (%Ir.
on Sril R., rein.. 1654. 1657.
Davis), remn.. 333.
Prorogation: rein.. 1447. 1683

INDEX
[CHUGH, Hou. G.
LOUOGHEED, Hon. J. A.-Con.
Int., 617;
of:- High Court of Foresters B. -(62):
Public Bis in Senate, Introduction
2nd R.0, 679; Srd R.-, 781.
inq.. 59; rein., 61.
Lindsay, .Bobcaygeon and Pontypool R.Y. Co.
Quebec Torcentenary- ina.. 738.
B. (04):lut., 211; Znd R.', 219; Srd R.'. 318.
Patents B. (E):- on 2nd
.Rehin and Frank
Rebmon d FBre.k Pattents B. (E): en 2nd R.,
R.. rem.. 219.
remn., 220.
Reporte to the Senate, Delay in submitting:
remn.. 1395.
St. Claire and Brie Ship Canal B. (F) - LACKEEN, Hon. D.
Int.. 176; M. 2nd R., 221; 3rd B.*, 318.
Civil Service Suspensions: remn.. 791.
Sonate Debates: on report, rein.. 1325
Eastern Trust Co. B. (G): Int.. 176; 2nd
R.*. 219; Brd R.'. 3M4.
Senator Lovitt. The late: remn., 818.
Senatorial Divisions: on M. (Mr. Ross,
Manufacturera' Mutual Insurance Co. B
Middlesex). rein., 1176.
(D): B. rep.. 337.
Staniding Coinmittees: on rap., remn., 65, 67;
on -M. (Mr. Boss, Middlesex) remn., 401.
htaMULLEN. Hon. J.
Standing rulos of the Senate: on M. (Mr.
Addross. The: on M. (Mr. Belcourt) to
Coineau). rem.. 138.
ndopt. 46.
Supply Bull No. 1 (94): on lst R., rein.,'
Bank of Hamilton Pension Fund B. (56):
287; on Srd R.. rein., 289.
lut., 617; 2nd R.', 679:; 3rd R.'. 781
Supply Bill No. 4 (220): on 2nd R., rein.,
Business of Parliament: M., 884; remn.,
1726.
remn.. 969; Ml.. 1010.
897. M.. 9U
Restra.int B. (173): on 2nd R.,
TobacSo
Customns Act Aint. B. (194): on 2nd R..
in Coin., (rein., 1458, 116.0; on
rein., 1U10;
remn.. 1471.
3rd R.. rem., 1481.
ee on grain: remn., 79.
F.reight
Trans-Canada Ry. Co. B. (ML): on 2nd R..
Fur Seal Fisheries: remn.. 366.
rein., 291.
Gammeli Divorce Case: on report. rem..
Under Secretaries in Canada, Appointinent
552.
rein.,
of: on M. (Mr. Ross, Middlesex),
Georgian Bay Canal: on M. (Mr. Casgrain).
206.
rein.. 782. Unrevised Hansard: ina., 25.
E. F. Giraud Patent B. (52): lut.. 231:
Western Alberta Ry. Co. B. (K: on 2nd R..
2ad R.. 291. 3rd R.O. 380.
rein.. 265.
Lead Bounties B. (191): on 3rd R.. rein.,
1491.
MACDONALD. Hon. W. J. (B.C.).
Major's Hill Park B. (89) : in Coin., rem-.
Business of Parlianient: on M. (Mr. Me.
1559.
Mtijlen), rein., SE6.
New 'York Mutual Reserve Life AssociaCoal lands, Leasing regulations of: ina.,
tion: inq.. 335.
522, 946.
Owen Sound and Meaford Ry. Co. B. (83) i
in Northwest Waters: inq.,
Pishing Laes
lui , 48»0 2ud R *, 520. Brd Bi.'. 684.
946.
Patent Medicines B. (146): in Coin.. rein.,
Fur Seal Fisheries: ina.. 364.
1569. 1667.
Governinent Departinents. Purchasing byPrivilegfe. Questions of: rein.. 737.
858.
M..
Public Ownership of Public Utilities: M..
~Imigration- M., 480.
-Hindoo
369; rein.. 677.
.lapanese Immigration: rein., 270.
1
Pulp wood fromn Canada. The export of:
Sale of timber lands in the:
Northwest.
rem. 1379.
ina.. 331.
Rnilway Charters. Renewal of: rein.. 547.
Quebec Tercentenary: iq.. 855.
l<efori of the Sonate: M.. 98.
Under Secretaries in Canada, Ap)pointinentý
Rnilwav Act Aint. B. (A): lut.. 97. 2nd
M. (Mr. Ross, Middlesex), rein..'
of: où
Il.. 231; in Coin.. M. in anit., 295; rein..
338.
302. (See under Bills-Seriatira.)
Senator Lovitt. The late: rein.. 819.
ILcGREGOR. Hon. J. D.
Senatorial Divisions: on M. (Mr. Ross.
Canada Temperance Act Aint. B. (WW):
Middlesox). rein.. 1175.
2nd R.. 965:- in Coin., rein..
lut.. 876;
South Ontario Pacifie Ry. Co. là. (16): lut.,
1105; M. 3rd R., 1129.
211; 2nd R., 219; Srd R.*. 318.
Nipissing Central Ry'. Co. B. (II): Int..
.Standine rulos of the Sonate; on M. (Mr.
714; 2nd R.', 740; 3rd R.', 9-20.
Doug]Las),, rein.. 242.
Presbyterian College of. Halifax B. (DD):
Suipplv B. No. 1 (94): on 3rd R.. rein.. 289.
Int.. 521; 2nd R1.'. 616;, 3rd R.'. 781.

INDEX
McMULLEN, Hon. J.-Con.
Undei Secretaries in Canada. Âpvointment
of: on M. (Mr. Ross. Middlesex). rein.,
207.,
West Ontario Pacific Ry. Co. B. (24): Int..
98; 2nd R.O, 175; 3rd B.'. 213.
McSWEENEY. Hon. P.
Intercolonial 'Ry., Provident Fund of: inq.,
72.
Intercolonial Ry. Employees: ina.. 1550.
Maritime Cool and By. Co.: ina.. 902.
Privilegfe. Questions of: rein.. 84.
Public Ownership of Public Utilities: rein.,
675.

POIRIER, Hon. P.-Con.
Standintr Committees: on report, rom.. 64.
69; on M. (Mr. Ross. Middlesex), rem.,
761.
Standing rules of the Senat- on M. (Mr
Comeau), rem., 138, 149; on M. (Mir.
Douglas), rein.. 236.
Toronto, Destitution in: rein., 213.

POWER. Hon. L. G.
Âddress, The: on M. (Mr. Belcourt) to
adopt. rem.. 52.
Adjourninents:
on amt. (Mr. Perley) ta
M. (Mr. Baird). rem., 405.
Business of Parliasnent: oyn M. (Mr. McMullen). remn., 890.
Canada Temperance Act Amt. B. <WWI:
MlLLER. Hon. W.
ini Com., rem., 1111; on Srd 'R., aint.,
Privileize. Questions of; rein., 357.
1129.
Standing Committees: on M. (Mr. Ross.
Canadian Cattle. British Embargo on: ina..
Middlesex). rein.. 346.
261.
MITCHELL. Hon. W.
Civil Service Act Âmt. B. (189): on 2nà
R.. remn.. 1521:. in Coin., remn.. 1602, 1615,
Business of Parliament: on M. (Mr. Me1620. 1622. 1623.
Mullen). rein.. 969.
Committees, Concurrence in reports of:
OWENS. Hon, W.
rein 294.
Cornmittee of Solection: on M. (Mr. Scott),
Freizht rates on grain: rein.. 80.
reom.. 41.
Georgian Bay Canal: on M. (Mr. Casgrain),
rem.. 497.
Contingent Accounts Comniittee: on report,
rem.. 76. 131. 1488.
PERLE Y. Hon. W. D.
Co-operation B. (5): on 2nd R.. rein.. 632-.
Âdjournments: aint. ta M. (Mr. Baird).
on report. 1253.
405. M.. 1040.
Copyright Act Âmt. B. (28): lst R.*. 329;
Business of Parliament: an M. (Mr. Me.
2nd R.. 380; 3rd R., 541.
Mullen), rem.. 966.
Cumberland Ry. and Coal Co. B. <46): Int.,
Dominion Eelections Act Aint. B. (115):
246; 2nd R.. 270; 3rd R., 541.
on 2nd R.. rom.. 1694; in Coin., 1714.
Custoins Act Aint. B. (194):- on 2nd R.,
Freiglit rates on grain: inq.. 772.
r~em. 1470.
Gilmore Divorce B. (Ji): Int.. 735; 2nd
Dominion Atlantic Ry. Co. B. (50): Int.,
B.*. 761; Brd R.*. 851.
479; 2nd R.O. 520; 3rd R.O. 684.
Gold Reserve, Depletion of: rein., 1507.
Dominion Lands Survey B. (9): in Coin.,
Govorninent Bills by the Sonate. Rejection
276, 280. 285. 307.
of: ina.. 267.
Georgio.n Bay Canai: On M. (.MT. Cagrain),
Grain Inspectars at Winnipeg: ina.. 1055.
rein., 495.
Hudson Bay Railway: on M. (Mr. Davis).
Rindoo Immigration: r~em.. 483.
rein., 557.
Hudson Bay Ra'.1wa.y: on M. (Mr. Davis),
Manitaba Grain Act Aint. B. (ZZ): on 2nd
rein.. 553.
R., rein., 983, in Coin., rein.. 1017, 1024,
Juvenile Delincquents B. <QQ): in Coin.,
1035. 1089.
rein.. 1042; on 3rd R.. aint., 1157; rein..
Privilege, Questions of: xein., 85, 86.
1158; aint. carried. 1165.
Reforin of the Sonate: rein.. 741.
Juvenile Offenders, An Institution for: on
Royal Grain Commission: ina.. 379, 469.
M. (Mr. Comeau). rein.. 1079.
Sp ratte Divorce B. (BBB). Int., 965; 2nd
Library cf Parliament: M. to adopt report,
R., 1011; M. Srd B., 1025; M. agreed ta,
617.
1035.
Major's Hill Park B. (89): in Coin., rein.,
1557. 1561.
POIRIER. Hon. P.
Marine and Fisheries Investigation: rein.,
Contingent Âccounts Committee: on report,
1287.
rein., 76.
National Battefielde B. (111): in Coin.,
Privilogfe. Questions of: rein.. 361.
rein., 535, 536.
Rules of the Sonate: on M. (Mr. Davis),
Point of Order on inq. by Mr. Landry:
rei.. 417.
rein.. 877.

INDEX

-

POWER, Hou. L. G.-Coti.
Point of Order on Shuswap and Thonipson
River B. (49): rem.. 1168.
Pross Summary of Debates: rein.. 540.
Prison and Roformatory Acte Aint. B. (KK):
Int.. 779; 2nd R.. 799; Srd R.'. 862; Coinmons aints. concurrod. in, 1227.
Privilogoe. Questions of: rem., 125. 362.
Procodure. A Quostijrn of: rom.. 950.
Prorogation: rom.. 1684.
Public Ownorship of Public Utilities: rem..
654.
Rehin and Frank Patents B. (E): on 2nd
R.. rem.. 219.
Reports to the Sonate. Delay in submitting:
rein.. 1395.
Reporting Service of two Houses, Consolidation of: M.. 1510.
Rules of the Sonate: on M. (Mr. Davis),
rein.. 413; aint. to aint.. 414.
Rules of the- Senate. Suspension of:- on M.
(Mfr. Douglas>. rem., 88.
Sonate Debates: on report, remn., 1323.
Sonate. Expondituros of the: M.. 851.
Sonatorial Divisions: on M. (Mfr. Ross,
Middlesex), rem.. 1181.
Win. B. Smith Patent B. (FFF):. Int..
1276; 2nd R&. 1342; 3rd R., 1415.
Standing Committeos: ona amt. te report.
rem., 65. 67. 69; on M. (5fr. Ross, Middlesox). rem.. 350, 773.
Standing miles cf the Sonate: on M. (5fr.
Comoau). rem., 139, 151; on M. (5fr.
Doualas). roem.. 239.
Suspension cf miles: on M. (Mfr. Davis).
rein.. 62
Tolegraph Systeni of Canada: on M. (Mfr.
Davis). rom., 332.
Tobacco Restriction B. (173): in Coin.. aint.
1457; remn.. 1460; on 3rd R., aint., 1479
aint. carried. 1486.
Under Secretaries in Canada. Appointinent
cf: on M. (5fr. Ross. Middlesex), rom.,
245.
ROBERTSON, Hon. J. E.
Adjourninents: on M. (Mr. Baird), rein.,
405.
ROSS, Hon. W. (Halifax).
Civil Service Suspensions: rein., 791.
Gammeli Divorce Case: on report. rom.
552.
Goorgian Bav Canal: on M. (Mr. Casgrain)
rom.. 681.
Inland Fisheries: rein., 1279.
Privilego. Quesitons of: rein.. 452.
Public Ownorship of Public Utilities : 674.
Reforni cf the Sonate: remn., 183.
Standing Committees: on report, rein., 70
on M. (5fr. Ross. Middlesex), rein., 398.
Union Jack, Hloisting the: rein.. 910.

ROSS. lion. GEO. W. (Mliddlesex).
Business of Parliainent: on M. (Mfr. MeMuilen). rein.. 894.
Belleville Prince Edward Bridge Co. B.
(20)î Int., 1083; M. 2nd R., 1222; -rem.,
1224; M. carried. 1227-. Srd R.'. 1396.
Contingent Âcconnts Committee: on report.
rem.. 132.
Dominion Lands Survoy B. (9): in Com.,
rem.. 281. 284.
Inland Fisherios: rem., 1280.
London and Lancashire Guarantee Co. B.
(Q.): Int.. 293; 2nd R.. 320; Brd R.'. 523.
Northorn and Crown Bank B. <GG)- Int.,
616; 2nd R.. 679; Brd R.O. 781.
Pulp wood froin Canada. The expert ofrem., 13U6.
Railway Charters. Renewal of: inc.. 542.
Reforin of the Sonate: rein.. 103, 'j54.
Rejection of Bis b,' the Commions: bf..
209.
Reports to the Senate. Dolay' in submittiflg:
rom.. 1893.
Sonate Dobates: on report. rem., 1325.
Senatorial Divisions: M1.. 1172; rein.. 1179,
1181.
Standing Committees: M., 346; remn.. 349;
M.. SU83; rom.. 769.
Standing ruies of the Senate: on M. (Mfr.
Comoan). rom.. 147.
Supply Bill No. 4 (220):- on 2nd R.. remn.,
1733.
Tobacco Restriction B. <173): on 2nd R..
rom.. 1409; in Coin.. rein., 1459. 1463;
on 3rd R.. rem.. 1483.
Under Secretaries in Canada, Appointient
of: M.. 187;- rein.. 339.
ROY. Hon. P.
Edmonton, Dunvegan and B. C. Ry. Co. B.
(38): Int.. 246; 2nd R.0. 270; 3rd R.'.
318.
Patent Medicines B. (146): on 2nd R.. relu..
1565; in Coin.. rom.. 1643. 1669.
Saskatoon. Saskatchewan and Peace River
Ri'. B. (70): Int.. 501; 2nd R.'. 786.
SCOTT, Hon. R. W. (Secretary of State).
Accidents at Railwav Crossings: rein.. 273.
274.
Adiournmonts: on M. (Mr. Perley), remn..
1041.
1 Addross. The: on M. <(Mr. Belcourt) to
adopt, rom.. M5.
Agricultural Fertilizers B. (III)- let R.'.
1447; 2nd R.. 1487.
on 2nd
Ânglo.Canadian, &c., Bank B. (J)
R.. rom.. 263.
Anditor Gonoral B. (208): lst R.'. 1513; M.
2nd R.. Srd R.'. 1549.
Bank Act Aint. B. (160): Int., 1276; M.
2nd R.. 1318; 3rd R..'. 1356.

INDEX
SCOTT, Hon. R. W.-Con.
Bank of Winnîpez B. <19): on 2nd R.,
rein.. 338.
Bills of.Exohange Act Aint. B. 1142): let
R.'. 2nd R.. Srd R.'. 814.
Bounties on Crude Petroleuni B. (199): let
R.'. 1513; M. 2nd R., 1544; in Coin., rein.,
1.545; 3rd R.'. 1546.
Bic Herbour Wharf: repli' to ina.. 135.
Bush Fires: repli' to ina.. 860.
Boeard of Trade Act Aint. B. (BB): int., lst
IR., 44a; 2nd R., 487; ini Coin., Tein., 538;
Srd R.', 550; Comnions aints. concurred
in, 1494.
British Columbia Court of Appeel B. (165:
Int.. 1276; 2nd R.. 1321. 3rd R.', 1357.
Canadien Cattie. British Embargo on: repli'

fo ina.. 261.

'Canada Gazette,' Circulation. of: repli' to
ina.. 232.
Canada Temperance Act Aint. ýB. <WW):
on Srd R.. rein., 1129.
Canadian Patriotic Fund B. (JJJ):. let R.,
1514; 2nd R.'. 1582. ant.« to 3rd R.. 1582.
Canned Goods Act Repeel B. (147): Int.,
817; 2nd R.. 875; 3rd R.'. 928.
Canada Shirping Act Aint. B. <209): Int.,
1651; -M. 2nd R., 1678; Srd R.', 1680.
Canadien Northern Railway Extension B.
(214): lst R.'. 2nd R.. 3rd R.', 1717.
Civil Service Commission: repli' to inq.,
356. 404. 714, 738.
Civil Service Suspensions: reli' to inq.,
790.
Civil Service A4ct Aint. B. (189): Int.. 1453;
M. 2nd R.. 1516z in Coi., rein., 1611,
1617. 1622: Srd R.'. 1624.
Criminal Code Aint. B. (212):. Int., 1649;
2nd and 3rd R.'. 1678.
Commands-in-Chief- repli' to ina.. 717.
Coal Lends, Leasing of: remn., 94S.
Coal Lands, Leasing regulations of: repli'
to in<q.. 522.
Co>-operation B. (5): Int., 479; M. 2uid Rl
619; on report. M., 1573; M. rejected.
1596.
Corinittee of Selection: M.. 39; rein., 41.
Coinies Act Aint. B. (L): Int., lst R..
247; 2nd R., 291; 3rd R.'. 363; Coinmons
aints. concurred in. 652.
Construction of Dry Docks B. (119): lnt..
1221; M. 2nd R., 1287; in Coin., rein.,
1331: 3rd R.'. 1340.
Custoins Act Aint. B. <194): let R.'. 1413;
M. 2nd R.. 1467; rein., 1473: in Coin..
rein.. 1494; M. 3rd R., '1515.
Delai'ed Printitig: repli' to ina,., 46.
Delayed Returns:_ repli' to ina., 46, 352,
550, 683.
l)eschambault Wherf, Construction of: repli' to ina.. 16M3.

SCOTT, Hon. R. W.-Con.
Dominion Notes B. (159)- lst B.*. 1230; M.
2nd R.. 1261. reom.. 1268; 3rd R.', 1276.
Dominion Lands Surveys B. (9): Int.. 97;
M. 2nd R.. 216; remn.. 217. 218; in Coin..
rein.. 276. 278. 281. 283, 286. 307; M. 3rd
R.. 331.
Dominion Elections Act Âmt. B. (115): lst
R.*. 1681; M. 2nd R.. 1686; in Coin., rein..
1702. 1706. 1711; 3rd R.O. 1716.
Dominion Lumbering. &c.. Company's B.
(11): on 2nd R.. rein.. 223. 225.
Edmonton, Yukon and Pacifie Railway Extension B. (213): lst R.'. 1716; 2nd R.,
3rd R.', 1717.
Electoral Lists: repli' to ina., 1566.
Exchequer Court Judge of Canada: repli'
to ina.. 652, 845, 1231.
Experimental Farin Reports: reply to inq.,
652. M4.
Exchequer Court Act Aint. B. (116):
Int.,
946; 2nd R., 993 - in Coin., rein., 1051,
1052; M. 3rd R.. 1053.
Fishing Leases in Northwest Waters: rlepli' te ina.. 946.
Fisheries Question, The: repli' to inq., 3.
Freight rates on grain: repli' te inq.. 79.
French Representation in the Senate. repli'
to ina., 211.
French Reports, Delay' in publishing. repli' to ina., 1414..
French Treaty: reply to ina., 84, 1391.
Fur Seal Fisheries: repli' to inq.. 364.
Georgian Bayv Canal Route. Exploration of
repli' to ina.. 62.
Grand
Trunk
Goveininent
Guaranteed
Bonds B. (171): lot R.', 1221; M. 2nd R.,
1292; 3rd iL'. 1340.
Governinent Railways Act Aint. B. 127):
Int.. 617; 2nd R., 679; in Coin., rein.. 704;
3rd R.*, 721.
Gold Reserve, Depletion of: repli' to ina.,
1501.
Governinent Bills bi' the Senate. Rejection
of: reply to ina.. 267.
Goi-ernrnent Departinents. iPurchasing bi':
remn., 859.
Grain Inspectors et Winnipeg: rerly to ina,.
1055.
Grand Trunk Pacifie, Location of: repli' to
ina.. 1338.
Grand Trunk Pacifie Site in Ottawa: repli' te ina.. 73.
Grand Trunk Pension Scheme: repli' to
ina.. 965.
Halifax Signal Dues B. (152): Int., 946;
2nd R.. 993: Srd R.'. 1011.
Hindoo Imnmigrat.ioni, Restriction of: rein.,
484.
Hindoos et Vancouver: -rein., 502.

INDEX
;COTT. Hon. R. W.-Con.
SCOTT, HIon...R. W.-Con.
The
Provinces.
other
and
Manitoba
Hudson Bay. Construction of a Bailway ta:
Boundaries of:- replvy to ina.. rem.. 215.
rem.. 560, 567.
Marine and Fisheries Investigation: rem.,
Hudson Bay. Navigation ef: reply ta ina.,
1286;
35...
Maritime Coal and Railway Company: reIce-breaker 'Montcalm,' Repairinz of: rep1y ta inq.. 902.
*>ly ta ina.. 59.
Immigration Act Amt. B. <135): lot R-.
Major's Hill Park B. (89)- Int.. 1453; M.
M. ta suspend rules. M0; rom.. 807; 2nd
2nd R.. 1533, Srd R.. 1564.
and Srd R.'. 810.
Manufacturers' Mutual Liability B. (I): in
Insurance Superintendent Salary B. <200):
Com.. rem.. 337.
lst R.'. 1511; M. 2nd R.. 1546: Srd R.'.
Markin&g of Go1d and Silver Plated Ware
1547.
B. <AÂA): lot R.. M. 2nd R.. 1054; in
Inspection and Sale Act Amt. B. <148):
Com.. rem., 1212. 1241, 1343, 1347; Srd lt.'.
Int.. 1202; 2nd 'R., 1228: 3rd R.'. 1298.
1353.
Intercolonial and Prince Edward Island
Meat and Canned Fooda Act Ait. B. (149):
Rail way Act Âmt. B. <117): Int.. 550;
Int.. 817; M. 2nd R.. 875; in Com.. rem.,
2nd R.. 616; 3rd R.'. 653.
920, 924. 3rd R.'. 928.
Lnland Revenue Act Amt. B. <143): lst R.',
Meaford Rarbour B. (158): Int., 946; 2nd
2nd R.. 810; M. 3rd R1.. 813.
R.. 994: in Com.. rem., 1009; Srd R.*.
Indianapolis. State Life Insurance Company
1011.
of: reffly ta inq.. 502.
McGovern. J.. Accusations against: reply
Inland Fisheries: reply to inai.. 1277.
to ina.. 1551.
Intercolonial Railway Employees: reply ta
Michel Simeon Delisie: reply ta inu.. 209.
1550.
ina.. 716.
Natal Act of British Columbia. DisallowIntercolonial Railway. Maney raid ta: reance of: reply ta ina.. 335. 357.
ip17 ta ina.. 946.
National Battlefields B. (111): in Com.,
Intercolonial Railway'. Supply of brushes
rem.. 526.
for: reply ta ina.. 846.
Naturalization Act Amt. B. (W): Int.. lot
Intercolonial Railway. Provident Fund of:.
R.. 355; 2nd R.. 380; in Com.. on ci. il
repîs' ta inag.. 72.
rom., 473; amt.. 488; Srd R.*. 504.
IntercolWnal :iRilway. Tenders for iran
National Battlefieldo B. (219): lot R.'. 1707;
work on: reply ta inq.. 845.
on 2nd R.. rom.. 1708. Srd R.'. 1710.
Irrigation Act Aret. B. <91): Int., 501;
New York Mutual Reserve Life Association:
2nd R.. 566; Srd R.'. 684
reply ta inu.. 352.
Ile Rouzh Floatinzr Light: reffl- ta ina..
851.
Northwest Territaries Act Amt. B. <210):
Int.. 1598; 2nd R.'. 3rd R.*. 1639.
Italian Immigration: rePli' ta inq.. 429.
Japanese in British Columbia. Arrest of:
Northwest. Sale of timber lands in the:
repli' ta ina.. 368.
reply ta ina.. 331.
Japanese Immigration:- rem., 89. 95, 268.
Ocean Steamships Act Aret. B. <145): lot
Juvenile Delinauents B. <QQ): in Com.,
R. 2nd R.. 3rd R.'. 815.
rem.. 1038; amt.. 1157.,
Opium Prohibition B. (205):- lst R.'. 1549;
Juvenile Oflenders. An Institution for:
M. 2nd R.. 1597; in Com.. rom.. 1672; 3rd
rom.. 1078.
R.. 1678.
Judues Act Amt. B. (206): lut.. 1598; .2nd
Ottawa and Georpian Bay Canal: reply to
R.. 3rd R.'. 1630.
ina.. 45.
Rettle River Valley Railway: repli' ta ina..
Parliament. SuDpl-ying information ta:- rem.,
272. 542.
1101.
XKinu's Regulations: reply- ta ina.. 271, 273.
Patent Medicine B. <146): Int.. 155 M.
331. 403. 455.
2ud R., 1565; in Com.. rom.. 1570, 1641.
Labrador Boundary: repli' ta ina.. 618.
1644. 1670. 3rd R.. 1072.
land Titles Act Assurance Fund B. <168):
Point à Coté Wharf:; reply ta inq.. 1358.
Int.. 1149; 2nd R.. 1211; Srd Bý.'. 1297.
Point of Order on resolution re Manitoba
boundaries: rom.. 425.
Land Titles Act Amet. B. (113): Int., 815;
M. 2nd R.. 834; in Com., rem.. 912; 3rd
Post Office Act Aret. B. (162): Int.. 1221;
R.'. 1004.
M. 2nd R.. 1291; 3rd R.'. 1378.
Prince Edward Island Railway Branch B.
Lead Bounties B. <191): Int.. 1453: M. 2nd
(202): lot R.*. 1511; M. 2nd R.. 1547;
R.. 1491: 3rd R.'. 1534.
rom.. 1548; 3rd R.. 1624.
Lévis Forts. Clearing of lands at: reply ta
ina.. 794. M4.
Press Summary of Debates: rem., 54o.

INDEX

SCOTT, Hon. U<. W.-Con.
Printing of Journals of the Sellate: ropl1Y
to ina., 74.
Prisoners on Parole: ropi.v to iina.. 1552.
Privilege. Questions of: rem.. 122, 124, 126.
367, 485. 1098.
Prorogation: rem.. 1447. 1688.
Public Lande B. (181): lSt R.*. 1511; on
notice 2nd R.. rom.. 1512; M. 2nd R.. 1625;
in Com.. rem.. 1631, 1635. 1638; I. 3rd P.
1654.
Public Bills in Sonate, Introduction of:
reply to ina.. 59; rom.. 61.
Public Printing. Delay in- rcply ta inci..
1653.
Quebec Bridge and Railway Co. B. <217):
lst R.'. M. 2nd R.. rom.. 1721. 1725; Brd
R.». 1726.
Quebec Bridge: reply to ina.. 329.
Quebec Bridge Company. Governiont loan
ta: replv to ina.. 61.
Quebec Bridge Compan.v. Paynment to Directors of: reply to inq.. 779.
Quebec Bridge and Railway Company: re:
ply ta inq.. 72. 82. 448, 469, 736, 737. 816,
899, 900. 901, 902. 903, 927, 949, 1055, 1142.
1338, 1392. 1450. 1478.
Quebec Bridge Disaster: reply ta inq.. 295.
Quebec Hambour Commissioners: meply ta
ina.. 904.
Quebec. Lieutenant Governorship of- reply

ta inq.. 212. 214.

SCOTT, Hon. R. W.-Con.
Ross Rifle: rely to ina.. 45, 77, 618, 6S3, S16.
reply ta inq..
Royal Grain Commission:
380. 469.
Sale et Orduance Lands B. (218): lst. 2nd
and Srd R.*. 1681.
School Lands Exchange B. (163): Int.. 946;
2nd R.. 1053; Srd R.0, 1060.
Senator Lovitt. The late: rem.. 818.
South Âfrican Voîtinteers' Bounty B. (109):
Int.. 1651. M. 2nd R.. 3rd R.. 1680.
St. Josepjh, Dry Dock at: reply to ina.. 72.
Standing Committees: rem., 346, 399, 764,
772.
Standing ruies of the Sonate: rem., 137,
141.
Supply Bill No. 1 (94): M. Ist R., 287: 2nd
R.'. 289; M. Brd R.. 289.
Supplv Bill No. 2 (136): lst R.'. 738; 2nd
R.. 3rd R.'. 739.
Supply Bill No. 3 (186): lst R.'. Il. to suspend mules. 1143; rem., 1144. 1146; 2iid
and 3rd R.'. 1147.
Supply B. No. 4 (220): lst R.'. 1726; Ml.
2nd R... 1726; rem.. 1729. 1736; Brd R..
1737.
Supreme Court Act Âmnt. B. (121): lst R.'.
682; 2nd R.. 703; Brd R.'. 739.
Sydney Steel Works Strike: roply ta inia.,
857.
Telegraph System of Canada: rem.. 333.
Telegraphic News Service B. (201): lst R.'.
1511; 2nd R.. 1548; Srd R.'. 1549.
Private
Commissioners.
Transcontinental
Car for: revly to inq.. 8M6.
Transcontinental Railway Commission: rePly ta inu.. 1148. 1149, 1230.
Timber Marking Act Âmt. B. (193): lut..
1495: 2nd R.. Srd R.'. 1534.
Tobacco Restraint B. (173): Int.. 1391: 'M.
2nd R.. 1409; in Com.. rom., 1458; 'M. 31rd
Rl.. 1479; rem.. 1481.
Under Secretaries in Canada. Appointment
of: rem.. 203.
lUnrevised Rancard: I'epiy to inq.. 25.
Union Jack. Haîsting, the: romn.. 906.
Winding-Up Act Amt. B. (144): lut.. 815;
M. 2nd R.. &33: 3rd R.. 862.
Winding-Up Act Amt. B. (102): Int.. 455;
2nd R.. 487; Srd R.'. 550.
Yukon Act Âmt. B. (169): Int.. 1149; M.
2nd R.. 1233; 3rd R.'. 1340.
Yukon Placer Minîng Act Amt. B. (150):
lut., 1202; 2nd R.. 1229; in Com., rem.,
1296; 3rd R.'. 1340.

Quebec. The Militia at: repir to inq.. 905.
Quebec. Removal of Military Hospital in:
reply ta ina.. 232. 273.
Quebec Tercentenary: reply to ina., 317,
738, 855, 898.
Quebec Terminus Committeo: replv ta ina.,
1056.
Railway Act Amt. B. (112):.lut.. 946; 2nd
R.. 993. in Cam.. rem.. 1404. 1408; M. 3rd
R.. 1453; rem., 1454.
Railway Act Amt. B. (A): iii Com.. rom..
305.
Railway Act Âmt. B. <PP): in Cern.. rem..
940, 959. 1064, 1361.
hlailvay Act Amt. B. (3) : on 2iud Rl., rem.,
167.
Railway Act Amt. B. (118): Int.. 1391: 2nd
R.. 1410; in Com.. rom.. 1465; 3rd R.,
1467.
Railway .Act Âmt. B. (204): Int.. 1597; 2nd
R.. 3rd R.'. 1638.
Railway Charters. Renewal of : -reply ta
ina.. 544.
Railwav Subsidy B. (215): lst R.'. 1717: M. SULLIVAN. Hon. M.
2nld R.. 1718:, 3rd R.'. 1720.
Address. The- on M. (Mr. Belcourt) to
Reports ta the Sonate. Delay in submitting:
adopt. rem.. 55.
rom.. 1394.
Georgian Bay Canal: on M. (Mr. Casgrain),
Revised Statutes. French Edition of- reply
rem.. 488.
to ina.. 484, 614. 861.

INDEX

SULLIVAN, Hon. Il.-Con.
Juvenile Offenders. Au Institution for: on
M. (Mr. Comeau). rein.. 1078.
Opium Prohibition B. (205): in Com.. rem.,
1677.
Patent Medicines B. (146): in Coin., rein..
1566. 1568. 1641. 1645.,1667.
Public Ownership of Public Utilities: rem..
675.
Reforin of the Sonate: rem.. 774.
Standing Committees: on report, rein.. 64,
68; on M. (Mr. Ross. Middlesex). rem.,
398.
TALBOT. Hon. P.
MeLeod. Cardston a»d Moutana Yty. Co. B.
(22): Int.. 211: 2nd R.'. 219; 3rd R.'.
318.
Ruthenian Mission B. <69): Int. M5; 2nd
'R.*. 566. 3rd RL.*. 805.
TESSIER, Hon. JULES.
Canadian Northern Q.uebec Ry. Co. B. <77):
Int.. 480; 2nd R.O. 520; Srd R.'. 591.
THOMPSON. Hon. F. P.
Transcontinental Railway. 'Routes of theM.. su.
Tobiano Manufacturing Co. B. <8) Tnt..
231; 2nd R.', 266; Brd R.', 380.
WATSON. Hon. R.
Anglo-Canadian Insurance Co. B. <U): Int.,
337; 2nd R.*. 368; Srd R.'. 523.
Contingent Accounts Committee: Ist report
presented. M. te suspend rule. 74; 1.. te
adopt. 127; M. to adopt 4th rep)ort. 1488.
Dominion Guarantee Co. B. (V): lut.. 337;
2nd R.'. 382; 3rd R.'. 523.
Dominion Elections Act Aint. B. (115): on
2nd R.. remn.. 1689; ini Coin., rein.. 1702,
1713. 1714.
Freight rates on grain: remn., 81.
Fort William Terminal Ry. and Bridge Ce.
B. (101): Tnt.. 793; 2nd R.'. 805; 3rd R.'.
920.
Gold Reserve. Depletion of: remn.. 1506.
Grand Trunk Pacifie Branch Lîne Ce. -B.
<Z): Tnt.. lst R.'. 368; 2nd R.. 454; Srd
R.', 761.
Manitoba and Northwestern Ry. Ce. B.
<26): Int:, 98. 2nd R.. 175; Srd R.'. 213.
Occidental Fire Insurance Ce. B. (B): Tnt.,
175; 2nd R.'. 219; 3rd R.'. 550.
Ontario and Michigan Power Co. B. (X):
Tnt.. 356; 2nd R.. 881.
Privilegze, Questions of: rein.. 361. 523.

WATSON, HON. .R.-Coit.
Widows' and Orphans' Presbyterian Church
Fund B. <23): Tnt.. 329; 2nd B.0, 364:
3rd R.'. 487.
WILSON. Hon. J. H.
Committee of Selection: on M. (Mr. Scott).
rein.. 44.
Erie, London and Tilsonburgr Ry. Ce. B.
<51). Tnt.. 480: 2nd R.4. 520; 3rd R.'.
591.
Gilmore Divorce Bill: rein.. 722.
Rules of tihe Senaîte: on M. (Mr. Davis).
rein.. 418.
Senate. Appointinents te thse: M., 212.
Senate Debates: M.. 403.
Standing Committees: on report. remn.. 71.
Standing rules of the Sonate: on Il. (Ilr.
Douglas). rein.. 241.
St. Clair and Brie Ship Canal B. MF: ou
2nd R.. remn.. 221.
Western Alberta R.Y. Co. B. <K): on 2nçd
R.. rein.. 264.
Suspension of rules: on M. (Mr. Davis).
rein.. 62. 63.
WOOD. Hon. J.
Georgian Bay Canal: on M. (Mr. Caszrain),
rein.. 725.
Reforin cf the Sonate: rein.. 648.
YOUNG. HEon. F. M.
Aiberta and Brameau Ry. Ce. B. <440: Tnt.,
246; 2nd R.. 308, Srd R.'. 430.
British Columnbia Southern Ry. Ce. B. <13):
Tnt.. 97; 2nd R.'. 174; Srd R.'. 213.
Canadian Pacifie Ry. Co. B. (45): Int., 246;
2nd R.'. 270; 3rd R.'. 318.
Canadian Northern Ry. Ce. B. <81): 111t.
480; 2nd R.'. 520; Brd R.'. 684.
Committees, Concurrence in reports of:
rein.. 294.
Esqunimaux aend Nanaimo Rýy. Ce. B. (1-5):
Tnt., 98; 2nd R.'. 175: 3rd R.'*, 213.
Freighit rates on grain: rein.. 80.
Railway Act Aint. B. (3): Tnt.. 97; 1R.
2nd R.. 152-,-M. te refer. 167.
Manitoba Grain Act Âmt. B. <ZZ): ini
Coin., rein., 1012. 1013. 1015, 1018. 1020,
1095; on M. te concur, rein.. 1648.
North Empire Fire Insurance Ce. B. (7).
Tnt.. 617; 2nd R.'. 679: Srd R.'. 781.
Rules of the Senate. Suspension of: on M.
(Mr. Douglas), rein., 88.
Standing mIles cf the Senate: on M. (Mr.
Comeau). rein., 148.
Bank of Winnipeg B. (19): Tnt., 329; 2nd
R1.. 337. 3rd R.'. 523.

PARIT II-SIJBJECTS
ACCIDENTS AT RAILWAY CROSSINGS: M. BILLS-SERIATIM--Con.
(Mr. Béique). M. aRreed to. 176; 1'em..
(E) An Act respecting a certain patent of
Mr. Scott. 273; Mr. Ferguson. Mr. Scott.
Frederick B. Rehin. Elias Frank and
274; reem., MT. Fergueoii, 292.
Isadore Frank (Mr. Beith). Int.. 175; M.
2nd R. (Mr. Beith). rein.. Mr. Power. Mr.
Lougheed. 219: Mr. McIHuzh. Mr. Kerr,
&DDRESS. THE : M. to adopt (Mr. BelMr. Cloran. M. azreed to. 220; 3rd R.*.
court). 3; seconded (Mr. Campbell), 6
380; R.A.. 779 (c. 151).
debated. Mr. Lougheed. 10; Sir R. Cartwright, 17; Sir M. Bowell. 25; Mr. Scott,
(F). An Aý_t respeoting -the St. Clair and
35; *Mr. MoMullen, 46; Sir M. Bowefl.
Erie Shir Canal Company (Mr. Lougheed).
Mr. Power, 52;, Mr. Sullivan, 55.
Int.. 176; M. 211d R. (Mr. Lougheed). rein.,
Mr. Wilson. M. - creed to, 221; 3rd H.*.
ADJOURNMENTS : M. (Mr. Baird), aint.
318; R.A.. 541 (c 153).
Davis, Mr. Power.
(Mr. Perley), rem.. Mr.
(G) An Act respecting the Eastern Trust
Mr. Robertson. aint. carried (c..29; n.c.
Conipanv (Mr. MacKeen). Int., 176; 2nd
28). 405-. M. (Mr. Perle. 1040; rem., Mr.
R.', 219; B. rep. froin Coin. (Mr. DruinScott. Sir M. Bowell. 1041.
inond). 330; 3rd R.'. SU4; R.A., 1147 (c. 103).
ALUMINUM. IMPORTS AND EXPORTS 0F:
(H) An Act to incorporate the Dominion
M. (Mr. Doinville). 272.
Luxnbering and Power Developinent Comnpany (Mr. Béique). -Int., 176;- M. 2nd R.
- M. (Mr. Frost),
ANNUNCIATOR SYSTEM
(Mr. Béique). rein.. Mr. Ellis. Mn. Kerr,
1204; M. azreed to. 1206.
Mn Cloran. 221; Mr. MeMullen, Mr. Longheed. 222; Mr. Béiciue. Mn. Scott, Mr.
BILLS-SERIÂTIM :
Cloran. 223; Mr. Landry. 224; Mr. Scott,
<A) An Act to amend the Railway Act as
Mr. Power. Mn. Speaker. 225; Mr. Fergurespects the sellinz of intoxicating liquors
son. Mr. Béiaue, 226: Mr. Wilson. Mr.
to railway employees on duty (Mr. MeEdlards, 227; Mr. Ferguson, Mfr. DomMullen). Int. 97; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Meville. Mn. Béique, 228; Mr. Cloran. M.
Mullen). 229; rein.. Mr. Davis. Mr. Meagreed to, 22; M. 3rd R. (Mr. Casgrain).
Mullen. -Sir M. Bowpll. 230; M. agreed to,
anit. Mr. Davis. 92S; rein.. Mr. Béiaue.
231; in Coin.. M. in anit. (Mr. McMullen),
Mfr. Power, Mr. PoiiZier. 929; Mr. Wilson,
295; remn.. Mr. Power, Sir M. Bowell, 296;
Mfr. Kerr, 930; Sir M. Bowell. 931; Mfr.
Mr. Cloran. 297; Mr. Watson, 299; Mr.
Ros<>SMiddle-sex), 933; êiut. lost (c. 12, u.c.
rouglae, 300; Mr. Perley. Mr. Clorsn, 3o1;
31), 934; aint. Mfr. -Davis. 934; rein.. Mr.
.Mr. ýMcM&ullen, Mr. Kerx, Mvr. Ferguson,
McMullen. 5fr. Wilson, 935; Mn. Gibson.
302; Mr. Power, Mr. Wilson, 303. M. that
Mfr. Davis. 936; aint. lost. M. Srd R. agreed
Coin. rise (Mr. Watson). 304; Mr. Cloran.
to. 937.
Mr. Scott. 305; M. that Com. -s'ise. carried
(Ii An Act to incorporate the Manufactur.
<c. 23. n.c. 13).
.ers' MuLtual Liability Insurance Comapany
<Mr. Jones). Int.. 187; 2nd R.*. 244; in
<B) An Act respecting the Occidental Fire
Coin., rein.. Mr. Scott, B. rep. froin Coin.
Insurance Comnpany (Mr. Watson). Int..
(Mfr. .MacKeeni), 337.
175; 2nd R.0, 219;, Srd R.*, 550; R.A., 1147
(J) An Act to incorporate the Anglo-Cana<c. 139).
dian aind Continental Bank (Mr. De<C) An Act to incorporate the Standard Aclut.. 2nd R.. 262; rein.. Mr.
Veber).
cident Insurance Comnpany (Mr. Kerr).
Lougheed. Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Scott, Mfr.
Int.. 175; 2nd H.'. 219; 3rd R.#. 550; CoinKer, 263; 3rd R., 523; -R.A., 1147 (c. 81).
mons nuits. concurred in (gr. Kerr). 792;
(K) An Act respectjpg the Western Alberta
R.A.. 1147 (c. 159).
Railway Company (Mr. De Veber). lst
R.. 214; M. 2nd R. (Mfr. De Veber). rein..
(D) An Act respecting the Grand Trunk
Mr. Wilson, 264; Mr. Lougheed, M. agreed
Raîlway of Canada (Mr. Gibson). Int.,
to, 265; 3rd R.', 504; R.A.. 1147 (c. 170).
175; 2nd IR.*. 219.
9022-B

- xviii

INDEX

INDEX
.x~ii
BJLLS-SERIATIM-Con.
BILLS-SERIATIM-Coti.
Commons amts.. M. not to concur (Mr.
(L) An Act to amend the Companies Act
Barker) rem.. Mr. Speaker. Mr'. Power.
(Mr'. Scott). Int., lst R.. 247; 2nd R.. 291;
M. agreed to, 1476. R.A. 1736 (c. 102).
Srd R.O. 363; Commons amte. concurred
in. 652. R.A., 779 (c. 16).
(W) An Act to amend the Naturalîzation
(M) An Act respecting the Trans-Canada
Act (Mr'. Scott). lnt., lat R.. 355: 2nd
Railway Company (Mi:. Chôquette). Int.,
R., 380; in Com.. on ci. 1. rem., Mr. Mac247; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Chocinette). rem.,
donald .(B.C.), M'r. Scott. cl. adopted, 473.
Mr. Casgrain. Mr. Lougheed, 291; Sir M.
saut. (Mgr. Soott), rem., Mr. Lougheed, amt.
368;
Bowell. M. agreed te, 292: Srd R.
carried. B. rep. front Com. (Mr. Gibson),
R.A.. 779 (c. 164).
488; 3rd R.'. 504; R.A.. 1738 (c. 48).
MN An Act respectinff the Windsor. ChatMX An Act to incorvorate the Ontario and
ham and London Raiiway Company (Mr'.
Michigan Power Company (Mr. Watson).
Coffey). Int.. 262: 2nd R.O. 291; 3rd R.',.
Tnt., 356; M. 2nd R. (Mr'. Watson), 381;
368; R.A., 779 (c. 17l).
rem., Mr'. Lougheed, Sir M. Bowell, Mr'.
Kerr, M. agreed -to, 382.
(0) An Act te incorporate the Saskatchewan Power Companly, Limited (Mr. Davis).
(Y) An Act respectinz the Grand Trunk
Int.. 270; M. 2nd R., (Mr'. Davis), rem.,
WatPacifie Branch Line Company ('.
Mr. Watson, Mr. MeMullen, Sir M.
son). Int.. lst R.'. 368; 2nd R.. 454; Srd
Bowell. M. agreed ta. 306; amts. concurred
R.'. 761: R.A.. 1147 (c. 115).
in, 773. 3rd R.*. 774; R.A., 1147 (c. 154).
(P) An Act respectine the Quebec and New
Brunswick Railway Company (Mr'. Cesti«an). Tnt., lst R.*. 272: M. 2ud R. (Mr.
Costioran). rem.. Mr'. McMullen. 319: M.
agreed te. 320; Srd RB. 504; Commons
amta. concurred in. 833; R.Â., 1147 (c.
149).
(Q) An Act ta incorporate the London and
Lancashire Guarantee and Accident Company of Canada (Mr. Ross, Middlesex).
Tnt.. 293; M. 2nd R. (Mr'. Ross), M. affreed
to, 320; B. rep. from Com. (Mr'. Drummond). 448; 3rd R.'. 523; Commons amts.
concurred in (Mr'. Ross), 800: R.A.. 816
(c. 124).
(R) An Act respecting the Manitoulin and
North Shore Railvay Company (Mr. Kerr').
Int., 308; 2nd R.. 354; Srd R.'. 684; R.A.,
1147 (c. 127).
(S) An Act respectinz the Pacifie and Atlantic Railway Company (Mr'. Kerr). Int.,
308: 2nd R.*. 479; Srd R.', 703; R.A.. 1147
(c. 142).0
(T) An Act respecting the Atlantic, Quebec
and Western Railway Company (Mr.
Fiset). Tnt., 337; 2nd R.'. 368; amts. concnrred in (Mr. Caszrain), 616; Srd R.,
617; R.A.. 816 (c. 84).
<17) An Act ta chazige thee name of the head
office of the Anglo-Canadian Insurance
Company (Mr'. Watson). Int., 337; 2nd
R.'. 368; Srd 1.. 523; R.A., 1147 (c. 131).
(V) An Act respecting the Dominion Guarantee Company, Limited (Mr. Watson).
Tnt.. 337. 2nd R.*. 382: Srd R.*. 523: on

(Z An Act relatin«, ta the Water Carrnage
of Goods (Mr. Campbell). Tnt.. 382:- M.
2nd R. (Mr. Campbell, 473; rem., Mr'.
Longheed. Sir R. Cartwright, 476:- Mr.
Mr.
Ferguson, 477 ; Mr. Derbyshire,
Cloran. 478: M. agi'eed ta. 479; Ist report
adopted (Sur G. Drummond), 591; in Com.,
Mr. Landry. Mr. Belcourt. 989; Mr. Campbell, Mr. Kerr. 990; B. rep. froui Com. as
amended (Mr'. Watson), 993: 3rd R.', 1004.
(AA) An Act for the relief of Andrew
Walker (Mr. Frost). Int.. 404; 2nd R.
454, 3rd R-0. 487: R.A.. 1147 (c. 168).
<BB) An Act ta amend the Board of Trade
Act (Mr'. Scott). Tnt., lst R., 44S; 2nd
R., 487;. in Com.. rem., Mr. Lougheed. Mr.
Scott, B. rep. from Com. (Mr. MeKar,
Truro), 538; 3rd R.', 550; Gommons arnt.
concurred in. 1494: R.A., 1738 (c. 9).
(CC) An Act ta amend the Gold aud Silver
Markini' Act (Sir R. Cartwright). Int..
lst R., rem., Mr. Lougheed. Mr'. Ferguson,
Mr. Gibson, 470; 2nd R.'. B. rep. from
..
Com. (Mr. David), 3rd R.'. 4S7;:
779 (c. 29).
<DD) An Act respecting the Board of
Presbyteriau College of Halifax (Mr.
Gregor). Tnt.. 521; 2nd R.', 616: B.
from Oom. ýSir G. Drummoxid) 777;
R.', 781. R.Â.. 1147 (c. 147).

the
Mcrep.
3rd

CEE) An Act respectinR the Poutiac Central
Railway Company (Mr'. Campbell). Int.,
567; 2nd R.', 632; B. rep. from Com. (Mr'.
Casgrain). 760; Srd R.0, 781; R.Â., 1147
(c. 146).

INDEX

'BTLLS-SERIATIM-\-Coii.
BILLS-SERIATIM-Cofl.
Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Camnpbell Mr. Bas3laud
(FF) An Act for the relief of Edith
tock. 1322; Mr. Pawer, M. agreed ta, 1323;
Rosario Gainmell (Mr. Jones). Tnt., 591;
R.A.. 1737 (c. 14).
2nd R.'. 632; Srd R.'. 684; B A., 1147 (c.
110).
(PP) An Act ta amend the Railway Act as
regards the preferential charge created by
<GG) An Act respecting the Northern and
the Crown Bank of Canada (Mr. Boss,
the issue of securities (Mr. Casgrain).
Tnt.. 616; M. 2nd R. (Mfr.
Middlesex).
Int.. 817, lst R., 818; M. 2nd B. (Mr. CasYoung). 679 ; rein.. Mr. Landry, Mr.
grain). rein., Mr. Louscheed, Mr. Kerr.
Young, M .agreed to. 680; B. rer. froin
Mr. Béique. 863; Mr. Power, M. agreed ta,
Coin. (Sir G. Drummond). 761; 3rd R.0,
865; in Com.. remn., Mr. Casgrain, 937;
781, RA., 1147 (c. 137).
Mr. Lougheed, a938. Mr. Béique, 939; Mr.
Wilson, Mr. Scott, 940; Mr. Ferguson,
(HH) An Act to restrict the evils of Di941;- Sir M. Bowell, 944; on el. 141, Mr.
vorce <(Mr. Cloran). Tnt.. 640;, M. 2nd R.
Béique. Sir M. Boweli, 956; (Mr. Ross,
n.c. 24),
(Mfr. Cloran). 722; M. lost (c. 22,
Middlesexj, 957; Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Scott.
724.
959; Mr. Ferguson, 961; Sir M. Boweill
933: Mr. Casgrain. Mr. Lougheed, Mr.
(Il) An Act respecting the Nipissing Central
Railway Company <(fr. 3fcGregor). Int.,
Power. M1r. Scott, 10(34; Sir M. Boweil,
714; 2nd R.'. 740; Srd B.'. 920; B.A., 1148
1065; Mr. Ferguson, 10.6; '-%r. iPower, 1068;
(c. 135).
Mr. Béique. '-\r. Cloran, 1071; 'Mr. Wilson,
Mr. Caýgrain, Mr.
Mr. Casgra-in, 1073;
<JJ) An Act for the relief of Edith May
Gibson, 1359; Mr. Ba-.s (Middlesex) .1.360.
(3fr. Perley). Int., 735; 2nd R.',
Gilmnore
Mfr. Scott. 1361; Sir M. Boreli, 1363; Mr.
761; 3rd R.' 851; R.A., 1737 (c. 112).
Baird, Mr. Cloran. 1364; Mfr. B4i<iue, 1366;
Mfr. Ferguson. 13740; Mr. Doinville. 1371;
(KK) An Act ta amend the Prison and Be.
Mr. Watson. 1371; M. that Com. rise,
formatorv Act in s0 far as the saine affects
cnrried. B. dropped, 1373.
the Province of Nova Scotia (Mr. Pawer).
Tint., 779; 2nd -R., 799; in Coin., varions
(QQ) An ..Act r.especting Juvenile Delinam4s. (M~r. iPower) .agreed. to, 853, 854;
uuents (Mr. Béiaue). lst R., M. 2nd R.
B. oeported. £romn Coin. <(Mr. Baker)b. 855;
(Mr. Béique), 971; rein., Mr. Coffey, 975;
amnts. concurred in
3rd R.*, 862. Canimons
Mr. MacDonald (B.C.). MLr. Lougheed, 979;
(Mfr. Power). 1227; R.Â.. 1737 <c. 55).
Mr. Kerr, 981; M. agreed ta, 982; in Coin.,
Mr. DeBoucherville, Mfr. Power, Mfr. Scott,
(LL) An Act res-ecting the Phoenix Insur'Mr. Béique, Mfr. Wilson, 1037-1039; Mr.
ance Company. Limited <Mr. Bostock).
Béiciue. Mr. DeBoucherville. Mfr. Power,
Tnt.. 7"d9; 2nd B..'799; 3rd R.'. S62; B.A.,
Mr. Wilson, Sir M1. Bordil, Mr. Ellis, 10421148 (c. 145).
1046; B. rep. froin Com. (Mfr. Boy), 1N46;
(MM) An Act ta incorparate the Synod of
M .3rd R. (Mr. Béique). 1149; M1. in aint.
Keewatin <(fr. Ells). Int., 779; 2nd B.'.
(Mr. DeBoucherville) for 3. in. h., 1152;
799; 3rd R.'. 1004: R.A.. 1738 <c. 121).
remn., 31r. Béique, 1152; Mr. Ross (M-\dddlesex, 1153; Mr. Landrv, 115 Mfr. Béique,
(NN) An Act to amend the Canada ShipId. for 3 mn.h. lo-t (c. 4, ni.c. 41), 1156;
ping Act <Sir R. Cartwright). Tnt.. 779;
aint. M. Scott. carried. aint. Mfr. Power.
2nd R.. 855; in Coin.. Mfr. Power, Sir M.;
rein., M1r. Béique. 1157; amt. to nint. Mr.
Boweil, 913; 3Lr. Doniville, Mr. Lougheed,
Landry, rein., Mr. Power. 1158, Mfr. Fergu914. Mr. Ellis, Mr. McGregor. 915; Proson. 1160; Mfr. Rogs (Middlesex), 1163;
gress rep., 919; in Coin., 951-956; Sir 11.
anit. ta aint. rejected, 1164; anit ta aint.
Cartwright, aint. (3fr. Pawer) ta el. 75,
Mr. David carried. anit. 3fr. Power caramt. lost, B. rep. froni Coni. with anits.
ried. M. 3rd I. carried and B. passed,
<3fr. Wilson) 1007. 3rd B.'. 1011; Coin1165; R.A., 1738 (c. 40).
mens anits. concurred in, 1681; B.A.. 1738
Wc 65).
(BR) An -let for the relief of Catherinfi
Ann Cannon (Mr. Baird). Int.. 876; 2nd
<00) An Act ta amend the Chinese ImmiTnt.,
gration Act (Sir R. Cartwright).
R.*. 9,26; Srd R.'. 928; R.A.. 1737 (c. 97).
817; 2nd R.. 874; in Coin.. Mr. Wilson. Mfr.
(SS) An Act resrecting the Lake Chanmplain
MoMullen. Sir B. Cartwright, Sir M.
and St. Lawrence Ship Canal Company
Bowell. 1046, 1050; B. rep. froni Coin. (Mfr.
<(Mr. Belcourt). Tnt., 876; 2nd R.4, 9F6;
Coffey), Srd R.'. 1050; M. to concur in
3rd R'*. 1042; R.A., 1738 (r. 122).
Commons aints. <(Mr. Scott), 1321; remn.,
9022--B

. xx

xx
INDEX

BILLS--SERIATIM-Con.
BILLS--SERIATIM-Con.
UTT) An Act resivecting certain patente of
and GoMd amnd Silver Pla.ted Ware (Mr.
the General Chemical Comnpany -<Mr.
Scott). lot R., M. 2nd OR..(Mr. Scott), remn..
Kerr). Int.. 876; 2nd R.., 926; Srd R.0,
Mr. Ferguson; M. agreed ta, 1054; in Coin.,
971; R.A.. 1737 (c. 111).
rein.. Mr. Scott, 1212 ; Mr. Gibson, 1215;
Sir M. Bowell. 1216;: Mr. Ferguson. 1217;
(UII) An Act for the relief of Mary Alexgeneral discussion. 1218, 1221: discussion
ander (Mr. Derbyshire).
Int., 876; 2nd
en cîs. 3 to 9, 1237-1239; rom., Mr. Kerr,
R .. 926; Srd R .. 928;
R.A., 1737 (c 80).*
1239; Mr. Scott. Mr. Gibson. 1241;. Mr.
(VV) Am Âot -for the relief of Ada Katiarah
Lougheed. 1243; Mr. Power, 1245; Mr.
Stewart Paulding (Mr. Derbyshire). lut.,
Ferguson. 1247. Mr. Béique. 1249; Mr.
876; 2nd R.'. 926; Srd R.'. 928; R.Â., 1737
Scott on cl. 9, 1343; rem.. Mr. Kerr, 1344 ;
(c. 144).
Mr. Scott, 1347; Mr. Gibson, 1349; Sir M.
Bowell. 1350. Mr. Power, 1351; B. rep.
<WW) An Act to amend the Canada Teinfromn Coin. (Mr. Belcourt). 1352; 3rd R.'.
perance Act (Mr. McGreror).
Int., 876;
1353; R.Â.. 1738 (c. 30).
2nd R., 965; in Coin.. rem.. Mr. McGregor,
1105; Mr. *McSweeney, Mr. Comeau, Mr.
(BBB) An Act for the relief iof Hattie
Cloran, 1106; Mr. Doiville. 1107; Mr. WilSpratte (Mr. Perley). Int., 965; 2nd R.,
son, Mr. Cloran. 1109; Mr. Ferguson, 1110;
1011; M. Srd R. (Mr. Perley), aint. (Mr.
Mr. Ross (Middlesex). M.%r.
Power, 1111;
Cloran), 1025; rein., Mr. Kirchhoffer, 1031;
general discussion. 1112, 1128; B. rep. withMr. Domville, 1033; Mr. MeMNullen, 1033;
out amt. (Mr. Taîboti. 1129; M. 3rd R.
Mr. Ross <Ralifax), 1034; ,amt. lost, M.
(Mr. McGregor). aint. Mr. Power, an'rt. to
for Srd R. agreed ta, 1035; R.A., 1737 <c.
aint. Mr. Scott, aint. withd-n., aint. to
158).
aint. carried. M. 3rd R. carried. 1129
(CCC) An Act ta amend the Inspection and
R.A., 1738 (c. 71).
Sale Âct as ,regards grain (Sir R. Cart(XX) An Act to incorporate the Traders'
wright). let R., 2nd R.', 1053; in Coin.,
Life Insurance Company (Mr. Jaffray>.
rem., Sir R. Cartwrighvt, -Mr. Ponley, Mr.
Int.. 898; 2nd R.O. 951.
Lougheed, 1131; Mr. Watson, Mr. Douglas, PMr. Campbell, 1133; general dis<YY) An Act respectine the Crown Life
cussion, 1134-1142; Mr. Perley, Mr.,DougInsurance Company (Mr. Lougheed). Int.,
las, 1299; Mr. Young, Sir R. Cartwright,
899: 2nd R.'. 946; Srd R.'. 1004; R.A.. 1148
1300; Mr. Davis, Mr. Perley, 1301; Mr.
(c. 99).
Young, 1303; 'discupsipn
on amnt. -Mr.
RZZ) An Act to amend the Manitoba Grain
Davis, 1304 ta 1306; aint. lost, 1307; Mr.
Act (Sir R. Cartwright).
Int.. 905; M.
Talbot, Mr. Young, 1308; aint. Mr. Camp2nd R. (Sir R. Cartwrirht). 982; rem..
bell ta el. 16, 1310; ar»int. lest, 1310;- ait.
Mr. Perler. 983; Sir M. Bowell. 985; M.
Mr. Davis, 1311; Mr. Poirier, Mr. Power,
agreed ta, 986; in Coin., Sir R. Cartwright,
1312; Mr. Watson, Mr. Wilson, 1314; Mr.
Mr. Younir. 1012; Mr. Davis, Mr. Young,
Douglas, 1315; Mr. Davis, 1340; aint.- Sir
1013; Mr. Young, Mr. Dav-is, Mr. Gvibson.
R. Cartwright cavried,. 1374; aint. Mr.
1015; Mr. Watson, Mr. Perlev. 1016. 1017;
Davis carried, 1375; B. rep. froin Coin.
Mr. Young. Sir. R. Cartwright, 1018; Mr.
(Mr. Roy), 1377; B. referred back, 1411;
Camîpbell. Mr. Davis. 1019: Mr. Davis,
in Coin., Sir R. Cartwright, Mr. Watson,
Mr. Young. Mr. Perlev, 1020. 1024, Mr.
Mr. Perley, 1411; Mr. Power, B. rep.
Davis, Mr. Perlev, Sir R. Cartwright,
froin Coin. (Mr. Roy), 1412; M. ta concur
1035 to 1037; aint. Mr. Davis, 1084; rein.,
in aints. (Sir R. Cartwright), aint. Mr.
Mr. Gibson. 1084; Mr. -Béique, Mr. Davis,
Davis, 1416; Sir R. Cartwright, 1419; Mr.
1087; Mr. Perley. Sir R. Cartwright, 1089;
Douglas, 1421; Mr. Watson, 1422; Mr.
amt. withdn.. aint. Mr. Talbot, 1091; amt.
Pevley, 1425; Mr. McHugh, Mr. Wilson,
carrjed. 1092; ait. Mr. Davis. 1093; Sir
1427; Mr. Power, 1428; sub-amt. Mr.
R. Cartwright, Mr. Young, 1095; amt.
Bernier, remn., Mr. Davis, 1429; Mr. Lanwithdn., 1097; B. vep. froin Coin. (Mr.
dry, Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Doinville, 1432;
meSweenev), 1098; 3rd R.'. 1105; M. ta
Mr. Douglas, sub-amt. lost (c. 18; n. c.
concur in Commons Amts. <(Sir R. Cart30), 1435; aint. lost, M. ta concur carried,
wrigh.t), rein., Mr. Young, 1648; -Mr. Da9vis.
1437; M. ta suspend rules (Sir R. CartSir M. Bowell, M. agveed to. 1649; R.A.,
wright), rein., Mr. Davis, 1437; M. agveed
1738 (c. 45).
ta, M. Brd R. (Sir R. Cartwright), 1444;
(AAA) An Act respecting the sale and markaint. Mr. Douglas, 1444; rein., Mr. Watýing of Manufactures of G.old and Silver,
son, 1445; Mr. Davis, Sir M. Bowell, aint.

INDEX

BLLLS-6eERIÂTIM-Oo.
BILLs-86ERl&TIM-Coa.
311; Mr. Power, Sir M. BoweIl, 312; Mr.
wýithdn., 1446; M. Srd R. agreed to, 1447;
<Jioran, 313; Mr. Speaker, amt. carried,
Commons aite. concurred in, 1650; R.A.,
315; on report of Com., auit., Mr. Béique,
1738 <c. 36).
Ut4; rein., Mr. Ferguson, 5US, 560; smit.
(DDD) An Act to incorporate the. Alberta
ta amt. (Mr. Ferguson), M3; rem., Mr.
and British Columbia Railway Company
Poirier, 5W5; Mtr. Bique, 587; Mr. Bostock.
(Sir M. Bowell).
Int., 1025; Snil B'
M3; M.r. Kero, 591; Mr. Casgrain, 597 *
1053; Srd R.*, 1172; R.Â., 1738 (c. 78).
Mr. Powev, 599; Mr. MoMullen, 602; Mr.
McGregor, Mr. Douglas, 604,; Mr. Cloran,
(EEE) An Âct respecting the Uamilton,
605; Mr. Scott, 609; Mr. Ferguson, 618;
and Guelph Railway (Mr. GibWaterloo
suit. (Mr. Ferguson) to amt. declared
son). Int-. 1172; 2nd R.*, 1222; B.A.,
lost, 614, amt. to amt. (Mr. Pawer), US3;
1738 <c. 118).
rem., Mr. Béique, 63W; Mr. Ferguson,
(FFF) An Âct respecting a certain patent
6M5; Mr. Sullivan, 689; amt. (Mr. Power)
of William B. Smith (Mr. Paver). In-t.,
ta amt. declared lost, 689; amt. to amt.
1276; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Power), rem., Sir
declared lost, 640;
(Mr. Belcourt), ait.
M. BowelI, Mr. Wilson, 1342; M. 2nd R.
remn., Mr. Davis, 685; Mr. Ellis, 686; Mr.
agreed to, 1343; B. rep. froin Coin. (Mr.
Wood, 6»0; M-r. Sullivan, 692; Mr. Poirier,
Cloran), 1378; M. Srd R. (Mr. Power),
693; aint. (Mr. Béique) carried,.694; rem..
rem_, Sir M. Bowell, 1415; M. 3rd R.
Mr. Ferguson, 694; Mr. Gibson, 699; amt.
agveed ta, 1416; R.A., 1738 (c. 156).
(Mr. Ferguson) declared lait, 701; sit.
(Mr. Ellis) lait <c. 14; n. c. 42), report
(GGG) An Act for the relief of Arthur
of Coin. concuvred in, 702; M. Srd R.
James Townsend (Mr. Campbell). Int.,
(Mr. Young), aint. (Mr. Cloran), 718;
1276; 2nd R.*, Srd R.9, 1343; R.A., 1738
aint. lost, 720; rem., Mr. Casgrain, 720;
(c. 163).
M. carried, 721.
(HErH) An Act respecting certain patents of
(S) An Act respecting Co-operation .(Mr.
the Metallic Shingle and Siding Company,
Scott). Int., 479; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Scott),
Ist R.0, -1414;
Limited (Mr. Compbell).
619; rem., Mr. McMullen, 620; Mr. Bo2nd R.*, 1476; 3rd R.*, 1486; R.A., 1738
stock, 622; Mr. Béique, 623; Mr. Cloran,
<c. 128).
024; Mr. Lougheed, 625; Mr. Sullivan,
(Ill) An Act respecting AÂgricultural FerDerby626; M-r. Macdonald '(..,MY.
tîlizers (Mr. Scott). lit R.*, 1447; M.
asbire, 627; Sir M. Bowell, 627; Mr. Wood,
2nd R. (Mr. Scott), rein., Mr. Ferguson,
630; Mr. Owens, 631; Mr. Power, M.
Mr. Lougheed, 1487; M. 2nd B. agveed ta,
agreed ta, 632; M. ta concur in report
1488.
(Mr. Gibson), 1252; remn., Mr. Power,
Sir M. BowelI, ri p'. <f order 'Mr. Power),
(J JJ) An Aet respecting the Canadian Patri1253; remn., Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Speaker,
otic Fund Association (Mr. Scott). lat
M.5; Mr. Gibson, Mr. Wilson, 1255; Mr.
R.*, 1514; 2nd R.*, 1582; M. Brd B. (Mv.
Béique, Mr. Poirier, Mr. McMullen, 1257;
Cox), anit. Mr. Scott, saint. carried, M.
Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Kerr, Mr. Landry,
3rd R. agreed,to, 1582; R.A., 1738 (c. 96).
1260; rem., Sir M. Bowell, 1332; Mr.
(3) An Act ta amend the Railway Act (Mv.
Ferguson, Mr. Speaker, 1335; Mr. Wilson.
Young). Int., 97; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Young),
Mr., Ferguson, ait. ta -refer back (Mr
rem., Mr. McMullen, 152; Mr. Wilson,
Casgrain), 1337; aint. cavvied, 133W; M.
Mr. Ferguson, 153; Mr. McMuflen, Mr.
Mr. Scott, 1573; Mr. Boss (Middlesex),
Ellis, Mr. Watson, 154; ,Mr. Davis, Mr.
1577; Mr. Ferguson, 158.3; Sir M. Bowell,
Power, 155; Mr. Casgrain, 156; Mr. Fer1586; Mr. Lougheed, 1587; Mr. Kerr,
guson, 157; Mr. Jones, 160; Mr. Fergu1588; Mr. Landry, 1592; Mr. Wilson,
son, 163; Mr. Béique, 164; Mr. Scott, M.
1595; Mr. McMullen, 1596; M. (Mr. Scott)
agreed to, 167; M. ta refer (Mr. Young),
rejected (c. 18; n. c. 19), report of Coin.
vrem., Mv. Ferguson. 167; Mr. Watson, Mv.
adopted, 1596.
Davis, 168; Mr. MLcMullen, 169; Mr. Kerr,
(7) An Act ta incorporato the North Empire
170; Mr. Edwards, Mr. Wilson, 171; Mr.
Fire Insurance Company (Mr. Young).
McSweeney, Mr. Power, 173; Mr. Béique,
Int., 617; 2nd R.,. 679; 3rd R.*, 781; R.A.,
Mr. Domville, 174; M. agveed ta, 174; B.
1147 (c. 136).
repovted (Mr. Casgrain), 308; rem.. Mr.
(8) An Act vespecting the Tobique ManuForguson, Sir M. Bowell, 309; Mr. Fergufactuving Company and ta change its
son, Mr. Poirier, Mv. Speaker, aint. (Mv.
naine to 'Friser Lumber Comnpany, Limit.
Landvy), 310; remn., Mr. Ellis, Mr. Béique,

I xxii

INDEX
xx"

BILLS--SERI-ATIM-Coei.
ed' (Mr. Thompson). lut., 231; 2nd R.',
266; 3rd R.', 3M0; R.A., 541 (c. 162).
(9) An Act respacting the survey of publie
lands of the Dominion and Surveyorse ntitled ta make such survey (Mr. Scott).
lut., 97; M. 2und R. (MTe. Sotft), rem.,
Mr. -Fargusan, Mr. Lougheed, 216; Mfr.
Scott, Mr. Casgraiu, 217; Mr. Scott, M..
agread* to, 918; in Cern., ram., Mar,
Loughead, Mfr. Scott, Mr. Power, Mar.
Casgrsin, 275, 276; Mfr. Casgrain, Mar.
Sullivan, 277; Mfr. Louirhaed, Mr. Scott,
278; aurt. to ci. 21 (iMr. Kerr), 280; ream.,
Mfr. Power, Mr. Lougheed, 280; Mfr. Scott,
Mar. Ross (Middlesex), 281; Mfr. Scott,
Mr. Berniar, 283; Mfr. Laudry, Mfr. Ross,
Mr. Kerr, 284; Mr. Loughaad, Mfr. Sullivan, Mr. Pawar, 285; Mfr. Scott, Mr.
Kerr, amt. lest, 286; an cl. 22, ram., Mar.
Casgrain, Mr. Power, Mr. Scott, cl. struck
out, 307; an ci. 44, amt. (Mr. Pawer), 307;
amt. adapted, B. raported with amts.
coucurred iu (Mr. Ellis), 308; M. Srd R.
<(Mr. Scatt), rem., Mr. McMullen, M.
agraad te, 331; R.A., 541 (c. 21)..
<13) An Act raspacting the British Columbia Sauthern Railway Company (Mfr.
Young). lut., 97; 2ud R.', 174; 3rd R,.',
213; R.A., 293 (c. 87).
<14) An Act raspecting the Carnpbellford,
Lake Ontarioand Western Railway Com.pauy (Mr. Beith>. lut., 97; 2nd R.*, 174;
Srd B.*, 213; R.A., 293 (c. 90).
<15) Ar Act respecting the Esquirnalt aud
Nanairno Railway Company <(.Mr. Young).
lut., 98; 2nd R.', 175; Srd R.', 213; R.A.,
1738 (c. 107).
<16) Au Act respecting tha South Outario
Pacifiec Railway Company (Mr. McMullen).
lut., 211; 2nd R.', 219; 3rd R.', 318;
R.A., 541 (c. 157).
(19) An Act to incarporate the
Winnipeg (Mar. Young).
lut.,
2nd R. (TM r. Watson), rem., Mfr.
337; Mr. Scott, Mr. MeMillan,
ta, 338; Srd R.', 523; R.A., 779

Bank of
329; M.
Lougheed,
M. agread
(c. 173).

<20) An Act respecting the Belleville Prince
Edward Bridge Company
(Mr. Ross,
Middlesex). lut., 1083; M. 2ud R., (Mr.
Ross), 1222; rem., Mfr. Derbyshire, Mfr.
Wilson, 1223; Mfr. Rose, Mr. Poirier, 1224;
Mar. Po-wer, amt. (Mfr. Davis) for 6 m. hL.,
1225; Mfr. Kerr, Mfr. Perley, Mfr. Cloran,
1226; amt. withdu., M. 2nd R. carriad,
1227; Srd R.', 1396; R.A., 1737 (c. 85).

BlLLS-SERIATIM-Con.
(21) An Act respecting the British Yukon
Railway Company (Mr. Belcourt). lut.,
382; 2nd R.', 430; B. rep. from Com. (Mr.
sagrain), 480; Srd R.', US; R.A., 541
<c. 98).
(22) An Act reapecting the Macleod, Cardstan and Montana Railway Company (Mar.
Talbot). Int., 211; 2nd R.*, 219; Srd R.'.
318; R.A., 541 (c. 125).
<231 An Apt oespcting the 'Painitera',
widows and orphana fund of the. Presbytariau Church of Canada (Mr. Watson).
lut., 329; 2nd R.*, 364; Srd R.*, 487.
R.Â., 541 (c. 148).
<24) An Act respecting the West Ontario
Pacifie Railway Company (Mr. McMullen).
lut., 98; 2nd R.', 175; Srd R.*, 213; R.A.,
293 (c. 169).
(25) An Act respecting the Hamilton Radial
Electric Railway Company (Mr. Gibson>.
lut., 479; 2nd R.*, 539; 3rd R.", 778;
R.A., 1147 (c. 117).
(26) An Adt respecting the Manitoba and
Northwestern Railway Company of Canada (Mr. Watson). lut., 98; 2nd R., 175;
3rd R.', 213; R.A., 293 (o. 126).
(27) An Act to amend the Government Rail.
ways Act (Mr. Scott). lut., 617; 2nd R.,
679; in Cern., rem., Mar. Ferguson, Mr.
Scott, 704; Mr. Wilson, Mr. Watson. B.
rep. from Carn. (Mr. MêcKay, Truro),
705; Srd R.', 721; R.A., 779 (c. 31).
(28) An Act ta amend the Copyright Act
<(Mr. Power).
Ist R.', 329; M. 2nd R,
(Mr. Power), rem., Mr. Lougheed, 380; M.
agreed to, 381; in Cern., rem., Mr. Rose
(Middlesex), 454; B. rep. from Corn. (Mr.
Baker). 455; Srd R., R.A., 541 (c. 17).
<32) An Act ta incorparate the Bank of
Vancouver (Mr. Bostock>. lut., 501; 2nd
R.', 539; Srd R.', 703; R.A., 779 (c. 166).
(33) An Act respecting the Calgary and
Fernie Railway Company (Mr. Bostock>.
lut., 231; 2nd R-. 266; Srd R.', 318;
R.A., 541 (c. 89).
<34) An Act respecting the Lindsay, Bobcaygeon aud Pontypool Railway ',Company
(Mr. McHugh). lut., 211; 2nd R.', 219;
3rd R.', 318; R.A., 541 (c. 123).
(35) An Act ta incorporate the Travellers'
Life Assurance Company of Canada (Mr.
David). lut., 617; 2nd R.', 679; Srd R.',
781; R.A., 1147 (c. 165).

INDEX

xi

xxiii

Fi LLS--SERIÂTIM-Cof.
BILLS-SERITIM-onf.
(Mfr. Casgrain), 1183; amt. <(Mr. Comean)
Kam(36) Au Act respecting the Boundary,
for 3 m. h., 1184; rem., Mfr. Bostock, 1184;loops and Cariboo Central Ruilway ComMfr. Baird, 1186; Mr. David, 1187; Mfr.
pany (1fr. Bostock>. lut., 231; 2ndR.
Gibson, 1188; Mr. Béique, 1190; Mfr. McB.A., 541 (c. 86).
266; 3rd R.', 318;
Mullen, 1192; Sir M. Bowell, 1193; 1fr.
(37) An Act te incorporate the Canada
Kerr, 1195; UTr. Lougheed, 1197;, M1r. Wdlson, 1201; amt. rejected (c. 9; n. o. 23).
Weather Iueuence Oomiainy (Mfr. Beith).
M. agreed. to, 1202; M. Srd R. (Mfr.
lut., 640; Sud B.*, 7M3 Srd B.*. 781;
Bostock), amt. Mfr. Landry, 1206; rem.,
B.A., 1147 (o. 91).Mfr. Béique, 1207; Mr. Cloran, 1208; Mr.
(38) An Act reepecting the Edmonton, DunBelcourt, 1209; Sir M. Bowell,. 1210; amt.
vegan and British Columbia Railway Comnrejected (c. 10; n. c. 29), M. Srd R. carried,
248; 2nd B.*, 270;
pany (Mr. Roy). Tht.,
1211; R.A., 1737 (c. 155).
Srd B.', 318; R;.,541 (c. 104).
(50) An Act respectinR the Dominion At(39) An Act trespeoting the Kamloops and
lantic Railway Company (Mfr. Power).
Paso Railway Company (1fr.
Yellowhead
Int., 479; 2nd R.*. 520; Brd R.*, 684; R.A.,
219; 3rd
Boistock). Int., 211; Snd R.',
779 <c. 101).
R.*, 318; R.A., 541 (c. 120).
(51) Ân Act respecting the Erie, London
(40) An Act respecting thé Pacific CoasL
and Tilsonburg Railway Company (Mfr.
Company (Mfr. Bosteck).
Fire Insurance
Wilson). lut., 480; 2nd R.*, 520; Srd
R.*,. 928; B.A.,
Int., 793; 2ud R.#, 805; Srd
R.', 591 ; B.A., 779 (c. 106).
1147 (c. 143).
(52) Ân Act respecting the patent of Eugene
(41) Au Act te incorporaI. the Standard
François Giraud (Mfr. MoMullen). Int.,
Plate Glass Insurance Company of Canada
.;
231; 2nd R'*, 291. Srd B.', 380.
lut., 793; 2nd R.*, 805;
(Mr. Jaffrey).
541 (c. 113).
Brd R.', 919; R.Â., 1147 (c. 161).
(53) Au Act respecting the New Brunswick
(44) An Act te incorporate the Alberta aud
Southern Railway Company (1fr. Bulis).
(1fr. Young).
Brazeau Railway Company
Iut., 735; 2nd M., 761; Srd B.*, 920;
lut., 246; 2nd R., 308; B. rep. from Coin.
B.A., 1147 (o. 132).
(Mfr. Casgrain), 355; amts. concurrod in.
3rd R.*, 480; R.A., 541 (c. 79).
381;
(56) An Âct to incorporate the Banik of
Hlamilton Pension Fund (Mfr. McMullen).
Canadian Pacific
(45) An Act respecting the
Int., 617; 2nd R., 679; Brd R.', 781;
Railway Company (1fr. Young). lut., 246;
R.Â., 1147 (o. 116).
2ud R.', 270; Srd R.', 318; RB.A., 541 (o.
95).
(57) An Act respe»cting a certain convention
between His Majesty and the President of
Rail(46)An Act respecting the Cumberland
the French Republie (Sir R. Cartwright).
way and Coal Company (1fr Power). lut...
lut., 480; 2nd R., 703; in Com., rem., Sir
246; 2ud R., 270; Iu Com., amts. conR. Cartwright, 705; Sir M. Bowell, 707;
3rd R., RB.A., 541 (c. 100).
curred in, 455;
Sir R. Cartwright, 713; B. rep. from Com.
(1fr. Wood), 714; 3rd R.', 714; R.A., 779
(4 7) An Act respecting the Montreal, Otta(c. 28).
wa and Georgian Bay Canal Company
<(Mr. Kerr). lut., 479; 2nd R.*, 539; Srd
(58) An Act respecting the Âshcroft, BarkerR., 684; R.A., 779 (c. 130).
ville and Fort George Railway Company
Grand
(48) An Act respecting the Niagara
(Mr. Bostock). lut., 231; 2nd R.', 291;
Island Bridge Company (Mfr. Kerr). Int.,
Srd R.', 368; R.A., 541 (c. 83).
231; 2nd R.*, 266; 3rd R.*. 318; R.Â., 541
(60) An Act respecting patents of the Good(c. 133).
win Car Company (1fr. Ker.r). Int., 329.
(49) An Act te incorporate the Shuswap and
2nd R., 354; Srd B.*, 380; R.A., 541 (o.
Thotupson Rivers Boom Company (1fr.
114).
lut., 714; 2ud R., 740; M. te
Bostock).
te
(61) An Act respecting patents of Montagne
concur in report (Mfr. Casgrain), ait
Moore aind Thomas James Hleskett (Myr.
refer back (1fr. Bostock), rem., 1fr. BUlis,
Kerir). Int., 329; 2ud R., 3,%; Srd R.*,
Sir M. Bowell, 994; Mir. Kerr, 995; Mfr.
380; R.Â., 541 (o. 129).
Béique, 997; 1fr. Cloran, 999; 1fr. Laudry, 1000; 1fr. Belconrt, 1001; 1fr. Mc(62) An Âct respecting the Subsidiary High
Mullen, amt. to refer back carried (c. 29,
Court of the Ancient; Order of Foresters
n. c. 15), 1002; M. te concur in amts.

.xxiv

.x'vINDEX

BILLS--SERIÀATIM-Con.
BIàLS--6ERIÀTIM-Oon.
in the Dominion of Canada (Mr. McHugh>.
sier). lut., 480; 2nd R.', 520; Srd R.',
Int., 617; 2nd R.', 679; 3rd R.*, 781;
591; R.A., 779 (c. 94).
B.A., 1147 (c. 108).
(81) An Act respecting the Canadian Northern Railway Company (Mr. Young). lut.,
(67> Au Act respecting the Capadian North480; 2nd R.', 520; Srd R.', 684; R.A., 779
ern Ontario Railway Company (Mr. Gib(c. 92).
son). Int., 480; 2nd R.', 520; Srd B.',
703; R.A., 1147 (c. 93).
(82) An Act respecting the Niagara, St.
Catharines and Toronto Radlway Coin(68) An Act respecting the Edmonton, Yukon
pany (M'r. Kerr). lut., 617; 2nd R.', 679:
and Pacifie Railway Company (Mr. Davis).
M. te concur in report (Mr. Bîlis), amt.
Int., 501; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Wilson), rem.,
ta refer back (Mr. Kerr), 987; amt.
Mr. Power, Mr. Wilson, M. agreed to,
W39; 3rd B.*, 951; B.A., 1148 (c. 105).
agreed ta, 988; Srd R.', .1060; R.A., 1737
(c. 134).
(69) An Act tu incorporate the Ruthenian
Catholic Mission of St. Basil the Great
in Canada (Mr. Talbot). Iut., 355; 2nd
R.', 566; amts. concurred in (Mr. Cloran),
S00; Srd R.', 805; R.A., 1147 (c. 152).

(83) An Act
Meaford
Mullen).
R.', 684;

respectîng the Owen Sound aud
Railway Company (Mr. Mclut., 480; 2nd R.', 520; 3rd
R.A., 779 (c. 141).

(70) An Âct to incoîporate the Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan, Peace River and Dawson
Railway Company (Mr. Boy). lut., 501;
2nd R.*, 786.

(86) An Act te incoîporate the Noîtlîern
Empire Railway Company (Mr. DeVeber).
lut., 714; 2nd R.', 740; Srd R.', 920: 1? A.,
1147 (c. 1.18).

(71) An Act respecting the Standard Mutual
Fire Insurance Company, and te change
its name ta the 'Standard Fire Insurance
Company' (Mr. .Kerr). lst R.', 2nd R.,
993; 3rd R.*, 1340; R.A., 1737 (c. 160).

(87> An Act te incoporate the Vancouver
Island and Eastern Railway Company
(Mr. Bostock). Int., 480; 2nd R.', 520;
Srd R.', 721; R.A., 1147 (c. 167).

072) An ikct respecting -the p-Aent of the
Windsor Pump and Foundry Company,
Limited (Mr. Beith). Int., 231; 2nd 11.*,
291; 3rd R.', 380; R.A., 541 (c. 172).
(73) An Act respecting the Quebec Railway,
Light and Power Company (Mr. Choquette). lut., 480; 2nd R.', 520; 3rd R.',
919; R.Â., 1147 (c. 150).
(74) An Act respectîng the Ottawa,
Brockville and St. Lawrence Railway Company
(Mr. Derbyshire). Int., 480; 2nd R.',
520; Srd R.', 721; on Commons amts., M.
(Mr. Derbyshire) ta agree with Commons
and restore original CI. 4, 195; rem., Sir
M. Bowell, Mr. McMillan, 79Ç6.Mr. Cloran,
Mr. Béique, Mr. Kerr, 797; ainended M.
(Mr. Derbyshire) carried, 798; B.A., 1147
(c. 140).

(88) An Act ta incorporate the Architectural
Institute of Canada (Mr. Béique). lut.,
759; 2nd R.', 778; 3rd R.', 971; B.A.,
1147 (c. 82).
(89) An Act to authorize the sale ta the
Grand Tiunk Railway Company of Cainada of a portion of Majoi's Hill Park, in
the City of Ottawa, as a hotel site (Mr.
Scott). lut., 1453; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Scott),
rem., Mr. Lougheed, 1533; M. 2nd R.
caîîied, 1534; in Coin., rem., Sir M.
Bowell, Mr. Frost, 1555; Mr. Lougheed,
Mr. Sullivan, 1556; Mr. Power, 1557; Mlr.
Ferguson, 1558; Mr. Watson, 1558; Mr.
MeMullen, 1559; Mr. Ferguson, 1560; Mr.
Power, 1561; Sir M. Bowel, 1562; Mr.
Kerr, Mr. Ross (Halifax), 1563; B. rep.
from Coin. (Mi. Comeau), 1563; 3rd R.,
1564; R.A., 1738 (c. 44).

(76) An Act respecting the InterprovinciaI
Railway Bridge Company of New Brunswick (Mr. Costigan). lnt., 480; 2nd R.',
520; 3rd R.*, 591; R.A., 779 (c. 119).

(94) An Act foi gianting to Ris Maiesty
certain sums of money for the publie
service for the financial year endiug 3lst
March,' 1908 (Mr. Scott). M. lst IR. (Mi.
Scott), rem., Mi. Lougheed, Sir M. Bau eh,
287; Sir R. Cartwright, Mr. Ferguson,
288; M. agreed te, 289; 2nd R.', 289; M.
Srd R. (Mr. Scott), rem., Mr. Lougheed,
Mi. McMu]len, 289; Mr. Douglas, 290; M.
agreed ta,291; R.A., 283 (c. 1).

(77) An Act îespecting the Canadian Northeru Quebec Railway Company (Mr. Tes-

(99) An Act ta amend the Irrigation Act
ýMr. Scott). lut., 501; 2nd R1., 566; B.

(75) An Act to incorporate the Women. 6
AuxiliaTy te the Iiisiso.nary .Society of the
Church of England in Canada (Mr. Baker)
Iut., 329; 2nd R.*, 338; 3rd B.*, 380; R.A.,
541 (c. 98).

INDEX

xxv

INDEX

'Iv

RILLS-ERÀTIM--Con.
BIILS--SERIATIM-Con.
2ud *R. (Mr. Scott), 1686; rem., Mfr.
679;
rep. fnom Coin. (Mfr. McKay, Aima),
Lougheed, 1687; Mr. Watson, 1689i Mr.
3rd R.*, 684; R.A., 779 (c. 38).
Ponley, 1694; Sir M. Bowell, 1697; Mr.
<101) An.Act respecting the Fort William
Ferguson, 1700; Mr. Béique, M. 2nd B.
Terminai Railway and Bridge Compauy
agroed to, 1701; in Com., ou subel. 4, Mfr.
Ferguson, Mr. Scott, subci. adopted, on
(Mfr. Watsou). lut., 793; 2nd R.0, 805;
Srd ILI, 920; R.Â., 1147 (c. 109).
subcl. 6, Mr. Watson, ci. adoptod, 1702;
on ci. 8, Mr. Kerr, Mr. Ross. (Middleex).
(102) Au Act to amend the Wiudisig UIp
Sir M. Boweli, 1704; Mfr. Ferguson, Mfr.
Act (Mr. Scott). lut., 455; Znd R., 487;1 B.
Scott, Mr. Lougheed, 1706; Mfr. Scott, Mfr.
rep. bomi Comn. (Mr. Wàlson) 539; 3rd R.0,
Lougheed, ci. adopted, 411; on ol. 21, emt.
550; &RA., 779 (c. 74).
Sir M. Boweli, Mr. Ross (Middlesex), 1712;
Sir M. Boweli, Mfr. Watson, 1713; amt.
(109) An Act to -authorize a -bounty to Vollost, ci. adoptod, 1714; on ci. 26, Mfr. Perwho serveid the Crown in Souh
unteers
loy, Mr. Watson, 1714; ci. adopted, on
Africa (Mfr. Scott). Lut., 1651; M. 211d R.
CI. 36, Sir M. Bowell, 1715; B. rep. from
(Mr. Scott), rom., Sir M. Boweil, -M. %greed
Com., 3rd B.*, 1716, R.A., 1738 (c. 26).
to, Srd R., 1680; R.A., 1738 (c. 67).
(116) An Act to amend the Exchequer
(111) An Act nespecting the National BattieCourt Act (Mr. Scott). Int., 946; 2nd R.,
felds at Québec (Sir R. Cartwright). Int.,
993; in Com., Mr. Scott, Mfr. Ferguson.
480; M. 2nd R. (Sir R. Cartwright), rom.,
Sir M. Bowell, 1051; Mr. Scott, Mfr. FerMr. Choquette. Mfr. Loughoed, 520; M.
guson, Mr. Ells, B. rep. from Comn. <(Mr.
agreed to, 521; iu Com., nom., Sir R.
Talbot), 1052; M. Srd R. (Mfr. Scott),
Cartwright, 524; Mfr. Lougheed, 525; Mr.
rem., Sir M. Bowell, M. Srd R. agreed to,
Scott, 526; Mr. Dandurand, 528; Mr. Ber1053; R.Â., 1147 <c. 27).
nier, 528; Mr. Macdonald (B.C.), Mr.
(117) An Act to amend the Intercolonial
Poirier, 529; on cl. 1, rem., Mr. Ferguson;
Rhiiway and Prince Edward Island Rail532; on ci.
on cl. 5, nom., Mn. Lougheed,
way Employeos' Providout Fund Act (Mr.
9 snd 10, nem., *Mr. Power, 535; ou cl. 16,
Scott). lut., 550; 2nd R., 616; 3rd R.0,
nom., M1r. Power, 536; B. Tep. front Coin.
653; R.Â., 779 (c. 37).
537; R.A., 541 (o.
(MSr. Rjoy), 537; 3rd R.0,
(118) An Act to amend the Railway Act
57).with respect to Telegraphsand Télephones
(112) AnL Act to amend the Raîlway Act as
and the jurisdiction of the Railway CoinCoin. (Mn. Rloy), 537; 3rd R.*, 537; R.A.,
missioners (Mr. Scott). Int., 1391; 2nd
of the Board of
respects the constitution
R., 1410; in Comn., rem., Sir M. Bowell,
RZailway Commissionens (Mr. Scott). lut.,
Mr. Scott, Mr. Béique, 1465; B. rep.
946; 2nd R., 993; in Comn., Mfr. Lougheod,
from Coin. (Mr. Campbell), 1467; Srd R.,
Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Casgrain, 1397; Mr.
1467; R.A., 1738 <c. 61).
1fr. Ellis, 1400; Mr.
McMulleu, 1399;
Fcrguson, 1401; Mr. Power, 1402; Mr.
(119) An Act to encourage the construction
Béique, 1403; Mn. Scott, 1404; discussion
of Dry Docks (Mfr. Scott). lut., 1221; M.
on clauses, 1405-1407; Mfr. Forguson, 1407;
Lnd R. (MT. Scott), 1287; rem., Mfr.
Mr. Scott, 1fr. Béique, 1408; B. rop. froin
Loughoed, 1288; Sir M. BowelI, 1290; Mfr.
Com. (Mr. Bolduc), 1409: M. 3rd R. '(Mr.
McMullen, M. 2ud R. agreed to, 1291; in
Scott), aint. Mr. Béique carried, 1453;
Com., on ci. 3, rem., Mr. Power, 1329;
aint. Mr. Ferguson, rem., Mr. Scott, 1454;
Mr. Béique, Mfr. Ross (Middlesex). Mr.
Mr. Ferguson, 1455; sumt adopted, amt.
MeSweeney, 1330; cl. adopted, 1331; on
Mr. Laîîdry rejected, M. Snd R. cannied,
cl. 8, rem., Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Béique,
1457; R.A., 1738 (c. 62).
Mr. Scott, 1331; cl. adopted, 1332; B. rep.
from Coin. (Mr. Cox), 1332; Srd R.0,
to amend the Land Titios Act
(113) An Art
1340; R.A., 1737 (c. 24).
2nd R. (Mr.
(Mr. Scott). Int., 815; M.
Scott), nem., Mn. Lougheed, 834; M.
<120) An Act to authonize the issue of Govagreed to, 835; in Coin., rem., Mr.
erument Aunuities for old age (Sir R.
Lougheed, Mn. Power, Mn. Eliis, 911; Mn.
Cartwright). lut., 1453, M. 2nd R. (Sir
Scott, 912; Sir M. Bowell, B. rep. froin
R. Cartwright), 1488; rom., Mr. Ferguson,
Coin. (Mn. Fulis), 987; 3rd R.*, 1004; R.A.,
1489; M. 2nd R. agreed to, 1491; in Com.,
1147 (c. 41).
rem., Mr. Ferglison, 1535; Sir R. Cartwright, 1536; on ci. 4, Mr. Ferguson, Mr.
(115) An Act to amend the Dominion ElecCox, Sir R. Cartwright, 1538; cl. adopted,
tions Act (Mr. Scott). lst R., 1681; M.

xxvi

x'.'INDEX

BILLS-SERIATIM-Con.
BILLS-SERIÂTIM*-Con.
Landry), Chairman's ruling upheld (c.
15W9; discussion on clauses, 1540-1543,;D
'18; n. c. 6), 1669; rein., Mfr. Roy, Mfr.
cl. 11, Sir R. Cartwright, Mfr. Béique, 1fr.
Kerr, 1669; 1fr. Scott, Mfr. Power, 1670;
Sullivan, cl. adapted, 1544; B. rep. train
Mfr. Ferguson, 1671; aint. Mfr. Derbyshire
Coin. <1fr. Farget), Srd B-*, 1544; R.Â.,
carried, B. rep. trom Coin. (Mfr. David),
1738 (c. 5).
3rd R., 1672; R.Â., 1738 (c. 56).
(121) An Act ta arnend the Supreme Court
(147) An Act ta repeal the Canned Goods
Act (1fr. Scott). jet R.*, 682; 2nd R.,
Act <(Mr. Scott). Int., 817; 2nd R., 875;
703; Srd R.'. 739; R.A., 779 (c. 70).
3rd B.*, 9U8; R.A., 1147 (c. 18).
<135) An Act ta aînend the Immigration Âct
(148) An Act ta amend the Inspection and
(Mfr. Scott). lst R.*. M. ta suspend rules
Sale Act (Mfr. Scott). Int., 1202; 2nd B.,
(Mfr. Scatt), rein., Sir M. Bowell, 805; 1fr.
1228; in Coin., rem., 1fr. Lougheed 1fr.
Scott, 807; Mfr. Landry, 808; Mfr. Béique,
Ferg'uson, 12M; 1fr. Power, 1295; B. rep.
809; 2nd and Srd R.*, 810; B.A., 1738
froin Coin. (Mfr. McSweeey), 1296; Srd
(c. 33).
R.*, 1298; R.A., 1737 (c. 85).
<136) An Act for granting ta His Majesty
(149) An Act ta aniend the Meat and Canned
certain suins of money for the public
Foods Act (Mfr. Scott). Int., 817; M. 2nd
service of the financial years ending r.R. (Mfr. Scott), rein., Mfr. Lougheed, 1fr.
spectively March 31, 1908, and March 31,
Gibson, 875; M. agreed ta, 876; in Coin.,
1909 (Mfr. Scott). lst R.', 738; 2nd R.,
rein., Mfr. Lougheed, Mfr. Scott, 920; Mfr.
3rd R.*, 739; R.A., 779 (c. 2).
Ferguson, 921; Mfr. Power, Mfr. Bostock,
<142) An Act ta amend the Bills of Exohange
Mfr. Baird, On2; Mfr. Jaffrey, Mi¶r. Ljougheed,
Act <(Mr. Scott). lst R.*, 2nd B., Brd R..,
923; 1fr. Scott, Mfr. Ferguson, 924; 1fr.
8).
814; R.A., 816 (c.
Cloran, 925; B. rep. frain Coin. <1fr.
<143) An Act to aniend the Inland Revenue
Euls), 926; 3rd E.O. M2; R.AÂ., 1147 (c. 47).
Act (Mfr. Scott). lst R.*, 2ad R., 810; in
<150) An Act ta ainend the Yukon Placer
Coin., rein., Sir M. Bowell, Mfr. Power,
Mining Act (Mfr. Scott). Int., 1202; 2nd
M.
812; B. rep. froin Coin. (Mfr. Kerr),
R., 1229; in Coin., rein., Mfr. Scott, Sir
ý3rd R. (Mfr. Scott), 813; rein., Sir M.
M. Bowell, 1296; 1fr. Lougheed, 1297; B.
Bowell, 813; M. agreed ta, 814; R.A., 816
rep. fram Coin. (Mfr. Béique), 1332; Srd
(c. 34).
R.*, 1340; R.A., 1737 (c. 77).
<144) An Act ta ainend the Winding-Up Act
(152) An Act respectintz Signal Dues at Hali.
(1fr. Scott). lut., 815; M. 2nd R. (Mfr.
fax (1fr. Scott). Int., 946; 2nd R., 993;
Scott), rein., Mfr. Lougheed, 833; M. agreed
B. rep. train Coin. (Mfr. Sullivan), 1008;
ta, 834; in Coin., B3. rep. train Coin. (Mfr.
Srd R.0, 1011; R.A., 1147 (c. 66).
Mitchell), 855; 3rd R., 862; R.A., 1147
<158) An Act respecting the Meaford Har(c. 75).
bour fr. Scott). Int., 946; 2nd R., 994;
<145> An Act ta arnend the Act relating to
in Coin., Mfr. Scott, Sir M. Bowell, 1009;
Ocean Steamships Subsidies (Mfr. Scott).
B3. rep. froni Coin. (Mfr. Bostock), 1010;
ist R.', 2nd R., rein., Sir M. Bowell, Srd
.Ird R.0, 1011; R.A., 1147 (c. 46).
R.', 815; R.A., 816 (c. 68).
(159) An Act respecting the issue of Do<146) An Act respecting proprietary or
minion Notes (1fr. Scott). lst R.*, 1230;
patent medicines (1fr. Scott). Int., 1535;
M. 2uid R. (1fT. Scott), '1261; Mfr. Lougheed,
M-. 2nd R. (1fr. Scott), rein., Mfr. Roy,
1262; 1fr. Doinville, 1264; Mfr. Watson,
'M. agreed ta, 1565; in Coin., 1fr. Power,
1265; Mfr. Scott, 1268; Mfr. Ferguson, 1269;
Mfr. Sullivan, Mfr. McMillan, Mfr. Béique,
Sir M. Bawell, 1274; Mfr. Gibson, 1275;
1566, l5e7; 1fr. Sulliv.an, 1568; discussion
M. 2nd R. ag'reed ta, Srd ýR., 1276; R.A.,
on clauses, Mfr. McMullen, Mfr. Scott, 1fr.
1737 (c. 23).
Power, 1fr. Wilson, 1fr. Douglas 1569-1573,
(160) An Act ta amend the Bank Act (1fr.
Mfr. McMullen, 1fr. Scott, Mfr. Sullivan,
Scott). Int., 1276; M. 2nd R. (Mfr. Scott).
1641; Mfr. Kerr, 1fr. Derbyshire, 1fr.
1318; rein., Mfr. Ferguison, 1319; Mr.
Roy, 1643; 1fr. Scott, 1644; 1fr. Co., 1fr.
Cainpbell, 1320; 1fr. Béique, Mfr. Power,
Sullivan, 1645; 1fr. Ross (Middlesex), Sir
M. 2nd R. agreed ta, 1321; in Coin., rein.,
M. Bowell, 1647; Mfr. Coffey, 1648; on cl.
Mfr. 1'erguson, 1354; Sir R. Cartwright,
7 reconsidered, suit. Mfr. Sullivan, rein.,
1354, 1355; B. rep. t ram Coin. (Mfr.
Mfr. MoMullen, -1fr. Béique, 1667; ernt. lost,
Coffey), 3rd B.*, 1356; R.Â., 1737 (c. 7).
aint. Mfr. Derbyshire, on pt. of order (Mfr.

INDEX

Xxvii

INDEX

xxvii

B] LLS-SERIÂTIM-Co».
(162) An Act te ameud -the Post Office
Act (Mr. Scott). Int., 1221; M. 2nd R.
(Mfr. Scott), 1291; rem., Mr. Lougheed,
Sir R. Cartwright, Sir M. Bowell, Mr.
Pawer, M, 2nd R. agreed ta, 1292; in Cern.,
rem., Mr. McMullen, 1377; B. rep. f rom
Cern. (Mr. Legris), 1378; Srd R.*, 1378;
R.A., 1738 (c. 53).
(163) An Act te authorize the Exchange of
School Lands for otiier Dominion Lande
(Mr. Scott). lut., 946; 2nd R., ini Cern.,
rem., Sir M. Boweau, Mr. Scott, B. rep.
R.,
f rom Cern. (Mr. Sullivan), 1053; Brd
1060; R.Â., 1147 (c. 22).
(165) An Act respecting
cf British Columbia
1276; 2nd R., 1321; B.
Kerr), Srd R.,. 1357;

the. Court cf Appeal
(Mfr. Scott). Int.,
rap. from Com. (1fr.
B.A., 1737 (c. 10).

(168) An Act ta authorize the payrnent ta
the Provinces cf Saskatchewan and Ailberta of part cf the. Assurance. Fund under
the Land Tities. Act, 1894 (Mr. Scott).
lut., 1149; 2nd R., 1211; B. rep. from Cern.
(Mr. Yeung), 1236; 3rd R.*, 1297; B.A.,
1737 (c. 42).
(169) An Act ta amend the. Yukon Act (Mr.
Scott). Tht.. 1149; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Scott),
-rem., Mr. Loug'heed, 1233; M. agreed te,
1234; in Cern., B. rap. fvom Cern. (Mfr.
Derbyshire), 1318; $rd B.*, 1340; R.A., 1737
(c. 76).
(171) An Act respecting Government Guaranteed Bonds cf the. Grand Trunk. Railway Company (Mr. Scatt). 1bt R.*, 1221;
M. Znd R. (Mr. Scott), 1292; rem., Mr.
Lougheed, Sir M. Boyaul, 1293; M. 2nd
R. agreed te, 1294; 3vd R.*, 1340; R.A.
1737 (c. 32).
(173) An Act ta vestrain the. use cf tobacco
by young persons (1fr. Scott). lut., 1391;
M. 2nd R. (1fr. Scott), 1409; ram., Mr.
Ross (Middlesex), 1409; Mfr. Ellis, Mr.
Loughaad, M. 2nd RB. agveed te, 1410; in
Cern., an lst cl., amt. Mfr. Paver, 1457;,
rem., Mr. Scott, Mr. Lougheed, 1fr. Me
Mulien, 1458; Mr. Ross (Halif ax), Mfr.
Ross (Middlesex), 1459; Mr. Pawer, Sir
M. Boweil, Mr. Lougheed, 1460, Mr. B4ique, amt. lest, 1461; on ci. 2, suit. (Mr.
MeMullen), rem., M.r. Gibsen, 1462; &mt.
carried and ci. adoptad, 1463; arnt. 1fr.
Ross (M iddlesex), 1463; rom., 1fr. Gibsen,
amt. carriad, 1464; B. rap. fronm Cern. (1fr.
Wilson), 1464; M. Srd R. (gfr. Scott), 1479;
amt. Mfr. Pawer, 1479; rom., 1fr. Scott,
MT. David, Mr. Longheed, 1481; Mr. Kerr,
1483; Mr. Rass (Middlesex), 1483, Mfr.

BILLS--SERÀTIM-CoPI.
Edwards, 1484; Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Wilson,
1485; amit. carried i<c. 32, *n.c. 13), M. Srd
R. oarried, 1486; B.A. 1738 (c. 73).
(181) An Act to consolidate and amend the
Acta respecting the Public Lande of the
Dominion <(Mr. Scott). Ist R.*, 1511; on
notice.oi 2nd R., rem., Mr. Longheed. Sir
M. Bowéau, Mr. Scott, 1512; M. 2nid B. (Mr.
Scott), 1625; Sir M. Boweli, 1627; Mr.
Davis, M. a.greed to, 1628; in 0Cm., on el.
15, 1fr. Lougheed, Mr. Scott, Mr. Nique,
1631;1 Sir M. Boweil, Mr. Ferguson, cl.
adopted, 1633; on ci. 32, Mr. Lougheed, Sir
R. Cartwright, ei. a.dopted, 1684; on cl. 39,
Sir M. Boweil, Mr. Scott, ci. adopted, 1635;
on ci. 42, am.t. .(31r. Lougheed) 1635; Mr.
Landry. Mr. Watson, 1637; Mfr. Lougheed.
Mfr. Scott, amt. rejected :(c. 3, n.c. 15), B.
rep. from Com. (Mfr. Cofley), 1638; M. Brd
R. (Mr. Scott), rem., Mfr. Lougheed, 1654;
amt. Mr. Lougheed, 1657; Mfr. Scott, 1658;
Mr. Ross (Middlesex) 1659;, Mr. Watson.
Mfr. Fergusen, 1661; Sir M. Boell, 1662;
Mr. Kerr, 1664; Mfr. Landry, 1665; amt.
lest, M. Srd R. carried, 1666; R.A., 1738
(c. 20).
(186) An Act for granting to Ris Maieaty,
certain suras cf money for the public
service of the financial year ending March
31, 1909 (Mr. Scott). lst R.*, M. ta suspend ruies (Mr. Scott), rem., Mr. Longheed, 1143; Mfr. Scott, 1144; Mfr. Miller,
1145; Mfr. Scott, 1146; M. agreed te, 2nd
R.*, Srd R.*, 1147; R.A., 1148 (c. 3).
(189) An Act ta amend the Civil Service
Âct (Mr. Scott). Tht., 1453; M. 2nd B.
(Mr. Scott), 1516; rem., Mr. Lougheed,
1518; M. in amt .(Mr. Longheed), 1521;
rem., Mr. Power, 1521; (Mr. B4ique), 1525;
Sir M.
Mfr. Roes (Middlesex), 1526;
Boweli, 1528; Mfr. Farguson, 1531-. amt.
lest, M. 2nd R. agraed ta, 1533; in Cern.,
on cl. 6, rem., Sir M. Bowell, cl. adopted,
1600; on ci. 8, rem., Sir M. Boelel, Mr.
Lougheed, cl. amended adopted, 1601; on
cl. 9, rem., Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Pover,
1602; Mr. Farguson, Mr. Béique, 1603;
Mfr. Leugheed, Mfr. McSweeney, Sir M.
Boweli, 1605; Mr. Watson, Sir R. Cartwright, 1607; Mr. Kerr, Mr. Domyjiloe,
1609; ci. adopted, 1610; on ci. 11, Mr. Ross
(Middlesex), Mfr. Scott, cl. adopted, 1611;
on ei. $8, Mr. Power, Sir M. Bowell, 1615;
Mr. Scott, Mr. McMunlan, 1617; Mr. Ross
(Middlesex), 1618; cl. adopted, 1619; on ci.
41, Sir M. Bowell, 1619; Mr. Power, Sir R.
Cartwright, 1620; el. adopted, 1621; ou ci.
45, Mr. Laugheed, Mfr. Ferguson, 1621;
Mr. Power, -Mfr. Scot. 1022; Sir M. Boell,

xxviii

INDEX

xxviii

INDEX

BILLS-SERLÂTIM-Oon.
tILLS-SERIATIM-Con.
(205) An Act to prohibit the importation,
Mr. Power, 1623; Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Wilmanufacture and sale of opium for other
son, ci. adopted, B. rep. from Com. (Mr.
thau medicinal purposes <Mr. Scott). lst
Campbell), Srd R.4, 1624; R.A., 1738 <c. 15).
R.', 1549; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Scott), rem..
(191) An Act respectîng the bounties on lead
Sir M. Bowell, 1597; M. 2nd R. carried,
ini lead.-beariniz ores a2ned in
contained
1597; in Com., rem., Mr. Scott, 1672; Sir
Tnt., 1453; M. 2nd
Canada (Mr. Scott).
M. Bowell, 1673; Mr. Domville, Mr. Kerr,
R. .(MTr. Soctt), S'em., MT. McMullen, Mr.
1676; Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Ferguson, B. rep
M. Bowell, Sir R. CartElls, 1491: Si-r
freim Com. (Mr. MeKay, Aima), 1677; Srd
wright. 1493: M. 2nd R. agreed to, 1491; B.
R., .1678; RÂ., 1738 <c. 50).
rep. drom Oom. (MSe. Landry), 3rd R.'.
1534; B.A., 1738 (c. 43).
(206) An Act to amend the Judges Âct <Mr.
Scott) . Int., 1598; 2nd R., Srd R.*, 1639;
(193) An Act to amend the Timber MarkR.A., 1738 (c. 39).
ing Act (Mr. Scott). Tnt., 1495; 2nd B.,
3rd R.', 1534; R.A., 1738 (c. 72).
<208) An Act respecting the Office of Audito General (Mr. Scott). lst R.-, 1513;
<194) An Act ta amend -the Customs Act (Mr.
M. 2nd R. (Mr. Scott), rem., Mr. LoughR.', 1413;- M. 2nd IR. .(Mr.
Soott).' ,let
heed, Mr. Ferguson, Sir M. Boweli, M.
Scott), 1467; rem., Sir M. Bowell, .1468; Mr.
agreed to, Srd B.*, 1549, R.A., 1738 (c. 6).
Gibson, 1469; Mr. Power, 1470; Mr. Louzheed. M.r. Ellis, Mr. McMullen, 1471; Mr.
(209) An Act ta amend the Canada ShipScott, 1473; Mr. Béique, Mr. Jaffray, 1474;
ping Act.(Mr. Scott). lnt., 1651; M. 2nd
Sir M. BoweUl; M. 2nd E. agreed -te, 1475;
R. (Mr. Scott), rem., Mr. Lougheed, 1678;
in Com., "om., Mr. Loughes-d. Mr. Scott.
Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Ferguson, 1679; M.
1494; B. rep. from Com. (,Mr. McSweeney),
agreed ta, 3rd R.*, 1680; R.Â., 1738 <c. 64).
1495; M. Srd R. .(Mix. Scott), .rem., Sir M.
Bowell, 3515; M. Srd R. carried. 1516: R.A..
(210) .An Act ta e.mend the Northýwest Ter1738 (c. 19).
ritories Act (Mr .Scott). Int., 1598; 2nd
R.'*, 3rd R.', 1639; R.A., 1738 (c. 49).
<199) An Act ta provide for the payment
of ;bounties on crude patrolenin (Mr.
<211) An Act ta amend the Act of the jreScott). lst R.', 1513; M. 2nd R. (Mr.
sent Session entitled An Act respecting
Scott), rem., Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Domville,
the Dominion Guarantee Company, Limit1544; M. agreed to. 1545; iii Com., rem.,
B. received, oeem., Mr. Baker, Sir
ed.
Sir* M. Bowell, Mr. Wilson, Mr. Scott,
M. Boweli, Mr. Landry, Mr. Power, Mr.
1545; B. rep. froin Cm. (Mr. Domville),
Speaker, 1650; Mr. Speaker, Mr. Landry,
3rd R.', 1546" R.A., 1738 (c. 52).
Mr. Power, 1651, Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Baker,
(200) An Act respecting the salary of the
Mr. Speaker, 1»52.
Superintendent of Insurance (Mr. Scott).
(212) An Act to amend the Criminai Code
lst R."' 1511; M. 2ud R. (Mr. Scott), rem.,
and to repeai section 415 of the Raiiway
Sir. M. Bowell, Mr. Cox, 1546; M. agreed
Act (Mr. Scott). Int., 1649; 2nd R.', Srd
ta, 1547; 3rd R.', 1547; R.A., 1738 (c. 69).
R.0, 1678; R.A., 1738 (c. 18).
(201) An Act to assist in maintaining an
independent and efficient service of tele(213) An Act respecting aid for the extenrra.p,bic news f rom Gîreat Britain for
sion of the Edmonton, Yukon and Pacific
publication in the Canadian Press (Mr.
Railway (Mr. Scott). lst R.', 2nd R., 3rd
Scott). Ist R.', 1511; 2nd R., 1548; 3rd R.',
Rý.',1717; R.A., 1738 <c. 25).
1549; R.A., 1738 (c. 12).
(214) An Act respecting certain aid for the
(202) An Act to autixorize the construction
extension of the Canadian INortherni Railthe Prince Edward
of a hranch line of
way i(Mýr. Scott). lst -R.', 2nd R., 3rd R.',
Island Railw ay from Harmony on the
171.7; R.A., 1738 (c. i1).
Souris branch to Elmira (Mr. Scott). lst
B.', 1511; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Scott), rem.,
<215) An Act to authorize the graniting of
Sir M. Boweli, Mr. Lougheed, 1547; Mr.
subsidies in aid of the construction of
Ferguson, Mr. Scott, M. agreed ta, 1548:
the lines of railway therein mentioued
3rd R., 1624; R.A., 1738 (c. 54).
(Mr. Scott). lst R.*, 1717; M. 2nd R. (Mr~.
Scott), rem., Sir M. Bowell, 1718; Mr.
(204) An A&ct ta amend chap. 38 of the
Landry, Mr. Scott, 1719; Mr. Ferguson,
Statntes, 1907, in amendruent ta the RailM. agreed to, 3rd R.', 1720; R.A., 1738
way Act (Mr. Scott). Tnt., 1597; 2nd R.,
(c. £13).
3rd R.', 1638; R.A., 1738 (c. 60).

INDEX

xi
xxix

CIVIL SERVICE INSURANCE RETURN :
BILLS-SERIÀT.JM-Con.
inq. (Mr. Ferguson), reply <(Mr. ý'rcott), 103;
(217) An Act respecting the Quebec Bridge
remn., Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Scott, Sir M.
and Railway Coinpan~y '<(Mr. Scott).
let
Bowell, 210.
.. , M. 2nd R. (rMr. Scott), remn., Sir M.
Boweîl, 1720; Mtr. .Scott. Mfr. Landry, 1721; CIVIL SERVICE SUSPENSIONS: inq. <Sir
M. Bowell), 786; reply (Mr. Scott), 790;
Mfr. Soott, 1725; M. .egreed to, Srd tR.*. 17W6;
remn., Mfr. Ross (Halifax), Mr. Gibson, Mr.
RB.A., 1788 <c. 5)
MacKeen, 791.
<218) An Act to authorize the sale or other
disposition of oel*un Ordnaxice la.nds in COAL LANDS, LEASING REGULATIONS
the cities of Toionto and Montreal (Mfr
0OF: inq. <1fr. Macdonald, B.C.), replv (Mnr.
Scott). lst R.*, 2nd R.*, 3rd R.', 1681;.
Scott), 522.
R.A., 1788 <C-,51).
GOAL .LANDS, LEASING 0F- M. -(Mr. Mac<219) An Act respecting the National Battie'
donald, B.C.), >946; -rem., Mr. Scott, M.
fields at Quebec <(Mr. Scott). let R., M
wîthdn., 948.
2nd R. <(Mr. Po-.ver), -remn., Mr. Landry,
Mr. Ferguson, Sir M. Bowell, 1707; Mr. COMMÂNDS-IN-CIIEF : inq. <1fr. Landry),
reply (Mr. Scott), 717.
Scott, Mr. Lougheed, 1708; M. 2nd R.
sgreed tsi, Srd R.', 1710; R.A., 1738 (c. 58). COMMITTEES, CONCURRIENCE IN REPORTS 0F : nem., Mr'. Landry, Mr. Cas(220) An Act for granting to Rlis MF-jesty
grain, 293; Mfr. Power, Mn. Young, 294
sercei-tain suins of money for the publie
Mfr. Speaker, 295.
vice for the financial year ending 31st
Marcb, 1909 <(Mr. Scott). lst R.'. 1726
COMMITTEE 0F SELECTION-: Mf. (1fr.
M. 2nd R1. <1fr. Scott), remn., Mr. Long
Scott), remn., Mr. Gjbson, 39; Sir M. BoweIl,
heed, 1726; Mfr. Scott, Sir M. Bowell, 1729i
Mfr. Davis, 40; Mr. Scott, Mr. Power, 41;
Mr. Ferguson, 1731; Sir If. Bowell, 1732;
1fr. Douglas, 42; Mr .Edwards, 1fr. DomMfr. Ross (Middlesex), 1733; Mr. Scott, M.
ville, 43; Mn. Wilson, 44; 1fr. Landry, M.
2nd R. agreed to, 1736; 3rd R., 1737; R.A.,
agreed to, 45.
1738 (c. 4). ,
COMMITTEE ON STANDING ORDERS: ReBIC HARBOUR WHARF: inq. <Mr. Landry),
ports adepted, 271, 799.
oeeply (Mr. Scott), 1858.
CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE:
BILLS ASSENTED TO : 293, 541, 779, 816,
Finst Report presented, M to suspend rule
1147, 1737.
(1fr .Watson), remn., Sir M. Bowell, 74; Mr.
B USH FIE-ES :inq. (Mfr. Baird), reply <(Mr.
Watson, 1fr. Bernier, 75; Mr. Power, 1fr.
(Scott), 860.
Speaker, 1fr. Poirier, 76; report adjourned,
77; M. to adopt report (Mr. Wntson), 127;
BUSINESS 0F PARLIAMENT : M. <Mr.
rein., Mfr. Lougheed, 127; Mr. Watson, 128;
MT. Macdonald (B.
MoMullen), 894; remn.,
Sir M. Bowell, 129; Mr. Cloran, 130; 1fr.
C.), 886; Sir R .Cartwright, 887; Mr. LougPower, 131; Mr. Bernier, Mfr. Rloss (Middleheed, SE8; 1fr. Power, 890; Sir M. Bowell,
sex), 132; Mr. Belcourt, 134; Report adopted,
891; Mr'. Ross (Middlesex), 894; Mfr. Fergu136. M. ta adopt 4th rep. <1fr. Watson),
son, 896; 1fr. MeMullen, 897; M. carritd on
remn., Mr. Power, M. agreed to, 1488.
division <c. 28, n.c. 23), 898. M. 1fr. Me.Mullen), 966; remn., Mfr. DeBoucherville,M1r. CONVICTS UNDER AGE 0F TWENÈ±Y- M.
Ponley, Ç66; Mfr. Landry, 967; .1fr. Speaker,
(Mr. Coineau), 295.
Sir M. I3owell, 968; Mr. Ferguson, Mr. McMullen. lii' .Mitchell, 969; M. withdn., 970. DELAYED PRINTING : inq. (Mfr. Landry).
M. (1fr. lMeMuIillen, remn., Sir M. Bowell,
45; reply (Mr. Scott), 46.
M. cRaried (C. 128,n.c. 19), 1010.
DELAYED RETURNS : inq. (Mr. Ferguson),
CANAD)A GAZETTE. CIRCULATION 0F:
neply <1fr. Scott), 46; inq. (Mfr. Landry),
inq., <(Mr. Laxidry), reply (Mr. Scott), 332.
neply <1fr. Scott), 352, 550, 683.
CANADIAN CATTLE, BRITISH EMBARGO DESCITAMtBAULT
WHARF, CONSTRUCON : inq. (Mr. Power), reply (Mfr. Scott),
TION 0F : M. Mr. Landry, 231; inq. <(Mr.
M. Bowell, 1fr.
rem., Mr. Lougheed, 261; Sir
Landry), reply <Mr. Scott), 1683.
Scott, Mr. Choquette, 263.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION : inq., <(Mr. DIVISIONS :
On M. (Mr. DeBoucherville) in amt. to
Landry), reply <Mr. Scott), 35U, 404; inq.
report as to Standing Comumitteesl, M. re.<Sir M. Bo-weIl), oeply ý(Mn. Scott), 714-; inq.
jected (c. 14, n.c. 27), 68.
(Mr. Lougheed), reply <(Mr. Scott), 738.

INDEX

E[IVISIONS-Con.
On M. (Mr. Comeau) to amend Standing
Rules of the Senate, M. rejected (c. 23,
n.c. 31), 152.
On M. (Mr. Douglas) to amend Standing
Rules cf the Senate, M. rejected (c. 16,
n.c. 45), 244.
On M. (Mr. Watson) that Com. nise on Bill
(A) An Act te amend the Railway Act as
regards sale of intoxicatiîîg liquors, M.
carried (c. 28, ii.c. 13), 306.
On amt. te M. te adjonrn (Mr. Ponley), amt.
oarnied (c. 29, n.c. 28), 405.

(Mr.
FIAGHT RATES ON GRIAIN :inq.
Periey), 77; reply .(M.r. Scott), rem., Mr.
MCMullen, 79; Mr. Owens, Mr. Young, 80;
Mr. Watson, fil.
FRENCHI TREÂT Y : inq. (Sir M. Bowell), 82;
reply (Mr. Scott), 84; inq. (Sir M. Bowell),
reply (Sir R. Cartwright), 1339; inq. (Mr.
Lougheed), reply (Mr. Scott), 1391.
FRENCH REPORTS, DELAY IN PUBLlSHI-NU :inq. (Mr. Landry>, reply (Mr. Scott),
f
1414.
IN THE
REPRESENTATION
IRE.NCMI
SENÂTE : inq. (Mr. Landry>, reply (Mr.
Scott), 211; rem., Mr. Lougheed, 212.

On amt. (Mr. Power) to M. as te Rutes,
amt eaTried (c. 34, xi.c. 17), 420.
FUR SEAL ]?1SHERIES . inq. (Mr. MacOn M. (Mn. McMullen) as to business of
donald, B.C.), reply (Mr. Scott), 364j rem.,
Panliament, M. carnied (c. 28, n.c. 23), 898.
Sir M. Bowell, Sir R. Cartwright, 365; Mr.
Lougheed, Mr. McMuUlen, 366.
On amt. (Mr. Bostock) to refen back report
on Shuswap & Thompson Rivers B., amt.
GAMMELL DIVORCE CASE: MI. (Mr. Kirchcarried (c. 29, n.c. 15), 1002.
hoffer> te a.dopt report, rem., Mr. Cloran,
On M. (Mn. McMullen) as to Business of
Mr. (libson, 551; Mr. Ross (Halifax), Mr.
Panliament, M. carried (c. 28; n.c. 19),
MeMullen; M. agreed to, 552.
1010.
UARRISON ÂRTI1LLERY COMPANIES : M.
On M. (Mr. DeBoucherville) for 3 m. h. on
(Mr. Landry), 542.
Jlqvenile Delinquents B., M. lest (c. 4,
n.c. 41), 1156.
GEORGIA-N BAY CANAL: M. (M.r. Car,
grain), 247; Tem., îMsr. BelOourt, 430; Mr.
m.h. on ShusOn amt. (Mr. Comeýan'> for 3
Sullivan, 488; Mr. Power, 495; Mr. Owens,
wap & Thompson Rivens B., amt. rojected
497; Mr. Bernier, 680; Mr. Ross (Halifax),
(c. 9, n.c. 23), 1202.
681; Mr. Wood, 725; Mr. McMulIen, 782; Mr.
On amt. Mr. Landny te refer sarne B te
Cloran, 819; Mr. Edwards, 865; Mr. Béique,
Supreme Court, amt. rejected (e. 10, n..
869; Mr. DeBoucherville, 870; Mr. Cagrain,
29) 1211.
871.
On sub-amt. on Inspection and Sale Amt. B.
(Mr. Bernier), sub-arnt. nejècted (c. 18, GEORGIAN -BAY CANAL ROUTE, EXPLORATION OF? : inq. (Mr. Bernier), 61; reply
n.c. 30), 1435.
(Mr. Scott), 62.
On anit. (Mir. Power) to 3rd R. of Restraint
of use of Tebacco B., aint. canried (c. 32, GILMORE DIVORCE BILL:. M. te adopt
report (Mr. Kirclihoffer), rem., Mr. Cloran,
n.c. 13), 1486.
721; Mr. Wilson, M. agreed to, 722.
EXCEE-QUER COURT JUDGE 0F CANADA:
inq. (Mr. Chequette), 651; neply (Mr. Scott), GIOLI) RESERVE, DEPLETJ.ON OF : inq.
(Mr. Ferguson). 1495; reply (Mfr. Scott),
652, 846; inq., (Mn. Fergusen), neply (Mn.
Scott), 1231.
1501, 1503; rem., Mr. Domnhlle, 1504; Mr.
%Vatson, 1506; Mr. I'erley, 1507.
EX>EIMENTAL FARM RELPORTS:. inq.
(Mn. Choquette), repîr (Mn. Scott), 652, 845. <IOVLUINMENT BILLS BY TRE S.NLATE,
REJECTION OF : inq. (Mr. Ponley>, replY
ELECTORAL LISTS : iuq. (Mr. Landry), e
<(Mr. Scott), 267.
ply (Mn. Scott), 1566.
FERTILIZEES, ANALYSlS
Domville), 816.

OF :

M.

PURDEPAIrTMENTS,
(Mr- ('xOERNME.NT
CHASING BY: M. (MS. Macdonald, B.C.),
858; rem., lir. Scott, 859; M. agreed to, MO0.

YITWS
1N
LEASES
FISUINU%'
WATERS: inq. (Mn. Macdonald, B.C.), reply (Mn. Scott), 946.
FISHERIES QUESTION, TRE: inq.
Lougheed>, repir (Mnr. Scott), 3.

(Mr.

-: inq.
GRliAIN INSPECTORS AT WINN1PU
<(Mr. 1'erley), reply (Mr. Scott), 1055.
GRAND TRUlNK PACIFIC, LOCATION 0F:
(Mfr. Landny), reply (Mr. Scott), 1338.

.inq.

I NDE X

RAD TIIUNK PACIFIC Sl'IE IN OTT'AWA : iinq. (Mr. B3ernier), reply (MrScott), 73.

ISLE ROUGLL i"LOATLNG LLURT:
(Mr. Landry), reply (Mr. Scott), 851.

inq.

(Mfr.
inq.
IMMIGRATION :
ITALIAN
Cioran), 425, reply (Mr. Scott), 429.
SCIIEIE : iiq.
G*RAND> TRU1JN PENSION
IAPÂNESE IN BRIISHI COLUMBIA, -IR(Mr. k'erguson), reply (Mr. Scott), 965.
REST 0F: inq. (Sir M. BowellS, 367; reCROSSINL*s, FATAL ACCIRlGHjWAX
ply (Mr. Scott), W68; rem., Mrt. Lcugheed,
7!37.
DENTS AT:. M. (Mr. Ferguson),
Sa8.
RESTRICTION JAI>ÂNESE IMMIGRATION HINDOU IMMIGRATION,
rem., Mr.
Macdonald, B.O.>, 480; rem.,
0F: M. (MPTf.
Scott, 89; Mr. Lougbeed, 98; Sir M. BowelI.
Mr. Lougheed. Mr. Douglas, 482; Mr. Power,
94; Mr. Scott, 95; Tom., Kr. Landry, Mr.
Sir M. Bowell, 483; Mr. Scott, M. withdn.,
Scott, Mr. Lougheed, 267, 268; Mr. Cloran,
484.
Bowell,
269: Mr. Macdonald .Ç..,SrM.
270.
HIINI>OOS AT VÂNCOU VER:. rem., Mr
J UVENILE OFFENDERS, AN INSTITULougheed. Mr. Scott, Mr. Domville, 502.
TION FOR: M. (Mr. Comean), 1075; rem.,
W?: inq.
HUDSON BAY, NAVIGATION
Mr. Scott, Mr. Sullivan, 1078; Mr. Power,
(Mr. Fergusoil), reply (lir. Scott), M55.
Mr. Speaker, 1079; Mr. Dek5oucherville, Mr.
Cioran, 1080; Mr. DeBoucherville, M. agreed
HUDSON BAY, CONSTRUCTION OF' A
tu, 11M5.
RAILWAY TO :M. (Mr. Davis), 455; rem.,
Mr. KETTLE RIVER VALLEY RAlLWAY : inq.
Mr. I'erguson, 468; Mr. P9ower, 553;
.(Mr. Lougheed), reply (JNI. Scott), 212, 542.
Bernier, 556; Mr. Perley, 557; Mr. Loug560; Mr. Davis, 561, KING'S REUJLATIONS: inq. (Mr. Landry>,
heed, 559; Mr. Scott,
Ni. rarried, US3; on Ai. to adjn., rem., Sir
reply (Mr. Scott), 271, 273, 331, 403, 455.
M. i3oweiI, Mr. Scott, 567.
LABRADOR BOUNDARY: inq. (Mr. Landry>,
617; reply (Mr. Scott), 618.
«MONTCALM,' REPAIRING
ICE-BREÂKER
0F cinq. (Mr. Landry), reply (Mr. Scott), LEVEL CROSSIN<SS: M. (Mr. FerguPon),
69.
703.
INDIANAP'OLIS, STATE LIFE INSU RANCE LEVIS FORTS, CLEARJNG 0F LANDS AT:
COMPANY 0F : inq. (Mr. Choquette>, reinq. (Mr. Landry>, 793; reply (Mr. Scott),
ply (Mr. Scott), 502.
794, 846.
INLANI) FISIIERIES :inq. (Mr. Costigan), LIBRÂRY 0F PÂRLIAME.NT : M. to adopt
report (Mr. JPower), 617.
reply (Mr. Scott), 1277; rem., Mr. Costigan,
1277; Mr. Ross (Halifax), 1279; Mr. Ross MANITOBA AND
OTHER PROVINCES,
(Middlesex), 1280.
THE BOUNDÂ-RIES 0F: inq. (Mr. Berniier)
Teply (.Mr. Scott), TOM., MTr. Lougheed. '.%r.
INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY, PROVIDENT
Ferguson, Mr. -Scott, 215; M. -(Mr. Landry),
FUND 0F : inq. (Mr. McSweeney), reply
420; M. withdn., 679.
(Mfr. Scott), 72.
RAILWAY TARIFFS: M. MARITIME COAL AND RAILWAY COMINT»ROOLONIAL
PANY - inq. air. MeSweeney), replv (Mr.
<(Mr. Laidry), 122.
Scott), 902.
INTERCOLON IAL RAILWAY EMPLOY EES:
inq. (Mr. Landry), reply (Mr .Scott), 716; MARINE AND FISHERIES INVESTIGATION : rem., Mr. Fergusoni, 1284 - Mr.
inq. (Mr. McSweeney), ireply (Mr. Scott),
Scott, 1286; Sir R. Cartwright, Mr. Power,
1550.
INTERCOLONIAL
PAID) TO:. inq.
Scott), 946.

MON Ey
RAILWAY,
(Mr. Ellis), reply (Mfr.

1287.McOOVERN, J., ACCUSATIONS AGAINST:
inq. (Mr. Landry), reply (Mfr. Scott), 1551.

MICHEL SIMEON DELISLE : inq. (Mr.
Landry), reply (Mfr. Scott), 209.
NATAL ACT 0F BRITISH COLUMBIA, DISALLOMIANCE OF:- rem., Mfr. Lougheed,
INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY, SUI'ILY 0F
Mr. Sott. 335; Mfr. Fergueou, 336. inq. ('Mr.
BRUSUES FOR : inq. ()Jfr. Landry), reply
(Mr.
ScotT.ý,
mu.
367.
8cott)
ly IMed% ,
1 r_
TENDERS
INTERCOLONIAL RAILWÂY,
FOR IRON WORKS ON: inq (Mfr. Landry>,
reply (Mr.. Scott), 845.

xxii

INDEX

NEW YORK MUTUAL RE8ERVE LIFE AS,
SOCIATION: inq. (Mr. McMulien), 3M5;
repiy (Mr. Scott), M~±2.
SAE
NORTIWES, O TIMER LNDS
0F. TIMER,
SALEax)
IN THE: inq. (Mr'. Macdonald, B-C.>, rel
(Mr. Scott), 331.
OTTAWA ANI) GEORGIAN BAY CANAL:
inq. (Mr. Bernier), reply (Mr. Scott), 45.

PRIVILEGE, QUESTIONS OF-Con.
Bowel, Mr. Power, 362; M. withdwn., 363;
rem., Mr. Landry, .'66; Mr. Scott, 867 ; rem.,
Mr. Cioran, Mr. Speaker, 448; Mr. Ross
45;emMrDSorn
1OTWET
5;rmM.Coi~
af~,M.D~d
1
';ýMr. Scott, 485; rem., Mr. Cioran, 522; Mr.
Choquette, Mr. Watson, 523; rem., Mr. MeMullen, 737; rem., Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Scott,
1098; rem., Mr. Landry, 1149; rem., Mr.

INFORMASUPPLYING
PARLIAMEI*%±:,
TION TO : M. to adjourn (Mr. Forguson>, PROCEIJURE, A QUESTION 0F: rem., Mr.
Landry, Mr. Béique, 949; Mr. Speaker, Mr.
109; rem., Mr. Scott, 1101; Sir IL CartPower, 950.
wright, 1101; Mr. Gibson, 1102; Sir M.
Bowell, Mr .Landry, 1103; M. withdn., 1105. PROROGATIO0N: rem., Mii'. Lougheed, M.
Scott, 1447; Sir M. BoweIl, 1448; rem., Mr.
POINT A COTE WHARF: inq., (Mr. Landry),
Lougheed, Mr. Scott, Mr. Landry, 1683; Sir
reply (Mr'. Scott), 1358.
M. Boweli, Mr. Power, 1684.
lPOINT 0F ORDER ON RESOLUTION RE
Mr. PUBLIC BILLS IN SENÂTE, INTRODUCMANITOBA BOUNDÂRIES : rem.,
TION 0P : inq. (Mr. Lougheed), reply (Mr.
Landry, 420; Mr. Scott, Mr'. Speaker. 425
Scott), 59; rem., Mr. Landry, Mr. Cioran,
Mr'. Speaker's ruling, 471.
Sir M. BowelI, Mr. Scott, Mr. Lougheed,
POINT 0F ORDER ON INQUIRY BY MR.
60, 61.
LANILY . rem., Mr'. Power, 877 ; Mr.
PUBLIC OW.NEILSHIP 0F PUBLIC UTILI.
Landry, 877; Mr. Choquette. 878; Mr'. Ellis,
TIES : M. (Mr. McMullen), 389; rem., Mr.
Mr'. Speaker, 879; Mr. Loughecd, Mr'. FerguCioran, 375; I)obate adjourned, 563; rem.
son, Sir M. Bowell, 880; Mr'. Speaker, 881.
Mr. Power, B54; Mr. Belcourt, 661; Mr'. Ross
POIINT OF ORDEIL ON SRUSWÂP & (Hialifax), 674; Mr. Mc8weeney, Mr. SulliTHOMPSON RIVER B. (49): rem.. Mr.
van, 675; Mr. McMuIien, 677; M. withdn.,
Landry, 1165; Mr'. Power, 1168; Mr. Korr,
679.
Mr. Ferguson, 1169; Mr'. Beiique, Mr'. Landi'y, PUBLIC PRINTING, DELAY IN : inq. (Mr.
1170; Mr'. Speakei"s ruling, 1171.
Landry), reply (Mr. Scott), 1653.
PRESS SUMMARY 0F DJiBATES:; rem., PULl> WOOD FROM CANADA, TIRE EXMr. Ferguson, 539; Mr. Scott, Mr. Power,
PORTI OF : M. (Mr. Faird), 836; rom.,
540.
Mr. Edwards, 841; Mr. MeMullen, 1379; Mr'.
,Bolduc, 1384; Mr. Ross (Middlesex), 1386.
PRINTING 0F JOUI4NALS 0F THE SENATE : inq. (Mr'. Landry), reply (Mr'. Scott), QUEBEC BRIDGE DISASTER : inq. (Mr.
74.
Landry), roply (Mr'. Scott), 295
PRINTING 0F PARLIÂMENT : M. to adopt QUEBEC BRIDGE COMPANY, PAYMENT
report (Mr'. Ellis), rem., Sir M. k5owell,
TO DIRECTORS OF : inq. (Mr'. Landry),
Mr'. Landrv, 781; M. agreed tc, 782; M. (Mr'.
roply (Mr. Scott), 779.
ElUis>, rem., Sir M. Bowell, 1060; Mi'. Fer(Mr'. La.ndry),
ànq.
IQU.EBEC BRIDGE:
guson, Mr'. Louglieed. 1061; M. agreed to,
reply (Mr'. Scott), 329.
1063.
inq. (Mr'. QUEBEC HAIZBOUR COMMISSIONERS:inq.
ON PAROLE :
i'RISO.NERS
(Mr. Landry), reply (Mr'. Scott), 904.
Landry), reply (M-'. Scott), 1552.
QUEBEC, LEASED GOVERNMENT LANDS
PRIVJLEGE, QUESTIONS 0F: ,rein., M'.
IN . M. (Mr'. Landry), 905.
MeSweeney, 84; Mr. Ponley, Mr. Cioran, 85;
Mr. Oibson, Mr. Ponley, 86; rem., Mr. QUEBEC, THE MILITIA AT : inq. (Mr.
Landry), repiy (Mr. Scott), 905.
Bostock, Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Scott, 122; Mr.
Loughoed, 123; Mr. Fergu son, Mr. Scott, QUEBEC TERMINUS COMMIT'PEE: inq.
Sir M. Bowell, 124; Mr. Power, Sir M
(Mr'. Landry), reply (Mr. 'Scott), 1056.
Bowell, 125; .Mr. -Soott, Mr. Cioran, 126;
QUEBEC BRIDGE COMPAN Y, GOVERNMr. Ferguson, 127; rem., Mn. Miller, 357;,
MENT LOAN TO:- inq. (Mr'. Landry), reMr. Speaker, Mr. Ellis, Mr. Ferguson, 360;
ply (Mr'. Scott), 61.
Sir M.
;
Mr. Watson, Mr. Poirier, 361

INDEX

XX
xxxiii

QUEBEC BRIDGUE ÂND RAILWAY COM- RIOSS RIFLE : inq. (Mr. Landvy), roply (Mr.
Scott), 45, 77, 618, 683, 816.
(Mr. Landry>, reply (Mr.
P'AN Y -inq.
Scott), 72, 82, 448, 469; inq. (Mr. Landry), RULES 0F THE SENATE. SUSPENSION
roeply i(M. SocttX, 736, 737, 816, 899, 900,
OF : M. (Mr. Douglas), 87; rem., Mr.
901, 902, 903, 927, 949, 1055, 1142, 1338, 1M9,
Power, Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Young, Mr.
1450, 1478; M. (Mr. Landry), 176.
Speaker, M. adjournod, 88.
QUEBEC TERCENTENARY :
inq. (Mr. RULES 0F THE SE.NÂT1E: rem., Sir M
Bowoll, 317; Mr. Speaker, 318; M. (Mr.
Landry), reply (Mr. Scott), 317, 898; inq.
Davis), 406; rom., Mr. Cioran, 407; amt.
(Mr. Lougheod), roply (Mr. Scott), 738; inq.
(Mr. Béiquo) 409; Mr. Forguson, Mr. Doug(Mr. Macdonald, B.C.), reoply (Mr. Scott),
las, 410; Mr. Gibson, 411; Mr. Cioran, 412;
Mr. Powor, 413; amt. to amt. (Mr. Power),
QUEBEC, LIEUTEN4ANT GOVERNORSHIP
414; Mir. Davis, Mv. Davud, 415; Mr. Kerw,
OF": inq. (Mr. Landry), reply (Mr. Scott),
Mr. Douglas, 416; Mr. Poirier, 417; Mr.
rom., Sir M. Bowell, 212; inq. (Mr. Landry),
Wilson, 418; amnt. of 1fr. Poiwer carnied
reply (Mr. Scott), 214.
(c. 34; n.c. 17), 420.
QUEBEC, REMOVAL 0F MILITARY HOS- SENATE, APPOINTMENTS TO THE: M.
PITAL IN :inq. (Mr. Landry>, reply (Mr.
(MT. Wilson), 212; M. (Mv. Domville>, 501.
Scott), 232, 273.
SELNAT£E DEBATES : M. (Mr. Wilson), 403;
M. agvood.to, 404; M. to adopt roport (Mr.
RLAILWAY' COMMIITTEE, MINUTES 0F:
M. (Mm. Landry), 542.
iléique>. rom., Mr. I>ower, Mr. Forguson,
1323; Six M. Bowell, 1324; Mr. Lougheed,
RAjILWAY CHARTERS. RENEWAL 0F:
Mr. Ross (Middlesex), 1825; Mr. Béique,
M. (Mr. Ross, Middlesex), 542; reply (Mr.
1327; M. agreod to, 1328; M to adopt report
S~cott), 544: rem., Mr. Casgrain, 545; Mr.
(Mrv. Béiique), îrem., Mr. Fergus<m, MT. L'inDavis, 546; Mr. Mchiullen, 547; Mr. Ker,
dry', 1685.
548; MSv. Domville, 519; Mr. Bostock, 550.
SENATE, EXPENDITURES 0F TLE : M.
RAILWAY COMMISSIONERS, JURISDIC(Mr. Power), rom., Sir M. Bowell, 851; M.
TION OF : M. (Mr. Ferguson), 793.
agreed to, 853.
REFORM 0F THE SENATE: M. (Mr. Me- SENATOR LOVITT, THE LATE : rom., Mr.
Mullen), 98; xom., Myr. Ross -(Middlesex), 103;
Scott, Mr. Loughoed, Mr. MeMullen, 818;
Mr. Coffey, 117; Mr. Davis, 177; Mr. _Ross
Mr. Domvillo, 819.
<(Halifax>,, 183; M. in aimt. .(Mr. David)
184, amt. to amt., Mr. Béique, 640; rem., SENATOIfS, NEW .
Mr. Comeau, 645; Mr. Wood, 648,
Mr.
lion. Napoléon A. Belcourt, 1.
M
Speaker, 729: Mfr. Perley. 741; T -r. Frost,
lion. Arohibald Campbell, 1.
745; Mr. Ells, 747; Mr. Boss (Middlesex),
Hon. Daniel Derbyshire, 1.
754; Mr. Sullivan, 774; M. and amt. withdn.,
SENATORIÂL DIVISIONS : M. (Mr. Boss,
777.
Middlesex), 1172; Mr. MeMullen, 1175; Mr.
ROYAL GRAIN COMMISSION4: inq. (Mr.
Lougheed, Mr. Ellis on pt. of order, 1176;
Ponley), 379;--repiy (Mr. Scott), 380, 469.
Mr. MoMulien, Sir M. Bowell, 1177; Mr.
Spoakov's vuliiig, 1178; Mr. Ross, Mr. ForguRiýEECTION 0Ol' BILLS BY TUE COMson, Mv. Joues, Mr. Frost, 1179; Mr. BorMONS : M. (Mr. Ross, Middlesox), 209.
nier, Mr. PI-ower, Mr. Boss, 1181; M. withdn.,
REVISED STATUTES, FRENCH EDITION
1182.
OF : inqi. (Mr. Landvy). xoply (Mr. Scott), sENATORS ANI)
MEM.BEIS 0F THE
484, 614, so1.
HJOUSE 0F COMMONS ÂPPOINTED TO
REPORTS TO TME SEN AIE, DELAY IN
SUBMITITING : rom., Mr. Boss (Middàlosox), 1393; Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Scott, 1594;
Mr. Loughoed, Mr. Powov, Mr. Forguson,
1395.
REPORTING SERVICE 0F TWO HOUSES,
CONSOLIDATION 0F : M. (Mr. Powor),
1510; M. agrood'to, 1511.
9022-C

OFFICE :

M. (Mr. Landry), 1358.

SHIBBUILDING INDUSTRIES 0F CANADA:- inq. (Mr. Domviflo), 846; reply (Sir
B. Cartwright), 850.
SPEECH FROM THE TIIRONE, 1, 1739.
S8T. JOHN ANI) HEAIFAX, TONNAGE AT:
M. (Mr. Domvîlio), 1202.

X,ýýzX!V

XXIVINDEX

STANDING COMMITTELS: M. to adopt report (Mr. <3ibson>, M. ini anit. (Mr. Douglas), 63; remn., Mr. Poirier, Sir M. Bowell,
Mr. Sullivan, 64; Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Power; M. in amt. (Mr. Deflouchervrille), rem., Mr. (*ibson, 66; Mr. Lougheed,
Mr. Power, Mr. Davis, 67; aint. rejected (c.
14, xi.C. 27), 68; rein., -SIT M. BOWeil,
Mr.. Sullivan, Mr. Ellis, 68; Mr. Poir.ier, MSr. Power, Mr. Speaker, amt. rulsd
cuit of order, 69; rein., Mr. Davis, 69,
Mr. Ross -(JILlifax), Mr. Wilson, M. agreed
t, ,70,
71; M. -(Mr. Ross, Middlesex), Mir.
Scott, JMr., Speaker, Mr. Miller, 346; Mr.
-Ross, '349; 'Mr. Y~ergu5on, Mr. Power, Mi:.
Landry, Mr. Speaker, 3.50; Mr. Ellis, Mr.
Bélique, 351; M. (Mr. Ross, Middlesex), 383;
oeem., Mr. Ross (Halifax), Mr. Sullivan, "98;
Mir. Scott, 399; Mr. Lougheed, 401; Mr. Béique, 403; Mr. Poirier, 761; Mr. Scott, 764;
Sir M. Bowell, 765; Mr. Cioran, 768; Mr.
Ross (Middlesex), 769; Mr. Scott, 772; Mr.
PIower, 773; M. carried as amended, 773.

ST. LA.WRENCE RIVER, NAVIGATION-0F
TIEE: M. (Mr. Landry), 231.
SUSPENSION 0F RLULES : M. (Mr. Davis>,
remn., Mr. Power, Mr. Wilson, Mr. Speaker,
62; Mr. Davis, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Wilson, 63.
SYDNEY STEEL WORKS STRIKE - inq.
(Mr. Landry), reply (Mir. Scott), 857.
TELEGRAPIL SISTEM 0F CANADA:- M.
(Mr. Davis), rein., Mr. Power, 332; Mr.
Davis, Mr. Lanciry, Mir. Ferguson, Mr.
Scott, Mr. Speaker, 3SU; M. ruled out of
order, 334; M. dropped, 652.
TORONTO, DESTITUTION IN :
Poirier, 21j.

remn., Mr.

TRAN SCON TIN ENTAL
RA1LWA Y COMMISSION :inq. <(Mr. Landry), reply (Mr.
Scott), 1148, 1149, 1230.
TRANSCONTINENTAL RA1LSVAY, ROUTES
0F VIE .
M. (Mr. Thoxupson), 335.

COMMSIIONERS,
t.RANSCONTINENTAL
STANDING RULES OF? THE SENÂTh : M.
PRIVÂTF CAR FOR:- inq. (Mr. Landry).
(ýLr. Comeau), remn., Mr. Scott, 137; Mr.. reply (Mr. Scott), 856.
Poirier, Mr. Lougheed, 138; Mr. Cioran, Mr.
Power, 139; Mir. Scott, 141; Mr. Ferguson, UNDER SECRETARIES IN CANADA, AP.
POINTAiENT 0F : M. (Mr. Ross, Middle142; Mr. Bernier, Mr. Edwards, 143, Mr.
sex), 187; remn., Mr. Scott, 203; Mr. LougKerr, 144; Mr. Cioran, 145; Mr. Casgrain,
heed, 206; Mr. MoMullen, 207; Mr. Power,
145; Mr. Belcourt, 146; Mr. Ross (Middle2qa; Mr. Power, 321; Sir Ai. Bowell, M2;
sex), 147;!Mr. Young, 148; Mr. Poirier, 149;
Mr. Macdonald (BiC.), 338; Ut. Ross <MidMir. Power, Mr. Landry, Mr. Kerr, 151;
dlesex), 339; Sir R. Cartwright, Ai. withdn.,
M. frjected (c. 23, n.c. 31), 152: M. (311%
345.
Douglas), 232; rein., Mr. Davis, Mr. Cioran,
2.34; Mr. Poirier, 236; Mr. I.andry, Wr. UNION JACK, HOISTING THE : rein., Mr.
Doinville, 237; Mr. Power, 239;
Sir M.
Doinville, b05; Air..Scott. Sir M. Bowell,
Bowell, Mr. Wilson, 241; (Mr. MoMullen,
Mr. Cioran, 906; M. to adjn. (Mr. Cioran),
Mr. Douglas, 242; M. rejected (o. 16, n.c.
907; Mr. Boss (Hlalifax), Mr. Doinville, M.
45), 244.
lost, 910.
ST. JOSEPBI, DRY

DOCK AT :

iuq. (Mr.

Landry), 71; reply (Mr. Scott), 72.

UNREVISED HIANSÂRD:- inq. (Mr. Long-

1heed), reply (Mr. Scott). 25.

