DEBATES
OP

THE S ENAT E
OP

THE

DOMINION 0F CANADA

1907-8
REPORTED AND EDITED BY

HOrILAN*TD

BROS.

Officiai Reporters of the 6Senate of Canada

ÉOURTHI SESSION--TENTH PAIRLIAM1ENT

VOL.

I.

OTTAWA
PRINTED BY S. E. DAWSON. FRINTER TO THE KING'S MOST
EXCELLENT MÂJESTY
1908

SENATORS 0F CANADA
ALPIIABETICAIL
At

LIST

SESSION, 1ot1h PARLIAMENT, 7t7h-8tk EDWARD VIIL

SENATOEB.

DESIGNATION.

POST OPPICE ADDRESS.

The Honourable
Victoria......Perth Centre, N.B.
Bedford.........Sweetsburg, Que.
MontreaL
De Salaberry ...
Bowmanville...Bowmanville, Ont.
St. Boniface...-St. Boniface, Man.
St. Victor de Tring, Que.
Lauzon ...........
Monte (Jreek, B.C.
Kamloops ........
Bosl'ooK, H ...............................
MontarviLle...Boucherville, Que.
BOIJOHEEVILLE, DE, C.E., O.M.G .............
Belleville, Ont.
BowinLL, (Sir Mackenzie), K.C.M.G........... Hap.tings .. .......
London, Ont.
C~AuR, , (Sir John), L.C.M.G...............
Ottawa.
Oxford.. .......
CART WRIGHT, (Sir Richard), G.C.M.G ........
Montreal.
De Lanaudière.
.........
CAsGRAiN, J. P. B .. ............
Quebce.
Grandville ........
CROQUETE, P. A...........................
Montreal.
Victoria ...........
CIORANe, H. J..... ........................
London ... ..... .. London, Ont.
CoFFET, T......... .......................
Meteghan River, N.S.
Digby County ...
ComnAu, A. H ...... j........... ...........
Victoria, N.B..Ednîunaton, N.B.
COSTIGAN, J............................
Toronto .... ....... Toronto.
...................
Cox, G. A .. ..........
Montreal.
De Lorimier ....
DANmuBÂND, R. (Speaker) ...................
...... .. Mille Uleo...-.....Montreal.
...........
DÂvmD, L. O .........
Prince Albert...Prince AÂlbert, Saskatchewan
........
DAvis, T. O .....................
St. Hyacinthe, Que.
Rougemont ........
-...........
DEsSAuLEs, G. C...............
.Lethbridge, Alberta.
......... Lethbridge .......
,Dz VEBER, L.....................
Rothesay, N.B.
Rothesay .........
..........
DoMvrnrt, J.....................
Tantallon. ý..... .. Tantallon, .Sak.
DouGAi.s, J. M.............................
Montreal.
Kennebec ........
DRumMtOND, (Sir G. A.), K.C.M.G .........
EDWARDS, W. C ...........................
Ruuel........ockland, Ont.
St. John, N.B.
St. John ..........
...........
ELLIS, J. V ....................
.. Charlottetown, P.E.I.
Queen'a ........
FERGusoN, D...............................
Gulf.............. RimouRki,_Que.
FisETr, J. B. R ............................
Screl. .... ........ Montreal.
........
.........
FORGET, L. J............
Leeds and Grenville. Smîth'a Falls.
... .... ........
FR08?, F. T ..............
Lincoln ... ...... .. Beamasville, Ont.
..... ....... ............
GIRSoz, W ....
St, George, N.B.
St. George .........
....... ............
..........
QILLMoB, D.
St. François, Beauce,',que.
La Salle ...........
...
GOD)BOTJT, J ...........................
Toronto, Ont.
Toronto ...........
JAFFRAT, R ...............................
Toronto ............ Toronto, Ont.
L. MF.LviN..............................
Jo-,zs,
Toronto, Ont.
.... ...... ... Toronto ..........
KICRU, J. K........ .........
Chipman, N.B.
Queen's . .........
KING, G. G..............................
...............
KiRCERHoFFEcR, J. N .........
Candiac, Que.
..... Stadacona .........
.........
LANDET, P .................
Repentigny......Loujeevifle, Que.
... .................
LEGRis, J. H .........
Calgary .... ...... Calgary, Alberta.
LOUGMERD, J. A ....... ...... ............
... Yarmiouth, N.S.
Yarmiouth ......
.....
LoviTr, J ... ... ..... .. ...........

...................
BAiRD, G. T..........
.................
BAKEzR, G. B .............
............
BÉiquE, F. L ..................
... ........
B=TH, R .....................
BEENIEB. T. A ............................
BOLDDtJ J....................

.odn..

SENATORS 0F CANADA

iv

SENATORS.

DESIGNATION.

POST OFFICE ADDRESS.

The Honourable
MACDONALD,

A. A ..................

MACDONALD, W. J .. ...............

......
........

Charlottetown... Charlottetown, P. E. 1.
... Victoria, B.C.
Victoria ........

Alma ..... .... .. Montres].
Cape Breton... Halifax.
Cape Breton ...
Little Glace Bay, N. S.
MCDONALD, W .... ....................
New Glasgow, N. S.
...New Glasgow. .
............
......
MoGHEaoR, J. D ........
Victoria, O...
Lindsay, Ont.
McHuaa, G .............................
Truro .. .........
Truro, N.S.
MOKÂr, T ......-...
..........
.............
Pertb, Ont.
Perth. ...........
... ....
....
..............
MCLAREN, P ......
Ajexandria, Ont.
....
..... Alexandria ....
MOMILLAN, D.....................
North Wellington ... Mount Forest, Ont.
MOMULLEN, J ... ... .... ................
Northumberland .... Monct in, N.B.
.... ..... .. .....
MCSWEEFNEY, P .. ........
New flamburg ... Berlin, Ont.
..
MaRNER, S .. .........................
Richmond ........
Arichat, N. S.
s....
MILLER, W................... .... ...
Wellington...
Drummond ville, Que.
.... ....
MITCHELL, WV.... ...............
Shawinega ...
Tbree Rivera, Que.
...
MonîÂcAia, H .... ....................
Inkermnan
Montres].
..............
OWENS, W ............
WVoli;eley.....
Wolseley, Saskatchewan.
PERLai-, W. D..... ........................
...
Acadie..
Shediac, N.B.
.... .. ..........
POIRIER, P ................
Hlalifax...... ....
Halifax, N.S.
PowER, L. G(...............................
Victoria, B.C..
. Victoria, B.C.
...........
....
RILET, G .................
P. E. Island... Montague, P.E.I.
]ROBERTSON, J. E ...........................
Regina............ Monte Jaw, Saakatchewan.
.....
Rasa. J. Hl... .....................
Victoria, N.S ...
Halifax, N.S.
Rosa, W ..................................
Toronto, Ont.
... Middlesex......
Rosa, G. W ................
Edmnonton...
Edmnonton, Alberta.
ROY, P ....................
*................»'
Ottawa ..........
Ottawa.Quebec.
Laurentides ...
SHEHIYN, J.................................
Kingston..... .... Kingston,'Ont.
.. . ...
........
SULLIVAN, M. ............
Lacombe, Alberta.
Lacotube ........
..............
TÂLEoT, P ..................
.. De la Durantaye... Quebee.
TEaSIER, JULES ........
..... ...............
Montreal.
.. ... ... De la Vallière...
TRIBAUDEAU, A. A ...............
Montreal.
..... Rigaud ..........
TRIRAUDEAU, J. R....................
Frederictoxi, N. B.
Fredericton ...
........
TRompsoR, F. P ....... .. .........
Portage la Prairie ... Portage la Prairie, Man.
WATSON, R................................
St, Thomnas, Ont.
St. Thomas ....
............
WKSBoN, J. H .. .............
Sackville, N.B.
We8tmoreland
WOOD, J........................
East Prinice ....
Port Hill, P.E.T.
......... .................
YEO, J..
.........
Kiilarney ..... .... Killarney. Man.
YouNO, F. M ..............................
MACKAY, R.......................

MÂcKEEN, D .. ...........................

.. .. .....

TUE DEBATES
OF THE

~SE

0F CANADA

NATE

IN( TE

FOURTH SESSION 0F THE TENTH PARLIAMENT 0F CANADA, ÂPPOINTED
MEET FOR THE DESPATCH 0F BUSINESS ON THURSDAY, THE TWENTYEIGHTH DAY 0F NOVEMBER, IN THE SEVENTH YEAR 0F

TO

THE REIGN 0F

1-IS

MAJESTY

KING

THE SENÂTE..
OTTÂwA, Thursday, I'ýovember 28, 3»07.

The Sente met at 2.30 p.ni.
NEW SENATORS INTRODUCED.
Hon. Mr. Belcourt, Hait. Mr. Campbell,
Hon. Mr. Derbyshire.
The Senate adjourled during pleasure.
THE SPEECHE

PROM THRE THRONE.

At Tliree o'clock, p.m., His Excellency tue
Governor General proceeded In state ta the
Senate Chamber and taok bis seat upon the
Throne.
The senators belng assembled, His Excellency was pleased ta command the attendance of the House of Commous and.
that House belng present, His Excellency
w-as pleased ta open the Fourth Session of
the Tenth Parliament of the Dominion of
Canada wlth the following- speech ta bath
Hanses:
Honourable Gentlemen of the Seiate:
Gentlemen of the Bouse oy Commrons:
In again meeting you at a period of the
year most convenient for the despettch of busi-

EDWVARI)

VIIL

ness, it gives me great pleasure ta be able ta
congratulate yau on the remarkable expansion of the trade of Canada with other canatries, the tatal trade of the past year far exceeding that of any of its predecessors. A
gratifying resuit of this expansion was that
the revenue of the lest fiscal period of aime
months was mare than sufficieut ta meet expenses an Consolidated Fund, National Transcontinental Railway, Capital and Special outlays, ail expenses of the Dominion of every
kind, and leave a balance of vare three mil-_
lion dollars ta be applied in reduction of the
public debt.
The stream of immigrants comîng ta Canada continues ta increase in volume, the year
naw drawing ta a close showing a larger nuraber than any preceding yeur, and it is gratifying ta observe the many coming from the
British Isles.
The Dominion has been blessed by a long
series of prosperous years, and, though at the
present moment its business is being restricted by the financial stringency which prevails
throughout the world, I feel assured that this
unfavourable condition wiil be temporary and
that the illimitable resaurces of Canada and
the world-wide recognition of them give us
ample guarantee of continued material progress.
The conference held. in London in the months
of April and May last between the govern-

SEýNAIE
ment of the United Kingdom and the governments of the British Dominions beyond the
seas satisfactorily deait with maniy subjects
in which the empire at large is interested. A
copy of the minutes of theiproceedings will be
laid before you.
Two of my ministers, duly authorized by
His Majesty for the purpose, and acting' in
conjunction with Ris Majesty's ambassador at
Paris, have recently negotiated a convention
with the government of the Frenchi Republie
respectîng the commercial relations betwaen
France and Canada, subjeot, however, to the
approval of the French Chambers and the
Canadian Parliament. A copy of this convention will be submitted to you immediately
and you will be asked to give it your sanction.
The government of Newfoundland having
become involved in a controversy with the government of the United States as to the true
meaning of article 1 of the convention respecting fisheries, concluded in the year 1818
between the United Kingdom. and the United
States, and Canada being also interested in
the question at issue, my government has
joined with the government of Newfoundland
in an agreement to, refer ail matters of difference arising under said article 1 to the Hague
Tribunal.
The difficnlty of obtaining labour and materials at a time of great business activity
lias somewhat retarded the construction of the
National Transcontinental Railway. Neyer.
theless great progress has been made both on
the eastern division and on the prairie section
of the western division. A section of the latter of about two hundred and flfty miles has
been available for handling the trafflo of the
present season. Contracts for the portion of
the prairie section west of Edmonton are
about te be let, and immediate steps will be
taken for the commencement of work at both
the eastern and western ends of the mountain division.
Thus, in a very short time,
the whole work fromn Moncton to the Pacific
ocean will be under vigorous construction.
The unexpected influx of immigrants from
orientai countries into, British Columbia
A
aroused a strong feeling of opposition.
member of my government lias been deputed
te proceed to Japan to confer with the Japanese government on this subject.
The sudden and unexpected collapse of the
great cantilever bridge in course of construction across the St. Lawrence, in the vicinity
of Quebec, may be regarded as a national
calamity and the event lias evoked mucli sorrow for the lives which were loat on that
occasion. A commission has been appointed

to inquire into the causes which led to the
disaster. When received, the report of the
commission will be laid before you. It will be
necessary to devise means for the completion
of the bridge within a reasonable time.
It is most gratifying te find thai, notwithstanding the large reductions of postal rates,
which have been made, the revenue of the
Post Office Departmnent lias continued to increase rapidly. The large receipts of this
branch of the government business will enable
the department te, make still more liberal
provision for the extension of postal facilities
throughout the Dominion.
The time bas arrived when the public interest requires that telegraph and telephone
companies holding federal charters should be
placed under government control. A Bill will
be introduced for that purpose.
Gentlemen of the House of' Commons:
The public accounts for the nine montha
ending Mardi 31 last will be laid before you
without delay.
The estîmates for the coming fiscal year wvill
be submitted for your approval at an early
date.
Honou,-able Gentlemen of' the Senate:
Gentlemen of' the House of Gommons:
Âmong the measures te be submitted to you
is a Bill for the extension of the boundaries
of Manitoba and of other provinces ; also a
Bull to provide for the issue of Government
Annuities for old age ; a Bill respecting Insurance; and Bills to amend the Election Act
and the Dominion Lands Act.
I commend to your thoughtful consideration
the several subjecte te whioh I have referred
and I trust that in your deliberations you
may be guided by Divine light.
His Excellency the Governior General was
pleased to retire, and the House of Comînons
withdrew.
The Senate was resumned.
BILL INTRODUCED.
An Act respectlng Rallways.Bill<
Hon. Mr. Scott.
The Senate ndjourued until Mouday next
at 3 p.m.

DECEMBER 2, 19073
is just and proper that the first words
THE SENATE.
whicb I have the honour to aiddress to this
OTTAWA, Monday, December 2, 1907.
honourable House shaUl be lu my mother
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Thrce tongue and the language of those of n'y
feilow countrymen whom I arn cafled upon
o'clock.
to represent more particulariy in the Senate.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
For tbem and for myseif I hasten to express n'y profound gratitude and my own
THE FPISIERTES QUESTION.
appreciation of the honour which bas been
done then' as weii as myseif by the goveruINQUIRY.
Hon. 'Mr. ýLOUGHB1ED---Is my élion. ment of the Right Hon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier
friend the Secretary o! State in a posi- ia choosing one of then' to replace In the
tion to lay on the table the correspondence Senate the Hon. Charles Eusèbe Casgrain,
between the Imperial authonities, -New- the first Frenchi Canadian senator coming
foundland and Canada. as to the submis- fron' Ontario, and who through twenty
sion to the Hague Conference of the fisher- years occupied a seat i this Chamber with
sncb dignIty and se honourably. -My preles question?
decessor entertalned a hlgh conception of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know that the great honour and real Importance of
there is realiy any correspondence. There the position of a senator, and he aise diswas an inquiry fron' Newfounddiand whe- cbarged In a perfect manner the duties
ther we would concur with them Iu sub- and the responsibilities which that position
mitting the case, and I replied at once that imposed. It shall be n'y ambition that
we would.
Whatever papers there are some day I-sha.l menit a eulogy as sincere
wiI be brought dowu. I think there are and as just as that. which I arn pleased to
only one or two letters on the subject. address to bis memory.
Wbatever there ls 1 will have brouglit
I aise owe thanks to the hon. leader of
down.
this House for the honour conferred In inviting me to propose the address in repiy
THE ÂDDRFISS.
to the speech whIch His Excellency made
MOTION.
at the opening of this session-and I arn
impelled to say how I have been moved and
The Order o! the Day being called:
Consideration of Ris Exceilency the Gaver- gratifled at the generous and cordial weinon General' 8 Speech on the opening ai the come which I have received frein the hon.
Fourth Session of the Tenth Pariament.
members of this House, a welcome 'which
Hon. Mn. BELCOURT-Hon. gentlemen. bas been accorded me above ail for the
One of the principal features of the organle reason to which I have made allusion, and
law of this parliament decrees that Its pro- aise a littie, at least I trust I rnay be perceediugs shall be conducted in one or the mitted to believe, because I have had the
other language spoken by the two grat good fortune to ba known to ail of yofl
elemeuts of our population, and the custon' sud to have shared with you, though in the
sanctioned by constant usage since coufe- other Chamber, for a grat many years, the
deration provides that the Indispensable work o! the Canadian parliament.
The speech fron' the Throne this year, ls
function which marks the commencement
of aach session, the address In reply to the singuiarly remarkabie, and bas, I arn cerspeech from the Throne, shail ha aither tain, already elicited throughout the counproposed or seconded in the French lan- try, sentiments of very lively satisfaction
and profound thanks, tirst and above ail, te
guage.
I should. lass than anyone aise, rnake an Divine Providence, who has so generously.
exception te the law and dIsregard the treated our beautiful country for so many
custom'. because I am' pleased to recognim, years, and particularly duning this which
the fact that n'y elevation to the Sanate ls will soon end, and also to the excellent
a tribute to the French alement o! Ontario, government which bas so 'wiseiy and pamore than a recognition o! n'y past ser- trioticaily *made fruitful the abundant
vices and n'y feebie merits. Therefore, it benevolence o! the Universal Giver. We

SEINATE
e

cannot ail], any more in this place than
outside, entertain the saine appreelation of
the works and achievements of the present
governiment, but there Is one thL.ng that
here, as wvell as elsewhere, no one can reasonably deny to this goverument; that Is,
that under their administration, public affairs have grown and prospered in a manuer, flot only unprecedented and unexpected,
but also most remarkable. The constant
growin.g expansion of our commerce sInce
the advent of tbe Laurier governmeut bas
reached. sucli a figure that the receipts of
the public treasury for the last nine xnontbs
are sufficlent to cover the expenditures from
the consolidated fund, for the National
Transcontinental Rallway, expenses on account of capital, speclal. services, and al[
other disbursements of the country, leaving
a surplus o! $3,O00,00 applicable to a reduction of the public debt.
Tliese eloquent words of the represen tative of His Majesty, founded on the unanswerable argument of figures, establishes
at the saine time tbe measure o! our promperity and the mead of pralse wbich the
government bas a rlgbt to expect for the
accompllshment of that happy resuit. Further comment on my part could ouly diminlsh the real force of the irst part of the
speech from the Throne.
The country lias a rlght to hope that the
government wnul appreciate that this great
expansion, this unexampled development o!
our wealth, of our Industries and of onr
commerce, imposes new obligations, greater
resposibilities and a redoubling of energy
and of vigilance and of uew efforts, and 1
do flot thlnk 1 am violating tradition or
conventionalities la affirming that the record
of the present goverument Is such that the
country may entertain the hope that they
wlll not fail to assure us of a continuation
of our material progress.
The constantly lncreaslng volume o! immigration suitable to the needs, to the abilities and to the aspirations o! the Canadian nation constitutes a legItimate subject
of rejoicing aud will contribute In a large
measure to the development and the general progress of the couutry, and the problem wbich present itself of peopllug our
vast domains yct unexplored maises at present as it probably will lu years to corne.
new difficulties. there is good ground to lieHon. Mr- BELCOURT.

lieve that the genius of our people, their
ambition and their patriotism will prevail
and easily fiud a solution. Thius the present mission of the hon. Postmaster Generalto Japan wlll have, we can believe, for
a result the disappearance of the uneasiness
created by the opposition o! our fellow citizens in British Columbia to the entra nce of
certain orientais into their province.
His Exceilency informs us that the disputes between the United States. and Newfoundlaud concerulug fisbery rights, rights
and disputes which lnterest Canada, have
been submlitted to the tribunal o! the Hague.
A wise diplomacy, let us hope, wll inspire
that great peace tribunal to lItnd en equltable and just solution of the rival contentions raised by that incident.
Ail classes o! our soclety have learned
with great satisfaction that the postal revenues, as wne are told by His Excellency the
Goveruor Geueral, have continued to rapidly
increase. They wUll see Ini that Increase
not only proof of excellent management of
that Important brandi of our public administration, but also a corroboration of other
and numerous proofs of our prosperity, aud
at the samne time reason to belleve that the
government will proceeà stili further wlth
a view to glvlng us a reduction lu the cost
0f postal communication.
Not less gratifyîug Is the annouincement
made to us that the work o! construction on
the National Transcontinental Reilway bas
been prosecuted as rapidly as possible, notwltbstandlug the dlfficulty of procurlng
labourers aud materlals. and that there are
already' In operation 250 miles of that great
artery o! Iron which wlll soon blnd the
coasts o! -the Atlantic to those of the Pacifie,
sud which wvill furnish us an efficaclous
means of providing, at least lu a large degree. for the urgent necessities of our material development
There Is also reason to believe that the
govemumneut 0f the day, conscions of the
const. ntly iucreasing commercial exîgencies of the country, sud auxious to assure
Its prosperlty by utllizing ail its natural
resources, will give its earuest and most
serions consideration to the projected Georgian Bay canal. to which, in the interests
of the country as well i, of the capital1
wbich I have had the honour to represent
ln the Commons for nearly3 tnwelvel Years.I

DECEMBER 2, 1907
ln ail Viat which
feit it my duty to consecrate the greater the most complete liberty
and its own affaire,
interests
part of my time and of my efforts. In my concernas Its
the exercise of tbe right
view the canalization of the Ottawa la a and tbey look upon
of commerce, as
absolutely Indispensable for our coin- of negotiating their treaties
work
pro- a right which bas been freely, conceded to
merce, for the transportation of tbe
circumetances, as the emducts of our vast field in the west and tbe then' under the
phatic consecration of their national autodevelopment and the progress of tbe country,
and it is the only means by Whicb we can nomy.
But the Imperial conference which preassure ourselves of the supremacy ln the
of the Amen- ceded by some weeks oniy the negotiation
transportation of the products
had for its principal resuit
can continent to whicb 'we are entitied by of the treaty,
of
waterways, Vie Vie establisbment of the real existence
reason of our magnificent
and furnisbed Vie means, as
St. Lawrence and Vie Ottawa, and our our autonomy,
weil as Vie occa*sion, to proclaim It with
proximlty to the great ports of Europe.
Through our eloquent and
If 1 bave allowed myseif to cbange Vie solema sanction.
repre- fully autborized representatIve, Vie first citiorder of the speech of His Majesty's
Canada rcfused to
sentative, ln order to analyze It, however zen of Vie Dominion,
If 1 mix hersoif la Vie affaira o! the United
imperfectly 1 bave presented it, and
claimlng for herseif comnhave reserved to Vie end my views of Vie Klngdom, whilst
plete liberty of action; this sbould. be for
paragraphs of Vie speech which relate fo
a subject of satisfaction and reVie Imperial con! erence and Vie negotia- ail of us
jolcing. It should be for ail of us a subject
tion of a treaty between France and CanViat the conference. bas
ada, It is Vint, ln n'y humble judgment these of gratification
to consecràte and proclaima ln a
paragraphs forre Vie most Interesting part, served
as explicit, Vie blesslng
Vie niost important and Vie moat encoura- manner as solemn
autonomy whlch a group
ging lin a speech s0 f ull of interest and o! our national
and badly advised citizens
hope. Tbe news Vint Vie Canadian gov- of uneniightened
curtalled.
had, Virough Vie Finance Minister appeared wlllng to bave
erament
Tbe pariament of Canada, in affirming its
wiVi
sud Vie Minister of Marine, negotiated
Its gratitude for Vie firm, dlgVie goverament o! Vie Frencb Republic a approvai and
nlfied and eigbtened. attitude of Its repretreaty la vîrtue o!. whicb our commercial
Imperial conference wouid
relations witi France wlll be greatly facili- sentative at Vie
only be faithfuiiy interpreting Vie views of
tated bas been welcomed with general
of confederatioli. Everysatisfaction. Everyone sees in Vint Impor- ail Vie inhabltants
body ttiroughout Canada bas applauded Vie
tant event an immedlate consequelice, a
manner ln which our represenhappy resuit of Vie entente cordiale towards admirable
acquitted hlmself on Vie difficult
which His Majesty, our Illustrious King, tative
mission which had been confided to bim at
bas so largely contrlbuted.
conference, of wbich It la
This treaty and Vie more direct and fre- the Imperlal
more strictly true to say Vint he was Vie inspiring
quent Intercourse and consequeiitly
sure guide and Vie directing
amicable relations wbich will flow from it, genlue, the
Vie material progress of force.
will contribute to
The brilliant picture whlch His ExcelVie parties Immediately interested, and will
Vie lency submaits to us would not be a con'serve at Vie same time to draw dloser
not contain a shaties of friendship and sympaViy 'whlch Vie> plete painting If It did
dow, and la Vie recital of Vie strlkiIig evente
alliance of France and Engl-and bave
of Vie year 1907 we would have feit Viat
created.
King
This new treaty of commerce constitutes Vie speech of Vie represents-tive of the
effect o! Vie T%,ould. bave been defective if It bad not
equal proof of Vie very real
entente cordiale, and Vint it has already memntion of the great disaster, the
produced tangible resuIt.
ae
L
of Vi Quebec bridge and Vie terrible
Canadians belleve firmly that their îoyalty f a]ling
of hf e whicb resulted Vierefron'. It
to the British crown is in no wise Incompa- loss
is to be hoped tlîat Vie lose caused to the
tible wlth their desire and their determinaas wel as to Vie familles of the
tion to maintain and assure to Vie Dominion country,

SENATE
unbappy victinos, will be repaired as promptly and couapletely as possible.
His Excellency indicates the subjects on
which w-e shall be asked to legisiate. My
duty for the. present should bie llmlted to
expressing a certainty that these Important
subjects wll recelve the most serious and
careful consideration of ail of us.
One word more, and 1 shall cease to
abuse your very complacent: Indulgence.
The speech of His Excellency, the Governor
General, w-i contribute, I cannot doubt, to
strengthen the attachment of the Canadian
people to their national.*
Institutions. It
wlU niake us better appreciate the great
resources and national advantages of our
beautiful country. It wll serve to increase
the confidence of ail ln the present, as well
as in the future; It will inspire us to new
energy, and encourage new efforts; It wll
pow-erfully contribute to the growth and the
propagation of a sound, virile and permanent national sentiment It wll enllbten
our patriotism, and aid us ln tbe task wblch
devolves upon Canada of glvlng modern
democratic Institutions the most complete
and happy development of wbich they are
susceptible.
May 1 bie permitted to furtber trespass
upon your Indulgence, but for one moment
only. to enable me te express ln Engllh,
my sense of gratification and gratitude for
the cordial nnd generous welcome extend ed
to nme upon my entering tbis bonourable
Rouse. and the hope that I may always se
conduct myself as to deserve your welcoineand justify the cholce that bas been maï<of me as one of your colleagues. 1 move,
seconded by the hon. Mr. Camnpbell,
That the following address be presented to
Ris Excellency the Governor General, to offer
the humble thanks of this House to Ris Excellencv for the sagacious Speech which. he has,
been p'Ieased to make to both flouses of Parliament, namelyTo Ris Excellency the Right Honourable
Sir Albert Henry George, Earl Grey, Viscount Howick, Baron Grey of Howick, in the
County of Northumberland, in the Peerage of
the United Kingdom, Baronet, Knight Grand
Cross of The Most Distinguished Order of
Saint Michael and Saint George, &c., &c., Governor General of Canada.
Ma:r it please Your Excellency:
Wýe, Ris Majesty's most dutiful and loyal

Hon.
great

Mr.

CAJMPBJELL-4

pleasure

in

seconding

have
Ufhe

rery
muotion

which bas been made by my hon. friend
from Ottawa.
Rle bas presented the subject in such an-able and eloquent manner
that It wll not be necessary for me to trespass upon your time for more tban a few
minutes.
1 have had the honour of listening to and taklng part ln the discussion of
.many speeches delivered by Ris Excellency
in years past at thec openînig of î'arliauient,
but I do not call to mmnd any occasion
when a speechb was presented w-hich
brought forward for discussion so many
and so Important subjects as the one now
before us.
His Excellency has drawn to
our attention subjects that wll require the
ver!y best consideration of parliament.
The great expansion of the trade and
commerce of the country, the wonderful increase la the Immigration to Canada, the
recent treaty made w-itb France, the progress made la constructlng the Transcontinental Railway, tbe Immigration from oriental countries, the great increase la the
post office revenue, as well as the new
measures w-hlch are promlsed ini this
speech are subjects of such importance as
bas rarely been presentedl to parliament,
and which 1 beileve wiil recelve the greatest attention of hon.. members of this
House.
îjt Is on*iy natural tbat Ris Excellency should refer wlth pardonable
pride to tbe wonderful increase ln the trade
I arn
and commerce of this Dominion.
sure it must be gratifying to every menober, not only of this bonourable Senate but
also to every true citizen of Canada, w-berever be uiay reside, to see the wonderful
progress that our country bas been makîng.
We can ail see evidences of this great progress and prosperity, but It is only w-ben
we corne to digest the cold facts as presented to us iu tbe Trade and Navigation
Returns, and compare themu with former
years and other countries, tbat we can
grasp tbe full meanîng of the great proIf we go
gress tbat Canada bas made.
back. a few years, w-e w-il find that ln
1886 tbe foreiga trade of Canada w-as onlY
Ten years aftcrwards It bad
$189,000,000.
grown by $50.000.000, w-heu it w-as $23!9,000,.

subjects, the Senate of Canada in Parlianient 000 and muethinks I1 can still hear thic voice
assernbled, beg leave to offer our humble of the late Finance Minister of Canada rethanks to Your Excellency for the gracious sounding througb the halls of the other
Speech whjch. Your Excellency bas addressed
chamiber w-len hie pictureci the g-reat pros.
ta bath flouses of Parliament.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT.

DECEMBER 2, 1907
Verity Canada had experienced in those ten 1886, on every $100 o! goods that came into
years, $5,000,000 * f an annual i ncrease iu this country, whether free or dutiable, the
trade, and he attributed this wonderful average rate of duty was $19.50 paid Into
In 1896
prosperity to the wlse administration of the treaaury o! the -Dominion.
the goverument of that day.- What are the rate was $18.28, but this year we have
we to thlnk now when we find that lu the reduced the rate to an average o! $15.66.
last ten years the trade of Canada lbas in- Iu other words, If we had to-day the same
creased flot; five or ten or twenty or thirty rate o! duty that prevalled lu 1M9 the
million dollars, but nearly thirty-4our ml- people of Canada would be icoutrlbutlug
lion dollars every siugle year that this gov- over elght million dollars more ou the
Last year, gooda that they are lmportlng than they
ernment -bas been lu power.
closing the eleventh of the administration uow coutribute, and that la the reaaou
of affaira by the preseut goverumeut, we why we have llghteued the burdens o! the
find that the forelgu trade of Canada had people.
We have removed the barriers
grown from $239,000.000 to no lesa than from trade and commerce, and as a conse$617,000,000, an increase over the trade of quence the trade o! this country la going
1906 of $67,000,000, and still the limît has ahead at a rate neyer dreamed o! before.
flot beeu reaéhed. lu the îast four months The people are lu a better position to purof this present year our trade waa ai
chase and they are buying goods becanse
bounding forward and should it contiuue they want them, and because the duty
in the same ratio -until the end of the they have to pay on them la so much leas.
ifnancil year will show a trade o! over His Excelleucy tells us that lu the laat
Where la there any other nine montha we have. been able flot only
$700,000,000.
country in the wlde world tbat eau show to carry on the great public works o! the
progress like that? Go tu the United Dominion and puy ail the expenses of
States with ail their boasted wealth and every klnd o! this country, but we have
power and Immense undertakînga and you put asîde over three millions of dollars
ftnd that their trade la only about thirty for the reductlon o! the public debt. Could
odd dollars per head, whlle In thia conn- there possly be a more gratl fylng statetry, witli its magnificent resources that we -ment submltted to any parliament than
are only beglnning to realize the extent o! that? I venture to say that neyer before
the trade la over one hundred dollars a In the hlstory of thia country bas such, a
head for every man, woman and child lu gratifying state of affaira been ahown to
This remarkable lucrease exiat as that whloh prevails at the prethe Dominion.
of trade naturally and rightly cails for sent trne.
His Exceilency very rightly
comment by His Excellency la the speech refera to this wlth pardonable pride.
fromi the Tbrone. Gratifyilg as It la. it
He refera aiso to the great lucrea>3e lu
shows also that the revenue of thîs counThat la a prpblem that we
Immigration.
try bas gone up by leaps and bounds. It
We possess millions o!
have to solve.
la exceedingly gratlfylng, especlally at thia acres of land ln our great Northwest and
partîcular time ln the hlstory of our counwe. have in the uorthern portion 0fý Ontry, when we are enterlng upon large extarlo and Quebec vat riches whlch have
peuditures, wlae expenditurea 1 beileve, lu flot yet been uacovered.
We are only
deepeulng our harboura and lmprovlng our
*beginulug to realize the enormous wealth
transportation facililties-In building transWe want people from
of these regions.
- continental rallways, and a hundred and every land under the suu to corne lu here
one other Important public worka whlcli tol heip to bear the burdeu of developiag
the country requirea and demands lu order and building up the 'Dominion.
it la exto keep pace with the times, that we have ceedingly gratlfying to us to know that
a revenue to meet ail these expenditures
e
"i
o-_gao
gh1Mty s
without having to borrow lu the markets w-e
o! the old country as we formerly dld. Not formerly flowed to the UJnited iStates has
oniy that, but our revenue bas been lu- at last turned to the Dominion o! Canada
creasing without lmposing additional bur-' and la lncreasing ln volume until wlthln
dens on tlie people-in fact there bas been the ten montha endlng the 31st o! Octolu ber last no lesa than 254,077 immigrants
a reduction in the rate of taxation.

SIENATE
'came Into Canada, an lacrease of 59,103
over the number who came ln the corresponding ten months of the prevlous year,
and what la very gratifylng indeed to
know la that over 40 per cent of these
corne frorn the British empire.
If the
saine ratio of increase is continued untii the end of-the year, nearly 300,000 peopie wifl have corne into the country ta
seUle.
Grattfying as that la, it leada us
ta consider the obligations which thia Influx of population throws upon us.
Those
people corne flot only from the British empire and the United *State8, but rrom
France, .Gerrnany, Holland, ecandinavia
and other -European countries. They speak
different languages and hold different religiaus views.
Sorne of thern are Ignorant, and bave preconcelved class prejudices
with littie conception of what free Institutions mean, and little realizatlon of the
fact that citizenship carnles witb it duties
and responsibilities as well as privileges.
What are our duties towards these people?
We must assirnilate that vast and diverse
mass of population and iake them loyal
not only f0 Canada but to the empire.
They corne frein different countnies, have
grown up under different laws and institutions, and they 'naturally look back ta
the land of their binfli, the home of their
fathers andtheir owa childhood. witb fond
recollections, and in the words of one of
iSotland's noblest poets may exclairn.
Land of my sires what mortal hand can e'er
untie,
The filial band that kaits me to the rugge1d
strand.
Whiile we cannot lielp ont admire their
love and devotion ta the land of thieir
birth, at the samne time If la our duty ta
impress upon fhem the advantages of aur
country and our free Institutions, and make
of fhem loyal citizens of Canada and of
the British empire. If is of course only
natural and night that aur deepest layalty
should be ta the land we live ln, and whiie
we rejoice ln aur heritage of British institu±ionts, yet the memorles of the past will
suffice ta solve the 'widely differeut problems of the future.
His Excellency also refers ta the freaty
wvith France. I do iiat Iznaof any more
important snhject that can engage tlic attention of ftic Hanse than this treaty.
We
have done a considerable trade wlvth
France.
ln 1896-it amnnted ta nearly
1-Lyni M~r. CAIIEL

ten million dollars.
In 1907 it w-as
eleven million dollars, but unfortunately
l'or Canada if consîsted largely of Importafions frorn France.
In 1906 we Imported fromn France $7,698,000 and we exportcd
to France $2,120,000. ,Last ycar tae imports fram France were $9,273,517, while
aur experts were only $1,757.786.
Sa
tat bon. gentlemen w-i see thaf while
the aggregate trade w-as incrcaslng, aur
exporta ta 'France were declining. Under
the treaty w-hich is ta came before us for
consideration, althaugli wc have not had
time yet to digest and consider It, I believe
the trade w-i be largely changed and that
'wc will selI more of aur -products te
France.
There Is no daubt that the trade
w-il1 be mutually beneficial ta the republic
and ta aur 0w-n country, and rny hope and
expectafian is that a great rnany of aur
maaufacturcd as w-cil as of aur raw produets wll find taeir w-ay ta France under
the benefits of the treaty, ta the advantage of bota cauntries.
Our trade lu thie last four montais bas
been oi-er $1,700,00M; it bas been constantly
increasing, and under tae conditions of tais
treaty, w-hich I believ-e are mutnally adventa aeous, 1 look forward ln the near
future ta aur trade w-ita France being, not
aine millions but tw-enty-flvc, tairty or forty
millions. 1 am sure taat tbat Is sornctaing
that cvery hon. gentleman of tais Hanse
wll be auxions ta sce accompllsbed. His
Excellcncy bas aise referrcd ta tbe very
gratifying state of tae revenue of the Post
Office Departrnent. 1- do not know th-it
tacre Is anytming that enters s0 closely into
the domcstic and financial and other relafions of thc people as tae manner of carrying tae mails of Ris Majcsty.
Unfortu-

natcly in the past tais has not been manag-ed very w-el.
The records show that
there w-as for a number of years grass mismanagement la the post office, suffice if te
say that lu 1876 w-e mailed in Canada 41,000l,00 letters.
There w-as a deficit of
$474,M0
la tac cost of tac carrying of
the mails.
Ia 1886 w-e mailed 71,000,000
and fthc deticit rolied up ta $911.000.
lu
1896 w-ve mailed 116,000,000 and the deticit
w-as $781,00M.
Now mark the change.
The change 0f gaverniment toak place in
1896.
The hou. leader of this Honse
filled the post of Secretary of State. The
lion. 3hinister 0f Trade and Commerce zuid-

J)ECEMBET< 2, 1907
ed the trade and commerce of this country.
At thie bead of affaire was Ple Right Honourabie Sir Wilfrid Laurier, who for the
last ten years bas gulded the destinies of
tMis country, and what a change camne over:
public affaira. There had been only tbat
eaui gain froma 71,000,000 lettera to 116,000,000 letters ln ten years, but ln the next
ten years, from 1896 to 1906 we maiied no
Jeus than 323,000),000 Jettera ln the Dominion
of Canada, and instead of a deficit there
waa a surplus of over $1,000,000 to the
credit of the departinent lu the treasury
of Canada. GratlfyIng as that statement
may be, It bas been brought about lu a]
buainesalike way. How was it doue? Wby,
slmply by atopping the leaka and the rut
boleR lu the department, and ualng buainess
abllity lu the management of the affaira of
the country, by lncreaaiug the postai facilities, by brlnging It more cloaely home to
the people, by reduclng the rate of postage.
For Instance lu 1899, tbe leat year the
tbree-cent rate was ln force, we niailed
150,000,000 letters; the uext year the twocent rate camne Into force and we mailed
no less than 17i9,000,000-an lnerease ùr
29,000,000. Lt costs no more to carry a
million letters lu the mails througb the
country than It does one tbousand, and so
wltb the lucrease lu the post office revenue, we opeued over 2,000 new post
offices; we carried the mails twelve million miles more tJban lu 189, and by lucreasiug facilities by which the people
couid- communicate their wiahes to euch
other, they bave taken advantage of it, and!
Iustead o! a deicit ou the transaction It
bas resulted lu a large surplus. This matter is exceedlngly gratlfylng. Everybody
muet admit that great progress has beeu
made lu the construction o! the Transcontinental Railway. Tbey have constructed
250 miles of the road west o! Winipeg,
which la already carrying grain. Almost
the whole of the eastern division ls under
contruet, wlth thousanda o! men at work,
wlth every !acility to rapidly carry It to
completion. It la a public enterprise tlîat
muet recelve the sanction and approval of
every bon. ge'ntleman lu this BHouse. Does
'any man believe that the Transcontinental
Rallway la being bult one day too.soon?
la there any doubt about the necessity
I observe
for increased transportation?
that at a1 recent meeting of the Apple

Growers' Association in Toronto, it was
stated that there wvas $1,000,000 worth
0f apples lu Ontario alone for wblcb they
couid not obtain refrigerator cars to carry
themn to the market. That !act alone shows
that we need more railways, that ive neeli
more cars, and that we require better facilities for the transportation of our products, and us tijat great and mlghty Northweat la hein- peopied with thousanda of
hardy men with atout hearts and strong
arma we must provîde them with facilities
for transport. We cannot stand stili. We
mnuet elther go forward or backward, aud
as the streain of Immigration comes lu,
branch Unes and main hunes muet be constructed to enabie people to move their
supplies ln and their products out, and il
would be the most foolish policy lu the
world If we did, not proceed rap!ly with
the construction of this road and other
rouds where they are so, much needed. His
Excelleucy refera to a few Buis that are
to be submltted for our attention. There ls
one in reference to the public control o!
telegruph and telephone lhues. We have
varlous problems before us to solve. We
have the great problem of labour aind
capital. Tbe Act passed by the goverumeut
last year known as the Le mieux Act to
my mind largely solved the difflculty betweeu capital and labour. It only refers
to works o! public utlity, but I believe it
bas already settled and prevented muny
strikes on private undertakinga, sud as
the years go by 1 bave no doubt !ts scope
will be enlarged and; ex-tended, until It
wili uppiy to industrial concerna as well as
concerns of public utillty. We have those
national monopolles such as telegrapb and
telepbone lises and the problema to solve
la to how we eau best handle thein for the
public good, wbether by public ownerabip
or public control, or otberwise. For nly
part I bave neyer been couvinced that It
la a wlae thing for goverumeut to owu these
large concerna. I do not believe that public
ownership ln that respect la a good thlng
or a wise thing. I amn heartily lu fuvour
of the course the goverument la adoptlng,
that they should coutrol nîl those utilities.
We grant these corporations charters, unil
we give them power to build line% acros
our property sud erect their poles and to
charge the public certain rates for tlue
transmission of mesagea. We give thern

SEINATE
large aud %vide powvers, and 1 say that as
guardians of the public lnterests of this
country, the government should. immediately
take coutrol and regulate ail the rates and
ail the conditions pertaining to those public
utilities, and I arn very glad that the goverument propose to take thîs step. I do
not know just what way it wiil be brought
about, whether It will be placed under the
control of the Railway Commission or deait
with ln somne other way, but at ail events
the end that Is sought to lie accornpllshed
la one that I think ouglit to receive and wUil
receive the hearty endorsation of the people
of this country. The other measures are
aiso of great Importance. We have another
problem to solve; that is the eternal
struggle that Is taklng place between class
and capital, for the privilege of exploitlng
the public. Ail these difficuit ques;tions we
have to solve.
ur progress may be slow
and it may be diflicuit, but who wlll doubl
that if we preserve a clear vision and à
atout heart that we *wlll succeed ln oui
tas]. of nation building? There are many
other questions that might be properly
coasidered whlch have been brought to
our attention by His Exceliency, but .1
do flot wlsh, on account of the very able
manuer lu which the lion, gentleman who
proposed this motion bas deait wlth thers,
to taire up aay more tirne; but I iia to
state that 1 arn exceedlngly thaukful foi
the kmnd way ln whlch I have been recelved
as a member of the Canadian Senate. 1
bope, bon. gentlemen, that rny entrance into
this Chamber may be of some benefit to
myseif, and nîso that I may be useful ln
the iuterests of my beloved country, and
that niy relations may be, as I arn sure
they will be, pleasatit and cordial and thal
no one w-i regret my entrance to thit4
Chîamber.
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHID-I arn sure t1uat
this. aide of the House will join with hon.
gentlemen on the other aide -in extendtng
their hearty congratulations to the accession which we bave recently recelved to
our ranka. and that at the expense of the
Gommons.
-I always take freali courage
when I see an bon, gentleman from the
House of Commons lmbued with that
speculative confidence which many 0f tbem
seem to possess ia resig-ning thieir seats lu
the Commons and accepting a seat ln the
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL.

Upper Chamber.
The specter, so to speak,
of our extinguishmnent through Senate reform la naturnlly ever before us, and
when one finda that hon, gentlemen belonging to the dominant party who are,
no doulit, ln the confidence of their party
leaders and of the government of the day,
are wiling to sacrifice the aspirations and
the emoluments whlch the Gommons of
Canada hold out by way of cabinet positions and other aatiafactory expectations,
and are wiling to remove from that muadane sphere to the higlier altitude of thîs
Chamber, we feel aatistied that the day of
Senate reform, s0 far as our extinction la
J know
concerned, la somewhat distant.
of no0 higher tribute that can. le pald to
the 8enate than to find hon. gentlemen
who at one time occupled, and to-day occupy, very lendlng positions la the Liberaî
ber. When I thhnk of how my right hon.
f riend from Kingston at dne time denounced
the iSenate and ail Its works, ably aeconded
by hie efficient ieutenant, the hon, gentleman from Wellington, and when I look
around the Chamber, and fiad a number of
other hon, gentlemen w-ho joined la the denunciations, whlch from year to year have
been heaped upon our heads, and then find
that these gentlemen have at st corne here,
I repeat that no higher tribute can lie pald
to the Senate.
I john ln the hope which
I know bas been expressed by hon.
gentlemen on the other aide of the House
that these hon, gentlemen who have been
hntroduced at the opening of thia session of
pariameat into the Senate Chamber, may lie
long apared to occlipy the seats wblch they
already grace, both by reason of thefr appenrance aud of the abilities which they
have dlsplayed to-day la moving and seconding the addreas. I am satlsfled that
w-hile they have left what la generally consldered the more active Chamber of leglalative work la the parliament of Canada
tbey wl And in this Chamber a aphere la
which they can be equally useful to the
country and equaily active.
In looking over this address It would
seem te me that the -firat clause of the addresa coatains practlcally the creed of the
I thînk it la full of hereLiberal party.
sies and of fallacies. so far as w-e, the unlielievers on this side of the House are concerned, and lt shahli e my duty for s few
minutes, with the indulgence of hon. gen-

DECEMBER 2, 1907,
tiemien on both sides, to attenipt to point
out some of those failacies.
Let m Bay
ie
in the first place that the remarkable expansion of the trade of Canada, which is
spoken of In such glowing ternis, iii the
speech from the Throne, does flot neceasarlly refleet upon Canada that degree of
proaperity whlch at first blush we mlght
attribute to, the statement. The expansion
of tradte which has been referred to, If
snalysed, will be found to, consist mainly
of Imports at the expense of our exporta.
Hon, gentlemen who wIll take the trouble
to analyse the trade returns will find mnat
notwithstandIng the expansion referred to,
Our exporta have fallen off within the
last yenr, nnd to-day we prsctically face aî
balance of trade against the Dominion of
about $118,000,000.
0 f course lt has aiways been a controversial question between
political economista as to what èffect the
balance of trade may have, but I think it
must be conceded by hon, gentlemen on
both sides of politics In Canada. that If
prosperlty Ia to reign In this Dominion of
ours our exporta must necessarily exceed
our Importa.
When the present goverument came Into power, the Finance Minister congratnlated the country and congratulated the government upon being able to
maintain a balance of trade In our favour,
and for fIve or six yeara after the accession
of the Liberal party to power the balance of
trade was In our favour; blit owing to what
I. contend ta be the unwise policy of tals
government the balance of trade bas been
reversed, and we find confronting us today a balance of the magnitude which 1
have 3ust mentioned.
Canada Is peculiarIy a borrowing country, and until our resources are deveioped, and until the great
public undertakings upon which we have
cntered are carried. out In their entirety,
we must necessarily be a borrowlng
nation. We inust go into the mnarkets of
the*world, and borrow money froni tirne to
time for the purpose of carrying out our
great internai undertakings, and those
obligations, I submit hon, gentlemen, can
only be paid out of exporta. The Intereat
on our debt must be paid.
That Interest
certainly cannot be paid out of Imports.
The Interest contracted upon our great
public debt for the purposes of our public
works, as 1 say. miust necessarily be
pinid
out of exporta.
This being the

case I submit that It Is a matter for the
careful consideration, not only of the governaient, but of the people of Canada, that
the balance of trade should be reversed. 1
submit, lu ail seriousness to hon. gentlemen, that the government of the day bas
already recognized the fallacy of the doctrine to which they have adhered. While
they have been congratulating the country
upon the Immense expansion of our trade.
and while they joln In the paeans of praise
which have already been expressed, or I
iuight say chanted so musIcally by my hon.
f riend froni Centre York, there la the fact,
nevertheleas, that it la simply the boy
whistling as he pasas- the graveyaid, and
the balance of trade of the Immense magnitude which I have mentioned, nameiy
$118,000,000, to-day faces the people o!
Canada.
Why do we finct the government
of th( day introducing as it did at year
a very radical departure from the policy
which it had adopted some years ago.
namely as to preference to Great Britain?
Since the adoption of the preferentiai
tariff by the present government, the Importa from Great Britain into Canada, at
the expense, I say, of our exporta, have
increased to aimoat $W0,000,000.
Hon.
gentlemen opposite wll pin tieir faith, so
far aa expression la concerned, to the preferential tariff, but what do we dfnd? We
found lat session a statute placeu. upon
our statute-book, adopting an intermediate
tariff which lias the effect of at once reducing the preferentiai tarifr to an amount
not exceeding 10 per cent of preference.
Why is that? If ail tais prosperity which
hon, gentlemen of the iLiberal party have
been apeaking of for so many years was
well founded, was establlahed by reason
and by logic, would bon. gentlemen have
been determinlng to recede from the position, which tht-y did last session by the
adoption of an intermediate tariff? What
does the adoption of an Intermediate tariff
men? It means taat inatead of extending
ta Great Britain tae preference which we
have already done of M3per cent of our
tariff, we'have gone to the nations of the
worid and we have said to them 'we are
prepared to extend to you preferentiai treatment provided we receive something ln n'turn-preferential treatment on a reciprocal
basis-and
ail
hon.
gentlemen
have
to do, is to 100k, nt the trade of Great

12

SEN ATE

Britalu to-day and they w-iil Iind that the
best opinion there upon this question is
that by the action of this governuient there
bas been a recession frorn the position
which they have taken upon preferential
trade lu the adoption of an intermediate
tariff which bas practically reduced preference to an arnount flot exceeding 10 per
cent.
Why la that
It le for the purpose
of helping our exporte.
Why have we
gone to France for the purpose of negotiating tels treaty?
la It ior tue purpose
of helplng our importe?
My hou. friend
who seconded thîs motion touched the note
wblch actuated and lnsplred In the adop.
tion of this treaty. . My hon. friend pointed out the volume of Importe which we
have been recelvlng frorn France at te
expense of Our exporte.
We have beea
importlng eleven million and exporting
about one million to, France.
Wbat was
tee object of the governrnent Iu negotiatIng the treaty wite France? Was It not
for the purpose of helplng out tee exporte
of tee country, and for tee pur-pose of reducing tee Importe of tee country?
Wbat
does that mean so far as Ite effeet upon
the preference with Great Britaîn le concerned?
It means that we wlll buy fromn
France where we cau buy to, greater advantage than lu Great Britain, and, torture
it as you may, I say it la a frank confession of tee weakness of tee policy adopted
by the goverunent some ten yeare ago lu
establisbiug a preference with Great Bnitain, and refusîng to demand anytelug lu
returu therefor.
Now, tels balance of
trade wbich bas been againet us to, te
extent of about one hundred and elgbteen
million muet necessanily represeut sorneteing else.
It represents tee increased
revenue whlcb le to-day being enjoyed by
tee governrnent.
The goverument boaets
of the revenue leaping ahead by bounds
until we are now enjoying a revenue, fortunately or unfortunately, of about one
buudred million dollars.
Tbe revenue for
tee coming fiscal year will doubtless reach
tee suin of one bundred million dollars.
lion, gentlemen congratulate the country
upon tee size of our revenue sud upon Its
continuous Increase.
They point to the
time wben the <2onservative goverurnent of
1890 bahd a revenue not exceeding $27.000.000. I teink in 1896 uipon the accession of tee presenit governinent to office.
lion. Mr. LOUGHEED.

the revenue of the

Dominion of Canada

represented $27,000,000.
Hon. Sir Richard CARTWItIGHT-$37,0)00,000.
Mon. Mr. LOUGHJEBD--$37,000,000 lncludlng all sources.
ýHon. gentlemen
have persuaded tbernse.ves that taxaition bas not been lncreased.
It seenie
to me teat I bave neyer In my experieuce
corne lu contact wlth a section of tee community wbo bave so bappily deluded themselves as hou. gentlemen of tee Lîberal
panty who take the position teat notwitbstanding tee increased. revenue that taxation bas not lncreased. There le sncb a
thing as seif-interest deludlng one's Self luto
alrnost any conception. This I take to, be the
case which tee hon, gentlemen who are con
gratulating ternelves and the country
test thougb taxation bas not increased, thst
while tee population bas not lncneased more
than one-fifth, tee revenue of tee country
bas increased almost 200 per cent. If te
people uf Canada paid $37,000,000 lu 1896,
and tbe people of Canada In 1907 are psying $100,000,000, wll any bon. gentleman lu
this Chamber tell me seriously froiu w-hence
cornes tee Incresse of $60,000,000?
Does
it not corne frorn taxation? Of course,
I arn now speaking of teecustorne and
excise revenue and the increase bas been
maiuly in teose directions.
Lt le ouly the
cant of phraseology, it Is only a shlbboleth
to say that the taxation of tels country bas
not increased f rom 1896 Up to tue pieeult
tirne, flgured. ont as you may.
Tbere la
tee revenue.
The revenue cornes fnrom the
pockets of tee people, and the incrtase fias
been up to tee amount I have aiready indicsted.
'Let me say in tels connection,
that it is immatenial what we cail it, w-bethen w-e say tels iucreased revenue bas
been obtained from a protective tariff, or
fromn a revenue tariff. I observe througb
the Liberal press that tee Liberal party
scouts the idea of tels revenue beiug raised
or derived fnorn a tariff whicb la to bie deHon. gentlesignated a protective tariff.
mnen scout the very ides of their hein,- pratectioniste, or in sympatby wlth the mauufacturers, or o! having adopted the tariff
of their predecessons. and dlaimn that they
are only raising a revenue by mes-ns of the
tariff. Every bon. gentlemian kunows fuil well
thait the people of tels country or of any

IJECEMBER 2, 1907
In tl4e address the
endlng Its revenue.
other country could be bled to any exteat p<
overnineit boast of raising a revenue so
by a revenue tariff, and If the government g<
to meet
of Canada wiil raise one hundred mIllioli la.rge that It bas -been able flot only
but of
dollars by a revenue tariff as against tbirtY fi ie expeases of consolidated fund
tl ae National Transcontinental Rallway
seven million dollars raised by a protectionof three
lst goverameat, what difference does fI ciapital, and tu apply a balance
in illion dollars to the reduction of the pubmake so long as the people have to put
Who wiil forget the Urne when
their bands Ia their pockets and pay the Ilc debt.
iniy right bon. friend the Mliinister of Trade
taxation imposed upon tbem? Therefore,
govfromn the standpoint whlch 1 bave at- a nid Commerce used to denounce the
rnment that had a surplus?
a- e~
tempted to discuss this question, tite
creased expansion of trade and of revenue
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-1
which bas been referred to la sucb glowing c id not do that. It was Sir Charles Tupper
termis-ls not amatter for which the gov- id that.
ernment sbould dlaIm credit. My bon. friend c
Hon. Mr. -LOUGHEMD-I tbink the rlght
who seconcied this address went back to
and dated the prosperity o! the country ion, gentleman agreed with hlm that the
1 Ml(,
from the time wben rný ion. frlend the. ~overnment liad no rlght to a surplus.
Secretary of State and my right hon. friend ffill the people of Canada approve of carrythe Ï-Ilnister of Trade and Commerce tooki flg out the colossal capital expenditure
Frorn tbat time on, hie says, pros- vhich this country has entered upon fromn
office.
perity bas been beaming upon us. It makes -evenue? Will It agree to the diversion of
one feel tbat anterlor to that date, thougbi c~ur revenue fromn channels of circulation in
the Conservative party was practlcally which It should be, to belng locked up in
the party of construction la Canad;... ~apital expenditure,.thus creatiug a strinby LiII- ,eucy la the money market and largely conwas -governed
the country
putians In comparison wîth these bon. gen-I tributlng to the depression frorn which we
As 'I said before, CanIf are now suffering?
tlemen who acceded to office la 1896.
the country owes Its prosperity, as mnyhon. ada must necessarlly be a borrowing counUntil our great undertakings are carfriend dlaims, to the genius for statesman- try.
ship exbibited by the government of to-day, rled out, Canada must go Into the rnoney
It seems to me that at this time of stria- markets of the world and negotiate ber
gency an opportunity has arlsen for these loanh and expend the proceeds of those
But we
gentlemen, for the sorcerers, the magicians loans on Internai iwprovements.
and conjurers of the Liberal party to rais find the government of to-day lmposing on
their wsnd and disperse the clouds whicb the people of this country taxation for
bang over the business world of to-daj'. if what? To; meet the governmental expenses
they wlll succeed la dispersîng those clouds of this country? No, but actually to carry
and changlng the bard Urnes o! wblch we out the enormous capital expenditures upon
WnIl the
are tbe victima, particularly la wfftern which we have lately entered.
wlll freely eascribe to people of this country submit to the InCanada, thea we
tbem the abillty to create prosperity whlch creasing taxation which wlll be lmposed
We
they have clairned for so rnany years; but on tbem if this policy Is continued?
until they do s0 and relleve us of the finan- have to face the building of the Grand
clal striugency and depression, I rnust cer- Trunk Pacific Railway, an undertaking lnvolviug an expenditure of over one huntainly rernain an unbellever.
Is It the Intention,
that Is worthy of con- dred million dollars.
Another matter
sideration In connection 'witb the first as predlcted Ini this address, that the revclause of tbe address Is wbat migbt be enue of the country should bear this litermed the financlal polîcy of the govera- mnense responslbllity? I undertake to say
ment lu contradistin2tion to lis fiscal that no financial authority ln Canada will
policy. I will undertake to say that there approve of any. such doctrine. What does
Is no gentleman wbo will be regarded as a It mean? AssunMing that we were justled
tinancial authority and an authority upon il, raising a revenue Of one hundred milsound banking w-ho will approve of the lion dollars, it means that we have diVeet<
course -pursued by the goverauxent iii ex- at least afty million dollars from the circu-

SEN ATE
Hon. Mr. FJERGUSON-%Who sald that?
Hon. Mr. *LOUGHEED-The riglit bon.
in 1893 between the varlous leaders of the Minister of Trade and Commerce, and lie
Lîberal party as t0 the amount of money eînpbasized that by adding:* requIred for runnlng the Dominion upon
1 repeat it now that $88,000,000, let alone
the accession of the IAberal party f0 office. $40,000,000, is, in my .udgment, a monstrous
pro vide.
the people
Who wlll forget the rivairy between my sum forthe United to ae called on to 20,000,000
States mustered
When
riglit hon. f rlcnd, the riglit hon. the Prime strong its total expenditure for federal purMinlater aud two or tbree other leaders of poses was barely $22,000,000.
the Liberal party ait that time as to the
And then some of the minor ieaders
reduction wbldh could be made lu the ex- came aud uuderbid my bon. friends who
penditure on consolidated aud otaer fuudî were then Ieading the Liberal party. We
We cannof forget tind Sir WVilliam Mulock wllling to give a
of the Dominion.
the expression of the Lîberal party lu 1893 guaraatee almost that our taxation could
whcn they vlcwcd wlth alarm the expendi- be reduced by three or four million dolture at that time of thlrty-seven million lars, and then Mr. Charlton was prepared
dollars. We canuot forget even tae Ottawa to reduce thiat by five millions, until flnally
plafform, lu 1893 when tac hon. gentlemen lion, gentlemen on the opposite aide, by the
said:tirne they reached office, had the expenditure
We caunot but view with alarm the large of this country whIttled down to thirty milincrease of the public debt and of the con- lions. But 'what do we find to-day? We
trollabe annual expenditure of the Dominion,
aud the consequent undue taxation of the lind an expendîture exceeding one bundred
then
were
flon, gentlemen
the goverunents that have been
people under in power since 1878, aud we de- million.
ccn.tinuously
economy in the adminis- lu opposition, but they then expected
mand the strictest
to corne into power. Tbey bad the prestration of the goverument of the country.
then by a proces. or aînction my cience to look mufficiently ahead, to'flndlng
And
bion. frlends began to ludulge, In bldding tliemselves I power, and could give ple<iges
against esdli other, so, to speak, as to h0w as of those who were on the threshold of
much could be cut off tbat enormous ex- power, but what bave tliey doue te reduce
The rigît hon. the that expenditure? Instead of reduclng It,
pendifure of 1893.
Prime Minister speaking upon tais subjeet they have practlcally trebled ItL Another
thing I would dostre to point out Ia conneclu 1896 In Brampton saldla this fact:
of this country has grown tion wltb thîs expenditure lies
The expenditure
until the pipe are unpble to bear it. 1 pro- that If lion. gentlemen intend to pursue the
mise you tat if yon put ou r party into power policy of carryln g on public works out of
ire will reduce that aunual expenditure by
revenue, It means the displacement of
two or three million dollars per auuum.
go to
the rfght hon. the Prime thec apecle currency whlch should
And then agalu
circulation, and whieh I say now should be
Minister, thinklng he could pare if down
superseded by the Importation of forelga
more, sald:rnoney as bas always been the polley of
If ire get into power ire will folloir the exthat if
ample of Mr. Mackenzie, aud I say that al. this country. It la qulte manifest
though we may not be able ta bring the ex. this goverameut wlll put fifty millions of
penditures to what they were under him, w(
Into capital expendIture upon publie
can reduce the amount three million dollarE revenue
works on 'whldh forelgu loans could be
per year.
cf
Then my riglit hon. frlend, the Ministei negotlated, It prevents theý circulation
on th( that mudli money lu our money markiet,
of Trade and Commerce, appeared
scene aud was not te be outdone by th( and f0 that extent adds to the stringency.
I mighf also point out that the adminisHe said:
Prime Mînîster.
not hesitate to fell yoi itraftion of thc post office savingu s lot calFor my part I do
that I cousider a vearly expenditure of 40, culated to help the preseuf monetary dîffi000,000-or ffl,300,00-altogether too large foi tc ulties from whIch Canada lisauffering. I
the present resources of Canada. I say tha
it is a disgrace and a shame to the govern - ind that the governent Is practlcally
ment that have been entrusted with oui r maintaining n reserve of about -twcnty-five
afiairs that they corne dowm to us to ask fo: -per
cent upon note circulation and post
the expenditure of $38,300,000 a year for fede
s.q'ings, or, In other words, wc have
val purposes. Sir, the thing is wholly unjusti -office
lation of tbe country, because 1 recaîl, and
wii refer to the rivalry whlcli took place

fiable.
Ilon. Mr. LOL'GHEED.

DECEMBER 2, 1907
It would be very desirable ln
practically a gold reserve of about $40,- Tribunal.
000,000. We pride ourselves upon the sound- discusaing this very important question that
ness of our bankling system, and I do flot we should bave sonie information tipon It.
thlnk that any man ln Canada who la a International questions between the United
judge upon finaucial questions 'would se- States and ourselves frequeutiy recelve
riously criticîso our banklng system, yet more serions attention ln the United States
we flud that so fair as the reserve of the than tbey do la Canada, and we Invarlabiy
banks la concerned tbey have only a ire- lind a strong public sentiment at the back
serve of about flfteen per cent against do- of ail International dlaims made by thé
posits and circulation and that reserve of United States s0 far as thîs country is confifteen per cent la regarded as sufficlent cerned; but lu Canada, unfortunately, thoie
We.
iro satisfactorlly answer the financlal re- questions are consldered acgdenic.
enougli pay little or no atteuti3n to them. The conquirements of Canada. We bave not
circulation at the moment for the needs of sequence la we flnd no public sentiment bethe co.untry, whlle at the samne tinie we flid lilnd the assertion of the dlaim when li lq
the government of the day malntalnlflg a belug tonsldered by our ow i goverument
reserve of twenty-flve per cent. 'My*conten- or by tribunals of arbîtration. Tberefore
tion la simpiy this, that so far as that ire- It la very desirable that the people of
serve la concerned, lu tîmes of financlal Canada sbould hoe put in full posre-irsion of
strlngency It mlght be considered, and by -ail available Information relatlig. to quesmany would be consldered, sound finance, tions of this character. I muet say that I
that the government should front that re- aui at a baqs to understand how this quesserve relleve the strlngency from whlch wc tion lias corne to be submltted. to the Hague
are now sufferlng so long as the reservé Tribunal. Up to a very rodent date the
dld flot fall below the reserve malutalned Imperlal authorities have takeni strong
by the banks for circulation and deposit. grouud upon the validity of the dlaims of
The maintenance of any other policy seems Newfoundland and as we, apparently, have
to me to deprive this country of the cîrcui- been jolued lu practlcally the samne dispute,
lation to whlch it la entltled. Theso depo- It hecomes n inatter of considerable fImsits*would undor other conditions probably portance to the Dominion that hefore the
go lntD the banks. We have ovor slxty question la submltted to the Hague Tribumillion dollars of deposits ln the post office ual, the people of Canada sbould bave f ull
If these dpposits were Information on Vie controversy lnvolved. 1
savings banks.
flot taken and adxnlnistered by the gnv- badl occasion to look Into Vie matt-r lu coneiunent, they would doubtiesa be de- nection wlth his address, and It seema
poslted la the chartered banksasnd to me Viat the submisslon of his question
go into circulation subjeet to the saine Is equlvalent' to cuir walvlug to a very
reserves that appiy to the circulation and large extent Vie strong position taken by
other deposits of the banka. The point 1 both Newfoundland and Canada and the
deslre ta mske la thslIf the governrnent of Imperial authorities. Great Britaîn le the
the day han diverted from ordlaary circu- only civilîzed nation, so far as we know,
lation by the establishment of a re- Viat bas conceded to allons or foreigners
serve exceeding wbat la required, or by the rîglit of sharing wlth ber owu. subjecta,
spendlng the amount of money of whieb the fisherles wealth of Vie marine boit cf
we have been la recelpt lu capital expendi- territorial coasta of Newfoundland and
ture whlcb should have been made by *Canada wltbout auy returu therefor. When
forelgu moueys, thon the circulation of the one takes Into consideration Viat auy concountry la restrlcted to that arnount. I cession granted to Vie United States bas
tblnk tbis la a matter whlch la wortby the *been entlrely 'gratultous on the part of
consîderation of the governmeut. It bas G reat Britalu and bas flot been couple(]
been suggested to my mind by the clause wltlî any consîderatlon lu return, It natula the address. I asked rny bon. frlend rally evokes a sentiment of proteat Viat
to-day If the correspondence could be pult any unreasonable demnnd sbould be made
upon the table referrlng to the negotiations iby Vie United States as bas been doue ln
treaty o!
wblcb have taken place as to the submls Vis partîcular case. Under Vie
Hague indepeudence, Vie United -States dlalnied
sion of the fIsheries question to the

SE-NATE

tliat they wcre eutitle(i to equal j)rivileges
la the tishieries of Newfoundlaud aud the.
Canadian coasts that were enjoyed Iby the
subjects of Great Britain. The inatter remained in controversy until the Treaty of
1818, aand fromn that date until the fisheries
article of the Treaty of Washington wnre
revoked, in 1885, there practically was 1",
<leuiaud mnade by the United States for tho
eîhjoý ment of thos2 pri-;'Ilcges whicb they
It seems to me la this con
110w demanci.
îîection that the fact of acquiescence is a
very imuportant feature of thec case as It
was ln the consideration of the Alaskau
question. Acqulescence, wlîich ln this particular case contînued one mlght say fromi
the War of Indepeudence until tie revocatien of the articles of thc Washington
Trenty, sbould certainly determine wbat tic
rights of Newfoundland and Canada arê.
To iny mmid the most unpleasant feature of
submittiag this question lies la thc att!-tude of bluff and bluster and bullylng adopt
ed by Uic preseat United States Secretary
upoa this question.
Hon. MLtr.PO0WERI-Would Uic hon. gentlemian be kind enough to read Uic tirst art'dle of Uic Trcaty about wlich Uic discussion arises?
Hou. Mr. LOUGH-EED)-It rends as foliows:
Whereas differences having arisen respecting the liberty claimed by the United States
for the inhabitants thereof, to take, dry and
cure fish on certain coasts, bays and creeks
of Ris Britannic Majesty's dominions ia
Âmerica, it is agreed between the high contracting parties that the inhabitants of the
said Ujnited States shall have forever, in common with the subjects of Hlis Britannic Majesty the liberty to take fish of every kind on
that part of the southera coast of Newtounrdland which extends front Cape Ray to the
Rameau islands; on the western and northern
ccast of Newfoundland from the said Cape Ray
to the Quirpon islands; on the shores of the
Magdalen islands; and ase on the coast,
bays, harbours and creeks from Mount Joli.
oa the southern coast of Labrador to and
through the Straits of Belle Isle, and thence
northwardly indefinitely along the coast, without prejudice, however, to any of the exclusive rights of the Hudson Bay Company. And
that the American fishermen shail also have
the liberty forever to dry and cure fish in any
of the unsettled bays, harbours and creeks on
the southera part of the ccast of Newfoundland bereabove described, and of the coast of
Labrador; but so soon as the seane or any
Portion thereof shall be settled, it shall not
be ]awful for the said fisliermen to dry or cure
fsh nt such portiîons so qettlcd, withont preTl0Uq igreement for ;iieh purpose with the
Hoii. Mr. LOITGIHEED.

inhabitants, proprietors or possessors of the
ground. And the United States hereby î'enounce forever any liberty heretofore enjoyed or claimed by the inhabitants thereof
to take, dry or cure fish on or within three
marine miles of any of the coasts, bays,
creeks or harbours of His Britannic Majesty's
dominions in America not included within the
above-mentioned limits.
Provided, however, that the American fishermen shail be admîtted to enter such bays
or harbours for the purpose of shelter, and
of repairing damage therein or purchasing
wood and of obtainiag water aud for no other
purpose whatever. B ut they shail be under.
sucli restrictions as may be necessary te prevent their taking, drying or curing fish therein, or in any other manner whatever abusinig
the privileges hereby reserved to them.
I might say that thc point of difierence
between the British authories, Incinding
of course, Newfoundlaad and Canada, and
the United States, is la Uic last clause
which rends as followsBut they shaîl under such restriction as
may be necessary te prevent their taking,
drying or curing fish therein, or in any.other
manner whatever abusing the privileges hereby reserved te them.
'ne United States dlaim Dow thiat the3are nlot subjeet to Uic soverelgnty of Uic
imperial or colonial authorities, and they
dispute the juriadiction of both Canada and
Newfoundland te legisiate la any way as
to restricting Uic greatest possible freedomi on Uieir part from flshint within the
marine belt referred to.
Hion. Mr. SCOTT-No. In reference to
Uibon.
the case of Newfoundland whîc he
gentleman first read, and Uic M1agdalen
Islands and part of Labrador.
lion. Mr. LOUGHEBED-I may be wrong
perliaps in sayiag, and 1 did not intend to
convey Uic idea, that Uiey had the right
They have Uie
to flsh ln our own ports.
right te corne 'n for shelter and food
and water, but Uic same contention is
urged as to Uic jurisdictioa of cither Uic
Imperial authorîties, or the Canadian nuthorities to legislate se as to restrict the
enjoyaient of any of their privileges. But
I was rcferring to the spirit lu which tlie
Departmnt of Stite lias approaclhed thîe
settlement 3f this subj(ct wîth the imperizil
authorities, a spirit I Uiink which is to be
coademned la the very strongest language
se far as Uic Dominion of Canada and tlîe
colony of Newfoundland are concerned. Mr.

-DECEMBER

2, 1907

17

Hon. Sir RICHARD CATTWItIGIIT--l amn
glad te -find that there is one subject at
any rate in whici Il can heartlly concur
1 feel bound'to urge that the government of
1 join witli
,Great Britain shall advise the government of with my hou. f riend.
Newfoundland that the provisions of the law hlm in extending a welcome and lu bearlng
which I have t~oted are inconsistent with the testimony te the abllty witl, which the
rights of the United States under the treaty
of 1818 and ought to be repealed, and that in mover and seconder cf the address have
the meantime and without an y unavoidable dlscharged thei duty on thie occasion.
-delay the Governor in Council shall be requested by a proclamation which he ie author- Both are old friends and comrades of mine,
ized to issue under the Act respecting foreign and I can assure the House from personal
fishing vessels ta suspend the operations of experlence tat tliey ivili find them worthy
the Act.
members of this distinguished body, and I
A writer makes tis comment:again concur in iny lion. frlend's desire tat
Lord Clarendon once commented in the they may long continue te ndorn the Senate,
flouse of Lords on the extraordinary tone rf no matter whnt threats evil-dlsposed people
the President's message and the a pparent mny maire againet it in another Chaniber.
studied neglect of that courtesy and deferential language which the governments cf dilier- There ta au old proverb whicli my lion.
ent countries are n-ont ta observe when pub- frlend le familiar wlth, tat threntened. men
licly treating on international questions, add- live long, and 1 arn Inclined te thlnk that
ing that if the British government accordinglly did negotiate it would seem that it could that proverb will be verlfied in the case of
only he upon the basis that England n-as un- the Senate, as it lias been in the case of
conditiona1lyý to surrender her pretensions ta similar bodies eleewhere. 1 can understand
whatever might be claimed by the United
States.
te a large extent the reasen why my lion.
frlend le rather dlsposed te jeer at the
From Lord Bathurst's time down to Lord unmistakable evidences te whlch my hon.
Snhisbury's time, the iImperial government frIende the mover and seconder called atpositively retused '.o give nny concesloGn tention of the extremne prosperity that bas
to the dlaims of the United States, yet attended the people of Canada durtag the
ln the face of that long continued protest present administration. 1 arn net surprisagalnst these dlaims, wve find the present ed tliat niy hon. frlend, and sorne of bis
Colonial Secretary, without apparently any friende ln other places tbtak that perhaps ou
reason, and in the face of the protest cf the whole Providence has not beetowed itt
Newfoundland, granting a modus vivendi te favours wlth the discrimination wblch miglit
the United States and now.submltting this have been expected. IFor myself, it has been
question the rlghts of which have neyer my lot te taire both the bad times and the
been doubted by us te the Hague tribunal. good times turn. about, and I have an exI say that It ie an indication of weakness, tremely distinct recollection cf the way ln
and tat it je sornewhat unfortunate tat whlch the predecessors of my hon. f riend
we are called upon te make allusion te the were lu the habit of holding up the governquestion witliout having tat Information ment of *Mr. Mackenzie and hisecolleagues
before us wblch wp could lntelligently d*.-- to public reprobation, because under very
I had lntended ta allude exceptionni circumstances filey were net
Cnes the subject.
to various other clauses ta; the address, but able te secure prosperity.
They did their
flavlng been tempted into remarks very duty te the best of their abilty on that
much longer than 1 had antlclpated, under occasion, but it le qulte true that under
the circumetances I lies itate further con- the circumstances to whicli I have niluded
Mýy hon. f riends thiat wlth three successive bad harveets and
sldering these matters.
the mover and the seconder, set sucb an a universal world depression, they werc
short net able entirely te preserve unbroken
ln .dellverlng
,excellent .example
speeches, thougli I amn sure the House prosperity ta Canada.
I notice that when
would have been gratlfied i*f tbey had con- circumestances were reversed, bowever, and
tinued mucli longer, that. I hiesitate to vwhen the gentlemen who now lead the Optiespase furtlier. I only desire te express p)osition ln the Gommons were confronted
the hope that these lion, gentlemen may be with similar disasters they lad vcry malong spared -te be useful members of this terinlly altered thelr vlew ef the situation
and lad. corne te the conclusion that the
very important body.
lioot ini writing te the imperial authorities
in 1905 stated:-

2

SENATE
best of goverumeuts could not aiways pre- a -magnîticent increase in fourteen years of
From 1896), w-heu w-e took ofserve or evea restore prosperity to the peo- $14,000,000.
I can itecollect perfectly fice, the trade and commerce of Canada
pie of Canada.
nel1 wben Sir Charles Tupper and Sir bad increased from $231,000,000 to $5416,John Macdonald, for the matter of that, 000,000 In 1906, a similar period of flot quite
laid dowa the position that no governnieut thirteen years, a pcriod. of ten or eleveu
Tbe increase lu the one case 1 obwas fit to remain in power unless they years.
could create and increase the prosperlty of serve for a period of thirteen years belîîg
Canada. Well, out of their own mouths let for about $4,000,000, and the increase lu
The present goverument the other case over a period ot ten years
tbem be judged.
came into power at a period of very con- amounts to $316,000,000.
Now, w'ith ai due regard to my bon.
siderable depression la Canada, aud, for
eleven years at any rate, which is a rea- friend, 1 tbink that tbere la a difference :4it
sonably long period of time, under the~ the preseat time ns compared with flie tinxiw
administration of the present goverument, to w'licb be alludes. I tlîiuk there la somne
Canada bas enjoyed, ln every respect, a justification for the enlarged expeadlturt'
prosperity whicb Canada neyer enJoyed be- and enlarged revenue w-len you find the
fore, and whicb contrasta very remarkabiy volume of the trade and commerce of Canwitb the progress of Canada lu the eigb- ada increaslng by three hundred odd milteen years, from '78 to '96. The lion, gen- lions ln a similar space of tinie as iigainst
tleman seems to be Impervious to, the dis- an increase of four millions taklng two petinction wbich exista between the annd riods of tliirteen yeara. That is one illusHe Is perfectly correct la sayig tration. Lt la only oua ont of many that
now.
tbat lu 189 1, and otber gentlemen with could giv-e. The hou, gentleman tbink'
me, tliougbt that there was great need and flint wie bave been depletiag the resources
very great need for economy, and the of Canada; that we have been coîîsuming aî
strictest economy la the administration of great deal too înuch of the menus whiclî
We had reason for wbat migbt 6tlîerwlse have gone to nid lu the
public affaira.
During the elghteen years It Is developmnent of Canada la the matter 0f
we said.
a miserable and meianchoiy fact that Can- the revenue ive bave collected. I wili have
ada was iosing the very best of ber popu- a word or two to say ou that subject later
lation, flot by tens of tbousands, not by on, but lu the meantime I desire to be adbundreds of tbousands, but by millions, vised as to the mode la w-bicb my lion.
tbe present friand obtainad some of the figures lie bait
until
and it was not
goverament took office tbat the exodus recently given. My bon. friand, if 1 c-orfrom Canada was stayed and in place of rectly caugbt bis tigures-and 1 arn open ti.
an exodus from Canada, we saw an exodus correction if I bave misreported hlmii in aiiy
into Canada from almost every civilized wa3y-sald that the balance of trade against
-,ountry from wbich we desired to Dring us was ~$1,0,.W'as I correct?
tbem," and notably from the United States,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It -would be that
to, wbomn we bad formerly exported hua- amount this coming year, accordiug to the
dreds of thousaads of our best subjecta. present calculations.
The bon. gentie-nan was good enougil to
Hon. Sir RICHARD CAItTWRIGHÎT-l
dilate at cousiderable length on the trade
I bave thoughit the hon. gentleman referred to the
and commerce of tbis country.
here the Trade and iNavigation returns exiating balance of trade, because, if lie
of this country from '73 to, '97, and did, lie w-as ver3- mucli ast.ray lu the amoutit.
I %vill simply caîl my bon. frieud's at- As to how ha made up bis figures showing
Ia 1882 1 a balance of $118$J00,000 until thp calculatention to this trifling fact.
observ-e that the grosa imports and exports tion is verlfied, I cannot very well see; but
of Canada amounted to, $214,000,000 in for my own part, 1 bave neyer been lu the
Ia 1896, after a period of least degree atrid( of aeeing a very conairound numbera.
fourteeni years, or 1895, which la the dloser derable balance of trade agaiust us. If
to it. after a period of thirteen yeara, tha our exporta are not equal to the arnount
total trade and commerce of Canada had u e import, I do not know that it is a
inerease{i from2in

1eX.0

to $1.000

Hon. Sir RICHIARD CARTWRIGHT.

proof of any great bass

or li ury to the

DECEMBER 2, 1907

19

p)eople of Canada. I think I can remember thousand-I juat give it ag an illustra-unless 1 amn very grently mistakeai-that tion-and lie wvill find that îbe balance orf
the balance ef trade againat England lias trade wlll be converted inti . a large sumn
been steadily increaaing by hndreds of lu our favour, if we continue to import
millions of pounds sterling, flot dollars, for themn qt the rate we are doit ý
a longer perlod than eithier I or îny learne4l
t bout DonkHon. Mr. LANDRY-1Whl,
frlend cau reinember; 1 arn Inclined to tbink
bobors 9
that England la flot the poorer because it
Hon. Sir RICHARD C &RTWIi.IGHT-It
bas had a very beavy balance of trade
againat It for a long time. It niigbt be we bring in a few thoi4sanO Doukhobors
conteuded-and contended with a good and teji times as niany other settlers, I tbink
deal of showi of reason-that the balance' we can afford to bave them. I arn happy
of trade of wbich he speaks really to a to lufori the hon. gentleman who Intervery great extent-I do not know to the rnpted -me that altbougb there are a few
full extent-means that we have aold. our fanatica amoug the Doukbobors, I arn adexporta ut a very good profit, and that we vlsed by the Departinent of Agriculture
have made very considerable profit lu the that there are a large number of ludustrions
Importa coming baclc to us lu excliange for and thrifty people amongst them, aud that
the exporta. That la as good a theory as their children and probably the Doukhobors
the one my hon. frieud propounded and bas theinselves wll makre, nder our institua good deal to recomniend ItL If any bon. tions, as soon as tbey becorne a little more
friend will take the importa Into Canada, assimilated with our people, as vaînable
lie wili find many Items auch as this, sIx citizens as anybody could desire to bave.
or seven or eighit million for housebold As I observe, my hon. frleud and myself
gooda for aettlera imported into Canada. rnay agree to differ on this question of the
I do not thlnk It at ail
Does he consider that that la au Item balance of trade.
wblch la very expensive to the people of Ilkely that be and 1 will ever corne to ses
Canada? Does lie thlnk that a balance of eye to eye on tais snbject, bnt 1 would say
trade of tliat sort la lik-ely to do us much to hlm that ¶ thiuk that we need not disburin? That la one point lu whIch the bal- treas ourseives, and the .ountry need not
ance of trade w«iU alwaya, I hope, continue be very mnch alarmed at the fact tat
to appear beavily againat Canada. There la there bas been a considerable balance of
another conaideration 1 wonld cali bis at- trade againat us for a good. many years,
tention to, and that la thia: when you talk and unless î arn wholly and entlrely misof the balance of trade againat the country, taken, If rny hon. frlend wlll condescend
and particniarly a country 'wbicni la briug- to look back to the years dnring wbicb hIe
lng lnuat this present moment between two frienda were ln power I talnk be will And
and three hundred tbousand immigrants per that ln moat of those years there was a
aunum a very large number of th.rn meu very cousiderable balance of trade againat
Taxae for InPoasessed of couaiderable abllty and con- the Dominion o? Canada.
siderable capital, yon will bear in niind two stance any of tae years that 1 referred to:
thinga; that thla large immigration indlrotw(t- Take 1882, our total exporta were $102,There was entered for consurnply, although it does not appear on the sur- 000,000.
The total nominal Imface, laccounts for a good deal of the balance tion $11.2,000,000.
Take 1893, the
of trade, and that Immigrants such as we are porta were $119,000,000.
bringlng lu alone are worth Indivldnally total exporta were $98,000,000. The importa
very large sua to thie people of Canada. entered for cousumption were $123,000,000,
I wonld not like to place an absolute value and so I migbt go on ail throngh the whole
per head on the Immigrants we brin.- lu. 1 list, showing that dnriug the administration
know that high anthorities lu the United of the frienda o? the hou, gentleman, be it
States bave over and over again compnted gond or evil, there waa always a beavy
the value of immigrants to the United States balance of trade'againat us, not that 1
as lîlgh as $1,000o per head. If my hon. attribute any blame to thern or attaclh anyi
friend la very mnuch alarmied at thia balance great importance to the matter. As 1 said,
o f trade ngainst us. let hlm multiply these lie bas ouly to look ut the mother countrs
two or threc hundred thousand by one and lie will see that after making all pos

S ENAT E

u
sible allowauces for thiat portion of the im- tliat includes a very largesrlu
ports which represent the interest on Bni plus raniging frouai six,,teeii to tvsenty miltishi capital invested lu foreigui countries, lion. lie was la error on one point also, a
there bas been for a great mauy years a very important point on whiichi I will have
very large balance of trade against Great to differ from hlmii. H1e says tiîat lbey paid
Britain, and I miglit further point out to $37,00,000 in 1896. T;Lie people 'paid a
the lion, gentleman that if hie Is alarmed grent deal more thari that. The peoplp
at the impoverishmnent of the people whlch at thiat time had really a very murch Ieavi,,'r
lbas taken place ln consequence of this heavy rate of taxation than nowv. The only differbalance of trade. and ln consequ.ence aiseo f ence Is thiat to a inuclh langer extent ln
the enormous amount of revenue that 15! 1896 the sums exacted fromn tue people and
belng collected, it la a singular fact, and paid by the people should have goue in
worth bis consideration, that whlle we have the treasury. Under the systenii the bon
been laîpoverlshing the people at tbis rate, gentleman approves of, part of those taxes
the deposits ln the banks, mostly from the ,%vent in the treasury, and a very large part,
savlags of the People, ]lave risen from far more than nt present, went into the
soinetbing like two hundred million-I pockets 0f friends 0f the bon. gentleman whio
speak from inemory-to, about six hundred lad obtalned from the parliament of Canada
million ln the present year, being an In- the righit to tax the people at tlieir own
crease of between thiree und four bundred pleasure, the fnct being that a v'ony great
millions of deposits saved from the incomes deal more was îaid by the peuple of Canada
of the people, I presume, and apparently la that mwny thanl s pald at pre.sunt. 1
The hon. gentle- would ratier see muchi less paid by the
deposited ln the banks.
mani declares that It is very much to out people of Canada, but that is a question oni
discredit that the people pald thlrty- Nvhlch I am not at the preseult moment
seven millions in 1896, and that they golng ite detal.
now pay one hiundred millions for general
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Does îny hon.
It would take toe long, and 1 friend take into consideration la this dispurposes.
would not like to inflict the House witb an cussion the difference ln value la goods lianalysis showlng. how niuch was really ported at the present time, and tliose luiI will remark that It would be more ported ln 1896?
pald.
correct to say that the people paid thlrtyHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWIIGHTseven million ln 1896 and that ln the curA perfectly good point. A good deal of the
rent year just passed they paid somethlng
~There la no
like sixty-seven million, the remaindel lincrease is a nominal lncrease.
doubt about that. Wages are hlgher, the
arlslng from actuai dlsbursements on accost of living, -and cost of material is
count of consolidated fund.
higlier, and a good deal of the extra expense
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEID--4-May I point out of whlch hie comlWains is -due to those
that ln '96 the revenue from customs and causes, -%hich are not under control of the
excise wa5 twenty-seven and seime odd goverument, but which bave anisen in part,
no doubt from the grent prosperity whlch
millions, not thirty-seven.
has fortunately for a long time befallen the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWhIGHT-I
people of the country, and, 1 might add that
know that thoroughly, but the hon. gentlethere is this othier diffenence; that ln 1S96,
man spolie 0f the total expeaditure on conand for a longer period before If, the popuisolldated account as I understood hlm.
lation of Canada hiad been perfectîr stagHon. Mr. LOUGHFED-4f my bon. riant, and since then the population and
frlend desires to eliminate fromi the rev- the Iricome of the people of Canada have
enue aIl other Items wlth the exception of been increasîng in a ratio lnfinitely greater
customs and excise, hie should confine his than before. In another place I have laid
argumentbefore the othen Flouse satisfactony proofs
of the fact that the gnowth of the populaHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHYou wonld have $27,000,OOW in the one case tion was far less than the number as givea
Now. to-day, if
It Is trae yori would have $57,00OOM ln ln the ceasus returais.
we are spending a great deal niiore-the
the otlîer. but as the lion. gentlemran know,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

DECEMB3ER 2, 1007

21

papulation of Canada bas becu increasing or perlîups the year previous to tiîat, tbe
in a ratio infinitely greater than before, goverament of Canada bail been obliged
and I bave flot the slightest doubt that to borrow miany millions in the Englisbi
if the suggestion I bad ti4e bionour to market. As muatters stand, bi using tbe
make at the tinie bad been carried out, and surplus wblcb we secured, we bave been
a eusus bail been called for in 1896 as I able up to the present tume to avoi<l borrowwouid have flked to bave bad, that this re- ing ln a disadvantageous market, and I
suit would have been brougbt out that think the fiscal nuthorities rny bon. friend
ln elgbteen years ln ail probablity, the alluded to would agree witb me ln saying
population of Canada biad flot lncreased that at auy rate at present, and ulider exby more than 500,000 or 600,000 If the trutb isting conditions. it is better tbat wê sbould,
had been known; wbereas ln the years that If Nve can, or as far ns we can convewltbout attempting
have elapsed since we came into power there niently, pay Our «%NaY
Is every reason to belleve not inerely that to obtain inouey ln the English mnrket.
the relative ratio bas been vnstly larger, but
Hon Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWDLL-I was
tbnt tbe absolute increase in those years going to ask the bon. gentleman If there
bas beeji double, if not treble, ail that tool. Is any of wbat la termed a floating debt
place durlng the elgbteen years duirlng %vhieb nt the present moment to the extent of
The bon.
our predecessors beld powver.
nabout aine million dollars.
gentleman wants to know-and It Is a perfectly fair point and perfectly fair question
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-wby tbe goverument of the day have pre- Very possibiy.
Our credit.18 fairly good,
ferred to take taxes froni the people la place and w-e can pay our treasury buis, but it
of borrow%%Iig inoney to carry on grent public ia not a question of aine million, but twentyworks. That hon. gentleman asks wby wve nline millions or fifty millions My boa.
did flot. I presume be mens, reduce taxa- friead la alludiag to. It ls a fair debatable
tion and borrow inoney to carry on publie question. I do flot object in tbe sligbtest
works. If the taxation ls oppressive on degree to my bon. frlend brlnging It forthe country, if the taxation ls retarding wnrd, but you must remember that f rom
the progress of tbe country, tliere is not varlous causes, the Boer war for exampie,
the aligbtest doubt tbat kt would be a aince the enormous destruction of capital
Nvlser tblng to reduce the taxation and bor- that took place la the recent Russo-Japarow înoney. If, on the other baud, the tax. nese wnr, and since these panica that bave
ation la comparatively easily borne, then If taken place ln more quartera than the United
tbere be a sui-plus it becomes a matter of States, the bon, gentleman must remember
fair question ýwhetber it la or Is not better thiat the Englisb mnrket, te wbicb we must
to reduce the taxation nnd borrow money, cluiefly look for borrowlng, bas been la a
or to maintain tbe taxation and keep the very unsettled state, tbiat Englisb consols
public debt down for tbe benefit of our have touched a 10w point such as tbey bave
Imméediate successors, and perbaps for tbe uot toucbed for some tbirty or forty years,
benetit of ourselves. 1 ar n ot la thp and la maklng that statement I make f ull
slIgbtest degree disposed to find fault with nllownnce for the fact that consola bavP
the lion. gentleman for calling the attenl- been reduced from tbree to two and oneIt la not a favourable or
tion of the Hlouse to tbis matter. I think haif per cent.
probably it would be wiser for us to pay a désirable tume for us to borrow money ln
expendi- Engind.
Were circumstances more fav0f tbe
considerable portion
ture %veare lincurring for these public works, ourable, were tbings in a normal condition
and to borrow,% for wbat remained. I bave I could understand my bon. frlead's critiflot tbe sligbtest doubt myseif tbat tbe cism, nnd I would say It was a matter to
colossal works to wbicb my bon. friend bas be seriousiy coasidered wbetber It was or
alluded will require that the government was not better for us to borrow the moaey
of Canada should ut a convenient seasori rather than apply the surplus taxation to
go into the mnarket. but i may poinat out tile construction of those public works. But
to the lion, gentlemafn tlmt it -%ould be ln coanection witb that. I sbould hîke te
He bas
extreniely inexpedient and unfortunate If ask my bon. frlend a question.
He seema te
duriug the present year or the past yeur friends in anotber place.

SENATE
thinkl-pms'ibly 1 may nut tentirteiy disagree

ivith Ihim-thiat although the reai taxation
of the people of -Canada Is less than it was
ln former years, that taxation is hieavy and
niight bie reduced.
Why is it that the
lbon. gentlemen wlho iead the Opposition
ln the House of Commons have flot, to th
best of my recoilection and belief-and
who can
here
there are gentlemen
correct me If 1 arn wrong-moved to reduce
Why Is it that i ail their
the taxation?
debates, tlieir assaults and attacks on the
prese!ît goverament, 1 have falied to set'
onie single motion made by them for the
purpose of reduclng the taxation of the
If my hon. friend
people of Canada?
knows of any motion they have made, I
should like to know IL
Possly I might
see my way to agree wlth hlm again ln
thxe deslrability of such reduction, but 1
bave hieard none. I do not think that lie
will find--on the contrary If lie wil study
those <lebates hie will see that there bave
Leen attacks made by those lion. gentieDixeu and their supporters upon the present
administration because they would not add
to the taxes of the people of Canada when
they were asked to do so. This has been the
coînplaint, and that bas been the claim of
the hion. gentleman's friends outside of pariiament and tue.% bave, I think, more than
once intimated their conviction that we
vuglit to have a tariff as higai as uiaman's
gallows for the purpose of exciuding goodý,.
and for the purpose of doubiing. trebling.
nnd quadruplinig, as the case muay bie, the
taxes of the people of Canada.
Hon. MNr. LOUGED-I. think it was a
supporter of the right hon, gentleman whio
said tlîat.
Hon. Sir RI4UHAIID CARTWRIGHTWbat is bis name?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I do not desire
to mention Dames.
Hion .Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIf hie is n supporter lie must lie a recent
convert. I L-now what you did while we were
ln opposition. I could find a use for a
glillows ns hlgh as Haman's, but it wouid
not lie for the use my lion. fiend would
be disposed to put it to.
.Hon. M-Nr.
LOUGHEE'D-His appeal was
to the present governament of wbiom lie is
reputedj to hiajve I)een j conlsistenit qU1>pcOrtei,
for ten yearr.
Honi. Sir 111CR AD CArTWIGHT.

Hon Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHITHlis appeni wns for lncrensed taxation,
and lie did not agree with the views
of the present goverameat on that point.
The hon. gentleman alluded to another matter of very considerable practical importance, and, if I followed hlm right, I think
hie was disposed to intimate that it would
lie a good tlhig for us to greatly dlmiisli
our gold reserve. The hion. gentleman, I
thiak, Is labourlng under a confusion of
ideas there. Lt Is perfectly true that there
is no occnsion for muaintainiing a very large
goid reserve for the purpose of protecting
the genuine circulation which the government of Canada puts out, but the hon. gentleman is awnre, no doulit, that the amount

of circulation which we put out Is really
n very Ilmited quantity. We have, no doulit,
a circulatlon-speaking
fromn memoryof soîne tifteen million dollars or thereabouts, of ones, twos, and fours. But what
is called circulation, and against which
a goid reserve la hld, is a totaliy different
thing. It is not against tlmnt compnratively
triling note circulation that we hold this
reserve. W'e hiold it lu mucli thie saine wvny
aa tlie Bank of England does, for the maintenance of the credit of thie banks and people of Canada. How did this reserve come
Into our bands?
By legisiation under

wxvkl we practicaily took possession of
the gold reserves heretofore hld by the
banks of Canada. At this moment, if the
banks of this country saw fit they conld,

under the exlstlng law, draw twenty or
twenty-five or thirty millions of this samne
goid resezve at an hour's notice ont of out
vanuits. There la nothing to prevent them
doiag so, because our law does not require
that the banks shiaîl retain any speciail
ainount 0f specie ln reserve. it requires
that of the reserve tbey bave they shall
hoId at least forty per cent of legai tenders.
Hon. Mr'. LOUGH-EED-Twent'-five

cent.
Hon.

Sir RICHARD

per

CAHTWRIGHIT-

The lion, gentleman is thinking of a
The iaw provides that
different tli-ug.
wlhatever bank reserves are maintained,
forty per' cent of these slxould bie in legal
tenders. 'rhat is wvhat they require. You
ciu.l if you choose, lîossibiy-but 1 do not
thinlz it would be at ail a wise thingrelieve tuie Lgove1'iiL]ent fron, the uccessitv

DECEMBER 2, 1907
of holding dollar for dollar of the legal baaks depend, as everybody knows, upon
tenders wliich they baud to the banks. I
do not tliink it would be a politie thing. 1
do not tbinlc that bankers of the beet standing iu this cownrunitv would advlee that It
should be doue. Let my hon. friend reinember this--that ts practically the only
gold reserve existing lu Canada. The
anount of specie alone lield by the banke le
qulte lusiguiticant lu comparison wlth thelr
liabilities. Ail they hold le specle and legal
tenders. These legal tenders they have a
riglît to draw from the goverument at an
hour's uotice, aud It would be hlghly rn-.
politic for ns to let that reserve be depleted.
We should retain a inuch stronger reserve
for this purpose than tweuty or tweatyfive per ceut. I ar nl favour of retalalng
our regerve as we have always had it, and
that is dollar for dollar after we have
miade reasonable provision for our circulation.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I have It froin
au authoritative source that the reserve le
tw-enty-five per ceut ou the circulation uj)
to tblrty millions, and after tlilrty millions
It le dollar for dollar.
.Hou Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTWe are talklng of
That ts rlght.
I was referrlag
rather difierent thinge.
to the question as to whether it was -not
polltlc to diminleli the gold reserve of forty-four or forty-five millions, or whatever
it inight be uow lu the bauds of the govMy Impression le that liavlng re£1i ument.
gard to the fact that that ts beld by us ln
place of having had it remain lu the bauk58,
It would flot be wise for us greatîr. to dlimlnisib IL
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-Then the statement muade by the Toronto 'Globe' two or
tbree days ago, that It was the Intention of
the goverunent to introduce a measure rednclng the amiotnt of the reserve to be hield,
was not made wltb autborlty..
Hon. Sir RIOHARD) CARTW'RIGHTNo statement of that klnd bas been made
witli authorltT. The question le one for debate. It may be possibir found that we have
a few millions more than are required. I
doubt It mysef-I arn speaking bere mndlvidually. The tliiug ts a question which le
far beyond and far above mere party interest or the mere necessities of the moment.
The solveucy and the credit of the Canadian

their belng able to pay la gold every obligation they have, and particularly for the
notes that tbey put lu circulation. Now it is
(lutte true that where you have notes lu circulation you do not require to maintain anythink lîke go large a reserve as we hold.
My point le
againet our legal tenders.
tlls : the reserve we hold, ajthough nominally beld against circulation, le not really so
except go far as the ones, twos, and fours
ç.ut In circ-ulation-le not really held against
circulation at ail. It was origlnally taken
f rom the banke. If we bad let the banke
atlone tbey would have held lnstead of fourteen or fifteeu millions lu gold probably fifty
or sixty millions gold to-day. I thlnk tbey
hâve tIf teen millions and we bave fortyfiv1
or sixty millions In ail. I do flot thlnk that
le too large a sum for us to base the wliole
fabric of our credit upon ; that lis my opinion at any rate. As I say, It may be that
we could dispense wlth a emal portion of It,
though I would be sorry to see that doue. 1
say that frankly. I would rather preserve
the gold reserve we have now. Our case le
not the case which existe lu England where,
as hon, gentlemen probably kuow, they have
a note circulation of large amounts. Five
ponde, I thlnk, le their lowest figure,.
wbereas ours le about tive shillings of
paper mouey, aad they have a very large
amount of gold and specie la the hands of
the p)ublic at large. We have notblng of
that. Outelde of the banks and governinent
reser -cŽthere le no gold lu Canada, and It
is therefore doubly desirable that the governmeut should retain a very cousiderable
sum of gold In Our bauds. Tbe hon. gentlemuan also referred to the deelrabllty, as be
thought, of our dlscontinnlng our savings
banks, and tbrowlng the deposit recelpte
we now bave Into the general wvorkiug
fuud. Tbere again, of course, there wlli
be differences of Opinion. I am Incllned
to thIuk that It le for the Rdvautage of the
people of Canada that tbey should bave,
those of tbem who choose, the absolute
securlty for their savings whicb the govI have not
erument alone can afford.
the sligbtest doubt that the deposits lu tbe
vaet majority of our banke are perfectly
safe, but they are not always and luvariably to be regarded as go safe as the
security wbicb the goverliment affords,

24

SENATE

and if our people, of their own option,
and witbout compulsion, choose to cleposit a very considerable amount of
money-sixty millions or more-in the post
office savings bank at a 10w rate of interest,
I do flot see why the government should deprive themt of the right of doing so, and I
do flot know that any great advantage would
reslult from tbrowlng that money into the
general market. My hon. frlend Is flot, perhaps, awnre that we have in one shape or
anotber, taklng Into account our bankIng
capital and reserves, deposits ana circulation, something like eight or aine
bundred million
dollars avallable for
carrying on legitimate banking operations.
My own impression Is that that
is sufficient for our needs, and If there Is
dlfficult*, If tiiere lias been trouble, it bas
arisen to a very great extent front the fact
tlmat n very considerable amount which ouglit
to have been invested only la ways that It
could be easiiy returned, lias been put In on
one pretext or another to plant and fixed
capital Nwhil It Is not the business of the
batiks to supply.
Hon. 31r. LOUGHEED-Tlîat Is the saine
trouble with the goveraiment.

two or tbree months occurs close beside us
thiat we will not suifer to soute smnall extent from the reflex action. But here I may
taire occasion to remark, and the thing i~s
wortb noting, that wbereas twenty or thirty
years ago sucb a disaster as lias occurred
la tbe United States would have most seriously and xnaterlally affected the prosperity
of the people of Canada by reason of tbe
fact that they were almost their sole eustomers for a great portion of the goods we
produced, that partiy owing, I tbink, ta
the lajudiclous legisiation of the United
States, our relations witb tbemi have been
s0 nltered that no matter bow grave misfortune that may overtake tbem it wIll xiot
affect us one-fiftb or one-slxth part as InJuriously as it would bave done 30 yezirs
ago. Canada to-day is mucb better able
to stand on ber own feet thtan Canada was,
dieu, and thiat is a thiug wvbicb our
people may very well bear In mimd. Not a
single bank Ia Canada that I know of bias
shown the sllghtest symiptoms of being
serinusly
embarrassed
under
circumstances whlcb bave, as you perfectly well
know, led to something very like suspension of specie payments fromt one enid of
the United States to the other and the
people of the United States at thîs moment are looking witb envy, I mlght say,
and certalnly with wonde'r at tbe remarkable stability that bas been shown by
Canadian Institutions in passlng tbrougb
this extraordinary crisis.
The bon, gentleman alluded to the reference to wbich notice bas heen given in this
speech, of certain matters ini dispute betw'een the United States and ourselves and
Newfoundland to the Hague Tribunal.
WlItb respect to that, bie Is perfectly aware
thiat until tbese papers comte down it wouid
flot be Possible or desirable for mie to enter
nt any lengtb into an explantation of the
muasons whicb bave induced us to take tbis
step. Ai I can say te tbe hion, gentleman
Is this, that bie must be aware that for
very many years,, probably ever siace the
commencement of last century, certainly
ever since the war of 1812-14, these fisheries
and the questions arising from them bave
been a *ource of c'onstant friction and aniloyance to the British government and to

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTB3ut the governament are flot expected to
supply the mercantile communlty with
money to carry on their operations. The
government's duty is to carry on the business of the goverament of the country, and
If certain great public works require also to
be carried. on, to find the means required.
The banka, as 1 understand their business,
and as their charters would seemt to imdi-cate, are vested witb large powers; are pernitted to issue notes witb certain restrictions and are given certain privileges for
the purpuse of supplyiug whtmiglt be
called the fiuid needs of the mercantile community, nnd if there is trouble in this case
-and trouble I admit tbere bas been aItbough I hope It will pass off sooner than
my lion. friend seeins to think it willthat bas occurred largely from tbe fact that
the banks have put a considerable amount
of the means at tbeir "disposal into fixed
capital and engagements. Tbat I think hie
will find to be the primary cause of any
trouble that now exists, althouglh we cannot caurselves as weh as to the United States;
lhope thnt when such a eoîïvulsioii als hasl thlat over and over again the peace subsistovertakien the United States witiii the 1;iS;t iug betweeni the two counltries bas been
lion. Sir RMCII RD) (CARTWlGI'I;IT.

DEOEMBER 3. 1907
seriously imperilled by the difficulties thaf
have arisen. between the several local govei uments and the fishermen of both countries.
If there la a reasonable ground of
doubt as to, the interpretation of a particuJar clause ln a particular treaty, I put h:
to, my lbon. friend as a lawyer of repute, as
leader of the Opposition lu this House and
as a gentleman.wJIo is entitled to take rank
among the statesmen of Canada, whether
ic la not, bearlng ln mmnd the position of
Great Britain and Canada, and the United
States-whetber it lo not If there be a
reasouable doubt as to the construction or
Interpretation of a partieular clause, to refer that to an Impartial tribunal of Independent jurists for the purpose of obtainIng a reasonable Interpretation thereof?
Que tbiug I may say to the lion. geutlemail, and that Is tbis: that so0 f ar as the
present goverument are concerned, tbey
wlll do nothing, knowingiy at any rate, that
nil11 in the slightest degree Imperil the
rights or lu any possible shape or way detract from the dignity or honour of the peopie of Canada, and wlth that explanation,
which la all I eau give at present, I shall
conclude my remarks on the present occ&sion.
Hon. Sir MAOKDINZIE BOWDILIt
was not my Intention ta speak on this
motion, but as the right hon. gentleman
bas indulged lu the usual attack on the
late goverumeut, for whlch I consider myself somewhat responsIble, I may be excused If I dlaim the Indulgence of the
Ilouse for a short time to-morrow. 1 move
the adJournment of the debate.
The motion was agreed f0.
The, Senate adjourued until to-morrow at
three p.m.

THE SENATE.
OTTAWVA, Tuesday, December 3, 1907.

The SPEAKER took the Chair nt Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
UN-REVISFED HtAN1111D.
Hon. 3fr LOUGHFiED-Before the orderg
o! the day are proceeded with, may I
direct the attention of my hou. friend the

25

Secrettary of State t0 the fact that thje unrevised Issue of the debates seems f0 haviý
reverted back into the very objectionable
form to which exception was taken during
previous sessions. Last session the gàlley
forma was decided on, whicb is very ranch
more preferable than the form we have
received to-day.
An unrevlj$ed form with
a one-haif Iach margin for corrections la
extremely luconvenleut, and I would direct
the attention of my lion. frieud to, the desira>]lIty «and to, the necessity of the galley
forma beig lutroduced.
Hou. Mr. 1SOOITT-The management of
that matter Is usually with the debates
committee, but 1 understand from one of
the officiais that au order bas been given
to amend lu the direction gîven by the hon.
gentleman.
Hou. Mr. LOUGiHED-It so, it bas
been disregarded in the Issue of yesterday's
report.
THE ADDR.ESS.
DEBATE RESUMED.
The order of the day belng cafled:
Resuming the adjouned debate on the consideration of Ris Excellency the Governor
General's speech on the opening of the Fourth
Session ci the Tenth Parljament.
lion. 'Sir MACKDNZIE BOWELL-I am
i a position just now t0 be convinced how
easlly It la for one to violats a promise
whlch ha bias made to himself. As I intimatad last night, when 1 came to this
Chamber, I had made up my mnd. not to
take any active part lu the dabates during
the session.
But after the remarks which
.have been made lu reference to the conduct, the actions, and the policy of the late
governmeut, I thought it Incumbent upon
me at least to say a few words in defence
of its policy.
I presume I may be perniittad, like my hou, leader, to congratulate
the gentlemen who have sueceaded ln obtalnlng seats lu the Senate, a body that
they have for years been condemnlng lu
lauguage not at ail polite.
Be that as it
may, I congratulate my hou. friend, 1
might say personal friand, the hon. member for Ottawa, for haviug deserted, If I
may use that expression, the arduous duties
pertaining to a representative o! a city ilke
this, f0 sekl repose lu the serene atmospliera of the Senate. Prom what 1 know

SENAT'-

26

of hlm I arn quite sure that lie will do
credIt not only to himself but to Vie Senate.
The appointient I look. upon as being a
good one.
Then as *to iny bon. friend froin York
(Hon. Mr. Campbiell) we kuow w-hat an arduous politician lie lias been, and w-e know,
or think. w-e know, w-by lie bus been appointed to Vie Senate. Wlien we reflect upon Vie
policy of Vie present premier la seeking
colleagues froni ail over Canada, and Ignorlng xI so many Instances bis sincere, ardent
and constant followers lu Vie Hou se of
Cominons we no longer wonder that sonie
of the most prominent and talented of lits
followers In tlîat House feel aggrieved at
belng passed ov-er, and preference given to
men w-ho bave never lield a seat In parîlament. My hon. friend bas been successfui la olitaiîiing wbiat, to my mind, lu linIlitely better Vlian a position la Vie cabinet. If lie did not succeed la obtainlng
tint w-hlch I tbluk bis merits and services
to, the party demanded, lie ut least lias ohitained a position whlch I have no doulit
lie will enjoy more Vian a portfolio ln tlîe
goi-erîment. Those of us wbo beard bis
speech yesterday listened w-iVi a great deal
of attention and lnterest to bis remarks.
He displayed tliat energy and love of party
w-hldli have always dliaracterlzed hlm sînce
lie lias been ln public life. I noticed Viat in
order to intensify -the force of lits remarks
lie quoted a littie poetry. I shaIl quote from
a newspaper a rliyxe w-hlcl lias been pubiIlsled at the lion. geantlemaa's cxpensv.
Tbose 0f us w-ho are famillar Nvitli Vie
tariff know Vlint Viere are certain Initiais
put after some articles of Import whiclî'
For instance,
bave a speciai significance.
N.O.P. lu ver3- often found lu the tariff, ani
means, 'not otherwise provided for.' Sonie
Irreverent rlymster perpetrated Vie folloNvlng at the expense of my hon. friend:
Some imnports in the customis bouse
Were marked as N.O.P.
Ârchie Canipbell's aow in the Senate
Because lie w-as of that degree.
Wlîetlier that lie true or not I cannot say,
but it lu vei*y apt under Vie circumstances,
and I suggest that iuy lion. friend should
Clip it out and pint it lu bis scrap-book for'
hoa. f rieud to the'
future refex-ence. M-Ny
left ('-%r. Derbysire) is on the left of the
Speaker, I suppose. hecause hoe caxinot get
Hon. Sir'2NIACKENZIE BOWELL.

a sent on the riglit. Let me hope thiat liefore long lie wll prefer this side to the
other. Whatever dlguity lias been ndded to
the Senate by the leagtli aad breadtli of
tbe addition w-heu lias corne to it, w-e caru
ail rejoice la the fact tliat w-e have an exceedingly good natured punster amougst ue,
and let me hope that lie inay live longý to
enjoy the position.
Havlng sald this mucli la reference to
the new-comers, I may express îny surprise
uat some of the omissions la the speech froru
the Tlirone. Tbere w-as a by-election a
short time ago la Western Ontatio, la mliicli
r
my hon. frlend from Wellington (Hon.
McMullen) took part. Wben addrebsing the
Liberals of tliat constltuency, lie w-as taken
to task as a supporter of tlie goveruient
beeause the governuient lad falled to reforai tlie Senate. My lion. frieîîd rose in
lis miglit and declared-or at least lie ls
so reported-that the reason w-hy the Senate
bad not been reformed w-as because Sir
Wilfrid Laurier liad been so busy durlng
the~ last ten years that lie w-as flot la a
position to, devote bis tîme and talents to
the reforiuation of this body; but lt w-as to
lie doue at once now Vint other great questions were settled. 1 see no refereuce lu
tlie speech fromn the Tlirone lndlcating tliat
Vie Senate is to lie reforrned, and w-len 1
consider tbe close relations of Vie lion. gentleman -w-tli minîsters and liow often it Is
alleg-ed tliat lie gives themi the beijefit of
bis advice, I conclude that lie must [w
speakiug on behaif of Vie governiiient, and1(
that Vie goi-ernment la Vbis case, as ln
inany others. lias mnisled the lion. gentl'man and Vie country, aud Vint they feel
Vint there is now no need to reforîni Vie
Senate. What w-ould the preseat goverament liave done if tliere lad been no Senlbers of the
ate ln whIcli to shelve meni
Commons Ia order to secure vacancies for
tlieir outslde cabinet ministers?
Let us look at It for a moment. The
late ',%r. Blair neyer lad a seat in thï.s
ii
House or I Vie bouse of Commons.
-%as alleged, and neyer denied, that bllad
made overtures to a1venerable senator Xv-ho
lias now gone to bis î-eward, that lie slîould
resigu and give hlm bis place, and that
w-,leu lie could get a cOastitueaceY lie -as
to resign bis seat hiere and that gentleman
,%va- to lie reappoinited. Those %N-ho Iiiew

DECEMBER 2, 1907
timat gentleman wouid come to the con- member for Brockvilie, visited Ottawa, biad
clusion that hie would act just lu lue man- an Interview with the governuent, returnner lu whichi he dld act, and that is to re- ed to Brockviiie, resigned biis sent, to whic(b
fuse polntedly to barter aw'ay is seat lu Mr. Graham %vas subsequeutly eiected,
the Senate, even for lue position of a cabi- which enabled hlm to retialu bs portfolio.
How was it accomplished? Tiien, whether by promise or not, we have
net minister.
It was nlot long before there happened to fiad the pleasure of seeing our genlal triend.
The hon. walk into the, Senate and take bis seat.
be a vacaucy lu the Commous.
member who at that time represented Then we bave another outsider lu the perQueens, N.B., lu the Commons, found It son of Mr. Pugsley who, unfortunately for
couveulent to resign; and IMr. Blair was hlm, or unfortunately for the eountry, la
eiected, and 'Mr. Ring-I won't say got bis now lilling the place made vacant by outt
of the House
reward-certainiy !ound *a sent lu luis of the most brilliant members
find that lu the seiec- of Cemmons, the member for St. John.
Then we
ýChamber.
it up, we find that Mr. Mowat
tien of bis cabinet hie tooli Mr. Fielding Following
in Ontario
Mir. Fielding was taken from bis position
Scotia.
ln frein Nova
without a seat in the Commons, but hie was
neyer bad a seat lu this lieuse or lu
brought into the Senate, and consequently
the Commous heuce a seat was requlred
no vacancy hiad to bie provided for bini.
for hlm, and lue gentleman who rehave seven or eight gentlemen
province of~ Now we
presented Queens lu lue
brought Into the liresent cabinet who had
Nova 8cotia was appointed preventive
nieyer bieid seats lu the House of Common,,
officer with $25 or $50 a month, I forget
expressing as cieariy as can be
How- thereby
which, lu Prince Elkward Island.
the premier*s want o! confithe end o! It. it expressed
ever, that was nlot to bie
dence in the ability o! the bundred or
was nlot long before hie was placed upori
thirty supporters in -the
The vac- biundred and
the bench and lu now a judge.
liouse o! Commous. 1 do flot wonder that
aucy occurred and Mr. Fielding got a consoule of tbemn rebelled and made thireats.
Then Mr. Sifton was brought
stituency.
In the case of my bon. triend fromn Centre
from the outside. -He hnd no seat lu parYork, before being off ered a position lu
liament, and luey mnnaged to get hlm a
the Senate hie was aslced to speak ut a
coustituency, and after certain niegotiations
1 thinik it
meeting in Toronto.
Then political
hie found a sent lu the tommous.
was for a nomination for the Ontario House
we have Mr. Âylesworth, lue present Min- or for the Corninous. People wbo know bis
ister o! Justice, who, 1 amn glad te learu to- readiness to discuss ail questions, mor,,
day, ls recoveriug biis henlth. Whatever we partidulariy of a political character, ivili
may tblnk of bis polîtical antecedeuts, be surprise1 to lie-Ir thiat be qluietlY sald:
every one regrets bis affliction etud we 1No, '-%r. Chairmuan.- 1 have no0thiug to Bay-'
hope that hie may soon returu lu good nnd waiked off.
That indicated a feeling
Then it became necessary to ob- of revoit, for bavlng been overlooked, and
heallu.
talnan sent for lue present Minister o! Rail- for the policy of the governient lu that
There was uo seat va- particular respect.
ways and Cannîs.
But as soon as lie
cant lu lutis part o! Canada, but luere was found a comfortable seat lu this serene
s very good-natured represeutative who Chamber lie was Just as vehement and ns
llved in the saine towu as himsel! lu lue eloquent lu defence o! the present goverfiperson of our frleud. to my left. 'I saw It ment as hie hnd ever been ln times paIst.
stated lu the debate lu the Commos-al- This is the state la whilh these gentlemen
though I do nlot know luat I have a right find themselves, and this is the reason we
to refer to luat-luat the Premier denied flnd them now ln this Chamber.
that rny hon. frienl haa resigned, or lie
I notice ln the paliers It ls reportedcorrected himsel! by saying that lie dld and to rny mmnd it is a very important coupot resigu for the purpose o! gettiug a seat cession, if it bas been made--that the prýor implled tbat lie did nlot resign for lue sent goverunent bave açceded to the dipurpose of giving a seat to the new Minis- rnands o! the United Stntes governrfnut for
The report the abrogation of one o! the clauses of the
ter o! Rniiwnss and Canais.
lu the newspapers f rom Ottawa made the Treaty 0f IS18, or the Treaty o! Utrecht, by
statement that Daniel Derbyshire, itsq,

SE NA TE

28

wvblch no war vesseis sbould be place,4
upon the great lakes lu Canada. 1 shouid
Mie to ask tise leader of the House wbethi-r
sncb is the fact, becanse 1 kno,% the question bas been agitated for years, and demands have been made on bebalf of tihe
United -States tîme and again for peraileSion to place war vessels on tbe gre.t
One of the wisest provisions that
lakes.
could bave been made was Iu onse of tap
articles of the treaty to whblh I bave referred, to pre 7ent the -placing of war vessels on the great lakes, eitber by Great
I know tbnt
Britaîn or tbe United States.
wben I was ln Washington lu 1892-3 the
same request was made by Mr. Blil, of
the late Sir John Thomplluu, iâir. r'oster
and myseif. for permission to aliow thse
United States to build vessels lu Chicago
for use ou tbe great lakes, and also to encourage thé building In that por tion of thme
United States of vessels that ivouid pas3
tbrougb the canal to a sea port on thd
Wbeu we reflect upoa
Atlantic ocean.
the cbianged conditions whiclb exist to-day
as compared witb tbose thitt existed wheri
that treaty was sigued lu refereuce to conditions of war, we cau easily understand
why lt is that the United 8tutes are
auxious to secure permIssion to placé war
vesseis on the upper lakes. lu thse event
of difficulties between the two countries-whicb God forbid should es-er uccur-tiogse
wbio prepare in the time of peace are moist
likely to pre vent war w-len diffieuities anîd
quarrels

may arrive.

If tbey bave war

he asserts that
changed so mucli since
madle that this clause
stead of a henefit. 1
whlen

the conditions bave
the treaty has been
is now a burden inagree with him that

the clause shouid be abrogated, but insist
that it should not occur until we have deep
water navigation £rom the lakes to the ocean.
If we have that we can easiiy retain the
nsastery of the great lakes navigation both in
war and iu time of peace.
Tbat la the feeling tbat bas becu actuutiuig tise People Of the United States for
It la a desire wbichi tbey bave.
years.
Under tise old form of deciaration of war,
ysou ail know that a certain time was giveit
ln order to alow foreigners to leave tbe
At tbe present moment a biowv
country.
la struck as soon as war la declared.

We

bave an Illustration of tbat lu thse case of
Japan a sbort time ugo, that before tbe
world kneiv tisere was to be war, Japan
hnd lier wur sblps lu certain ports that
she wisbied te attack, and hiad attaiaed a
very great advance towurds victory before
even, the war was fnirly commence-i. Now
I ask ln all sincerity whether nny applications have been made on thse part of the
United States to, Great Britain for thse
abrogation of tbose clauses lu tbat treaty,
and wbetber the government of Canada,
as bas been alleged tbrengbi tise ncwspapers,
have expressed their willlngness that It
should be abrogated, la, correct or flot.
Hou. 'Mr. SOOTT-Tbere lias bçen no request froin thse governiment ut WVashington
for the abrogation of that part of tise convention, unor bas any action been tuken in
connection witis It.

vesseis on the upper lames the.;-,- Yol(l be ni
a position to assail every port lu Canada
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I unbefore it would be possible for tirent Bni- derstund tise hou. gentleman to say tîmat fn
tain to place upon tbose waters guul boats application bas been made to tlse Cauad*i111
or sucb boats as would be iiecess.Lry 10 goverument?
That w ns very wei
defend our froutier.
expressed even so long ugo as IS9 u)y Hon. Mn. SCOTT-Noue w-iateven.
Judge Chapman lu discussing the report
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is thc
witb the ýSecretary of -State ou thse subject of wur vessels ou the grent lakes. It bon, gentleman aware tbnt auy sncb appliwas a subject of discussion at tisat tlîne. cation bas been made to tise Imperial govand very serious discussion lu Washing- erument?
Judge Cbapmnn wbo bad been for
ton.
Hion. Mtr. SCOTT-I can Say this 'Ducl).
six years a niember of thse coînmittee on
that If any application bad been made,
foreign affairs used this lunguage:

tisene, we centainîr would bave beard of
He had long given the question of the abrogation of the clauses in the treaty with Great it tise next day.
Bi itain restricting the number of war vessels
on the great lakes a great deai of consideraHon. Sir NIACKENZIE BOWVELL-Tlîe
tion. The Secretary of State is right, he con- infierence I draw fronu that is ilihai it la
tiniues, in, his communication to the Seîîate,
Hou. 'Sir M\.ACKENZIL UOWELL.

DECEMBER 3. 1907
flot su. A good deat of stress lbas beeu
laid upon the importance of thé Jreuci
treat3-, and a good deal of satisfaction as
been expressed by those who liave referred
10 that subject. It bas been stated aaiong
other things tlhat greater privileges were
given tu Canada iii the niegotiation of thiat
treaty ia
bave ever before been conceded, amd that the negotiations took place
excluslvely betweeu the repre.sentatives of
Canada and of the French government, and
that no sucb concessions and privileges had
been granted Nvlien Sir Charles Tupper was
ln Paris and uegotiated tIse first treaty that
we bad wittî France. Ou reference t0 the
articles o! tIse treaty 1 find tbat tisat state.ment is a fallacy. Wlien Sir Charles Tupper was negotîating the treaty wvlth France,
he had the assistance of Lord Dufferlit,
w'bo w-as then the Minister PlenipotentiarT
ln Paris. If you refer to the preamble of
tise present treaty, you wlll find that the
first ane mentioned le the representative
of Great Britain la Paris, Sir Francis Levison Bertie, Knight Commander of thse Grand
Cross of tbe« Most Distingulsbed Order of
St. Michael aad St. George, Knlght Grand
Cross of the Royal Victorian Order. KnlgsI
Commander of the 'MIost Honourable Order
of thse Bath, His MaJesty'e Ambassador Extraordlaary and Plealpotentlary 10 the Governent o! the French Republlc. Wlth hlm
were associated the Hon. Wai. Stevens
Filding. a member o! thse Privy Council
here, and the Hlon. Mr. Brodeur, so that s0
far from tisaI being a concession ackaowledglag the autoaomy of Canada to a greater extent than was ever ackaowledged before, thse
statemeat Is not correct. Consequently thse
credit whlch Is clalmed for tise goverarnent
of having placed this country la almost thse
position of a separate nation Is not warranted. In Iooklng at this proposed tarif!
I beeltate not 10 eay-and I amn very much
lnclined 10 think thant tise Minister of Trade
and Commerce wll concur la tb4ý opinion
wblch 1 arn about 10 express-tsatIt I l
next to Impossible 10 corne 10 a correct
conclnsion as lu wliat tise effe'ct of the
treaty rnay be when Il le worked .out. la
order 10 ascertain preclsely wbat thse effect
would be, you would have 10 first take
eacb article 10 visicli a preference Is given
la thse French market and ascertain what
tise French tariff ls ôn tisat article; then

refer lu our owua trade andi navigation returias tu aýeertaiu wbietler we export tisat
article tu any foreiga country, and, If su,
to wlat exteal 10 France and until that
bas been testedl thse peolte of Ibis country
cant knov wisat %vilt be ils effecîs upont
either thse revenue or Industries of Canada.
It le different, lîowever, wbien you tura to
tise speciffc duties under ehedule ýC' because there the ad valorein and specific
duties are epectfied, and la looking aI thiat
part of the tarIff it seemed 10 me tisaI thse
negotiatore must have bad ia their mlnd's
eye thse requirements of borne o! thieir colleagues, eepeclally my hon. friende tse Secretary o! State aud thse Miaieler of Agriculture, because by tiat clause the dulles upont
ivines are înaterlally lowered; but wisat
surprises me la looking at the report of the
debate la tise House o! Commons le to find
Iliat wisen Mr. Borden sald tisaVtise duties
on champagne and liglit wlnes bad been
materiaflîr rednced, the statement was conIradlcted by tise Minister of Finance, waho
said liat the 30 per cent ad valorern duly
wilch w-as claarged ripon champagnes la
a(dition 10 thse specific duty of $3.30 per
dozen quarts. had not been changed, tIsat
sorne lime ago the 30 per cent la addition 10
lIse epecific duty had been repealed by the
Canadion parîlarnent. That I muet confess
someW-iat eurprlsed me. 1 Isold ln my Isnnd
tise authorized tariff o! 1907, and I fiad Item
167) reade as follows:
Champagne and all other sparkliag wines
in botties containing in each not more than
une quart, but more than a pint, old wine
miensure, per dozea botties, $3.30, and thirty
per cent ed valorem.
'l'is copy of tihe tariff I obtalned oaIl'
the otlmer day. and yeî I flild thse followlng
la tise debates o! tise House o! Commone:
Mr. FIELDING. There is a reduction on
gist wines. There je no reduction on champagne at ail. 1 think thse hon, gentleman had
better wait until we have the treaty before us
in proper forrn.
Mr. BORDEN. What je thse present duty on
champagne?
Mr. FIELDING. There ras a specific duty
and ad valoremn duty some years ago. Thse
F-pecific dut y ras retained and the ad valorem
dûty ablished. We retained thse saine rates
of duty, the ad valorem beiag aboliehed. I
forget the precise figure.
Mr. BORDEN. Do you strike off the specific
duty P
Mr. FIELDING. No, there is no change ia
thse rate on champagne.

SEN\ATE
Now. if yoil tiomi to the treaty itself, or hyv the Interc>lonial Ililwvy to rHalfax
scîtediule , .' yonl ind titat tiiere s -a dilty ait gt-eat expense, anîd unless -e ship fromn
upon liglit wuebut
a reduction of ten ports of tue maritime provinces we w;Il
per ceont, leziug it sinîiffy at 15i per cent. ho (leprived of the benefits of this treaty.
T'le 30 per- cent ad valoreut is flot retaineil. It seeius to me titat our representativ-es
so that the duty ou lighit wvines is lowered w'itlt the exierieîce w'e have hiad, shouid
to 1.5 per cent. There is a reduction of the hav-e insistod upon the admission of our
duty. so w-ith. otîter kinids of wvines. Then goods under tiIs treaty whether transyou turn to champagnes and all other shipped ut Boston, New York or Portland
sparkling w-ines
in
bottlos
containing during the period w-lien we cannot reach the
one quart, on whichi the duty
in this sea-board except tlîroughi the maritime protreaty tariff is $3.30.
There
Is no0 vinces. Pctiîaps ni! hon. frieud w-hen he
addition of 30 per cent ad valorem. rises to spoak cati explain w-ly thîs defet
Consequently, if titis tariff i correct, and lu the tt-eaty w-as not reimoved. I shall now
It is the oue tient lias been placedl lu our refer bî-iefly to stateients made bv the hon.
band-, to consider, you will find that Mittiste- of Ti-ade aud Commerce as to thp
the 30 per cent ad valoî-em is repealed, s0 difference betw-eeu the ttade of to-fday and
that the Importer of champagne will pay the trade froîn 1874 to 1878. The right hon.
only $,3 on a case of champagne and wll genttlemtan, lu bis usual glowfng langUage,
be relfeveci of the 30 per cent upon the vaine repeated to the House w-bat w-e have f reof the chaulpagne, w-hfch at a value of $12 <îuemîtly iteard, statements as to the exodu7q
per case the duty at 30 per cent w-ill be $3.60, wvhicli occ-uîrod lu the past, and the large
there is tiiorefore a reduction otf about i50 loiigi-ation widiei bas taken place since
per cent iii the duty on spnrkllnq wlne, the advout of the preseut governiment to
whie-h ire used alimost exclusivelv by the lîo%%or, He also
t-eferî-ed to the large inrichi people of the country. In that respect ct-case iii the trade of the counîtry over
thorefore, It is virtually nothiug more or and above the ti-ade w-hic-h existed w-hile
loss titan a iii ilmaiiVs taiif as, atrainst the the Conseri-atives were in power.
poor mail. If 1 ami wroug I si]all be very
He forgot, however, to state that iu 1873
glati to i)e corrected.
«There is another the trade of the country w-as v-eîy prosperclause ii tilis taiif w-uie-h I shoulfl like to ous, that lu 1878 It had dropped by milhave seeii oinitted.
1 fraîîkly admit that lions, and that lmmedfateiy after the Conthe saine provisioni %vas lu tue offl treaty servatives came luto po,%-er inî 1878 the t-evnegotfated by Sir Charles Ttippor. It is -OtiOCs of the country began to boomu and
the eighth paragraph, which provides that the trade to Incrense matvellously. All he
iu order to enjoy the henelits of the hiad to do to prove this statement w-ns to
ti-eaty, Canadian products shahl be "Cou- quete from the documients wlîic-hi ho had
veyed w-ithout transhfpinent fromn a Cam- under biis hand while ho was spoaking.
adiani poi-t or fi-oi a por-t of a country en- The prosperity of the country contlnualiy
joyfug the I-roncii minfimum tariff to a grew for ton or fifteen yenrs under the late
potrt lu France. Aligeriatiie Frenchi colonies Conservative government, owing to the
and possessions
and the. territory - of w-fse, beneficetît national policy. Thon the
the Protectorate of Inido China."
The trade bogan to decroaso. When those geneffect of
that clause
of the treaty tieuten came f nto power a siiiiilar thing
Is. that
unless
products are carried happened; the country becamo agaixi prosfroxît n Cana;diaîi pot-t dir-oct to a French perous. Trade and immigration incronsed
por-t tuey canîtot secut-e the advantages of with the result that there was apparent
the ittrmediate Frenîch tariff. The saine prosperity throughout the country, whlch
applies to France but France haviug so w-heu closely analysed did not exist. ý
many ports of lier 0wn at w-hicb sue cati littie by-play tooic place bet-ween the leader
export aur at-tic-le site lias te send out (if of the opposition and the «Ministeof
tue country at ail pet-lods of the vear, it Trade and Commerce ou the subject of flie
does flot affect that c-ountry ini the least; balance of trade, and the right hou. Minbut Canadfa for six iitith, of tue Year. tn1,
istot- of Trade aîîd Commerce gave a veîY
eltîtor "send groôod tilron2i the Eniited Sttes 1iiumnrous example of the excess lu imports
Hon. Sir MAZýKENýZIE

BOWELL.

DECEMBER 3. 1907
over exports. and then asked if settiers'
effects are entered as an import. to the
exteut of a few thousaud dollars over and
above those exported, is that to be considered as impoverishing the country to
that extent? It seems to me that my hou.
friend, with bis knowledge of trade and
commerce, and his astuteness, would have
avoided a comparison of that kind unles
lie came to the conclusion Mhat lie was
speaking to a body of innocents, wbo knew
nothing about the subject under discussiou.
If one b1uudred tbousand dollars worth of
settiers' effects were brougbt into this
country and the settier comes vitb tbem.
tliey become a permanency ln the country.
Tiiey are flot put oa the market for
sale, and consequently, to the extent of
the importation of tbe immigrant would the
wç%ealtlî of the country be lncreased. But
is tlhat the case witb commodities wbilh
enter into the consumption of the people?
Let me suppose that you purchase in this
country a million busbels of wheat for
'vhich you pay $1,000,000.
You export
that to Europe and seli It for a dollar and
one-baîf per bushel, realizlng a profit on
your investmieut of $500,000.
You lavest;
that $1,500,000 ln European goods whlch
you import into Canada, adding to, It expenses wbich brlng the cost up to nearly
If you bave -but the $:I,000,000
$2,000,000.
received by the farinera for the wbeat, and
$2,000,000, the cost of tbe goods put
upon the market, where Is tbe money coming froni to pay for the difference between
the $1,000,000 recelved for the wheat and
the $2,000,000 wbich you have to pgy for
Are
the goods purchased for $2,000,000?
we any richer? They say we are rîcher
frorn the fnct that w-e bring into the country gaods w-ortb $1,500,000 for wbicb w-e
paid only $1,000,000. I question wbetber
any business mian will tell you that If he
bas $150 and bas only one dollar to
do it witb, wbicb would be the case
la the illustration I bave given, ha
mwas getting rlcb.
What is the causeof the bankruptcies whicb occur throughout
the country every eight or ten years?
They arise froin the very fact tiiat the lmportatiolis excead to s0 great an extent
Wheu they are put upon
tbe exportations.
the markcet, the people buy on credit, and
caunot pa:y w-heu the tilue cornes, and the
Reduce it dowa to
resuit is banlcruptcy.

l)ractical operations and tbat is the resuit.
I admit wvheu you take the economie tbeory
of free trade and protection, and work it
out theoretically you may come to the conclusion that Free Trade la best for the country, but like many other tbings w-len it is reduced to practice you find your tbeory fails.
Now wbat baa been the excess of our Importations over our export for the decade
before that? If you look at the figures ln
the Trade and Navigation returas,-you will
find these facts; durIng the five yeara ending 189(; Un' P.xitess wvas le.'r aiiîu$S,
250,900; for the five yeara endlng 1902 it
was $2,529,450,.and for the five years endlag 1907 It amounted to $57,432,200. The
total adverse balance of trade ln the five
years endlng the 20th June, 1907, amounted
to $287,161,004.
That w-as the excess of
importa over exporta.
So that ina* the
ordinary acceptation of the term we sbould
be just that much poorar, but, accordlng
to the free trade theory, we are that mucb
richer.
Then we have lmiported into thle
country two or three bundred millions
wvlthin that period ihiore than w-e bave exî,orted, and If that two or tbree hundred
million lias been placed upÔn the market,
wbere did the money corne from*to pay
It?
Because w-e did flot realize the money
lu the foreign mnarkets upon the exports
w-blcb w-are made from Canada, bence flot
enablaj to pay for the goods bougbt In tbe
European market. That Is reaily the resuit, to iny mmid. of the limport auï export
trade.
1 remember a year or two ongo, during
the existence of the Ùresent goverament.
w-han there w-as an axcess of exports over
lmports, thare w-as a great deai of glorIfication over Via fact, show-lng how proqperois and bow rîcli we were becoming.
WVe ivere exportlng more than we were imnporting, and it w-as claimed then that
the differanca betw-een Vie two was
just to that extent added to our weaith
îînd prosperity; but tbe moment it went
the othar w-ny w-e w-ere toid the contrary.
Lot me now rafer to the 'Globe's' article
While I listened
on the goid reserve.
to the remarks made by Vie boa. Mlnigter 0f '[rade and Commerce lt brought backl
to rny recoliection events ln 1874. w-lien the
hon. gentleman did me the bonour to visit
m-, constitnency and address an audience
n iidwinter wvlien w-e were out of d'oors

S il?«AIE
on al llatf(>riii. lie Nvrapped uip iii a buffaina
coat anîd 1 la a cooîi-slcin coat nid the
inereury I tliink %vasabout 10 degrees below
zero. If nîly lion1. friend lius chuniged lks
vlews upon f ree trade and protection lie
certail- lias not cliauged one Iota lut tlie
vlews lie lield 83 years ugo 1u those expressed last niglit ulpon the gold reserve
He tiien advanced the sanie
question.
Idea, only lie went a little further. He modîfled hiÈ; remurks last niglit. ,In 1874 lie
wvas attacklng the pollcy of the Conservatîve government, and lie lield out the idea to
thie fariner that uuless there 'vas dollar for
dollar-a dollar la gold held lu the vauîts for
every puper dollar issued by the goverament
w-as no telllng whut catastrophe
-there
would occur. I then beld the saine vlews
I poinited out to the
as I 101l to-da.y.
fariner ivliat %vasto iny mimd the fact. I
sald: 'Wbicli w-ould you rather have, the
dollar bill of th(- batik or the dollar bill of
the Doiniion, %viththe Nvliole revenue anîd
credit of tlie Dominion at lts bock, and
eveii if tiiere -%vere îlot oue single gold
dollar la reserve to meet that note issue you
would lie perfectly safe lit laylig by, li
order to meet your indelitedness, the DouiWell, I will go further:
ialon dollar hI&
1 believe the depression to-day ni the
money maîrket cou be materiully relieved.
and many of tliose uow ln dlfficulty relleve.l
fromn thie difficulties w-hicli surroundf thern.
if some $15.000.000 or 520,000,000 of thi,
gold reserve, wbich Is now hoarded in the
vaults of the country te meet cdainms that
may lie made upon tîmein for redemption of
Dominion bills. %vere put luto circulationi.
It wouild lie better for the couatry and qulte
as safe for the community wbo liold the
dollar bills as ut is to-day. My own vîew
Is that tliis country lias wealth enougli at
uts credit for tie.goverumnent to issue its
oîvn bis witliout lîaving to keep a large
reserve of gold mliich is taken from the
resources of the country, and whicli miglit
l
be usedin the development of the trade
of the country and doiug that to-day whlcli
It us said auot lie doue under exlsting
conditions, that us, to more the products of
the great west to the markets of the world.
1 know that lias been considered by financiers to be heterodox; bie that as it may,
I lielieve tliat the banks theinselves would
lie better enalld to mieet tlie reqiîirenieii's
Honi. Sir MlACKENZIE BOWELL.

of the country if tliey liad that gold lu their
owu vauîts upoîî wlîicl they cotn!d issue a
larger aniout of buis and put themn lit
circulation and that tlie effeet would lie
for the benefit of the commerce and titi
trade of the country. That %wouldbe the
practical resuit of placiug the money ln the
bauds of the'bank to entable tliem to6 Issue
a larger circulation, havlng these gold reserves to meet It, whule If the governmerît
wotuld issue millions more of Its own paper
mney, liaving the country as Its endorser,
the difllcultles wvhlch have occurred lately
would not have occurred at silt and mlght
yet lie mnaterially relleved by n pollcy of
that kind. Oue point made, or attempted
to be made, by my hon. friend from Centre
York (Flou. Mr. Campbell), was the fuct
that at the present moment, tinder the
present tariff. tue people were paying dutles
only to the extent of about 15 per cent upon
the total amouat 0f goods lmported. 1 thlnk
I arn correct lu that. The bon. gentleman
dld uot answer, neither dld the Mlnister
of Trade aud Commerce, wheu the pertinent
question w-us ut to Iirin by the lion. geaticinun front MNarshfield, If lie baad considered the question of the different values,,
of goods to-day, aud at the timeç lie wns
if lie had, lie woulld have
referring to.
fouud that the lucrease in. the value of
goods to-day is fromn 25 to 50 per cent.
Thley are tliat nîncl higher thon they were,
uîuder the old tariff at the period to which
lie ulluded. Take $1,000 worth of goods
inuported to-day at 20 per cent of the, value
ut the period to NN-ich he refers. aud yoti
wvould puy $200 in duty. Tuke tliese goods
to-day, which bave Increased. lu some cases
to 25 and 50 per cent and apply the 15
per cent ad *valorein to those prices, w-bat
would lie puy? If it iwere 50 per cent lie
would puy $300 duty luto the treâsury for
the saine quautity of goods precisely that
lie paid $200 duty for some fifteeu or twentY
years ug-O. if it were 25 per cent, lie woul'l
then puy $50 additîonal, and that is the kind
of-l wus going to use an offensive word,
but I 'vili not do It-that is the klnd of
argument that is placed before the people
who have neyer studied the que.stion, tA
mislead them lato the belief that the prosent tariff is mucli lowver thoan it w-as. Tiat
wliat they pay into the tr*easury.to-day is
muelh Iess tîlan it w-us under the old tariff.

DECEMBER 3, 1907

3

I migbt pursue this argument for bours or a total of $131,000 was spent ini
and gîve Illustrations of how fallacious and actual bona fide Improvements, whicb yen,
absurd-if thiese would not be offensive have eow to tac credit of tac country,
words-that the statements whlch have reaping whatever benefits are derlved from
been made are, for they are neither.Iôlogial, taat expendîture, and even If tat whole.
nor are they reasonable or correct argu- amount haed been spent on thc Canadiau
ments. I find that it has been atated here Pacific Railway, every man ef tae present
as.welI as in the other branch of the legisia- day, those wbo opposcd vehcmently and
turc that durleg the whole Urne of the Lib> earncstly thc pollcy of construction and
erai administration only $5,000,000 had been grant aid to taat company, would admit it
added to tbe public debt, whlle during eigh- was capital lnvestment for tac country, It
*teen years of the Conservative administra- having been tac menus o! devcloplng tac
tion, the debt bcd been lncreased $118,- magnificent Nortbwest, whicb bas brouglbt
000,000. 1 vcry naturaily si myseif, how the whole of Uic country under the obsertrue is this, wben we look et the tacts? vation ef the outaide world. particularly le
*It la boasted that durlng the ten yeara Europe and thc United States. So that ILL
that the present governmcnt have been ln that case clone you find some $W0,000,000
power they bave had surpluses to tae or W4,000,000' le permanent Improvements
extent of about seventy millions. Let me over and above what lion. gentlemen allege
nsk the Minister of Trade and Commerce- thc debt of tac country wcs wbcn the Conbecause I do not suppose the leader of the servative party w-cnt out of power. So t
House could tell me-wbat has become le wita aimost every charge. I venture
every charge taat bas
of those seventy millions. If there bas been thc assertion tat
$70,000,000 of a surplus and there ls only been made against tac policy ced adminisan increase of debt of $5,000,000, then they tration efthei governments of Sir John
muet have spent It ln somc way; and If It Macdonald. Sir John Abbott or Sir John
bcnd not been spent the public debt ought Thompson-I won't say cnytbing about myto have been reduced by that arnount. I f self--cen be met as succcssfuliy, aud coIt bas been spent the country would be ln gent and unenswerable reasons given for
debt, lnstend of $5,000,000 about $75.000,- thc expenditure of cvcry dollar of the public
000, and wbct is therd to show for It? But moncy. I shahl not et tais moment refer
bave we not something to show for th¶t to tac expenditures of thc preseet govern$118,000,000 that hon, gentlemen say the ment and tac lavish menner le whIch thc
debt of the country was iecreased during revenues have been aquandcred le uscless
the Conservative administration? DurIng works throughout tac country. That may
tbat period there was spent $22,000,000 iii do for another perlod. The wbole of the'
the enlargement of the canais. The new charges made by my hon. frlend arc as felleSanit Ste. Marie canal $3,500,000. You ail clous as statemeets can possibly be, and
know that that wcs built owieg to the made, I won't scy with thc Intention of
refusai of the Âmerican government to ai- misleading, but made le a maneer ln whiclîI
10w our volunteers to pesa tbrougb the tbey do mislcad the uethinking or thosew-ho
Sauit canal on thc soutbern aide ef the river, bave, flot given the question a great dccl of
whcn it was necessery to send troops to the3 study. There ls just one other point. wbicl,
Nortawest Territorles at thé tineo f tas I desire to put upon record. ItleI mucli
Riel trouble, and thcy put us to tat ex- casier to maire a charge, aed - it cee btý
pense. In tac gravlng docks cnd harbours donc le much shorter time then It takes
le different parts of tac country from. Esqui- to expiain thc tacts ln rebuttel of the
malt to Halifax $27,000,000 was cxpcndcd. charges. It bas been crgued, ced very
There wcs $10,400,000 spent ln the im- strongiy, by those who have spoken, tat
proveinent of the Intercolonial Railway and thc taxation of tac present pcriod is lcs'i
on tac Canadien Pacific Railway ln cash thon it w-as under tac Conservative adminIsalone about $60,000,000, or, whcn you re- tration.
jLet me give e fcw figures upon this quesduce it to the minimum of $54,000,000, and
railway subsidies paid during flint pe- tion.- The total taxation durlng tne nve
tac
riod ainounted to no less thon $20.000,00'), years ending 1896 w-as $27,750,000, or

SENATE
For the five years end$5.66 per capita.
ing 1901 It was $36,500,000, or $6.93 per
For the nine months- ending- M-arch
liead.
31, 1907, It bas risea to $68,750,000, or
Now. those are the facts
$10.34 per head.
gleaned from the official records printed
arnd clrculated by the present governmfent.
It shows that under the taxation impoaed
by thîs government the people of Canada
have paid Into the treasury of the country
$1,=22000, or $M0,000 per week more than
they paid under the later years of ConLet the wbole facts be
servative reign.
known and there is very little danger of
the people being misled by the ex parte
statements; If I may use that expression
made by the gentlemen wno usually speak
There àre xnany other
upon this question.
pointa to whlcb 1 should like to call the
attention of the House, but I have occupied the attention of hon, gentlemen mucli
longer than . Inhtended to, and I have
wearied the patience of those who are
But I have no hieaitation la
listenlng.
saying that the prosperity of the country
to-day is due, to a very great extent, if nlot
wholly, to the fact that the prisent ministry, fron> the tirne they attained power untii the preseat moment, followed la the
footstepa of their predecessors. They came
to power with the avowed declaration of
wiping the iniquitous protection priacipie
The Prime Minisf romn the statute-book.
ter himself declared that hie would introduce a policy similar to that which preDid hie
vailed. in England at that time.
do so? On the contrary, hie modified. the
tariff a littie, but lie kept thle duties on
the articles i most cases as they existed
when lie came Into power and la some
cases, cases againat which the greateat cry
was raised, they increased the duties. Take
agricultural Implements, for Instance; except ln a few Instances, the auty was 20
per cent upon thresbing machines, 20 per
cent upon reapIng machines and inowing
They lef t that 20 per cent as
machines.
they found it, and reduced. the duty upon
steel and other articles which went Into
And
the manufacture of these articles.
just in proportion to the reduction of the
duty on the material wbichi went inte the
manufacture of the article they were
ndding so mueli to the protection of the
I do not find any
home manufacturer.
fault wlth that from iny standpoinit, but I
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL

point to it as an Instance of the gross incoasistency of those who make professions
I hiold views
and neyer carry thern out.
ver7 muchi like the gentleman at whomn the
Miaister of Trade and Commerce Jeered
yesterday, who made the statement that
hie would give protection as bigh as the
go would
gai Iows that hanged Haman.
I. I care nlot how hlgh it Io so long as It
protects the country from foreiga Importations, thereby giving enipioyrnent to the
artizans and labourera ia this country. How
ls It to-day that our- per capita tax upon
our debt la larger than It le ln the United
States, notwitbstanding the aeventy or
elghty mililon population there ar von>pared with our six or seven million? It
ls for the simple reason that instead of
havlng to borrow money and Irnport large
quantities of goods, they manufacture
their gooda at horne, and the rnoney ls
kept at home, It la spent at home, and the
taxation consequently per capita for public Improvements la not as great as it
would be If they had to borrow money
abroad te carry on their public works.
I arn fully ln accord witb the opinions expressed by my hon. friend ia front of me
last nigbt as te the construction of public
worka. Should the Grand Trunk Pacific
be dealt with out of the revenues ut the
country year by year or by borrowed
money?
If any advantages are tu De derived from the construction of that great
work, those wlo live atter us in years to
corne will reap the benefit, which If pald
for out of taxation year by year, we pay
for It, and they would have nothing to pay.
Precisely the case 'with the Canadian PaciIf we had paid for it out of
fic to-day.
the taxation as construction proceeded, the
people to-day woiild flot have to pay any
of the intereat upon the money that was
The whiole
invested la Its construction.
amount would have corne out of our owa
Let those wlio are to profit by
pockets.
these great works, If profit is to be derIved
fren theni. assist ln paying for them,
aad that la the doctrine, as I understand, test mny hon. friend the leader of
the opposition propounded last night, and
it 15 one I think that will be accepted as a
sound policy by every one wbo gives this
question a mlonient's coasideration. I aui
inclinied to thilk that bistory wlll recali
rnany deIinquencles of the government now

IJECEMBER 3. 1907
in power, aud as one thlinka of tlieir m.auY Dominion, a country worthy of the people
utterances, and particularly of the glowing who ive ln lt. I hope the time will neyer
mauner ln whicb the iMinister of Trade and corne wlieu any member of the coinmunity
Commerce iast night dlsSussed the question wili go forth, for the sake of miserable
of the Incýrease o! population, aud the mar- party tacticis, and condemn bis country,
vellous wealth that bas been deveioped lu when he )knows botter. Party ezpediency
this country by the settlemont of the North- shouid. fot have taken a course whiih drove
west I have hopes at least that the historian hundreds of thousands of good honést Canawlll do justice to thos gentlemen as wel dians out of the country because of the
as to those who lnaugurated the pollcy drought and other dlfficulties, and dlscouwhlch brought that country Into, confeders- ragemonts that occurred at that particular
tion. I remember Weil wben the late Âlex. time., It la ciaimed that it Is the pollcy of
Mackenzie lu the House of Commons, de- this government which brougbt the people
nounced the Canadian Northwest as being into the country, but their policy nover
le What brougbt
Inferlor to Kansas. I remember very weli had anything to do with
the Immigration Into that country was the
the utterances of Edward Blake who when
fine barvests, the resuit of rlch soul and the
denouuclng the governmout for tbe expenralus and snhine of June and July. That
diture whlcb It proposed to make ou the
i my pos- lo what created It and I regret vory much,
4janadlan Paclllc lRallway. 1 have
lover of bis country must regret,
session to-day the circulars that were circu- as every
the drawbacks that are apparently occurlated by the United States Northern Rallway
ring Just now througb the froste of the last
Promoters, who had large tracts of land to
season. If sucli drawbacks are contlnued
seil, publlsblng the remarks made ln the
for two or three years, you will find stagHouse of Commons ln Canada by Mfr. Blake
of that country. Let
and Mfr. Mackenzie, lu wblch they 'ridi- nation li the business
me hope it wlll not be eontinued, and that
culed the statements made by Sir Charles
this is only an occasion whlcb we must
Tupper aud others as to the fertillty cf th.,
deeply regret, and that wlll not occur agalu.
Nort.hwest, and denounclng portions of it
In speaking upou this question, If I have
as a barren waste, that was drled up hait
warmed Up tu it It Io becanse I feel keonty
the year, and neyer could be successfu.ly
that every Canadian must have feit keenly,
cultlvated, or those portions of the countryv
country by the
In the lnjury dons to the
they do that?
lnhablted. Why did
course pursued by my hon. friends opposite,.
order to luduce the forelgu Immigrants, ae
aud by those lu the other House ln the past,
they had to, pass through the United States
a course whlch was flot followed by the
at that time, by way of St. Paul, MînneaConservative party when they went ont of
Polis, and Manitoba Railway, to read these
power and became the opposition. We
utterances of the public men of this country
have, indlvldually and as a party, always
denouncing the country ln tbe manner In
which they dld, and the result wns that spoken well of the country, and alded thê
on the treasury benches, as
tons of thousands of themn Sot off the gentlemen
mucb as possible lu every Instance to devetrain and settled lu North Dakota, Wisconsin and other portions of the United States. op- the naturel resources of that country
the Immigration wbich Is brougbt
I thank God that no man i tbe Conserva- through
luto It. I should not have deait wlth no
tive party since tbey have been in opposition bas ever ralsed bis volce or fInger many points, were It flot for the tact that
record. If
against bis couutry or deuounced It as be- I wlsh to put my vlews on
anybody thlnkrs proper lu future to read
ing unfit for settlement or any other purat least what 1 thought:
pose. They have always extolled lt, and It tflei, they wlU know
opp)bas been the object of every patriot, every of the actions of the hon, gentlemen
site. and what I believe to have been thé
mn who loves bis country, to urge immigration lnto our Nortbwest, in order to true pollcy under the Conservative party.
develop Its resources, and to make It not
Hou. -Mr. S00TT-It was quite unnecesonly the granary of the world,' but the sary for the hou, gentleman from Bellecentre, the back-bone 1 was golng te say ville to make any apologies to thîs House
between the east and the west of thi's for the length of bis romarks, because we
31

SENATE
We bon. friefld bas, and I do flot know really
are aiways glad to hear bis voice.
a rewere glad to hear hlm state yesterday that wvbat the errors are; but I arn told
1 shoul
bis mmnd and bad decided vision of it had to be made.
lie hiad changed
to speak on the address. We are pieased also like to say a word or two in reference
of my bon.
to note the vigour wlth whlch he addressed to the closIng observations
do net friend, In which he denounced the membees
th's Senate, nnd while some of us
are bere
agroe wit! tlie views lie expressed from of this goverflmeiit, tiose who
now and wbo were I power i 1870, for
time to time, yet bis remarlrs are aiways
reference to
made In a good-natured way, thougli sharp the course tbey pnrsued In
That story bas been rethe Nortbwest
and severe, as la very proper witli a political
are beginning
opponent; at the same time we are glad peated so often that people
to believe that the goverument ot Mr. Macto observe that the bon. gentleman is lu
made no ata condition to aiddress this House and hope kefizie made no progresa, and
tempt to bulld the Canadian Pacific Railhe may for many years to corne be able
Sir John tMacdonsald and bis goy~to do so. I do flot propose to refer to ail way.
In 1870 and
the chaif whicb bas been indulged I In ernment made the attempt
I need flot go back ln
the selection of members of 1871, and failed.
reference to
Sir Wilfrid Laurier la blstory, and refer to Sir Hugli Allan and
the goveriimeflt.
by the limits of the House of the hundred thousand dollars contribution,
flot bonnd
Tbey went to England aud
Commons wben adding to bis cabinet. He and ail that.
who are i closeat toucli eudeavoured to enlist Eng-lsb capital, and
takes the men
Tbey came out to Canada, and
No one failed.
with public opinion of the day.
Mr. Macthe selections he bas made the goveruniPlt was divided.
can crIticise
the kenzie found bimself face to face wlth a
In -the past, and 1 think Iu tie future
a Urne when
people of this couutry will approve of the Most Important question, at
re- depressiofi was beglniig to spread over
The gentlemen to wbom
additions.
ference bas been made heid higli positions the laud.
However, believiug It to be the wiaest
i the provinces from which tbey corne.
leaders In the local legis- course, the government of Mr. Mackeniize
Tbey had been
Vie
No better selection could be made placed on Vie statute-book an Act for
latures.
They
desire to place i Vie goveriimeiit purpose of building that railway.
If you
contracta for
members wbo are in touch with public went furtber; they gave ont
than to take those who repre- Vie section between Thunder Bay and Winsentiment,
of
sent Vie people ln Vie provincial leglala- nipeg. Tbey aided I the construction
and who have attained the reputa- Vie lune from Winnipeg to Vie boundary.
tures
Uines
tion that the two new mnembers recently Tbey commenced the construction of
and yet we
added to Vie Laurier administration eu- running west from Winnipeg,
that Viey
joy. 1 am not going to follow my lion. are told to-day Viey did nothing,
In the long and devions course lie opposed Vie project from Vie beglnlng.
frieud
a very dispursued iu discussing the varions suDjects That la flot Vie fact. 1 have
of govwhlch lie bas addressed bimself. I did tinct recollectioli, after the change
to
erument took place, of Sir Chiarles Tupper
not expect that Vie Frenchi treaty would
a very
be dlscussed, because up to last Tbursday in tbe House of Gommons payiug
bigli compliment to Mr. Mackenzie for Vie
I have
fi was a confidentiai document.
and good
not read It, nor do I suppose any mem- energy, intelligence, industry
sense be had exhibited and Vie good work
ber of Vie goverament knew much about
and raisIt, exceptlng Viose wbo biad to do witli performied ln glving ont contracts
lng mfoliey for Vie building of Vie Canadian
tie preparation of It, because, by an
Referrlng to, the debate
understauding witli the VFrencb goverument, Pacific Railway.
Gommons
It was to be kept a close confidential docu- that took place in Vie Flouse of
28Vi of November, wben it when Sir Charles Tupper introduced bis
ment until the
was to become a public document, and to motion in 1879 or 1880, bon. gentlemen
urtered
be laid on the tables of Parlianient in bothi will find there that the sentiments
Sir Charles Tupper were very different
1 understand there are some by
countries.
errors ini the copy, and a revision is beiug from those expressed by my bon. friend
to follow my
made. I do not know whieh edition my opposite. I do not propose
lion. Mfr. SCOTT.

DECEMBER 3. 1907
hon. f rieud iu bis devious way, the many
channels lie took to show that we were flot
That after
succesul in our trade policy.
ail the people were flot gettlng ricli, that
the prosperity was ouly lu the air and flot
a matter of fact 1 slmply refer to the
banquet given lu Toronto lu 1895 at whlch
Sir Wilfrld Laurier was present and Mr.
Mr. Foster, ut very great length,
Foster.
proved by a long array of figures that there
was prosperlty lu Canada nt that particular time, showlng the growtb aud developmeut of the varlous industries. Sir Wilfrid
Laurier said: II do not propose wlien the
change of goverumeut comes, as come it
will lu a very short time, to feel it necesThe people of
sary to refer to figures.
Canada wili kuow that a prosperous perlod
The people of Canada know
bas arrived.'
to-day that since this goverument assumed
the reins of office It bas been day by day
-Every avenue
increasing lu prosperity.
The Industries of Canada
points to It.
have doubleft, have trebled, bave quadrupled, and the trouble to-day la not that
there la any depression lu the land, but a
feeling that If people had more capital they
There ls
could enlarge their business.
not a manufacturer lu Canada to-day that
would not lîke lu add to bis manutucturing
estabishment and increase bis trade. But
the evideuce quoted by tbe hon. member
from Toronto Junction was so, conclusive
Take the
that 1 need not dwell upon it
deposits lu the banka, the savIngs of the
Iu
It is perfectly marvellous.
people.
no couutry lu the world bave the savings
of the people day by day increased in euch
a wonderful ratio as lu Canada. Wbat
lias developed the Northwest? Was it the
policy of my bon. friende opposite? Not
ut ail. I have before me a sttement ot
In 1879, after the Jute
the bomesteads.
governmeut came inlu power, the homesteads amounted to, 4,068, lu 1896, they hadl
Those figures speuk more
failen to, 1.857.
forcibly than any language I could employ.
They show au actual falling off.. The hon.
gentleman sud bis frlends bost of whmt
tbey did for the 'Northwest, yet during
the time they were lu office that was the
effect atter the first stimulus the Northwest got-the number of bomesteuds fell
Now wvhat was the number for the
off.
No less than 41,869.
laet complete yeun??
It iucreased from 1,000 to 41,000 lun ten

years. ln the preceding ten years it had
falien from 4,000 to 1,000. Now can anything speak more forcibly than those
figures? Those are facto. I mlght go on
aud quote evidence lu ail lmes lu the same
Take the immigration for ludirection.
stance. In 1896-97 the Immigration from
the British Islande was 11,833; In our lantuine months it was 55,791. The foreigu
immigration lu the lent year the hou. gentlemen opposite were lu power wus 7,092;
the foreIgu immigration for the last nlne
Frore the United
mouths was 34,217.
*States the Immigration lu the year to wbich
I have referred was 2,412; In our lent nine
moutha it was 34,659. These figures total
up 21,337 as against: 124667for nine monthe.
It in estlmated that dts year, taking the
whole year, the number of Immigrants luto,
Canada will be a quarter of a million.
Those t'wo facts alone are sufficient to, show
the marvellous growth Iu tbls country. The
tact that we bave bought more thon. we
bave soid la no evîdence of the impoverish-,
That would be utment of the people.
teriy absurd lu vlew of the conditions
whlcb exist, wbeu every man lu Canada
lha feit the benefit of the improvement.
Ail the
The price of labour bas gone up.
worid recoguizes that Canada bas been tbe
mont prosperous country on thue face of the
It Ioa dmitted -Dy travellers. Tbey
earth.
suy they see it lu Our streets, lu the growth
of our cities, ln the palatial resideuces, lu
Our grand farm bouses, lu the carniages,
and dresses of the people. Straugers visitIng Canada give evidence of ail those
Thot shows tbe prosperity of the
tacts.
people.
Let me now quote one tact sbowing the
desire of outsiders to, get into Canada. We
are endeavouning to keep, out of thie country the undesirable clame. On one particular
nationulity, the Chinamen, we Impose a
head-tux of $500. You would think that
wus a'pretty hard thing to overcome. Han
that kept the Chinamen out? I got the
figures from Mr. Parmeiee to-day, and they
show that up to, November 1,016 Chinamen
You do not
hud paid the $500 tax.
want any better Illustration of the
desire of labour to get into Canada.
You caunot find any better Illustration than
men mortgaging thelr bodies and moule to,
ruise money to get luto Canada confident
that If they once get bere they will lie

SENATE
able to repay the boan; and you find that thau their owii. No bigber compliment
In couid be paid Uian the order Issued to conipeople are willlng to advance the mnoney.
Eùgland to-day societies are belng formed inerciai men travelling tbrougb Canada f0
to raise money to ald people to corne to pick up ail the Canadian bills tbcy coul<l
Canada, convinced by the evidence of the iinstead of remlttiug 'United etates curpaist few years that If they are Industrious rency or drafts on New York because Uiey
men tbey can soon after coming to Canada know they cau get Uic gold for the Canareturu the money advanced In order that dian bills whenever Uiey want It.
I do nlot propose to quote any more
others may get the benefit of the fund
be more conclusive figures, because I know thc House bas
ralsed. Could anythlng
than this to show the prosperity which this heard those figures before, but 1 bave just
country enjoys? Figures count for nothing, this to say iu uiy explanation of bow th!.q
but If you dld go to figures, there are evi- prosperity was brought about lu Uic Northdences of the savings of the peopie. 1 auj west; bow Uic bomesteaders lncreased as I
nlot goiug to set forth my own vlews as to bave explalued. It was because we bad Uic
what bas caused the present uncertalnty of courage to speud money in advertlslag Uic
the money market, but it la net due to, Northwcst, because we sent as delegates acanytbing happening lu Canada. On the ross the Atlantic, people wbo had succeeded
contrary, the United States people wonder lu the Northwest. Tbey were the agents wbo
that Canada, se near the United States weut axuong Uic people lu Uic Britisli Islands
as It la, and se intimately connectedl witii and European coutries. It cost somctblng
them ln trade matters, lias nlot been more to do It but it was Uic best possible lnaffected by the depression existing there vestient that could be made, and to-day
to-day, the fallures of bauka and trust n-e could wlthdr.aw ail our Immigration
bouses, the loss of thousands of millions agents. We are not pusblug Immigration
of dollars la stocks, while our stocks re- non- as we were a few years ago, because
main steady and firm. They are amazed Canada is so advertlscd to-day Uiat the
at It and cannot understand i, that a young dlfficuity n-ill be te kcep undesirable people
country to the north la able to pase through ont The Illustration I bave given of the
a perlod of finaucial depression that bas Chinamnen paylng $50 per bcad, haif a
spread like a pali ail over the Uuited States. million dollars In ail, wlthin Uic last cleven
What la the cffect of ItV The people are months to gain admission to Uic country.
comlng from the United States to deposit proves conclusively Uiat it ls\ absolutely
Canada
their money lu the hanka lu Canada, and unneceqsary aay longer, beca"use
bis are curreut lu the United bolds so highi a position amoug ail thie
to-day our
takeo
States. Ten years ago you could net get theni nations of Uic earth Uiat if we were to
lu the 1Uuitcd the bars dona, or If Uic people of central
to accept our paper money
States. Wben wc bad occasion to visit and southeru Europe biad Uic means, you
Boston, New York or any other point we could get millions of Uiem to come to CanIntense
baid to fortify ourselves with United States ada. The desire to reach Canada is so
Now Uiat Uic fear ls n-e ebaîl be overburdened
bis; they would not accept ours.
readlT
tbey are anxious to get Canadian bis. The wiUi a population that mnay not
assimilate. We bave a good many nationatheatrical people who vlait Canada are luof
structed by their managers nlot to brlng lities la Uic Nortbwest and other parts
Canada, and aiUiough, I am bappy te say,
back United States bis or drafts on New
succeedYork, but to brlug back Cauadiau bils be- la the majorlty of cases they are
ing, yet there are some people n-ho fear
cause, tbey say: 'We cau get gold for thém;
that
we know thc value of Uiem.' Couid a that Uic pure breed may be spoiled,
of s0 mauy foreigners may
higber compliment be pald thîs country Uic influence
J bave
tbau that? A great country of 80,000,000 have a deleterlous effect on Canada.
so
people, regardcd as one of Uic wealtblest myseif no apprebiensioli of that kind
long as n-e keep ont Uic undesirabies. There
and most prosperous countries on Uic face
n-ill
ef thc globe, bave to admit Uiat Canada'Is is no doubt that manY undesîrables
get into Canadai. Thlat cannot bc avoideqI
better managed lu financial matters, that
takzes
its banks are on a more stable foundation aîthougli Uic closest examination
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

DECEMBER 4. 1907
place at the varlous ports of entry. Undesirables find tlîeir way into the country and
a close watcb will have to lie Lept ln the
future to try and diminish the number. 1
do flot propose to extend my remarks
beyond those I have aiready made, further
than to say tbat I arn very glad to recognize that the speech of Hia Excellency bas
beeu so weli received ln this House. It was
quite natural tbat it should be criticized.
The effort ln speech makiug, as my hon.
friend knowa, le ta avoid as much as possible anything of a controversial character.
The speech bas been extremely 'well received
and 1 hope that the sarne treatinent wlll be
extended to the legisiation whIchi we propose submitting before thia House. Reference bas been made to the principal bis,
for the placlng of telegraphe and telephones
under government supervision through thp
Board of Railway Gommissioners, and such
Inîprovementa ln the election law as we
can. possibly make liprovIng It from timp
to trne, and other 'Bille auch as will
recommend tbemselves to the good judgment of parliament.
Hon Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I forgot to refer to the question of extending tii"
limita of Manitoba and other provinces,
and also to the paragrnph referring to telgphones and telegraphs. Is it the Intention
of the governent to assume the coutrol,
management and ownership of the telephones and telegraphs or merely to place
them, under tbe Commission? 1 ask that
question because the paragraph la very ludefiuite lu ita wordiug. Speakiunr of the
euiargement of the limita. of Manitoba,
thnt I can understand, because it bas been
demanded for a very long Urne, but whnt
ls meant by the extension of the territorleq
of Saskatchewau and Alberta? Io it for the
purpose of giving Saskatchewan an outiet
on Hudson Bay, or lu what direction la th.,!
enlargement of that province ta be made?
Hon. Bir. SCOTT-The reference would
be made to Manitoba and probably ta Ontarlo, and possibly to Quebec If tbey desired It. There was not auy reference to
Saskatchewan and Alberta.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-lf miy
recollection serves me rIght, the reference
is ta the Northviest TerrItories 7

liHon. Mr. SOOTTy-MNanitoba and other
provinces I think ls the expression used.
In reference ta the telephoues tind telegraphs, It la proposed ta place thern under
the Board of Railway Commiesioùers Ini
regard to toila and other parts of their
mangement juat as we hiave doue wIth the
rnhlways, not the absorption of them by
the goveruneut.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-I i'un
glad tint la the extent ta, which the goverament inteud ta go. I intended ta say
that 1 arn.fully lu accord with the sentiments of the hou. gentleman from Centre
York on that question.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-As the lion. member from Hastings referred ta me this afternoon, I would prefer to make a few
reinarks upon the subject to-morrow, 1
therefore move that the debate be adjourned.
The motion wvas agreed ta.
The Senate adjourued until
at 3 P.rn.

to-morrow

THE SEW&TE.
OTTÂ&wA,

Weduesday, December 4, 1907.

The SPEAKIDR took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Frayera and routine. proceedinga.
COMMITTFDE 0F iFELFECTION.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved:
That prouant ta raie 77, the followiug soua tors: thr Honourable Sir Mackenzie Bowell,
the Honourable Messieurs Gibson, Lougbeed,
Miller, Pawer, Watson, Casgrain and
.6u,
F..ersn, be appoiuted a committee of selection ta nominate senators ta serve on the
several standing committees during the present session, and to report with ail couvenieut
speed the naînes of the. renatars so uominated.
Hon. 'Mr. GIBSON-l would like ta say
with regard ta this committee, with which
I have had the honour of belng connected
for some years, and the dissatistactlon tint
occurs Irnmediately after the strikiug committee bas doue its work year after year,
there ls no doubt about the growIng Importance of the west, sud that a number of

SENATE
the members w-ish ta be upon what they haive an average of something over two on
-Some cammittees only
eall 'the biue ribbon commlttee,' the Com- every comimittee.
mittee of Railways; Telegraphas and Har- meet at stated intervals and their work is
bours, and very properly go, for the reason inerely formai cornpared with that of the
that for some years to corne the building of Committee on Rallways, the Committee on
railways wUl be a very large and Important Banking and Commerce and the (Jommlttee
factor ln the settiement of the Northwest. on InternaI Economy. Unless something ie
The committee, for a number of years, have doue by the Benate, the dissatisfaction to
been face to face with. this dlfficulty, and whlch I have referred wll continue 'from
Originally the Railway
from Urne ta time t.his committee has been year to year.
I wlsh to say for the commit- Cornrnttee consisted of forty Members.
added to.
tee as a whole, and for every member of It, Two or three years ago we added Ilve, and
that ln the past they have honestly and subsequently another five, rnaking the numIt would be a very
faithfully endeavoured to discliarge their ber to-day fIfty.
duty to the best of their ability. A large simple matter, ln rny judgmeat, to add live
number of bon, gentlemen have rendered more, so, that the committee would have
good sezvlces in the past on the several the assurance that their reports would be
committees that they have been actiug upon, acceptable to the whole House.
rnd wlttiout the rernoval of some of these
Hon. Sir MÂCK-ENZIE BOWELL-I
gentlemen, there can be very litUle change
must express the opinion I have entertalned
at present ln the composition of the cornIt seems ta me, therefore, that for a good rnany years, that the smaller
mîttees.
as this is perhaps the m6st Important com- the committees, the better the work will
suittee of ail, that another alteration mlght be done. I care not.whether you increase
l>e consldered by the House after the com- the commlttee by addlng five or six or ten
mittee's report la brought la, with a view members, the same objections wiU be taken
The only so- that we have beard of to-day, because certa overcomlng the difficulty.
lution of the matter that presents itself ta tain members must necessarily be lef t off.
rny mmnd Is to add sorne five members to That complaint bas been heard every sesIn doing that we would sion for years, and the addition of five or
that commlttee.
endeavour as far as possible ta cover the six new members will not remedy the matground and make the cormIttee at ail, ter.
events as representative as It lo possible
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I cannot agree with
to maire It.
Under the present conditions the hon. senator from Hastings; I think the
the province of Ontario Is represented by addition of five more members ta the Railfourteen members on that committee; the way Carnmittee would remove a grievance.
province of Quebec has sixteen member8, I wish ta say a word about the Strikinz
New Brunswick six, Nova Scotla four,
Cornrittee. I have gone through the Min1Manitoba three, Alberta two, Prince Bdutes of Proceedings of this Hause for sevward Island one, British Columbia two,
eral years past, and have came ta the conWe have fourand Saskatchewan two.
that Uhe same aid cormlittee lives
teen frorn Ontario as against sîxteen from clusion
for ever. There la no change. It la always
There are flfty members on the
Quebec.
That represents the the same committee. And what strikes me
commlttee altogether.
forclbly ls that nobody representlng the govfull commlttee as I have gîven It. There
has been a good deal of severe critlciarn erument ls appoiated ta this commlttee. If
more thaa another
offered tîme and agaîn as to the compo- there is anc commlttee
I arn not go- an which the government should be represition of these committees.
lng ta find fault withý that because the de- sented, It Is the Strikiag Commlttee, besire of the committee is to treat every prov- cause they have la their banda practically
0f course sorne men must bt the nomination of ail tlue committees of
Ince falrly.
We cannot very well put off Uie Senate, and ive know that when a comleft off.
members who have served for a number of rnittee of this Hanse passes upon any meaiSame hon. members were on four sure, iý geuerally goes thraugh thc House.
years.
committees; we reduced that number to three Sa the Striking Comm ittee is a very Imporand as the committee now stands we would tant comniittee, and its composition should
Hon. Mr. GIBSON.

1)ECE.MBER 4, 1907
lie loolzed ilito %vli a great dezil of care.
'rhlese tbings shjould go round. The sainet
comrnittee should net be appointed year after year. I have nothlng te say againet thet
gentlemen named for that committee. 1
arn sure they have alwaym done thelr work
to the beet of their knowledge aind judgment; at the sarne time there should be au
occasionil change, and the goverument especlly mhould be represented on the coinmlttee. The hon, gentleman from Welland
seeme te speak to-day for the goverument,
nnd he le a member ef the commlttee. In
the House of Commons the premier and
the leader et tlhe opposition are on the Striklng Comrnlttee; here we name the leader of
the opposition, but ne member of the gevernment. With respect te the Raliway Cornmlttee, the western members are very deeply
lnterested lu ralways. The legisiatlon affecting the railways of the country cornes
before the Railway Committee, and Its reporte are generally aceepted by the Heuse.
We have here bon. gentlemen from the west
whe are lu attendance threughout the session, and whe would be valuable members
of the commIttee because of their local
knowledge of the western- country where
tiiese railways are te be bult, yet they are
net appolnted te the comrnittee. If you add
five or ten more members te the Rallway
Cornmlttee, I thlnk it weuld be a geed thing,
and the sme rernark applies to the other
committee. - Several young meii have corne
inte this Heuse and they would l2ke te take
part lu the work done In the committees.
The provincès repreiented on the Strlking
Comrnittee are the following: Manitoba has
eue, Nova Scotla two, Quebec t'wo, Prince
Edward Island one, Ontario two, Alberta
eue. I find that British Columbia and Saskatchewan are net represented.
Hon. Mr. DOMVlLLE-Wbat about New
Brunswick?
Hon. Mr. DAVIS--Neither le New Brunqwick. There are three provinces net represented on the Striking Comilttee, althougb
Prince Edwvard Island, the smallest province lu the Dominion, le repreeented. I
think it would be well te put representatives
fren aLIl the provinces on that conxmlttee.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We have bad a good
inany discussions on the formation ef this

Striking Committee. 1 think it le represen;ative of the differeut parts ot the Dominion.
It la llmited te ulue members, of 'whom
hree are from the maritime provinces, two
'rom Quebec, two from Ontario, and twe
.romi the western provinces. 1 think the
livision la a fair one.
Hon. Mr. DÂVIS-That le a matter of
opinion.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-As to the Individuals,
the practice has always* been-and it le an
practice which I hope will"be adhered tothat the senior members of the House are
te be represented on the Strlking Committee. In thxe past, I thlnk they have exhibited exceedingly fair judgment and I
ehould be morry te see thern set amide. lu
flxing thxe number as we have doue, and
In making the melections, I thlnk the very
beet judgment that could be exercised has,
been exhibited. It le utterly Impossible te
distribute, where you are limited to nine
members, as each member mhould desire.
I think the distribution cannot be chailenged as far*am fairnees gees.
Hon. Mr. POWE)R-Wlth respect to tbe
Increase ef the number ef members on the
Railway (Jomrnittèe, and smre other ernmittees, the object ef referrlng any measure to a committee la that the mubJee-tmatter may be dlscussed more carefully and
tboroughly than it can be discussed In a
large body like the House. If you make
the cornmittee practlcally another addition to the House, clearly then yen do not
get the advantage of referring the matter
to a comifnttee.
Hon. Mr. OWENS-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. POWMlt-I think that muet
As It le now,
strike every hon. gentleman.
ne heuitatlon lu maying that the
I have
Railway Commlttee lunet as satisfactory a
body as It wam when It nurnbered thirtyflve, and I appeal te hon. gentlemen who
have been sttlug on that comminttee for
The great
the last two or three years.
about a cornmlttee lA that the rnerathlng
bers may be able te mît down quietly around
a table and diseuse the business before
theni ln a busluemelîke way, net that they
shall stand Up and make red-bot speeches,
advocating the dlaims ef this, that and the

SENATE
practicaliy decides the whole question, and
the Bis are slmply read in this House as
They are passed very
a matter of course.
rapidiy, and I venture to say there are
very few gentlemen who express any opinIon on these questions after they have been
fuliy considered in the Railway Committee.
The consequence la that a large number of
hon, gentlemen lu this House exbress no
opinion at ail on tbe matter, although they
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Hear, have to, share the responsibility of the
hear.
Senate for the work that la done. I beIleve it la not a wlse thing to Increase the
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do flot think it is
number, to have too, large a number. 1
desirabie that the representation of these
amn quite aware of that, but the opporcorporate bodies shouid be strengthened.
tunity of dlscusslng the merlit of the case
Hon. fMr. SULLIVAN-Numbers will fot la the Senate la not at ail equal to the
opportunîties given to private members of
correct that. It wiii make It worse.
If the Railway
the House of Gommons.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Yes, that is just my Committee of the other House reach a deIf you incrense the number, you cision, members have always tbe assurpoint.
increase the dlfficulty of transacting the ance that they have an opportunity on the
business of the country. At present near- floor of the House to enter lnto the merits
ly two-thlrds of the membiers of this House of the case fully, and there Is a dangerare on the Rallway Commijtee, and there and I point it'out here-there la a danger
la no justification whatever for increasing la bavlng the commlttee too, small, that
The next tbing we would there la a large number of the hon. memthe number.
have to do wouid be to hoid the meetings of bers who have been on this committee for
the Railway Commlttee la the Senate Cham- many years who take no lnterest take no
ber, because none of the committee rooms part.
They are not there, and the consewould be large enougb for the purpose.
quence Is, practically, that the business of
Hon. Mr. DOUGLA-Last session I ex- *the committee la left to, comparatively a
pressed my mmnd fuily on thîs question, sînali number, even smaller than the coinIf there la unythlng
and my opinion bas not changed, and I dc mittee represents.
which will ensure safety la the public lnnot feel that the arguments of the hon.
gentleman 'who bas just spoken la of greal *terest It lB that >there should be full and open
moment The raiiway work of this Housf discussions on aIl questions thaat come beIt la of greater lm* *fore this committee, so that 1 do not at
Is of vast importance.
in
portance to the west to-day than it can b( ai see the danger that la pointed out
There
to any of the provinces in the east, aud t( havlng an addition to, the commlttee.
may be a reason why the commlttee ought
say that the business la to be done byi
few la slmply to, say that the representa -to be revlsed simpiy because many hon.
tive men from the west shall not have ai igentlemen, either through lnfirmity or oid
and
opportunity of representing the Interests a~Eage, are not ln a position to attend,
it Is unjust to the provinces to say that
the west or the *wlahes of the people.
one province shahl have fourteen. and anHon. Mr. POWER-Excuse me, any hon other Immense province with large Intergentleman who Is lnterested ln any matte:r ests at stake shall ho represented by two
before the Raiiway (Jommittee, has a rlgh tmen.
No man can force that upon me.
to appear before the commlttee and stat, eThe provinces have rlgbts, and we reprethe case, and the committee wiil alway; Ssentlng those provinces hav~e a right to urge
be giad to hear hlm.
in the Interests of the people, that there
It can be should be some equal division. Then again
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-But
voted down, snd hie might as weli stay a t we are not standing stili, as we ail know.
The needs of the
home;, and, further, It la weli known t o We are progresslng.
The éommlttees of
this House that the Railway (Jommitte e , ountry are increasing.
POWER.
Hon. MUr.

othier part of the country, and I regret to
say that the advocacy bas not always been
confined merely to the different parts of
the country; but I appeal to, bon, gentlemen who have sat on the Rallway Committee If we have flot had to listen to gentlemen who are somewhat advocating the Interests of particular corporate bodies ln
this country.

43

DECEMBER 4, 1907
this House must pregress along wltii the
country, or they wll become antiquated
and useless; s0 that I sincerely hope that
the House will take the matter into consideration and see that they remnove ail
grounds of complaint from any one provInce ln the Dominion, and that we give
full justice, even-handed to ail parties and
tavours to none.
Hon. Mr. PERGUSON-I rise to a point
of order. The Heuse cannot by any action
taken here enlarge the committee. Tbey
are fixed by our rules, and there must be
a proper process of doing It.
The SPEÂKER-There la ne motion before the House to increase the committee.
The discussioli la on a motion -te strike the
committees.

being membera of the Railway Committee.
The same trouble exista la the other Chamber. lu ao far as rallway legialation la
concerned, it dea flot neceasitate the expsrieuce that miscellaneous and private Billa
legisiation requires. There la a very Important and most difficuit committee-the committea of both Houses, which requires the
greateat experience and the greateat knowledge-and I dlaima that it la most unfortunate in this Chamber that Billa that should
be referred to that committee are referred
either to the Railway Cemmittee or te fthc
Banklng and Commerce Committee. I have
had considerable experience ln parliament. I
have, per-haps, pald more attention te Coinmittee legisiatlon than moat members of parliament have done. if 1 wert,off ered my preference ef a committee, I wouid select the
Committee on Miscellaneous and Private
-

Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I agree very large-

-

Bills. It is tue~ VUIUIq.Uet,

.Ir

no

+A hafrn-

t

experlence and legisiative
iy with the remarka made by the hon. gen- that involves more
entirely -knowledge than any other comjxilttee. If
tleman froin Halifax. I diaagree
to-day as a
wnt some cf the statenienta that have been I were entering parliament
a membee new mfember with the knowledge I uow
made. 1~ do net think that
select first the Miscellacomlng from the cast or f rom thue west or possess, I would
place ls neous and Private Bils Commlttcc. I qiuite
from the centre or from any other
on these three Important
therefore necessanily qualificd for member- admit I value bemng
firet commîttees, and I value belng on any other
ship on any committec. I think thue
but my experieuice la in the
qualification la wlth those whe apply thein- committee,
direction of a business man and I lke te
selves te parllamcntary work freni thc trne
commîttees. I arn Perthoy en .ter parîlament and wiuo qualify be on the business wbatcvcr rnay be donc
fectly content 'wlth
thrnacîvea fer werk upon these commitstrlking committee la contees. 1 think tluat the change frem ycar te as far as the
be a cerncd.
year which bas been suggeated Wvould
my long
Hon. Mr. DOM VILLFE-Froml
fatal ene. In legialatlng, experience la the
1872,
great: thiug, and one cf the reasous why te- experience ln parliarnent, dating from
as the when I was a member of the House of Gemda1y the Senate la superier, so far
Gemwerk of the varieus commîttees la coin- mena and chairman of the Banklag
of mittec, 1 may perhaps see the difficultY ln
cerned, la because of the permancncy
I do net
the, Senate, ln contrast with the rapid thla matter or imagine that I do.
cf think If wouid be fair te lay down te the
change ef the members of thec House
gelng te
Gemmons. The Heuse of Gommons to-day Heuse what that cemmlttec was
or lt was net geing te de. There lu aiis a ncev body-teo new te legialate, ln my de
opinion, ln the very best way for tue coun- waya this Heuse te come te for .a remedY.
that
try. The changea there are tee rapid. and The difficulty I see practlcally la tais;
permanency of thue. tu the Heuse of Gemmons when a Bill
If ls because or the
hitr"
Scuate that our leglalation bas been se sa- passes tac Railway Gornmittee, It geoes
large commit- cormlttee in the House of Gemmons and
tlsftuctory. I coutend that
te
tees are a very greaf mistake. In tae there every member whe bas sometaing
Rallway Gem- say, or thinka he bas, or whe dees net
Heuse ef Gemmefla to-day the
cf tac commlittec la altogether tee cumbersome te be agree with the etacr members
te be. mittce. bas a chance te take up the Bill
as effective a cemnhlttee as it eughf
lu ËIetail acÀnether gi-eat mistake I think la thîs: the item by item and discusa It
upon cording te bis views, aud those whe have
great value thaf bon. gentlemen place

SEN-ýATE
flot been on the cominittee can take part
in the discussion. But the miles of our
House are very different. A Bill goes
tbrough the Railway Committee, and cornes
back to the House, and we do flot go into
cornmittee on 1t. and unless a member
adopta sorne outaide means, say by notice
that he la going to oppose the measure, It
goes tbrough wlthout hon, gentlemen expressing their vlews upon It. Yon have a
Bill referred to the Rallway Oornmittee, and
the commlttee pass It or decline to pass it
andi they report back to the House and
that ends It. The question la whether that
cornmittee la large enougb or wbether It
should be larger. There shouid be a chance
for those who are dlslnterested to express
their vlews on ail measures. 0f course I
do flot say that the comrnittee la made Up
of Interested parties, but we kuow that
when raiiway Bils corne before the conimittee, we can qulckly see where the juteresta of theL railway are.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Hear, hear.
havlng
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-And,
passed the coinmittee, there la no rernedy
here. I think tbla la a matter tbat sbould
be threshed out. I do not think there la
any feeling In regard to. it, and that we ail
beileve that legisiation corning Up to this
House shouid be put through In a way satifactory to ail. The members who are here
are here under the Royal Seai and they are
not under compliment to anybody in the Senate. Perbapa some of them should not have
corne bere, but that does not matter. This la
not a school bouse. 1 arn one of ten who represent the province of New Brunswick,
and I arn here as a custodian, ta a certain
extent, ef their rlghts, not to worry the
opposition, or the governrnent or anytbing
else, but as for as 1 can possibiy serve
tbelr Interesta 1 arn bound to do so, and
outalde of that to serve the country at large.
Now both aides bave In vlew the construction of that cornmittee In such a way that
it will be piaced outoide of any Influences
wichý rnay attempt to Interfere wlth legislation. That committee should be composed
of men who have sorne knowledge of railway niatters. Tbere are on It representatives of the three maritime provinces. Tliey
rnlght feel that as judges It would be better
to besitate before adopting some measures
DOMlVILLE.
Hon. M.%r.

Nvitbiout necessary changes. I have no feeling in this inatter; I bow to the decision
of the majorlty, but wboever nominates the
members of the Railway Committee shouid
keep lu view the Importance of appointing
the best men, so that when a Bill goes
through d~e Senate, It wiil not be because
certain Influences are able to secure for it
a rnajority In the comrnittee.
*Hon. Mr. WILSON-While 1 sgree In
some respects with what bas been said In
this discussion, I bave not beard any suggestion to overcorne the difficulty. Our desire la that there shall be full discussion
on ail questions coming before the Senate
and Its committees. Whetber a committee
la to be large or srnail, every member of the
Seonte siiouid be given an opportiunity to
express biniself upon the measures under
consideration, either In tbe cornrittee or In
the House. I have no fault to fid witb
the proposed Strlking Cormilttee, and have
no desire to be on any other ccmmittees
than those of wbich I have been a member.
My oniy desire la to produce barlnony on
the question now before the Senate. To
accomplish this, 1 would suggest that when
a Bill la reported frorn tbe Raiiway Cornmittee, it may be referred afterwards to a
Cornmittee of the Whoie House where It
A raiiway
cau be tboroughly dlacussed.
Bill rnay be quite as Important is a governinent measure, and a goyeranent measure or any public measure must be referred
to a Cornmittee of the Wboie House. Why
shouid not tbe ame course be féllowed lu
A member
deaiing with railway Bills?
inay be deeply intereated in a rni]way Bill
and yet not be a member of the Raiiway
Committee. If lie goes to the committes
and attempta to say anything he Io iooked
upon as an Interloper. In fact I have heard
the question *put: 'Are you a member of
this comrnittee?'1 It la not very nice to be
treated In that way. I wouid suggest to
rny hon. friend from Halifax that it would
'be well to arnend the miles so ns to provide that private Bis rnay be referred to
the Cornmittee of the Wbole House. As I
said before, wliy la a governrnent Bill considered more Important than a railway
Bill? Why is it necessary that we shouid
review government measures before a Çornrnittee of the Wbole House? Have we flot

DECEMBER 4, 1907

45

5.*
ais much confidence in the governiment as gary,How Many rifles belang ta the. latter cateand of what mark are they?
we have la the Rallway Commlttee? 1 811Y
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-The reply of the dey .es, and If there be any reason why goverament measures should ho conqldered ln partrnent Is as follows-.
1. Not known by the Department of
Commlttee of the Whole there Io mucb
greater reason wby rallway Bills ebould bé Nifitla, and Defence.
2. (a) None.
deait with la the samne way.
(b) 7,500 Mark II. rifles were luspected
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I thlnk It ls a plty and acceptedl durlng the perlod betweeu
that no member of the governmezit la on March 1, st, and December 1, Instant.
the Striking Commlttee. If the argument (500 of these rifles were Included. ln the
of the hon. senator fromn Ottawa has an>' answer to question 2 of the lnqulry by the
welght, it should apply to hlmself. If ex- Hon. Senator Landry on AprIl 5, last).
(c) None.
perlence la necessar>', I do flot know any
(d) None.
one who bas more experlence than the hon.
3. (a)Nothing.
gentleman himself, and I hope one of the
(b) On the 7,500 fMari, IL. rifles accepted
members of the Strlking Commlttee wlU retire la bis favour. My hon. frlend from St. between March 1, last, and December 1,
Thomas says that private legisiation, un- Instant, final payments during that perlod
This
like goverrament and public measures, la were made aggregatlng $46,875.
Commlttee of the Whole. amount represents the remalnlng 2Z pýer
not referred to a
That le true, but It ma>' be sa referred cent of the value of these rifles, a progress
payaient of 75 per cent bavlng been made
under rule 128, whlch provîdes:
î>rlor to March 1, (whlch amount was inU9nless the Sonate otherwise orders, a pri- cluded la the answer to question 4 of the
vate Bull reported from a standing or special
committee is not committed toa VCommittee of lnqutry of April 5, Iast).
the Whole.
(C) Nothlng.
(d) NothIng.
have a rlght to move
But senators always
4. $98,283.27.
that a private Bill ho referred to a Corn3. Under the contract 19.500 rifles renot done,
rnlttee o! the Wbole. When It lu
main undellvered. These will be Mark Il.
lt la for the sakre o! avoldlng use!ess disor any new mark whlch may be adopted.
cussion, but we have the rlght If we choose
to exercîse ItL I hope my first suggestion THE OTTAWA AND GEORGIÂN BAY
wUl be accepted b>' tie House, aVd that the
CANAL.
leader of the goverament wlll be on the
INQUIRY.
Striking Commlttee.
Hon. Mr. BERNI]DR-I should like to
The motion was agreed to.
know when we may expect to have the
report o! th'- party appolnted by the govTHIE ROSS RIFLE.
erument to, explore the Georgian Bay Canal
We were led to believe last session
route.
Hon. Mr. ¶ÂÂNDRY lnqulred:
Com. that we would have the report durlng the
1. Haow man>' rifles has the Ross Rifle
1907, up t( recess, but we have flot receiqed It yet.
pan> manu!actured tram March .1,No. I.; (b:
Decmbe 1,instant: <a) of Mark
of Mark No. Il.; (c) of Mark >Xo. III.; (d) ai
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I shall be very glad to
an>' other mark?
I do not personally
make the lnqulry.
2. How man>' of these rifles has the gavera
I amn qulte aware that they aie
ment accepted during that periad after inspeo know.
fion thereof: <a) of Mar k No. I.;<(bj of Mar] rstili working on It. I. read sorne extracta
of
aI);(d anj
No. II.; (c) of Mark No
from it la this mornlng's 'Citizen,' but I
other mark?
Decembe: rarn not la a position to say when the re3. How much since March 1 up ta
1, 1907, his the goverrament given as paymen f port wlll be laid on the table.
ln full for rifles: (a) ai Mark- No. I.; <b) a:
Mark No. II.; (c) af Mark No. III.; (d o
DELÂXTFM PRINTING.
en>' ather mark?
4. What is the amaiuit paid in advance dur
periad for rifles in course 9 f Hon. iMr. LANDRY-WiII the hion. Secreing the afaresaîd
manufacture, but not yet flnished or nat ye ttary of State tell us when we shall get
aocepted P

SENATE
bave flot yet attaiined
the Manual of the House of Commous which for tbose of us wbo
never bis age to notice tbe vigour and power of
was prornlsed last year? We have
mmnd tbat lie evinced in the delivýýry of his
recelved It.
address. He .sald that la the House of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I gave orders for It Conirons, w'bere I had the pleasure of
several tnies. 1 sbail maire Inquiry and ]et sitting wlth him for rnany years, we conthe bon. gentieman know to-morrow.
denmuied Vie annuai expenditure and contended Vint the affairs of Vie country couid
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I thinir Viere shauld
wait for be carrled on for very much less, and that
bé a limit ta the tîme you have ta
we urged a reduction. He charges that
IL.
wben the present goverunent camne Into
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, it is unpardon- power lnstead of reducing the annual exable.
pendîture they lncreased It. The reason
they have done oa la Vis for many years
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-4May we soon expect
Vie inte government carrled on the alfaira
ta have the French version of the Senate of Vie country by borrowlng money at Vie
Manual contalnlng Vie British NorVi Amn- end of the year ta nieet Vie annuai current
erica Act and Vie miles of proceedings?
expeusea. It was a most deplorable conHon. Mr. SCOTT-Ia it not prInted?
dition af thinga, and we advocated that
Mr. LANDRY-Not yet lu French. eItber Vie expenses shouid be eut down to
Hon.
at ieaat Vie amaunt of Vie revenue, or smre
mens shouid be provlded ta meet the anDELAYED ]RETURNS.
nual expendîture wlthaut borrawlng. Some
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-Wbeu rnay we ex- years we borrowed as much as four millions;
peet to get a returu 'which I moved for one year six millions, and another eîght
laat year witli reference ta Vie Hudson Bay millions, ta caver Vie annual expendlture
route?
of the country. We candemned that system,
was 1V moved because, If contlnued, It couid only result
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-WbIen
la runnlng the country heavlly ID debt,
for?
nat for Improvements or worka of a perHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Pretty late la the manent character, but almply ta meet the
session.
annuai expenses of Vie country. What 'would
you Vhink of a tawn or munlclpaiity Viat
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I shiail inquIre.
every yeux~ borrowed money ta pny Vie orTHE ADDRESS.
dinary current expenses? Would you flot
conclude tiiat that town or munlclpalîty
CONTINUED.
DEBÂTE
wouid reach a point In its hîstory when
The order of Vie day being calléd:
its credît would be destroyed? We conResuming the further adjourned debate oil demu a pollcy of Vint kind la unmeaauredl
Vhe consideration of His Exceiiency the Gov- terms. Then my bon. frîend sad we criernar General'a speech on the apening of the
Faurth Session af the Tenth Parliament.- tlcised and condemned Vie Senate. We dld
Hon. Mr. McMullen.
so because It hand shown itself In deailug
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-When I movedf wîth matters of vital Interest ta anme secVie adjo-umument of the debate yesterday, tion of Vils .country ta be absolutely and
I did so because I was noV then In a very entircly servile ta Vie party Vien In power,
good condition of beaith to proceed. I arn prepared to do anythlng and everytblng Vie
somry ta aay Viat 1 find myself no better goverument of Vie day wanted. At Vie
to-day tban I was yesterday; bowever, 1 commencement of canfederation, Viere was
is;
shall endeavour bmiefly ta maire a few re- one understood principle, and It xwas
marks lu repiy ta my hon. fmiend frani that If any one duty above anather devolved
Hastings. I arn sure thnt we were ail de- upon Vie Senate *'It was that Viey shauld
lighted ta notice Vie vîgour, physicai and guard the laterests of the weaker promental, Viat be displayed lu making bis vinces, or lu fact of any province agaînst
speech. He la getting weil advanced lit attempted injustice on Vie part of a coinyears, as we ail are, and iV Is coinforting, bination of the otber provinces. Tbe Senate
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

T)ECEMBER 4, 1907
was to be the guardian of those interesth.
Now~ 1 contend that the Senate showed a
complete disregard of tbat principle when
the Gerryniander Act of 1882 was passed.
It was sent to the Senate in the dying moments of the session and passed in a Yer.,
short time. That wvns au Act above aiuy
other ths.t the Senate of Canada should have
condemned. It Yvas an effort made to vIrtualiy destroy the political. influence of the
Reform party In Ontario-to diffuste the
Tories so that they couId exercîse power
nt the poils and hive the Grits so that
they could flot exercise their legitimate
power. There is no question that was the
object of that Bill. I have no doubt the
hon, gentleman from Hastings had a hanid
ln framing It. Timat measure passed this
House In a very few moments after it was
introduced. We condemned the Senate for
lmmving donc that It created a feeling of
bitterness In the minds of the Reform party
of Ontario. My hon. friend aIsre found
some fault wlth the nppointment of my
esteemed frlend from Centre York (Hon. Mr.
Campbell) to this Chamnber. He also referred to a great many changes which had
taken place whereby members of the Commons had been appointed to the Senate flot
because they were better qualified than
others for the position, but because their
seats In the House of Commons were required for other men. I admit that both
parties have perhaps utiized the Senate In
that way. My hon. frlend will no doubt
remember the case o! Sir John Thompson,
'who was brought Into the cabinet o! Sir
John Macdonald of which my hon. friend
was a member. He was not anmember of
the House 0f tommons at the time, and In
order to provide a seat for hlm, Mfr. McIsaac, who was then a member o! the Coinmons, was appointed a judge, thus creating
a vacancy. and Sir John Thompson ran for
bis constituency and was elected. Then
there is the case o! Mr. Perley, a very deslrable member of the Senate. He was appointed to, make a vacancy for Mr. Dewdney, who was called to the cabinet as Minister of the Interior. In order to provide
him a seat In the west, Mr. Perley resigned
and was appointed to the Senate. Then we
have niy esteemed !riend *Mr. McKay, of
Truro, with whom 1 hiad the pleasure o!
sitting la the House of Commons. When

It became necessary to find a place for Mr.
MNeCIellin, who became a member of the
cabinet, Mr. MeKay was made a senator.
He is an honoured and efficient member of
this House, 1 admit. I arn fnding no fanit
whatever witm hlm, but I am simply pointIng ont how the late government did exactly what my hon. friend. from Hastings
condemus the present government for doing.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-I suppose the hon, gentleman knows that the
Hon. Mr. McCIellan was a member of the
Senate nt the time?
Hon. Mfr. McfMUI.LEN-I know he was.
Hon. Mfr. BEMRNIi>R-t the time Sir
John Thompson hecame a member o! the
House o! Gommons, had he flot been a
judge In his own province?
Hon. Mr. MeMULLDN-He may have
been, but he had neyer been a member of
pariament before he was taken Into the
The hon. gentleman from Hastcabinet.
Ings was condemning Sir Wi!frld Laurier
for selectlng men ontoide of! the House to
become members of his cabinet thus reflectlng on bis supporters In the House o!
I am pointing out that Sir
Commons.
John 'Macdonald dld the very sme thing
In the case of Sfr John Thompson.
Hon. Mfr. BM>RNIER-Was he not; a judge
then?
Hon. Mr. 'MeMULILEN-He was not a
member of the House of Gommons.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Does
flot that prove what I stated about the
usefuinesa of the Senate, as It has been
utillzed by the present government?
Hon. Mfr. MeMULLF>N,--My hon. frlend
endeavoured to convey qulte a dîfferent
He was trylng to show that
Impression.
the Senate was nsed for the purpose of
helping the government out or their embarrassment by appointlng members of the
Gommons to the Senate in order to open
constItuencles for men they wanted to
bring Into the cabinet
MÂOCKENZIE BOWELLrHon. Sir
Thereby showing Its usefuiness.
Hon. Mfr. LMcMULLN-They had a very
excellent exemple, because my hon. frlend
knows he adopted the very sme prin-

SENATE

48

ciple when bis partY were in power. My hon. the goverflmeft bave the opportautty tlieY
friend sald that one of the planks In the w!i. give It that careful and serloUS attenplatform of tbe Reform party was tbe re- tion that tbe question deserves. My hon.
formnation of the -Senate. No doubt that frlend made some reference to the Frencbi
was and is stili one of tbe planks of the treaty, and lie pointed ont thait It would
Re sai then, 'wby bas lu some ways interfere witii the British
Reform party.
the Premier flot gone on to reform the preference, that It might neutralizc. the adWeil, my lion. f riend knows per- vantages that 'Britain enjoyed axnder tliat
Senate?
fectly well that at least for the fbmt par- preference wben the new treaty came Into,
There la one feature I that treaty
lament the Premier had flot a majority ini fore.
whlcb I very much admire, and that is
this House, and be knows tbat It certainly
would flot bave been safe I view of the that Canada la to have a minimum tariff
conduet of our f riends opposit3 wvith re- applied to borses and cattie of ail kinds
I
gard to the Yukon Rallway Bill Io bave sblpped from this country to France.
hope that the treaty wIll open up for
risked an attempt to reform the Senate, do
because they would very likely mete out the people of Canada an outiet for the class
to, such a mea3ure the saxie treatmeflt they of cattie with which this year they are
gave to the Yukon Railway Bill-throw It overloaded, biaving no place to send them.
The goverament had therefore to Lt le really a pity that the British goveraout.
wait until they had a majority i this ment couid not bave been Induced to susTbey bad not a substantial pend their embargo upon our cattie, even
chamber.
until after the election of 1904. for a short time, to, help our farinera out
majority
My hon. friend knows that ail the of the condition In which they find theinIntroduced, after selves at this present moment. In westlegislatioli
Important
was virtually el-n Ontario, where I live, feed la exceedla 1904,
the election
Thousands of cattie will
to allow the First Minister to, ingly scarce.
left over
Is
attend the Queen's jubilee. It was thought starve to death before next spring if It
to, do so, and no doubt going to be a long and severe winter. Tbe
proper and right
it was. Tbe opposition In the House of farmers bave not the food to fatten thein,
Commons agreed that It would be a proper and tbey bave no place to send thein. Some
and prud1ent thig, and the duty devolved I admit are noir golng to Buffalo, and the
upon tbe First Minister of the country to farmers are paying a very hlgb duty to get
It la a pity we do not
attend that jubilee. To enable hlm to do them over there.
Important legisiation bad to be lett now enjoy the advantages that we had la
that,
Senate reform couid not certalnly the British market before that embargo
over.
have been brougbt In that session. Next was Imposed, and 1 n neyer forget, and
session the First Minister bad to attend I can neyer forgive the goverament of %Yhlch
the King's coronation. Tbat was another my esteemed friend is a member for allowgathering tbat It wis tbought weIl tne First ing the matter to get Into the tangle it
Minister of the country sbould attend. did, owing to the laxity witb whicb tbey
Legislation durIng thit session was lef t enforced the arrangement entered into with
over alan. Then at the lat session of par- the Britisb government regarding tbe quarliament it was tbought deairable, and abso- antine of United States cattie comlig Into
lutely Imperative that the Firat Mlnister Canada. He knows, for I am sure he bas
should attend the colonial conference In rend the wbole hlstory of tbat question,
London, and legislation bnd to, be left ovei that owlng to the laxity wlth whIch they
for the purpose of enabllng hum to do that. enforced that nnderstnnding, the British
Under those ca iditionP, I should like to) governient eventually cancelled. the arknow froin my boa. friead wben tbere was rangement and placed our country under
n convenient moment wben the goverument the saine restrictions tbnt tbey placed tbe
could be expected to talze Up thue qurq.tiofl United States.
of the reformation ef the Senate « Tbere
Hon. Sir ,NACKENZIýE BOWVELL-The
It la
has not been an opportunity givun.
of sncb vital Importance that lion, gentleman ls altogether -wrong. WNe
not n question
enIt: will not keep, and It bas been left over entorced the regulations bere that were
moment arises, aind wbnn fored In EnglIand against the importation
until a convenlent
fr.
Hon. MI IN1c'\1 ,LL E«N.

IJECEMBER 4, 1907

49

of United States cattle, and it waa under to feed Uim 'wlth, and, unlesa sanie relief
the present Miniater of Agriculture that Is at!orded, thc only thing Uic farinera cari
do la ta kili them for their peIta. I do
that regulation waa repeaied.
not expect that ta treaty which has been
Hou. Mr. McMULLEN-Oh, no.
entered Into wvill afford very much relief
ts year, but I hope it will open up a way
BOWELL--Oh,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
by whlcb we may be able toaship ta France
yes.
or sme of her colonies our surplus cattie
Han. Mr. MeMULLEN-The hon. gentie- when they are I a candition such as they
mnian's memory doea flot serve hlm correctly. are in now, and In Uiat way find an outlet
Sir Hector Langevin was the minister wbo for thc clane of stock Uiat Britain bias shut
went home ta England and made that ar- ber ports againat. Our stock raisers 'are
rangement The British giovernment stipai- badiy handicappcd thus year and we teed
lated that there abouli be a veterlanary sur- very sorry for theni. My hon. friend dealt
geon nt every point in Canada 'where cattie for sme time with Uic question ofthUi lucame across tram the United States, pasn- creuse or taxation under tbe tarit! af the
ing tirough Canada to Portland or Boston present governmcnt when comparcd with
for Instance; those cattie shauld be un- Uic tarit! under Uic late gaverument. My
Ioaded and after a certain Urne they shouid hon- triend claimed that more' taxes per
be inspected. and unless thcy were found hcad are taken tram Uic people naw than
tree tram discase they were not aiiowed ta Uierc wcre betore cantederation. If that
pass through Canada. The railway campat- ls Uic case It Io Uic peopic's own free wlii
nies got at the government No doubt they -their trec chaice. People arc I a position
said: *It la golng ta be ruinous to our west- now, awing ta Uic tact that Uiey have more
ern cattie trade ; we have to keep a train moncy, ta buy more luxuries Uian they
af cars, and engine and ail the hande lying could betore. Take Uiose classes of goods
there for nome twenty-four houra tiil the that wcre bought under Uie aid tarît! suci
cattie are unloaded and ted, t[Ii they are as luxuries and sec what Increased quantitested and re-loaded before they cari pro- ties af those Uiings are bcing bonght: naw
ceed.' Thcy appealed to the goverament compared with what wa purchased under
iud urged for a relaxation af that order Uic aId tariff. And whY? The people lad'
aud the goverament gave way. 'Wbat did not Uic money then. They conld nat atthey do. They aiiowed the cattie ta be tord It. Now they have Uic mancy, Uiey
teaated ln Uhe cars wltbout bcing unioad«d. can afford it and they Indulge la Uiose
Wili uîy bon. triend dcny that? Tbe records things. Take perfumcry tor Instance. Ira
They allowed tie cattifi ta be 1895 Uic amonut lamportedointo Canada was
prove I.
teited In Uhc car withaut being nnloaded. $M4,618. That is Uic year betore aur triends
th
The resuit waa that relaxation aftcr relaxa- wcnt out ot office. In 1906, Ui mport had
tion took place, and In one case a man was increased ta $M8,277, or over. double. Then
appointed as inspector, who was not a vete- take ilka,, which arc a luxury. There were
rinary at ail. He knew nothing about thc over two and one-haîftUies as many sUkas
duties of a veterinary, and the resuit was lmporteÈdý In 1894 there was $2,498,930
that notes were taken af this loase way worth, upon which a dutY waa paid of
the regulationa were being carried out, the $743,402. in 1895 there was $2,231,443 Imembargo was put upon our cattie, and it ported an which a duty o! $676,422 waa
bas been retained ever ince. There bas paid. lu 1896 there was $2,564.491 innot been a year that we have sut!ered sa portcd, upon which a duty af $773.950 was
rnuch tram that unfortunate condition of paid. Naw we came ta Uic years atter tic
things as we arc sufferlflg this ycar. Hun- change ot governrnent. In 1904 there was
dreds af thousands ai cattie could be sent $3,746,182 ot alka imported, upan whicha
tram western Canada to-day to England and $820,239 wcre paid. in 1905 there was $4.Scotiand, and turned Into bec! If wc could 379,651 lmported upon whicb a dnty of
only hanve àu opportunity af scnding thein $915.034 wcre paid. In 1906 there was $4,there. 9what are we going ta do with them? 319,832 ai sllk linportcd, upon whlgh a
ils I said bcforc, our fariuers have nothiug- duty of $925,338 was paid. 811k las a luxury
4
REVISED

EDITION

SENATE
Because our route is- very
and it shows pretty clearIy that the people or Quebec.
had plenty of money. Tbcy wanted thue circuitous, and their route wilI be straiglitI do not
goods and tbey lmported them and paid the er and ln manyways better.
duty. The resuit is that a very large ln- know what Canada wlll do ln order to
crease lu revenue bas taken place juat iueet that competition. She will be driven
Reference bas been
from suchi articles as these, and bas taken to do somethlng.
place by thue voluntary act of the people made to the Georgian bay canal as a'
I
theinselves ln purchasing tbat clans of goods. mneans of meeting that competition.
shaîl be delighted to sec that project underThese thinga show how It In that there
taken, If It can be accompIlshed. for anyle an increased revenue; there bas been an
thing lîke a reasonable sum. It wiUl give
increased, revenue because the people bave
us a waterway from Fort William te MontHon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier ln
inoney. The
real and Quebec, a short route and a good
bis speech ln Toronto, referred to that route, and It would enable us to compete
point and said that when the people of! with United States shippers, but when they
Canada came to realize the advantages ot
complete that canai they will undoubtedly
the pollcy that he wouid put in force, they
dlaim the right to send war vessels along
would find It out simply by puttlng their It and through the waters o! the lnland
baud ln their pocket, they would not bave lakes right up to Duluth and possIbly to
to go over a list of figures to prove that Chicago.
That they wlll unquestionably
My bon. friend made
suec i was the case.
dlaim as a rlgbt as a nation, and we may
some reference to the United States placlook forward to hsvlng that privîlege coning war vessels on the great lakes, and he ceded to them, or at least tbey will daim
expressed the hope that no trouble would
to enjoy it and they wlll enjoy It. Bo far
arise between us and the great republlc te nçi carrying out that proposition It only reWe entlrely concur In that. We
the sontb.
quires notice to be served upon our people,
earnestly kope it neyer may; but It In quite
aad I do not see that we can very well rewitbln thue right of tbe people of tue United
f une to do It
States to abrogate the Rusb.Bagot treaty
Hon. Mr. POWER-WhIle the hon, genat nny time by gIving a year's notice, and
i have no doubt that ln order to enable tleman Is dealing with thîs matter of the
thiiem to build warsbips at Cbicago-whlcb Georgian bay canal there la one question
I believe they intend dolng If they only which bas o!ten snggested ltself te my
I am not as fainiliar wltb the
have the privilege of s0 doing--either to mmnd.
buiid tbem there or at some other port upon ground as the hon. gentleman is, but I
Lake fMichigan-they will require to give sbould like to ask hlm is that canal not s0
In the far north that lt le Ilkely to freeze np comnotice, and abrojate that treaty.
state of New York they have borrowed a paratively early In the season, and thus
very large amount of money for the pur- limait the period of navigation?
pose 'o! widening the Erie canal froso BufHon. Mr. 60OTT-Tbere wonld not be
1 belleve that work Is
falo to Albany.
being proceeded with, and It is going a difference o! more than five or six days.
now
It
to be au exceedingly Important work.
Hon. Mr. fM!MULLEN-1 do not know.
is going to be an Improvement ln the navi- I am not prepared toanswer that question.
gation of the waterways of the United It possibly may freeze up early.
0f course
States that will require an offset 'iu some the canal in New York may aise freeze up.
I do not The northern part of It around Buffalo will
way on the part of Canada.
know how we are going to meet the corn- certainly freeze up, so that it cannot be
petition. It will be years yet before this used in winter time.
I do not thlnk it
takes place, but it appears to me that when possible to keep it open ail the time, but
they get that waterway deepened, which the Georgian bay canal would probably be
they purpose doing, having voted money for frozen up for a longer period than the New
We bave to close the Welthe purpose, tbey will be able to transport York canal.
grain from Duluth, Port Arthur and Fort land canal at an early period, as we ail
ii1am to New York at very considerably know, but It Is lcept open for a number o!
less than we can lay it down in Montreal inonths. If the Georgian bay canal was
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN.

DECEMBER 4, 1907
cçnstructed I thlnk It would render a very
désirable service tu a later date In the
year than we eau now utilizé our canais
and laités.
Lake Huron la it rongh and
stormy body of water, and a dangérons
laite when the storme begin to prevali ln
the fali of the yémr.
If we badl the Ottawa .and Georgian bay canal wé could
avold these dangerous etorins.
My hon.
friend made nme référencé to thé moyement of thé crop of thé ýNorthwest and
with regard to, the assistance that was
suppose to be rendered by the goverument.
In my opinion thé dlficnlty ln
movlng thé Northwest crop this year la due
slrnply and molely to thé large Proportion
of thé whéat that la lnjured wlth frost. No
bank wants te Invest money -lni frozen
whéat
Men who havé good crédit ln thé
bank are afraid to tonch a comrnodlty of
that klnd.
I had expérience ln frozen
grain many years ago.
We ai know It Io
lhable to spol ln a very short tliné and te,
bake togéther, no that you would have to
chop It ont of thé car.
I know that of
rny own expérience many.years ago. Thé
people of thé Northwest havé had froot
this year.
We had'i
.ltn Ontario many
years ago.
We do not have It now and
havé not had It for yéar's. I hope thé expérience ln thé Northwest may be thé smn
as ours.
It la to be earnestly hoped that
they whll not see frost of an Inurions klnd
The banka wll
for many years te corne.
not advanoe money to move frozen whéat
because they know how rlmky It 1s, and thé
réason that there has been sncb a great
outcry in thé west te that they are an
Those westawful crowd of grumblers.
erners complain of éverythlng. Sométirnes
it Io thé want of cars, and thé next time
As a general raie
thé want of money.
they are very loud ln their complaints,
theré la no question about that. I suppose
they are not to biame this year because
thé wheat Is frozén and bécause no monév
I
te supplied by thé banks te mové itL
'do not at ail wonder. I shall bé glad Indéed to séé a véry considérable portion of
that wheat bronght down ta Ontario, and
*If It could be sold théré for a reasonable
*pricé, anythlng Up te one cent a pound, lt
would hé a most désirable wheat to have
under présent conditions, and I nlîl say
thé hon. gentlemen from thé weqt that If
they will encourage thé shipping of It ta

5

Ontario they will find a falrly good market
for tén or twénty million bushéls. There
Is an outiét for It thte year because our
people have not sufficlent food for their
stock.
It would answér a good purpome,
but théy muet not ask too high a price.
It wouid require te hé sold te our people
at about one dollar Per hundréd pounda.
At that priée It wonld answer véry wel
for thé purposé of feeding hogs and cattie,
and thé farmérs would not have te virtually shlow théir cattié to die, or seil thém
for alrnost nothlng.
Wé are prend of thé méasure of prosperlty that bas béen experienced by thé
people of this country mince 189.
Wé are
morry Indeéd that this yéar, owlng te sme
unéxplalhable causé, a financlal stringéncy
bas befallen ns and monéy le not; as plenti
fui I thé hanks or ln thé hands o! thé
people as ltbasmbeénln thepast My own
Idea. te that that la owlng te thé enormons
development that la takig placé, thé wonderful developmént ln thé west, ln Cobalt
and in thé construction of railways. Those
things havé absorbéd sncb an énormous
amount of money that thé paper Isned
at thé commnand and under thé control of
thé banka te not mufficient te, meet thé dérnmnd, and they are compelléd te carry a
certain amount of réserve.
Our banklng
mystem la unquéstionably bettér than thé
United States systém.
In thé United
States they are sufféring from thé very
sarne troublé, but to a much greater éxtént
than we are.
Thé circulatlng médium or
currency of thé Unlted 6tates for anl purposes, I think, arnounts to sométhlng ln
thé nelghbourbood of two thousand two
bundréd and twenty-six million of money.
Thé tréasury can tell at thé close of any
monthly report how rnuch te held by thé
people ln circulation, becausé théY know
how rnuch théy have ln thé tréasury at
Washington, and they kuow by thé banks
réturns what amount of curréncy te béld
by éach bauk, and on adding thèse two
sums togethér, and'dedncting thém frorn
thé groas amount o! greenbacks and curréncy tesued they can tell exactly what
thé péople hold ln théir pocket, or ln their
mafes and thé last returns show the amount
thére was ln circulation, ln thé pockets or
drawers or lockéd up by thé people of thé
United States as belng thirtéén hundréd and
flfty millions of dollars, wblcb had not

SENATE
It was
touiid its way back to the bauk.
It possibly May be owing
flot deposited.
to want of confidence ln the banklng instiTbey are flot based upon
tutions tbiere.
as substantiai a foundation as our bankLog Institutions are, and tney have suffered
lu sme cases *seriousiy. No doubt the
people began to tbink that the safest thing
they couid do was to get boid of government notes, lock tbem up ln their deaks
if
or carry them lni their pocketbooks.
thr-y deposit their money li the bank they
dc, flot knoii wbether to-morrow the bank
may not bang out a notice that It bas closed
lts doors.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-Tbey
brlng it to Canada.

miglit

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Yes. The people
have kept their money instead of depositing
It and that Is one of the reasons why
money is scarce ln the United States. In
Canada the people biave unlimited confidence ln our bankling Institutions, and fi
eannot be for that cause money la so scarce
here. It must be for smre other reason. 1
belleve, as I bave already stated, that the
enoinons developrnent whicb bas takcn
place, tbe unbounded prosperity which we
bave enjoyed for years past, bas so far
ezceeded the circuiating medium of our
banks that tbey bave not the mens to
finnnce the business of the country. Â very
short time wlll no doubt rlght the 'whole
matter, the circulating medium wlll get
down to a condition that wUll relleve business men and the business of the country
,wlll be carried on better and more eashly
than under present conditions.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I bave
no desire to refer to anything the bon. gentleman bas sald, but I destre to put mymelf
rigbt. 1 do not wlsh to bave It upon record
that 1 nmade a statement yesterday which,
perhaps, upon Investigation, was not strict]y correct. When I bad the tariff ln my
baud and tbe French treaty I called attention to the fact that the Finance Mînister
had mnade a statement ln reply to Mr. Borden, the leader of the opposition, when he
alluded to the fact that the ad valoremi dutv
of 30 per cent upon champagne had beeni
repealed. Looking at the tariff as it was
lu rny possession at the moment, I fournd
that the tariff provided for a duty on charnHon. Mr. MeMULLEN.

pagne of $3.30 per case of twelve bottles,
and 30 per cent addition ad valorein. I theii
stated tiîat 1 couid hlot understand how It
was that statement had been made by -Mr.
Flielding, but ou examinlng the treaty entered Into by Sir Charles Tupper and approved by the bite government wlth tbe
French nation, 1 flnd that the 30 per cent
ad valoremi was repiealed at that time, and
that the duties upon champagne as arranged and provided for ln the present tarift remain as they were under the late
French tarif!, s0 that the Impression wblch
I left: upon the minda of those who bad
not looked into the question was that therewas an actual reduction of 30 per cent ad
valorem made by the present treaty that
bnd flot existed before. I assure hon. gentlinen that 1 had no Intention of misleadlug the House on sucb au Important question. As soon as 1 ascertalned bow the
niatter really stood, 1 deemed It a duty to
miyseif that 1 shouid expiain to the Senate
the error Into wblch 1 was ied. Stili there
Is this point Whlcb suggests itself to ma;
on the adoption by the parilament of Canada of the present French treaty the old
treaty la abrogated, aud lu the present
freaty there la no. provision for an ad vuloremn duty, but ht la not a decrease because thiat decrease lu the duty did exlst
before.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I amn satisfied thiit
no member of tbe Senate would for a moment suspect that the hon, gentleman fromn
Hastings would knowingly try to mislead the
Hlouse. The mistake Into whlch be was le'l
iras a very natural one, and I bad proposed to cail bis attention to It to-day, but
I arn very glad that the mistake lias beeD
corrected by himself. Even at the rlsk of
being considered a littie tedious, 1 propose
to say a few irords wltb respect to
the speech front the Throne. Tbe first paragrapbi of the speech whicb seenis to cal]
for particular attention Is the following:
The stream of immigrants coming to Canada
continues to increase in volume the year now
drawing to a close skm.wing a larger number
than any preceding year, and it is gratifying
to observe the many coming from the British
Isles.

I think that that is a natter for almnost
unqualified congratulation to the CountrY.
Time prosperity whicb Canada bas enjoyed

]JECEM-NBER 4, 1907
durlug the past few years bas been iargely
Hon. -Mr. POWER-There ls notbing to
due to this Influx. of population; and If hînder .a vîgomous young Canadian farmer
there ls one thilng wbkeh le more necesr
fzom mrnarylng a Doukhobor girl, and ln
to-dayr to the progres and prosperity of that way tbe races can b. assirnilated. The
Canada it la labour. The great bulk of the next paragrapb to wblch I wiah to refer
immigrante corning bore la of the labourlng la the followlngclams. That la exactly what this country
The conferenco held in London in the.
needs most We do flot want lawyers or rnonths of Âpril and May lait between the.
govemament of the United Kingdorn and the.
doctors or stock brokers, but wê do need
labourera and mkilled mechanica. It la gra- fovernments of the Britishi dominions beyond
the seas satisfactoriiy deaIt with rnany subtl'ylng to notice that the proportion of jects ini which the. empire at large ie intemeetthose Immigrants wbo corne from the Bnl- ed. A copy of the minutes of the prooeedinga
will b. laid before you.
tlsh Islande la greater now than it wasa
few years ago. I quite agree with tb&'
I -was a little surprlsed at the tone
Secretary of State lu saying that rnen like adopted wlth respect to that portion of
the Doukhobors and Galicians, wbile smre the speech by the bion, leader 0f the OpTbat conference was flot supof thern rnay have their pecuilarities, are position.
materlal for reaiiy good settiers, and that posedl to be ln any sense a political gatherthe next generation when they have min- ing of a partizan chamacter, and wblle 1 arn
gled with our o-wu people, wlll probably be.ý perbape too ready to flnd fauit with the
equal even to the Canadians of the pre- actions of my poitical friends, I muet say
sent day. Âfter ail. our fathers or grand- that the action taken by the Finit Mlaleter
father carne acrosa the ocean ln the sarne of thlà country during that confemence la
way; and, as a rmie, they did flot corne out hlghly ceditabie to Canada, and of course
here to spend their surplus iuoney or tu moat creditable to hlm, and hie ought to
enjoy themmelves. They carne sorne ot receive the approval of ail Canadians no
ln
theni fifty years ago, sorne one bundred matten of wflat siiede of Poiltica.
years ago, sorne stili furtber back, but every lnatânce It wlll be found that the
they ail carne here to botter théir condi- Fîmat Minlater reslsted attempta to lessen
the powers of self governrnent of the diftion.
ferent colonies, inciudlng ku.±nad.i.
Ë'or InHon. Mr. SULLIVÂN1ýý-But you do flot stance, one of the vemy
first efforts made
compare them wlth the Doukhobors?
when the conference met was to change the
lion. iM. POWIDR-I ar n ot speaking title of the gatherlng. It was to be an laof the Doukbobors la particular now. I arn perlai coundil, but as was polnted out by
speaklng of Immigrants as a mule, and I the government of Canada, that lmplled n
have no doubt that in flfty years frorn thîs permnence, that It was flot rnereiy to
the gmandcblldren of the Doukhobors will meet evemy four or fIve years to discuss
be just as good Canadian- citlzens as we matters, but the imperial council was to
eau ask to àee.
be a permanent body whlch must necesHon. Mm. SULLIVÀiN-How are you go- sarlly, to a certain extent, Interfere. with
the mlghts of self govemnment of the diflng to make thernl
ferent colonies; and I thlnk It La due aiHon. Mr. POWER-There is due circurn- mnost altogether te the action of the
Firgt
stance which distinguishes. Canada from Mfiniater, as representing
Canada, that that
Aumtralia.
lu Amstralia their population motion was flot - adopted.
The rnotior,
la pmactically statlonary, because their which was adopted was this, that it would
hasato.
u béen calculated to shut ont be to the advantage of the empire If a conflot oniy coloured labour but white labour ference were held every four years.
In
as el
the saine way the First' Minister, while doHon. Mr. SULLIVAN--Sorne gentlemen lan- his best to maintaîn thé' dignity and
atboiit ie have made n mistake as to wbat importance of this Imperial conference, took
i meant by the question 1 asked a moment particular care that the rights br self govago. My question la, how%would you pro- erament or this Dominion sbould flot be ln
pose to assimilate the Doukhobors and any way nbridged, and ie. deserves the
mnak'Ž of thern good Canadian citizens?
thauks of the whoie country for that.

SENATE
Althougb we may makre mistakes sometîmes, we can. govern ourseives better In
matters wblch particularly affect us tban
elther England or any conference or council of the empire. The next paragraph
sayu-4
Two of my ministers, duly authorized by
Rlis Majeaty for the uurpose, and acting in
conjunction with Hie Majesty's ambassador at
Paris, have reoently negotiated a cpnvention
with the government of the. French Republic
respecting the commercial relations between
France and Canad", subject, howéver, to the
approval cf the French Chambers and the
Canadian Parliament. A copy of this convention will b. submitted to yen immediateiy and
yeu will b. asked te give it your sanction.
The copy of the convention bas been Bubmitted, and I suppose we shall be asa.ed
to give it our sanction shortly.
Perhaps
that le enough te say about it at present;
but inasmuch as the bon, leader ef the Opposition tbought preper te draw certain conclusions fromn this French treaty which I
think are net legitimate conclusions, it may
be only right te say a few werds about it.
In the firet place, I bave heard it stated
that this treaty, after ail, is net very mucb
more Vian the oLU French treaty negetiated
by Sir Charles Tupper.
I May gay that
I do flot myself see any very speclal dIfference ln the metbod adopted In bringing
about the two treaties.
In the one case
there were two Canadien ministers assoelated witb tbe British Ambassador, and in
the other case there was only one Canadian
minister.
1 de net see that that makos
any essential difference; but wben we ceme
to examine the treaty there is a very marked difference.
Hon. Sir MAOEINZIE BOWE>DL-Tbe
hon. gentleman does flot Intend te leave the
Impression on the Rouse that I sald there
was ne difference between the trenties?
Hon. Mr. -POWBR-No.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
only point I raised was that the negotiatien of the treaty was preclsely tbe samo'
ln both cases.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I was net referrlng
te the bon. gentleman's statements, but te
statements I bad heard from others.
1
bave gene over tbe two treaties. The nuinber of Items cevered by the treaty ef 1893
whicb were allewed te go in te France at
the minimum tariff was 23; under the treaty
Hon. 'Ur. SULLIVAN.

which ls now befere parliament, the number
ef articles le 136; and many ef the additienal
articles are of as great Importance as any
ef those Included ln the old treaty-for Instance lu metals and manufactures of metais. ge you bave the fact that there are
six tîmes as mnny Items In the new treaty
as ln the old,' and included In these 136
Items are the whole of tbe old 23 Items, se
tbat it Is a very much wider treaty than
the eld one. Tbe principle wbich the leader
of the opposition trîed to deduce from this
treaty, was that we were departing frein
what is called the British preference. 1
have net been *able to follew Vie eourseý of
reasoning by whlch the bon. gentleman arrived at that conclusion. We bave given
under wbat is calied the British preference
te Importations from. England a preference
of 33J per cent. There la ne question about
the satlsfactery operatien efthVat pref erence. It bas very mucb Improvefi Vie relations between Canada and Vie mother country. It bas enabled our people te get Englsb goods at a much cheaper rate Vian tiey
otherwlse would, and it bas net burt anyone
very materially, because Vie manufacturers
wbo mîgbt be supposed te be hurt. as a
matter ef fact are more prosperous at Vie
present tinie Vian tiey bave ever been, or
were more prosperous Viree or four menths
age. Now, wbat dees Vis French tresty
propose te de? It proposes te give te certain Importations from France, net the British preference of 33* per cent, but a preference ef 10 per cent. That wlll enable Vie
people ef Canada te get certain goods which
Viey Import frein France at Vie present tim e
nt a Jower rate Viat they now pay for thein,
and wlU probably induce Vitem te get other
goods which Viey do net now Import. It wiIl
naturally Increase Vie trade between France
and this country. Tbat Is a good Viing fer
us both. I faeu te see Viat Viere ls any
violation ofthVe principie of British preference ln Vie niatter at all.' The ben. gentle,man, ln support ef bis view, quoted au
Englisb authority te Vie effect Viat Vils
nîeant a recessien frein Vie position whlcb
Vie geverninent ef Canada bave taken'upon
preterential trade. I saw lu one paperVie 'Saturday Revlew '-a
statement ef
Viat kind; but the Ignorance and Vie density
of apprehensien which Englishmen who are
supposed to belong te the Intelligent aud Mdu-

DECEMBER 4, 190"d
cated classes show witb respect to Canada
la sometbing quite wonderful to Canadians.
It was contended until almost the'lait
year or two that the preference we bad
given to England liad flot served lier Id
any way. Take up the trade returne and
you flnd thls: taking the exporte and Importe together ln 1M9 our total trade with
England was a Ulttle leas than one hundred
million dollars. Ten yeara after, la 1906, our
total trade was $202,289,000. The Importa
from. Great Britain increaeed. ln quite as
rapid a ratio ai the exporte. The Importe
f rom Great Britain, ln 1896 were a littie lesi
thon thirty-three million dollars. They had
fallen froul aixty-eight millions lu 1873 to
thirty-three millions lu 1896. They were
diminishing year after year. Atter te
change la the tariff la 1897 'they began to
haprove. and they have lncreased at a
rapid rate until last year tbey were over
sixty-nine million, that la they lied more
than doubled ln ten years. In the face of
these facto, of course, even the 'Saturday
Reviewer' lias to admit that the preference
bas been of value to England, and flot being
anxious to approve of what bas been donn
hie says that the treaty with France la calculated to ieriously damage Engllsh trade.
There is no reason whatever for stnppoaing
anything of tee klnd. I think it was the
lion, gentleman from Hastings who said
that tee advnntagee of this Frenchi treaty
would only apply to goode Imported directly from France and vice versil. Tlie
treaty does not say that The treaty says
that tee goods muet be Imported -elteer
directly or terougli some country witis
whicli the importlng country bas irrangemente such as are to exist between Canada
and France. I underetand that there le an
arrangement of teat klnd between France
and England whIcli coverseat any rate a
good many of tee Items la tels treaty, so
test the advantage lo flot coniffled strictly
to goods carried dlrectly between tee two
There la one paragraph which
-countries.
deserves a liffle more attention perbaps
tean bas been paid to it: That le tee paragrapli with respect to tee postal service.
It je Most ratifying to find that notwith.
standing th. large r uctions of postal rates
whioh have been made, the revenue of the
Post Office Department lies continued to increase rapidly. The large receipts of this

rovision for the extenýsion of postal facilities
throughout the Dominion:*

There la one circumatance witli respeet
to tee post office whlch deserves a littie
attention, teat la test tee Post Office -Department la rua strictly la accordance witli
tee civil service law. Whea an officer gets
Into tee civil service, of course under our
system lie geta la terough politicai. Influence
of one kind or anoteer, aul>ject to tee qualification of passing an examination; but I
oui lnformed teat tui teat departmeat once
an officer lias got Into tee service lie le
deait witli on is record as a pubic servant.
and net otherwise, and teat political Influence doea flot foliow liim atter lie lias got
lato tee department
Perhapa teat le one,
of tee reasons wliy tee departmnent has been
doing Ita business so satiafactorlly and s0
economically. Aneteer circumetance wbicx
le gratIfylng wlte respect to tee post o12c"
la tee resuit of the reductien of the postai
I hiave
rates on British printed motter.
been very mucli 1leaaed te flnd as a result
o! teat change teat tee amount o! British
newspapers and periodIcals coming lato tljis
country lias more tean doubled la a few
montes, and owlng to tee fact teat te
department took some stepi previous
to last session to shut out objectionable
United States lîterature, tee Importation of
test IIteratare lias largely fallen off. Bote
of teese are matters for congratulation: teat
we have largely increaaed tee readlng o!
Englili newspapers *and periodicals and
teat tee reading of United States newspepers and periodicals lias dimlalshed.
I rejoice tliat tee goverament are taking
tlie action which teey propose te take with
respect te telegraphe aad telephones. There
was perliape a fear la tee minde of some
conservative people like myself that tbere
was some idea o! the goverament taklng
over teese llaee. I amn happy to see it bas
been announced la another place and also
here test tee goverument do not propose
te, do teat, but te place teese services under tee controi of tee Raiiway Commission.
There la a good deal more to be sald, but
I do not think'teat any bon. gentleman
will find fau]t wite me If I do not say any
more.
non. Mr. SULLIVAiN-If jone reflecti on

the speech from tee Throne It proposes
branci of the government business will enable
the department to make stili more liberel many Important subjects. I bave not had

SENATE
finie to prepare any remarks on thîs occassion. I tbink that a great deal more might
bie said than lias been sald. There are many
subjects ln this address whlch have flot
been touchod on at ail whlch are questions
of the highest Importance. I thtek also
that this session opened with a great
deal more éclat than any previous
session. One reason le that the leadlng men on both aides apoke with much
spirit and I could flot but feel gratified,
and muet compliment the bon. gentlemàan
fromn Hastings who gave uesauch an eloquent speech, containing so much Information. I neyer heard that hon. gentleman
It was a aumdeliver a botter speech.
mary ef a very Important politicai period,
view it inwhat way you wlll, and more, reflecta great credit on hlm because lie was
an active participant in the Important afhoe
faire which occurred during the tie
spoke of. I aise may compliment hlm on
the spirit ef generesity and gratitude
which filied hlm when* hie resented, ln
an able and feeling manner, any possible deprecatory remarks that were used
agalnst the great leader whom he acted
The body of
with during that perled.
that leader. has returned te dust, but his
mnemory wlll ever bie green lu the mindis
of mon witi whom hie was associated.
There are men present who by taklng
feelings
from
the
away
ail party
man's acte, iooking at them with an
unprejudiced oye, wIli see their effect on
I
the country as the historian will do.
aise thought flhat the riglit hon. Minister
of Trade and Commerce spoke witb mnuch
good feeling and good taste, and I cannot
pass by the so-called leador of the Opposition, the hon. iSenator from 'Calgary. I
nover - hoard hlm speak te a botter
strate than on this occasion. But there la
another reasen aise. W'e bave tho presence
hore of three gentlemen who were
rather more than ordinary, ushered into
the Sonate.
They had the advantage of
ail the ciat of the opening of this House
la their faveur and tliey certainly had an
audience whlch fno other senater that I ever
read of had to witness thoir Introduction.
Tliese three
gentlemen
reminded mie of a coniparison, au adjective havîng three degrees. One of
them may- be said to be positively
good; the other is comparatively better. and
Hon. '. SULLIVAN.

my hon. frlend on my ef t (Hlon. «.Nr. Derbyshire) la; suporlatively best ln îuy opinion. I tliek the reasons for their
being piaced hero woro the falthful service
they rondered te their party. -As I amn
a neigibeur. te the lion. friend on -my
loft, and as 1 have been observant ef lits
career, I can tell tbo House that the bon.
gentleman la, te use a slang phrase, Ju,4t
the ceosofl, and I can aise tell the Honse,
uslng iny prophetic visen-and 1 think It
le as clear as that of any othor hon. gontlemanl-that the new member te whom I
roter will Mil a seat equal te the two othors
who were appointod at the samne ttime
on acceunt ef the size of the hon.
gentleman. The groat space which ho fhill
ln the Sonate demanda a ittio more
attention-ho la the enly member appointed
since I have bail the henour of a seat lei
ths Houso, who lias tlie credit of rendoring services te the public which entltied
hlm te bie called te this Chamber. There
was a perlod ln the hlstory et this country
when Its agriculture was ln a moat depressed state. When the farmers around
wliere J1 live were la sere straits, I was
nt a loss te Imagine what possible remnedy
thore could be for the depression. 1 do net
L-nowv whe devised the sdheme, but the gentleman who turned. attention te dairy
-nttle and eonvertod thoir milk Into cheese,
was a bonofactor te Canada. If any one
desorvos credit foi, the flourishing condition
of that lndustry, threugh enthusiastic procept and example, It ls the hon, gentleman,
aad for that reasen alone lie ls entltled
Ioelio called to the Senate, as a benefacter
Ho takes new and
and public servant.

lias for many years taken an active part ln
the encouragement and establishmnent ot
dainles, and the production of choose and
the perfection te which that Important article of food can bie breught. It has resulted
ln a i-ery' marked change la the country.
Parinera who wero ln poer clrcumstances
through tho dalrying iadustry, becamo
uîot merely conafortable, but woaithy. On
-account et the activ-e interest hoe bas taken
in that Important Item of industry. I think
lie is eminently worthy te hoe called te this
Chamber, apart altogother from political
ueasons. Lt la to bie regretted that
l)arty spirit dees net cease Ia the Sonate.
'l'lie day will come whon the mon wll be

DECEMBER 4, 1907
appoixited judges on account of being learned
ln the iaw, and men wii ho calledl to the
Sonate on account of the eminence they
have achieved ln the several careers they
have chosen, and above ail on account of
the benefit they have confetred on the
state. It wlll be a great and Important
epoch ln this country. There eau bo no
Improvement ln the Seniate, so long as ht
19 bound dowu by the trammels of party.
What do the hon, gentlemen summoned
to this Chamber do? Do they do anything elso
but record their vote ln accordance with
party politica as they do ln the other House?
Men who corne here direct froin the House
of Commons caunot exercise that sense of
Justice, that peculiar feeling of doing what
is right irrespective of party. It le flot humani nature to do it, constituted as they are,
but a better time may corne. i amn not
deprecating ln any way the great services
of niembers of this House. 1 say the hon.
gentleman froin Calgary, by a lapse of the
tougue. has put me down as being one of
those who criticise the Senate adversely. I
neyer did anything of the klnd. I consîder it
la an essential part of our tbree Institutions.
If party government la the hlghest point of
civllized governrnent to whlch we have attained; If It bo the greatest and noblest
Institution whlch has boon thought of so
far by men, It la rlgbt that we should have
two chambers. Those who have written on
political econorny have said it 1s so, and I
feel there la no delîboratîve body lu whicl,
public questions are dlscussed that have any
superior record to that of the Senate ofi
Canada.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEElD-Wlli my hon.
friend pardon the Interruption If 1 say that
when I referred to my hon. frlend froni
Kingston, I had reference to my right hon.
friend. the Minuster 0f Trade and Commerce,
as 1 understand he resides lu Kingston.
Hon. Mfr. SULLIVÂN-I sirnply made a
refereuce to that because I was on my foot,
otherwise I would flot have called attention to it.
In looking over the speech of
His Excellency, as I have sald, I
tbink there Is a great deal in it If
one ebooses to reflect on ItL The lion.
gentleman froni Haliax ln discusslng
the address enunciated doctrines on the
floor )E the H1ouse whlch wvill not hold.

57

doctrines which are contrary tO the
rules
of
ethnology
aud
physioiogy.
Without going into the question in detail,
1 will briefly refer to some of thern.
The
question of Immigration la, I think, the
Most Important one at this period of Our
career as a nation, and it Is particularly
essentiai that it ha consldered on this occasion.
If we look at the example Of the
United States what do we flnd? We find
that they were moat anxioua to securo Imimigration to their country and that they
succeeded.
They were flot partieuiarly
careful,*at any period of their career, untii recent years, as to the cImes of immigrants, more than we were, because I do
not tbink Canada exercised the care that she
should have.
The result was that the
United States was flooded with certain
classes of Immigrants that have becorne undesirable.
These men have not been ahsorbed into the nation, and they wili nover
be.
This foreign element wlll rema
just as distinct as the coloured olement la
the South.
You might as well say you
could produce miscegenation between the
biacks and the whites In the south. as hatween Canadians and Doukhobors, Galiciens
and othera. A groat demi bas beon said about
a large Immigration to our shores from the
British Isles. They may ha a little botter or
they may ha a Uttie worse than the Doukhobora. If you import froni the elums of Engllsh
towns, the dregs of the people, what sort
of descendants wUll be produced by them ?
1 think the vices of people to a great ex.
tout are bereditmry, at least the Inclination
to vice Is--ýand It will be a very diiciuit
ploint ln the future settlement of this country to -devise a way by which such elementh
eau be assimilated with our people. I say,
God forbid that tbey ever should. It will ho
a groat deterioration of the splendid race
whicb lnhabits this country, a people not surpassed by any lu the world. What bas givon
this nation such Influence. and power ie the
fact that It hias hitherto been exempt trom
association ivlth people who are so undosirable.
If the goverament wIlI do the
rlght and proper thing-and I arn not attacking thern on their policY or anythlng of
that kind-l am suggestlng merely that they
slîould bo more careful as to the people
tliey admit wlthin our borders.
The hon.
gentleman from Portage la Prairie was so,
laudatory in bis statement ln regard to the

58

SENATE

Doukbobors, that be made tbe assertion that
the cars in wbicb tbey rode from Qucbec
te tbe Nortbwest werc se dlean that you
could eat your meals on the floor. That la
ail nonsense and an exaggeration. If you
bave followed tbem yvou wiii find that since
they have been in this country the goverament cannot be congratulated on thelr
presence. Tbey have become to a certain extent undestrable, and If Cauadian-a
are to assimilate with these people, 1 say
lit la the worst misfortune-and I challenge
anyone to deny It-that could betail thiý
The United 'States found this to
country.
be the case, and are adopting unusual restrictions to keep out such people even from
Europe. Tbey want educated immigrants.
They tura up their noses at the nation of
the man wbo discoveied their country, the
What on eartb possessed theni
Italian.
to consider tbese people not desirable Immigrants I do flot know, but it arises froin
the -fact, 1 think, that tbey bave recciveI
s0 many of themn Into their country and
they have not turned out te lie good, tnit
tbey do not wish to have nny more.
I recollect hearing a lecture by Rev.
on the prinWard Beecber
Henry
ciple of how to assimilate or bow to
settle satisfactorily ln thîs country people
who came froni Uic despotismn, and from the
tyranny of European goveraments, and thc
only remedy be could suggcst was education la the public schools. I do not think
tbat ili ever remcdy the cvii. The bon
gentleman from Halifax suggested as a
means of assimilating Uic Doukbobors, tiat
young Canadian mea migbt marry Doukhobor girls. If Uiey do, it is se mucb worse
for yeung Canadlans, and so much Uic
The off spring
worse for their offspring.
may takre Uic aide of Uic mother, and may
net. I know that a disease may continue
througb three or four generations and may
not, and Uic features of persons and thc
state of mind an(% thc habits and characteristics wbicbi any race acquire may
and
The Northwest
be perpctuated.
Canada wlll fill up rapidly enough.
It is about tbe ouly available ground for
Immigration nowv for the bcst people of the
old country, for those wçbo desire to settle
on land. I hope Uic government will exercisc Uic strictest caution. I bave seen forcigners on the streets of New York afflictcd
witb discase, and it would be «i rnoqt unileHon. Mr. SULLIVAN.

sirable thing for Canada to havt ibemn
here. If the Saivation Ârmy or any
otL.er agency brings to Canada deterlorated
spcimens from England, Ireland or Scotland, or any other country, I say the goverament should exercise a strict surveillance
over tbemn and bave tbem examined and
should flot permit them. to, remain ln the
country unless sound ln body and mind.
regard to the Japanese immiW%%ith
gration, tbis ie a burning question, which
the gcvernmnent must consider, and aeal
with. What 15 to be donc with the Japanese? What is the sentiment of Canada on
that subject? The aftdress says that there
is great opposition to them. Sor there Is.
la the government golng to ta<e action
with regard to thls question, and what
action, wbat will it be ? Tbat la
an Important matter, because I suspect tbat
as a plank i the party platform, it wIlI
lie moat dangerous to have an objection
made to -the Japanese. Tbe wonderfui exhibition tbat tbey bave given of late years
of their adaptability for civlized life bas
opcned the eycs of everybody, and it is no
amall matter to deal wltb tbis question ln
a satisfactory m-anner. With regard to tbe
discussion of the financial question 'wblcb
bas taken place ln this Chamber, I confess
1 eu honcstiy say I do not know much
about It. I recoliect that a new member of
congress ini the United States recently
asked a leading senator in tbat country wbat be bad better study in order to uaderstand tbe financial situation at tbe present time. He said he
did not know a great 'deai about it blmself, but be advised lm to get the Encyclopaedia Britannica, the-Bible and the laws
and rules of the cbamber of whlcb be wvas
a member. I wll repeat that suggestion to,
the younger mem bers here. There la notbing
more beauttful tban the rules and regulatiens of the Senate, and I am sure that their
knowledge of tbe other two works is an
Incentive to furtber pursue the study of
the question. I will leave the question of
the tariff to those better versed Ia political
cconomy than I am. I hope the bon. gentlemen wbo bave been addcd to our number will lie a credit to thc Senate. I arn
sure Sir Wilfrid Laurier should be tired of
rcmaining ln power s0 long. According to
the ]aws of every party, it la time be g-ave.

DECEMBER 5, 1907
the otlier aide a chance. 1 tbink they have~
been groaning la the wlderuess long enough
and they have been purifled te such an ex-.
tent by their sufferinge la opposition that
they are dlean. The country la prosperous.
We may thank God for that surely, and
flot the government. I arn sorry that no
mention Io made ln the speech from the
Throne of a Bill with regard to food and
druge or any measure regarding the health
of the people. A great deal more la thought
about the cattie of this country than about
human beinge.
The Senate aàjourned until 3 p.m. tomorrow.

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA,

Thursday, December 5, 1907.

The SPEAKER tokl the Chair at Threp
o'ciock.
Prayere and routine proceedings.
REPÂIRING 0F THE I0E BREAKER
MONTCNALM.'
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY inquired:
1. Dees the government know that the icebreaker «Montcalmn' recently suflered damages which. neceantate immediate repaire?
2. What is the nature of these damnages?
3. At what place on the river or la the guif
did the vessel meet with tues accident?
4. Have the repaire of the vessel been commenoed?
5. Where are these repairs being made, and
under whose superintendence?
6. Has the work been given out by the job
or by the day?
7. If the work has been givea out by the
job, who obtained it and at what price?
S. If the. work has been given out by the day
at how much has the approxîznate ceet0
these repaire been estimated?
9. When will the veesel b. able ta renew the
service?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers to the
hon. gentleman's questions are as follow:
1. Yes. By a rock net IndIcated ln the
chart.
2. The keel la crushed and bent te one
side about 30 feet from the stern; tbe bottom plate la eeriouely damaged on the starboard side for a iength of about 100 feet,
the vessel's ribe have been pressed iip
against the damaged plate and are seriously

injured and wfll fLaveto ne removeat an<i
repaired befere the vessel le fit for service.
3, Watagheistic Sound.
4. Yes.
5. At the Lévis dry dock, under the superintendence of the inspector of goverarnent
shipe.
6. By the day.
8. If ia Impossible at present ta estimate
the cost of these repaire.
9. Ia the spring.
INTRODUCTION 0F PUBLIC BILLS IN
THE SENATE.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Can M'y hon.
friend, the leader of the House, give us any
Information as ta the government Bills
which wili probably originate ln the Senate?
I notice that there are foreshadowed la the
address several Important measure-, which
could very well orIginate ln this House,
with advantage, net only te the Houai',
but ta the country at large. Take, for Instance, the Insurance Bill, foreehfadowed in
the addrese, the Gavernment Annuities Act,
and the Act relating te railwaye. Bille cf
thie kind are of public Interest, aud I venture te eay cauld receive better attention
la the Senate at the present time than lu
the Houee of Commons. It se'ems te me,
out of deference to the wlah of the Senate,
that my hon. friend the Secretary of Statp.
should certainly endeavour tc, Introduce
Bille cf tais character ln this Hause, se
that w. shouid be ahi. to occupy car time te
the very beet advantage.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I fuily appreciate the
suggestion, aud I have brought the matter
ti,
ubefore the council. The Annuity
troduced hast session by my hon. friend
te the rIght, I thought was one we could
speclally censider, but It appears that the.
law clerk of the Senate states that It is a
Bill which muet origluate ln the Heuse oif
Gemmons. The numereus mcuey clauses ln
it render it Impossible fer us te make any
progrese with It ln thie Chamber. In discussing the matter witb the law clerk, I
stated that I thcught that the meuey clauses
couid be left la abeyance, and the priacipies cf the Bill discussed here, but I
have had no full explanation of the matter.
Witb regard te the. insurafice Bill, that
measure so pertains te the Departrnent oif

SEN AT E
Finance, that I presurne they will flot be
disposed to allow ht to originate ln this
Chamber. It le a Bill whlch laikely to
create a good deal of discussion, I bave'
no doubt, and I presurne that the Minister
of Finance wlll Insit on lntroduclng lt lD
the House of 4Jommons. I have flot yet
seen the Railway BIil Mr. Âylesworth was
to have drawn It, but I do flot know whe .
ther It bas been prepared. I will lrlng up
the question again, aud ascertain whether
the Rallway Bill wlll be lntroduced. lu this
Chamber.
Hon. ilr. LANDRY-I suppose tbe hon.
Secretfý-,y of State wlll have no objection
to introduoe ln this Chamber tbe Bill for
the refarmation of tbe Senate. We mlgbt
take It Up lmrnedlately, because 1 observi!
that there are a few members ln the House
of Gommons who desire te reach this place
very soon, aud tbey are drawlng public at.
tention to the necesslty of their corning
bere. We mlght dlscuss that Bill ln the
meautirne.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I shall be glad te
kilow what the hon. gentleman's vlews are
uat any tirne, but I amn afraid the vlews of
bon. gentlemen of this Cbamber are so divergeent that It le doubtful whether we wl)
pass auy Bill of that character, unless a
little more harmony prevaîls as te the prinelPles upon which senators shoul.d be selected.
Hou. Mr. CLORAN-I would ask the hou.
leader of the House if what he hias subi
-about the Pension Bill ls to be accepted
-as a rule about legisiation la this HousethaC is, If the opinion of the law clerk le to
override the opinions of members of tbliýhioaourable House, wltb regard'to legisiatien?, I weuld be very rnuch surprised Ùbear that laid down as a principle. My
experieace wlth regard to legisiatien is that
the popular body, whether municipal, prcvincial or federal, sbould be the ultimate
masters ef discussion, and ne law clerk
shoulil have the power te override the wll
of thec popular body. Prom wbat I understoed the hon. Secretary ef State te say,
this miatter is flot te be discussed in this
honourable House, because the law clerkhas said ne. If I arn putting tee strong i
construetion on bis reniarks, 1 %vould hi?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

happy te be corrected. .1, for one, arn net
wihhlng te have the opinion of any law
clerk, ne inatter bow well read ln tbe law,
substltuted for the wll of a popular body
like this.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
hon. gentleman misunderstands the expnation given by the Secretary of State.
Tbe law clerk, as I understand it, dld not
arrogate te hlrnself any rlgbt to dictate,
or to recornmend. He slrnply stated, If 1
uuderstood the bon. Secretary of State
arlght, that the Senate conld n*ot deal wltb
clauses whlch lnltIated a tax upon the peopie for any purpose. The hon. Secretars
of State very properly replied that the
practice bad been to Introduce Bills of that
character lu the Senate, leavlng the rnoney
clauses ln abeyauce, untIl they carne back
frern the House ef Commons, who ceuldi
state wliat amnount sheuld be lnserted ln
the different money clauses. Tbat hss been
the practce. The priacipie efthfle Bill to
whilh the bon. leader ef the opposition hua
called attention, could be very well discussed la tlils House, and every clause of It
could be passed, leaving the rnoney sections
for the Ceaimons te deal wlth.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-I understand that
point perfectly well. The law clerk le et
the opinion that the Bill contains money
clauses, wblch cannet be inltiated in tha
House. My opinion le te thue contrary.
there are ne money clauses ln the Bill
whereby the government la supposed to
grant anythlng te anybody. There la where
the differeace ef opinion cemes in. The
law clerk le ef the opinion that there are
mnoney clauses la that Bill, wbleh prevent
it origiating in the Senate. My opinion
is that there are ne money clauses which
preveut its introduction here, because none
of its clauses affect the people of Canada
as a w'hele, but simply those who are te
benefit by the Bill. That le why 1 ask If
the opinion ef the law clerk la te be taken
lu preference te the opinion ef many ln
this House aad elsewhere.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I may mention fer thi,
information of the hon, gentleman, that it
was perfectly clear, when the Bill was Intreduced here last year, that it eatailedl a
charge on the people ef this country, be-

DECEMBER 6, 1907
cause the governinent - ere paying ail tbe
charges. A certain amount of Interest waàw
to b. paid, the amount of which bil liot
been fixed. There were guarantees also to
be entered Into by the government ln col,
nection with the BUll no that it la rathe.
brlstling with pointe affecting the finances
of the country.

61

6. Out of the amaunt paid by the goveinment ta the company, what part has been ai>preof
plied ta advanoed te the. comi>&n amounts
by banks or
~Il.sy thie reijubursement
other financial institutions, for the purposes
'oi its enter prime, upon the. pledge or mort-

gaffe of bonds issued under the. authority af
chapters 54 and 177 of the stitutea oi 1903?
7. What p art has beeu applieiltg the. pay-

ment of the. interest stipulated upon tiieme
advances made by banks or other fianciai

institutions?

rumburseinents

8. Mftkwm diduotig the.
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-If scii la the came, mentioned, vint part ont oi thie balance disiapplied to
it changes the. aspect of the question.
has
rouable of the. $O,078,20. works beenconstruction
of
he carrying out af the
P
* Hon. MAr. LOUGHEED-Might 1 point of the Quebec bridgefor which these payments
9. Were the, works
ont to rny hon. friend that the controver- have been made previonmly declared satisisosial features of the. Bill, thon. that would f07'T and accepted 1>7 the <3overnor in Counbe chielly in tact entirely, dlscussed by this
10. Upon whose recommendation? 0f the
House, would not have any allusion to the chief engineer of government railways? Or
what othar officer?
rnoney clauses. They, I fancy, wouid be of 11. If oi another offloor than the, chief enbased on actuarial tables Prepared bY ex- gineer of government railways. was that off!that purpome, and
perts, tables wbich we would scSrcely bé cor spcie Lpontdfor Council?
when, by ge'Gvernar in
expected te, controvert, and which wea w011111
12. At what date was the. report of the. procertiiying the propriety
accept, i any event. Those amounts could par officermade and presente to te of such
governadvanoes
b. ieft in blank, and the details of the. Bill. mentP
deait witii
1S. Has the. company deposited in the hands
excepting the amounto, could be
of the Minister of Finance the. banda authaby ns.
rized ta b. guaranteed by the. government in
conformity witii the p ravisions ai chapter St
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I quite appreclate that: of the statutes of 1903, and of the agreement
point, and it vas on tbat basis I dlscumsed wiiich forms the. appendix ta the. said statit, aud argned that it mlght be introdueed ut.?FIn default of snch deposit, what are the
14.
bere.
arrangements made 1>7 ti.ecompan7, accepted
and deolared satisfactary 1>7 the, Governar in

have allawed
The Senate adjourned until to-morrow nt Council, which, mucii advanaes? the. payment,'
nevertiieleas, ai
Three o'clock.
15. Has the Royai Trust Company issud

THE SEIIATE.
OTTAWA,

Frlday, December 6, 1907.

The SPERAKEIR took the. Chair at Three
o*clock.
Prayers

and routine

proceeding..

GOVERýNMENT L0OAN TO QUEBEC
BIIDGE COMPANY.

and dsposited in t he bande ai the. Minister of
Finance on the. bonds not yet fssu.d on Febunder
1904, but
1uary oi1,depository, wiih it detained,deed of
in virtue ai the.
title
byway ai mortgage entered inta with
trust
the maid Royal Trust Company?
16. What amount ai bonds oi sylci nature
has the. Royal Trust Company deposited in
Hon. Mr:* SCOT1!T-I arn advised by the
Finance Minister that lh. government han
flot advatnced any inaney by way of loan
to the Quebec Bridge and Raillay Company, se that answers the question.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That disposes of ail
H.on. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
the questions.
1. Has the government advanced an y soin
Hon. MAr. SCOTT-Yes.
of money by vre of lban ta the. Quebec Bridge
and Raîlway Companiy upon the amount ol
loan tc
$6 678,200, which it w6. ..utharized ta
thej sid'compafly by virtue of an Âct of thii EXPLORATION 0F GEORGIAN BAY
parliament?
CANAL ROUTE.
2. What is thie amount so advanced ancd
oi
when did this loanu take l?
INQUIRY.
3. At what rate of mn rest was this ol
made?
Hon. 31r. BERNIER Inqulred:
4. When did tliis iuterest become due?
5. Ras it been paid, in whole or in part, b.1
Ras the gvernment received the report oi
the said company, and at what date was sucb the party lat10ely apPointed ta explore the
payment effected?

62

SENATE

I-Tou. Mr~. POWER-I rise to a point of
Georgian ha y anal routeP If so, when wili
that report b. presented to the SenateP
order wlth respect to this notice. The hon.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, the report is now gentleman froi 'Saskatchewan undertakes
being prepared and wlll be presented ae ta provîde, amongst other things lu bis resolution, ta entend subelause 3 of mile 78.
soon as completed.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-S6uopend, I meant to
Hon. Mr. BRNI'R-WIIl1 that be next
yeam?
1 ay.
Hon. Mr. POWIDR-The motion as it
Hoa. Mr. SOOTT-Âfter the mecess, I presume-not before. It la a very long docu- appears does not say suspend; it uays
amend. We have ta take the motion as Il:
ment.
appears. The hon, gentleman la aware
that we have two or tbree mules whlch proSUSPENSION 0V RULES.
vide that where any altemation la to b.
made in the Standing Orders, two days'
MOTION.
notice muet b. given, and that notice bas
Hon. Mr. DAVIS moved:
not been given ln this case; themefore, the
That subciause 5 of mile 78 b. suspended resolution la out of order.
Sa as to imorese the. number of senators to
serve on the Standing_ Committe. on RailHon. Mr. DÂVIS-Wbat are the miles?
ays, Telegraphe and Harbours for the year.
,K
f rom 50 to 55.
Hon. Mr. P0WE3Rý--Ru1e 23 says:
And fnrther to amend subelanse S of mule
78 to ingrease the number of senators to
Two days' notice muet b. given of a motion
serve on te Standing Committee on Standing for any cf the foilowing purposes:
Orders from 9 to 12.
<a) To make a new mule or standing order.
to mepeal or arnend un existing mule or
He said: This matter was fully discussed or
standing order.
yesterday and it la not neesary to go Into
This la ta amend an existing Standing
[t again nt any length. There are sorne hon.
gentlemen wvho,« pmactically, memaîn ln Otta- Order. Rule 29 says:
No motion for making a standing ruie or
wa during- the wbole session, and I quite
adopted, unless two days' notice
understand the position taken by the Strik- order can b.has ben given thereof and the
in writing
Ing Committee that tbey could not exceed senators in attendance on the session have
the uumber provided for. They cannot put been summoned ta consider the saine.
any person off the comrnittee ; that wouldr ýHon. Mr. 'DAVIS--That ts only a cierical
not be courteous and I do not see any ne- error. Howevem, as it appears that way on
cesslty for It. I do not see that It can do the notice paper, I now give notice that I
any bamm to have the committee Increased shali move this motion on Monday next.
from fifty to fifty-five. We neyer have ail
-Hon. Mr. WIfflON-I wouid ask: the
Mfe members of the committee present.
There la no danger of overcro*ding, and Speaker whetber hie rules that a motion
If there are lion, gentlemen who are wililng made and carrled by a rnajority of the
t) -, rve on the cornmittee I do not see why members of tiiis House ls not sufficient te
they should not be permitted to do so. suspend the rules for the time belng? I do
The number cf members on the Standing nlot thlnk there la any necesity to give
Orders Comm ittee, Is now and always bas notice in tels case. If the House declares
been too smali. It is an Important commit- that the rules are ta b. suspended, I suptee; the gateway to ail the leglsiation of pose tbe action of the House ls absolute ln
the House. There are bon. gentlemen herp that respect.
who are quite willing and anxlous to serve
Hon. Mr. (POWER-That suspension
on that committee, and tbey sbould be ai- must b. unanlinous.
lowed to do so. ~I am nlot asking to amend
the. mie. I arn merely asking to suspend IL. 'The SPEAKER-Tii. question the. hon.
so that before next session bon. gentie- gentleman malses would b. answered ln the
inen -%diJi be lu a position to Introduce some affirmative If the Senate were unanimous;
amendment, or to deal with !t iii somne but when the point la ralsed, it Is clear
tijat there is not unanirnity.
otiier manner.
lion. Mr BERNIER.

DEC1ýMBER 6, 1907
Hon. .Mr. LANDRY-The notice of motion given says that one subclause be
suspended and that another be furtber
amended. The latter part should be changror
'suspended'
by substltuting
ed
'amend.,
.Hon. Mfr. DÂVIS-That le what I meant
to say, but It got mixed Up.
The SPEÂXOR-The bon. gentleman
shouid withdraw the notice and give another.
Hon. Mr. DÂVIS-Not with reterence to
the firet part of my motion.
The SPFBÂKER-The bon. gentleman
*may elther amend or witbdraw.
.Hou. Mr. DAlVLS-Then I give notice
that on Monday nen:t I will move ta amend
ruie 78 so as to increase the number of
senators servlng on tbeee committees, and
I would ask that the proper notice be
given ta ai the members of the -Senate as
required by the mile.
The SPEÂKER-I would draw the hon.
gentleman'$ attention ta the necesslty of
baving two clear days' notice.

iRon. Mr. WILSON-I arn not out of
order perhaps as often as those who are
ready ta cry order when tbey are themselves ont of order.
THE -STANDING 43OMMITTE)ES.
MOTION.
Hoiu. Mr. GIBSON moved the adoption
of the report of the Commlttee of Selection
appointedl ta nominate the senatars ta serve
on the several standing committees.
The SPEÂKFR-I wish ta draw attention to a printem's error ln the list of names
of the Standing Orde-s Oommittee. The
name of Senator McKay, of Trumo. bas been
dropped and shouid be inserted.
Hon. Mr. DÂVIS-Then I snbmit this
motion muet be ont of order. The same
ruling wbich appied ta my motion should
apply to this.
The SP~IAKE)R-There le no error in the
proceedigs of the Senate; lt le only ln the
printlng of the Minutes.

Hon. Mfr. DÂVIS-That was the case
with My motion.
The SPEAKER-In the bon. gentleman's
Hon. Mr. DÂVIS-Then make it Tuescase the error was made by blmself ln
day.
motion.
Hon. Mdr. WI.MN-3o I understand the drafting the
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-I beg ta move an
has no
Speaker to mile that this House
power under the motion moved ta suspend amendment:
the mules uniese it is by the unanimous conThiKt the report of the Committee on Standsent of the House? I understood hlm ta ing Committees of the Uanse be recommittedl
,w a view to the removal of ail namas of
jth
make that statement, and I have yet ta hon. members tram the Railway Committee
learu that this 'Hanse le not absointe, and in particular who hold office in the executive
who
that If the miles are required ta be sus- of an y of aur railway corporations and salimnay be servants of sucli corporation s
pended for the time belng we have not the citors and who are known ta, hold pecnniary
intereste in such corporations.
power ta do sa.
The reason I make this motion is becanse
The SPEAKER-When proper notice bas
been given it le witbin the jurisdiction of there. are names i the liste of these committees which are there i direct violation
the Senate, but when no proper notice ha.
mIle 84 «f our Standing orders. That le
been given the Senate muet be unanlifous. of
the only reason why I aek that the report
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I admit that mlght: be recommitted with a view ta bringing
be If the miles were ta be changed ln any it into harmony with our Standing Ordere.
part but the first part* of the hon. gentle- If any evidence le wanted ln meference ta
man's motion la merely ta suspend the mule. my motion, I am prepared ta read the names
If tIi'ý mules are suspeuded tlmen the objec- of bon. membere standing ln certain relation couid be taken to bis movlng the. mo- tionship with these corporations, whicb will
tion ta appoint a certain number, but not fully justify the motion I now inake. I
otherwise.
feel that I have a dnty ta perform, and 1
Hon. Mfr. POWRt-I think the hon. gen- cansider that this honourable body should
tleman le out of ordei in arguing with the at least respect ita awn Standing Orders,
and its committees shauid be la perfect
Speaker.

SENATE,
keep4ng with the principles laid down.
This je a safe principle and we cannot afford,
to Ignore It. I expeet there wlll be a good
deal sald against the motion, and lt may
neot carry ; but wben I bave placed the matter before the House I have performed my
duty as au honourable senator. It le quIte
true I anticipate that there wlll bie opposition to any such changes, because the gentlemen referred to are men of large business experlence, and consummate wledom;
but I believe that It Io a wrong principle
and somethlng tbat we cannot afford to Ignore, to give to, any corporation sucb a representation equal to any of the western
provinces. Supposing for Instance a railway corporation bas two senators on the
Rallway Commlttee, wbere tbat corporation
may have at stake projecta involvlng the
expenditure of millions of money, le It a
safe thlng for the country that tbese corporations ebould have ae mucb power Iu tbe
Railway Oommlttee as any one -province
ln the west ? I thlnk no bon. gentleman
here wlll contend tbat it le right or that It
can bie defended. I hold It to bie contrary
to tbe princîples of sound goverfment. If
sucb an auomaly existed ln the past, It Is
no reason why It sbould. be continue(].
These are tbe resoens why I make the
motion.

Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Would. the bon.
inover of thls motion extend this princîple
to the Committee on Banklng aud Commerce ? If we Inqulre into the qualifications of the members wbo compose that
commIlttee, we find tbat It is compoeed
inoetly of gentlemen occupylng positions In
connection with the banka of the country,
eltber as president, director or manager.
If the principle Io adopted In one case I
tIbnk lt should be adopted ln the other case
aise.

Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-I do nlot know
tbem ail, but I can give seme of tbemn.
Tbey are known to the commlttee. They
are lni the knowledge of the committee, and
poeeibly tbe commlttee may continue tbem,
but my duty le performed wben I cafl the
attention of tbe Senate to tbe feet, and tbe
Seuate muet assume tbe reeponsibllity. I
believe It to bie a violation of eur owu mIles
and to be contra-y to'aIl seund government,
and furthermore a tbreat to the best Intereste of the country at large.

Hou. Mr. SULLIVAN-This is an attack
on the personal honour of the House. I
thilk it Is an Insinuation that the anembers
of thie Senate bave flot done rlgbt. Members experienced in banking and finance
-vbo are on tbe Banklng Committee are put
there by this Senate, and I think they -are
a great benefit to tbat committee. 1 kuow
the bon. members wbo are managers of
baniks, whose names I will not mention, as
they are well known to tbe Senate. who
are of great assistance, inasmuch as they
can explain to the memibers of the coinmlttee wbat tbe principles of banklng are.
The intricate procese of banking would not
be underetood by ordinary members. if It
were not for tbe presence of these boi. gentlemen. I thilnk it le an imputation on the
bonour of tbese gentlemen wbo are almed
at, and I do net tbink this motion sbould
be entertained, by the buse.

Hon. Sir MACK<ENZIE BOWELL-And
the Private Blls Commlttee.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-And the Restaurant Committee.

Hou. Mr. POIRIER-I do flot know about
Private Bille. I believe the* principle mn
ltseîf le a good one, but tbe application of It
would bie most difficuit for -the Senate.
However, I am convlnced that the question
ralsed by my bon. frlend le an opportune
one. Witbout golng Into detale, we bave
aîl been witnesses of a good deal of lobbying, aud I would not exactly eay Improper
Influences, but Influences wbich are belný,
exercised to-day tn the Railway Coinmittee.
and If the suggestion of my hon. frieud
can be followed, I am sure it will bie desirable; but I see very great difflculty ln carryHon. Mr. GIBSON-The bon, gentleman ing It out, because if it le applled, to one
bas not given us tbe namnes yet.
commlttee, It should. be extended to «ill.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-How
would the bon. gentleman propose to brlng
the Information before the committee ?
Doee lie want n court of lnquiry as to every
bou. gentleman's interest ?
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-No. Talze the aunal report of the rallway corporations and
yol ýwili get aIl the Information you 1equire..
Hlon. Mr. DOUGLAS.

DECEMBER -6, 1907
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I rise to a question of order. I sulimit that the motion le
out of order on the ground of uncertaInty.
There la no way of asccrtaining either by
investigation or otherwise ln the Stirlking
Coznmittee, thie material desired by the
inover of thic resolution.
The!Sp~>EKR-The point would be well
taken ln regard to the latter part of the
amendment, but I fid it sufficlently clear
on the whoie, when it epeake of any member holding office i the executive of any
railway corporation. I take it that that
menus the board of directors.
Hon. Mr. DOUGLÂS-Yes.
The SPEk-KER-Ând wlio now hold
office ln the executive of a railway corporation and who may be the servants of such
corporation as solicitors, or who are known
to hold large pecunlary intereste In any
-or ail such corporations.
Hon. Sir MîÂOKENZIE BOWIill-That
ls any etockholder.
The 6PIDÂKER-That would lic my understanding of lt-any stockholdcr.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think one'e natural
disposition would be, at first at any rate,
to agree with the hon, gentleman from
Saskatchewan, but, as ln a good many
other cases, further reffection would lead
one fo change hie opinion. When the ruies
were revised, hon, gentlemen will remember that a good deal of pains was taken
wlth the revieioai, and there was special.
attention pald to the general queetlbn whieh
le now before the House, and very stringent
ruies were adopted, more stringent conslderably than those whlch had prevalled
before, or those I believe which prevail
ln the House of Commone. Rule 53 saye:
No senator is entitled ta vote upon any
question in which ho has any pecuniary interest whatsoever, not heid in common with
the rest of the Canadian subjects of the
Crown, and the vote of any senator so interested will 'oe disallowed.

65

of the Canadian subjects of the Crown, in
the inquiry to lie entrideted ta any select committee, ehail ait on snob oommittee, and any
question of interest arising in the committoe
may b. determined by the committee, subject
to an appeal to the Sonate.
If It la chargcd that a member o! any
o! the great ralway companies le elttlng
and-prepared to vote on a question ln the
Rallway Committcc ln which hie company
le intcreeted, hie vote cen be challenged
there, and I think that le the proper place
to challenge I. That"is a bueineselike way
ta deal witli lt-to challenge hie vrote
and hie rigbt to ait on the committee when
the measure le under disussion. On the
general proposition that the membere o!
tlie great railway companies shouid not
eit on tbe Raiiway Conmilttee,' I think that
it would be a moit unfortunate thing If the
men who, o! ah Uice mea la the country,
know most about railways and underetand
the questions affcctlng railwaye beet
should lie excluded from the committee.
If a Bill is before the Rallway Commlttee
which le promoted ln flic interests of the
Canadian Pacific (Rallway, then it eems ta
me-and perbaps my interpretation of thc
ruIes le correct-that no director o! tlie
Canadian 'Pacifie îRniiway Company shouId
ait on thc committcc whilc that Bill le under coneIderation. That la ail 'we want.
Hon. Mr. DOUGLÂS-Will Uic bon. gentleman tell us how you cen prevent him
fromn exercieing* full privileges as a mcmber o! tliat committee If, by tic authority
of this House, he ls placed upon thc committee?

Hon. Mr. POWiBR-The rule wich I
have given is paseed by the authority o!
thc House, and that mile says that no person who bas any Intereet ln Uic matter before the committce which le not held ln
common with the other Canadian subjects
of His Majesty shal sit on thc committee
or vote ln Uic committee, and any one at
ail, even thougli le la not a member of the
committee, can challenge Uic riglit o! a
So that a senator le not allowed to vote member of the Canadian Pacifie Rnilway
Company to ait or vote when that company
wliere lie lins a pecuniary Intcrest. That
applies rather to what takes place ln the is before thie committee.
Senate. Rule 84 deals wlth what takes
Hon. 'Mr. -DOUGLAS-How are Tou gopince in standing and specini committees, ing to do thnt?
nnd rends as* foiiows:
Hon. Mr. POW.ER-How are you goiag
No senator who has any pecuniary interest to ascertain wliat members of Uic Rnilway
with the rost
%-hatever, not held in common
REVISED

EDITION

66

SENATE

Lnd the objection that bas been raised by
ny hon. friend la flot *weil taken. If be
iad been attending .to the Railway Coni11
nittees lu the House of Commons and lu
the Senate, be wouid sec that tbe greatcst
i iberty la afforded to every member of tliis
1ionourable House, whether he is a member
of the House aimply sittlng lu the conimittec room or as a member of the committee. HRe bas tbe sanie rigbts and prerogatives as the members of thc committee,
witb tie exception of voting, and I was
going to say If lie bad been attentive or
Caken an active part In the discussion
of railway matters li this Senate since
be became a member he would have
observed that on severai occasions the
hon, gent lemen wbo are now claiming lit
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-Has Uic have practically refuscd to vote on any
Speaker dclded Uic question of order?
question affecting Uic rallway ln wblcb they
have, as my
Tbe SPF2ÂKFR-I bave decided that tbe were dircctiy interested. We
bon. friend Baya, more need of mcn of
la sufficlently clear.
ameadment
that klnd, and lesa need of men 'who are
Hon Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-It seems ln the lobbies buttonholing tic members.
to me this la a very Important question,
I bave never .yet mince 1 bave been a
wbicb requlres, at lest some stuly. It la juember of tbe House, observed any of
sprung upon us, and a great mauy members tbe gentlemen wbo have been aimed at ta
(le fot reuiexuber wbaf Uic Speaker bas afternoon taking part on aucb occasions.
read. If Uic debate were adjourned till It ta a rellection on thc House, because It
Tucsday next, we could sec the ameadment conveys an Insinuation tbat there are mcmin prînt and Judge o! It. For my part, If I bers of tbe Senate wbo would so, far forget
voted now, 1 would be doing s0 in Uic dark. their duty as sentors as to, vote upois quesI miove Uiat Uic debate be Rdjourncd tili tions lu wblcb tiey are directly Intereated.
1'uesday next.
À. director of the Canadian Pacific Railway
Company bas beca mentioned and also it
Hon. ',%r. GIBSON-Â postponcmciit slm- director of! Uic Grand Trunk Railway CJompiy ineaus the suspension of Uic report.0f pany. «Wby abouid cither of tbem be dethc Committee of Selection. I thlnk the barred !rom attcndlng meetings of.tbe comlion. gentleman from Halifax strucek Uhe mlttee wben questions affectlng tbose great
kernel of tbe wbhole subjcct. Hon. gentle. rai1lvays arc under consideration? Wbo is
men wbo bave becn for years and years ln a better position to, gîve information than
connected with our great railway corpora- tbey are? It la not only men ln Uic west
tions bave beca on thls committcc. One of who are Interested li thîs; cvery one wbo
tbcm bas been removed simply because it occupies a position li this House bas a duty
was considcred by Uic coinmittee tbat the wlîicb be owes to bumsc)! as weli as to the
province of Quebcc bad two more reprc- country and la as mucli lnterested-persentatives Ua thc province of Ontario, and lisps la more lnterested-as Uic mcen of Uic
a reduction wss needed wbercby tbe pro- west ln the succesa o! tiat part of the
vince of Prince Edward Island, wbo had only country. I can assure my bon. !riend be
one memnber on the commlttcc, was given bas taken a mIstaken course la selecting
twvo. anda Alberta got a third member, sim- gentlemen wbo occupy aucli positions, and
ibly because of Uic Importance o! Uic rail- representing tiem as being la a different
way projects lu Uie west and Uic large deposition from other members o! thc comvelopinent in railway building whtch wil
The committec bave donc tbeir work
tnke place in a fcw ycars. I tblnk the mlttee.
fairly. Many of its members bave servedl
distribution of representation is a fair one,
Hon. Mr. POWER.

Coiniittcc are intercsted lai any o! Uic
miatters suggested li Uic amendment?
How are we to find that out? Tbe liat of
shareboîders o! a raiway la not always
publisbed, and we know very well thatI
gentlemen who occupy-I regret to. say it la
the case-seats ln cîther House o! parliament are sometimes, wie not avowediy
so, really Uic agents and solicitors of Uice
great raiiway companies, anid Uieae are
gentlemen wbo, I tbink, arc more objc-i
tionable on Uic commlttee than tic mcn
wbo are known to be directors and promunent officiais o! a company. I tbixik this
resolution la one sncbi as bas neyer before
been lIntroduccd la tbe Canadian parlusment, and I trust It shail not be again..

DECEMBER 6. 1907
for years upon that committee, and this !s
the flirt timo I have heard a su~ggestion
that any one of them %vertook an improper
course ln the :Raiiway Committee.. Wliy
they should be deprived of the riglit to ait
on that committee lo something whlch' 1
fail .to understand.

coming before lm. Last session I took
the liberty of pointing this ont to the Senate.
The SPEÂKER-Before tila point of
order la passed upon, I will have to submit
the motion of the hon. senator from De
Bouchervilie ta adjourn the debate.

Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-If such be the
Hon. Mr. POWER-I trust that the
bon. gentleman's contention, why does lie
-iot move to bring the standing orders Into House wlU not adopt that motion. Every
hon, gentleman la pretty clear as ta what
harmony %Yitb bis vlews?
the question before the House ls. -There
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIDED-1 desire to raise is' no necemsity for any furtber time to get
another point of order, which, possibly, If into our heads the question on whIch we
considered by thle Speaker, may dispose of are to vote. I had hoped, as I fancy most
the question. No motion of this character, members of the House had hoped, that the
which tends to abridge or restrict the riglit Senate would be ln a position ta adjouru
of a sefiator, csn be In order. A senator le for the Cliristmas 'vacation neit week.
appointed under the Great Seai, and en- Why we should rernain here doing nothing,
joys ail the privileges set out by section 18 add probabiy be detained for two days
of the Britishi North America Act whicli ts further, imply waiting for lglit whIch we
as foilowm:
have aiready, lm a proposition which I fail
The privileges. immumities and powers fo l» to iêiderstand.
hoid.' enjoyed and exeroised by the. Sonate
and by the Houa. of Commons and by the. Honi Mr. ROSS (Haiifax)-I am not at
membors thereof, reapoctiveiy. shail b. suob ail satisfied.with the list of names recomas are from tirne to Urne dofined by Act of
the parliament of Canada, but s0 that the. mended for the committeesme shall nover excoed those at the passinfthis Act hold. onjoyed and exercised
The 8B!>AOR-Would the hon. gentleb
ii
ommons Houa. of parliarnent of the
eUnitE, Kingdorn of Great Britain and Ire- man lmit hlm remarks to the motion to adland and the members theroof.
journ until Tuesday?
Now, tihe ruies are flot Acte
o! pariament. -I submit to the Chair that if it we!re
possible tô imit or restrict the rIglits of
members o! this chamber ln the manner attempted In the motion of my hon. friend,
If carried to Ite logicsi conclusion wouid
resuit ln practicafly deprivlng members of
tuie Cliamber from the exercime of any
riglits which pertain ta them as senators.
My hon. friend miglit go furtlier and provide that any sharehoider o! a bank or any
member of the :Senate travelling on a certain rallway sliould flot serve on either of
those committees. If carried to its logical
conclusion, It wouid lead to the restriction
o! the privilege w. enjoy under the British
Northl Âmerica Act and absoiutely prevent
a senator from exercislng theme riglits and
privileges. I further submit that the rules
already referred to, 'which we passed last
session, are hi exceas o! the authority of thi13
Chamiber-that this House cannot say that
a senator may not vote on any question

-90n. Mr. PLOSS (Hailfax)-I support the
motion to adJouru until Tuesday neit.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS--I quite agret- with the
lion. senator fromn Montarvifle, and cannot
agree wIth the hon. senator !rom Halifax
(Hon. Mr. Power), wlio thinka that there
le no necessity for us to take time ta Conaider tlia question. My lion. friend from
Saskatcliewsn lias moved a resolution
which wiil furniali a good deal of groand
for serions thouglit for a great many members of this House. Many of us have flot
had time to go througli the records of some
raiiway corporations Just to Ilnd out who
are members of the executive ln each company, and I think It wouid be well to poatpone a decision on tlie question fet a few
days. I do not know why the hon. senator
from Halifax (Hon. .Mr. Power) wislies to
railroad this report throngh the Hloume today ivithont giving time for consideration.
I do flot know o! any question o! greater

SENATE
importance that is likelY to coule beforo
the House for somte turne. As to the ad-.
jourument over the boiidays, 1 Lhink it
ivili be quite long enougli, and to c:ousider a
inatter of suchi importance as this the PostpDnemnent of the adjourument for a day or
Wee are
two does nôt amount to mnuel.
flot liere to consuit our own conrenience,
but to nct in the Intereste of tbe people.
Hon. Sir MACKE~NZIE BOWELL-l
hiope the motion to adjouru will not be
pressed. I an qee no neceslty for ItL '
arn quite sure the hon. gentleman who bas
mast spoken bas sufficient breadtti of -intellect to comprehend thia motion. It la
very simple; It la to prevent certain senators fromt aitting on certain coiim)Ittees.
Tbat la ail we have to decide. I wonld
suggeat to the hon, gentleman wbo ha.4
moved the motion that there is no dlfficiilty
Ia getting at a conclusion. ARl he bas to
do la, when we reacli the paragraph relating to the Raiiway Committee, to move
that certain gentlemen wbo are lrterested
In railways be dropped and soute otbers
substitnted. That wIll accompliali his object wlthout stultifying ourselveg by pasaIng a motion wbicb is a refiection upoil
every senator. The position taken by the
hon, leader of the opposition la uaanswerable.

on the ground that 1 bad soute pecuuiarm%
iuterest iu umatters comiug before tbat couamittee, ail he would have to do is to move
that ny naine ba struck out for the reaaoii
that I have pecuniary Interests tn certain
questions to coule before the committee.
and that Senator Douglas be appointed lnstead. Then the Senate could adopt or
reject bis motion.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-What does the
lion. gentleman menu by the resolution?
la It tbat any one baving an interest In a
ramiroad or a bank la to be left off tbe con'mittee aitogether or tbat lie is flot to havethe riglit to vote? I do not aee how you
art- going to get at it unleas you suspend a
member fromt voting on any particular occasion where lie bas a personal Intereat.
Surely lie sbould be aliowed to vote on other
oc,.asifbns. If you iia to bave every senator %v'ho la interested lu a bank. or rallroad
ieft off the Comuhittees on Baaking and Railways, 1 do not see bow you are going to appoint thaie comînittees at ail. If the Intention la to prevent any senator front votias
oit a nicasure where lie bas a direct Intereat, that la ai righit, but I would not go
any furtber.

Hou. Mr. ELLIS-I would concur la the
view of the leader of the opposition as a
general proposition. It seeins to me If the
Ser.ate sets forth that certain members canThe amendaient wvas rejected; contents
not be members of the Railway Committee
14, non-contents 27.
It would apply to ail the committees. A
question is now oit man miglit be so sltuated la the Senate
The SPEAKER-The
the point of order ralaed by the hon. mena- that the generai principle would apply to
tor front Calgary, tbat this amendment ls hlm, and he couid not ait on any committep
out of order because it deprivea a senator at ail. He might be Interested lu printing,
of bis absolute rights to sit on any com- and could not ait on the Printing Committee, or ln banking and be could not sit ont
niittee.
thec BankIng Committee, or ia a railway
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-i and he couid not ait on the Raiiway Coihave already expressed the opinion tbat the *mittee. The Senate ought not to assent to
point takea by the hon. senator fromt Cal- that idea. Lt la true, as tbe hon. senator
gary is correct, for titis reason; It la withlii *front Halifax bas pointed out, tbat a memthe p)ower of the Senate to say wbat sena- ber of the conmrittee is restricted -front
tors shahi ait upon its committees, and tc *takinug part lu the proceedinga upon a parpass a resolution of this kInd. would depriv ticular ameasure la wbieh lie la interested,
tbe Committee of Selection front namini but that appiies' only to particular Insuelb senators as they think proper to plard stances, and la lutended to regulate tbe
tipon the comniittees. If tbe selection 1' conduct of a senator under certain condinot api)roved of, any member ean mov, f tions, but liere It is proposed to make Its
to arnend the report of the Committee o -application
generai, and I thiak that is
Selection. If for instance the bon. gentle Swrong.
inan objected to niy sittïng on n committe

Hoin. MIr. DAVIS.

DECEMBER 6, 1907
Hon.. Mr. POIRIER-I rise to a point rnf
order. I believe this aniendment *la altogether out of order. It le decidedly ln the
nature of a -permanent standing order. If
adopted, the amendaient alters our standing orders, and creates a new standing order. In that case the rmies of our Honge
deciare positively that sucb a motion requîmes twao days' notice. 1 think the amendment should be ruled out of order because
It la flot properly an amendaient of tic
main motion, and because It requ ires two
days' notice.
Hon. 'Mr. POWER-His Honour the
Speaker -bas to decide wbetber this resolution is ln order or not. The lion, leader
of tbe.opposition bas ralsed one point andi
the hion. gentleman froin Acadie bas raised
another. I niay say tbat I entlrely concur
wlth the lion. gentleman fromn Acadie. We
bave by our miles deait wlth tais questida
of members waho have private Interests ln
business coming before the House or before any of Its committees. We have la id
down two rules wltb respect to thers. No-w
tbe motion of tbe bon. senator froma Saskatchewan proposes to alter these two
rudes. That cannot be done without two
days' notice and the members being suinmoned. Tbe point of order is thorougbly
well taken.
Hlou. Mr. LOUGHEED-May I be permltted to elaborate tbe point raised by the
bon. senator frui St. John. I did desîre
to impress on the House that the amendment goes to the extent of disquallfylng a
member from voting on ail otber matters
witb wbicb bie may bave notblng to do.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Tbat la the poiut.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbat la to say,
If a inember la interested la the Grand
Trunk Railway hie la absolutely disquallfied
from. acting as a member of the Rallway
Committee or taklng any part In legîsiation dealing with ralîroads.
The SPEÂKER-I would hesitate to paso
judgmeult on tbe point of order ralsed by
the bon. senator froi Calgary as to the
rlgbt of the Senate to state wbat senators
shall be members of a commlttee. Âiready
and by long tradition the Senate bas declareiI who saol be members of lts coimittees. and lias t1xed certain limitations

as to the right of certain members to vote
on those comniittees. 0 f course tbe Senate
bas a rigbt to eliminate any member of the
Senate whose naine appears in tbe report
of the committee, and can do so wlthout
giving reason. Not bavlng bad suflicient
tlîne to go into tbe constitutlonal question
ralsed by tbe bon. leader of tbe opposItiosi,
I shahl refrain froin passing Judginent, aithougb 1 would Jean againet the point of
order raised by the bon, gentleman; but
as tbat question of order was being discussed, I was wonderlng If tbe amendinent
was not invadlng the ruie that tbe Senate
bas establlsbed for the constitution of tiiose
committees, and I felt that mule 84 which
declares what 'a-ll be the limitations of
tbe senators to sltting or voting on lIt
committees was belng lnvaded, altered and
modified by the amendment. It la mY opinIon that the point of order ralsed by the
hon. senator fromn Sbediac (Mon. Mr.
-Poirier) le well taken and that the amendment la out of order.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-As we have had a
full discussion on the several pointa of
order raised oui the amendmient moved by
my hon. frleud; I suppose It Io ln order
now to diseuse the formation of tbe several
commîttees. I do not know that I bave
any objection to ralse to many"of the senaitors wbo constitate tbe Commlttee on Railways, Telegraphe and -Harbours; but there
are certain gentlemen whose namelq appear
la the list that 1 think mlght as well bave
been piaced on other commîttees. Some bon.
gentlemen bave maised a question Ibat thi,%
objection applied equally to tbe Banklng
Committee, but there 15 no analogy between the two cases. In tbe first place,
a rnilway is a corporgtion tbat bolde a
franchise fromn tbe people of Canada, conferrlng great privileges. The lives of the
people are lu their banda and the welfare
and prosperity of the country also are largeiy in their bands. Now, If we had a commission such as the Rallway Commission to
control the banks and departmntal store
and enterprises of that kind, it wouid be
a different proposition àltogether, but the
railway stands lu a position altogether
dli.fferent from a bank or any other joint
stock companY. Lt bas been said that corporations have no souls, but tbey like to

SENATE

70

make money and secure favourabie legislation, and a senator occupying a position of
director on any railway in this country
should not be a member of the ccmnmittee
whicb bas to deal wIthi legisiation affec ting
such corporations. It lias been said that
ln a case of the kind you can objeet to a
member speaking or voting upon a measure ln which hea Is iterested. That Ia
true, but one does flot like to object to
his brother member voting on any measure.
We ahouid not be put [n sucli a position.
It ahould be made a law of the House -that
any one who occupies a position as director,
solicitor or paid officiai of a raiiway shail
not be allowed to vote in bis own Interest
or the Interest of the people who employ
him. I thougbt there was a good deal ln
the resointion moved by the hon, gentleIt bas been
man from Saskatchewan.
ruled ont of order, but I suppose we can
bring it Up again. It would have been
wlser to refer this report back to the comI am aatlsfied
mittee for reconsideration.
that there are some gentlemen wbose naines
appear on the Banking Commlf'tee who
would flot nie to serve after the discussiou
to whlh we bave listened; and If It were
postponed until Tuesday tbey probably
would decline to act. We are going too fast
ln trying to railroad this report througb
the House. As 1 aaid before, the Standing
Orders Committee ia the gateway through
which aIl the legislation comes Int this
House. It la the committee that la supposed to look after the rights of the public,
to see that proper notice la given of ahl
Bills submitted to thein. The Standing Orders Committee have to Inquire whether
the notice requlred by our standing orders
-bas been given, and see that the public
and interested parties are protected, yet
thls Important committee consists of only
nine members. Surely with the number of
members who are quite wilng and anxious
to serve on committees of this House,
no barin would be done If the committep
were eniarged to twelve" or flfteen meinbers. I know that some members of the
committee cannot always be present, and
the result la that you 0f ten find. ouly four
members attendlng its meetings to consider
matters of extreme Importance to the
public. Not a long turne ago, I found that
legisiation had passed through the comHon. Mr. DAVIS.

mittee without being properly conaidered,
and 1 showed at the time that flot only hail
it gone through the committee without proper consideration, but it had passed the
House ten days betore the expiration of
the time required for notice under our rule.
Now that la a committee which certainly
requires, to have the number of its members Increased. For the Ilie of me I do
flot see why hon, gentlemen want to keep
the committee so emall. I caunot understand ItL It appears to me that any hon.
gentleman ln this House who is wifling to
undertake the work of a cujmittee should
be allowed to do so. When I move a resolution, I find all kinds of quIbbles, technlcalities and ruies of order are raised, to
prevent It going through. Some hon, gentlemen are great on that kind of thing.
NVitli reference to the Bankiug Committee,
[.have not much to say. Some hon, gentlemen know more about it than I do. I
think there are hon. gentlemen on the Railway Comnmittee whose nomes should be
taken off. I do flot think these hon. gentlemen shouid serve on the commlttee, andj
isomethlng should be done to Increase the
number of members on the Standing Orders
Commlttee.
Hon. Mr. ROýSS (Haiifax)-Personally, I
nam dissatistied wvith the report of the coinmittee. I have been placed on the Coimittee ou Standing Orders. 1 spent tlie
best twenty-five years of my lite ln business, and I lam that I have a knowledge
of business perbaps equal to niost hon. gentlemen ln this Senate. Lt Is true 1 bave not
accumuiated the amount of money th;ît
soine members of the Senate hiive donc.
and that Is because I was too kind to my
constituents at amy own expense. 1 owneil
a barque and tug. 'I also built and owned
several schooners of amy own, and 1 think I
am entitied in fair play to be on somne committee, except the single obscure -Committee
on Standing -Orders. This qluestion has
stirred Up a lot of dissatisfaction ln this
House. It remlnds one that man is a selfishi Individual, and when you tramp upon
his toes he geueraiiy squeais. Jacob. wlfli
the assistance of his mother, cheated bis
brother out of his birthright. Lot, because
ie found the pasture richer nearer Sodoin.
inoved there w-ith lils cattie, and you kunow

7

DECEMBER 10, 1907

the dh4aster wvhich bappeued. Han. gentle-i
men Who ait on the committee. sbould be
men wbo have no personal or selfish Interest In matters wbicb are deait ivitb by the
eommlttee. Wben that la flot the case,
tbey always lean to thelr own Interest, or
the interest af tbe companies tbey reprnsent. We should endeavaur to bave our
committees as devoid of selflsh motivea ais
we can posaibly make tbem, and tbat ls the
way to bave pure legisintion passed ln the
Igenate.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-As there appears to hi
so mucb dlasatiafaction and as an ainendment bas been moved which is admittedly ln order, It la a question whether this
debate sbouid flot bie adjourned say until
Monday, sa that ban, gentlemen may have

)ut I think the suggestion lu a good ane.
appended ta the

i md tbe list might be
ininutes.

The SPEAKER-Then the order wll gô
n that way.
The Senate adjaurned until Three o'clock
)n Tuosay next.

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA,

Tuesday, December 10, 1907.

The SPEAJKER taok the Chair at Threc
&'Clock.
Prayers and routine praceedings.

ENLARGEMENT 0F RAILWAY COM1ýMI8SION.
Ing It. If 'we pass this motion at the pretime, we set aside ail the objetlins
sent
MOTION POSTPONED.
raised as ta the notices, and those notices
The Order af tbe Day being oailed:
migbt be fixed for Monday or Tuesday at the
lateat, and then everybody would have an
By the Hon. M~r. Davis:_
opportunity ta see whetber thse report should
That in the apinian ai the Sonate the Railbo onor sbould flot be adapted. I bave no ob- w~ay Commission af Canada shouldthe Domand the telegraph systems af
of the committee. 1 Isrged. placed uàder its cantrol, and that a
jection ta the report
inian
merely raise my voice nowv ln the interest thorough investigation should. ho made by the
working of said systoms
,of those who are dissatisfied. The report Cammissian into the an efficient service and
ta assure the public
of the comnuittee mlgbt be ail right It cau an equalizatian af rates.
,do na harm ta add a few memberq ta tbe
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Stands.
comxnittee, and I think it would be botter
bave timo ta
ta *defer tbe matter tI we
Hon. Mr. POWJER-I. wish ta make ane
consider lt
observation with regard ta this motion. Tbe
motion ls that in the opinion af the Sente
Thbe motion was agreed ta.
the Railway Commission shdiild ho enlarged,
PRINTING 0F NA31ES 0F MEMBERS 0F and the telegraph systein of the Dominion
Tbe government
placed under Uts contrai.
COMMITTEES.
have announced that policy in the Speech
Hlon. Mr. GlBSON-When the commitf ram the Thrane, and 1 do not tblnk it la
tee's report was brought ln day before yesstrlctly regular for us ta pass resoltioii5
terdny, it was suggested. by the bon, gen- about It.
tleman f rom Middlesex (Hon. Mr. Rloss) that
we should place the namnes af tbe inembers
The motion was allawed ta stand.
of tbe committee lu aur minutes, together
DRY DOCK AT ST. JOSEPH.
witb the cammittees ta wbicb they were
attacbed. I suggest that we bave the namnes
Han. Mr. LANIDRY inquired:
of the membera ai the Hanse inserted ln
1. Does the goverument know that the'dry
is ai dimensions
the minutes alpbabetically, with the naines dock at St. Joseph de Lévis entering therein,
toas narraw ta permit the
of tbe comimittees an which each member ini case ai need, of vessels such as the EmIs serving, so that wben re look up an pi esses af the Canadian Pacifie Railway ComAllaxi
of
bon. nieinber's namne, we wlll see the coin- pany, or ? the turbine vessels ai the
Coipany
ta which bie lsanttacbed.
mittee
2.Is. it the intention ai the government
te obviate the incoUvefliences ior the nocessiHon. Mr. POWER-lt would be ellglitly ties oi navigation which may resuît iramn the
Iregia«r to insert the naines ln tlie ininuteq. existence ai a dry dock which is too sinall
an opportunity of tboroughly coniprebend-

SENATE

72

and Useless, hy the enlargement of the existing dock, or by the construction cf a new dcck
cf such dimensions that the largest vessels
may enter it ? If a new dock is built, will
it be built at Quebec or at Lévis, at a place
accessible to, the largest vessels, even to, those
whose draught of water does not permit thein
When
to aseend the river above Quebec?
does the government propose to commence
these works?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers to the
bon. gentleman's questions are as follows:1. To the first question, yes.
2. The wbole matter 18 engaglng the serious consîderation cf thie Department of
Public Works.
QUEBEC BRIDGE AN*D RAILWAY GOMPANY.

cail of 4 1ver cent conipletiug the precedingcai onu eW~ subscribed stock. 15 Septeniber, 1897, 6 per cent; 15 October, 1897, 10
per cent; 15 November, 1897, 5 per cent;
total, 25 per cent.
PROVIDFENT FUN-D 0F INTERCOLONIÂL RAI.LWAY.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. 3eSWrEiNE-Y lnquiredThe nuinher of applicants for supe rannuation under the provisions of the Provident
]?und of the Interoolonial Railway up to and
inceluding November 30, 1907, the number
granted. the names of each person, and the
ainount granted each persan.

Hou. Mr. %COTT-Tbe auswers are:
a. The nuinher of appicants Is 254.
INQUIRY.
b. The number granted la 107.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY Iuquired:
c. Shieet attached showlng names of ap1. What are the naines of the present direc- plicants and amouat granted lu each case.
called 'The Quebec Bridge
tors of the company
and Railway Conmpany'?
2. Out of these directors who, are those that INTERCOLONIÂL AND PRINCE EDWÂRI>
ISLAND RÂILWÂYS EMPLOYEES'
have been appointed by the government?
PROVIDENT FUND.
3. How many shares in the company does
each director possess?
name cf employees
4. What number of shares have been allott- Statenient showing the retirement have been
whose applications for
ed to each director as paid up shares, whether
by the Board and approved
recommnieded
ns the reward cf his assidnity at the meeting
by the Honourable Minister of Railways and
cf the board, or for any other service renCanais, and the monthly retiring shlowdered te the company ?
ances authorized in each case.
5. Outside of such paid up shares, how
Amount.
Name.
nucu has been paid into the funds cf the
company upon the other shares carried iii
Eaoch Price............$20.00
the naine of each dîrctor P
William Sleeth...........20.00
6. When were the various calîs upon ca.
John Fogarty.............6.20
pital made P
James F. Sayre...........53.16
4. And for what proportion of the capital,
David White............68.42
2.0
each tims P
......
Samuel Thibaudeau .. ....
Alexander Fraser...........20.00
Hon. Mr. ýSGTT-Thie answpîrs to the
Damas Perry............20.00
Samuel Hamilton...........20.00r
hon. gentleman's questions are:Archibald Mackelvie.........21.72
1. President, Hon. S. N. Parent; ViceThomas W. Prince..........54.0&
John E. Oooldrup..........23.55
President, R. Audette; Directors, Herbert
Edwin L. Perkins..........36.01
M. Price, Gaspard Lemoine. Vesey Boswell,
20.00
.....
....
Mrs. Eliza Fripp .. ....
Hon. 'Nemese Garneau, J. B. LaUiberte,
Thomas Hogan............20.00
James Christal............21.84
Hon. John Sharpies. Hugh A. Allan.
William Glover...........20.00
2. J. B. Lahiberte, P. B. Dumnoulin.
Patrick Ashe............30.11
Marcellin LeBlanc..........20.00
3.. Hon. S. N. Parent. 70 sliares; Rod.
James A. Johnston <deeased).. .. 45.46
Audette, 57 aliares: H. M. Price, 52 shares:
John MeDonald...........20.00
George Foster............20.00
Gasp. Lemoine, 50 shares; Vesey Boswell,
Archibald McNaughton........2000
50 shares; Hon. N. Garneau, 50î sbares;,
Angzus Fitzpatrick (deceased).......0 Cor
J1. B. Laliberte. 27 shares; P. B. Dumoulîn.
William Il. Bell............2.s
James R. McKee...........40.45
no shares: Hon. J. Sharpies, 27C> shares;
John Mason.............29.51
Hugh A. Allan, 250 sluares.
David W. Culton...........20.00
4. None.
George Collard...........35.37
.. 257
George T. Mellish...........
5. The fulIl anicunt of their shares.
Augustin Carrier..........20.06r
O and 7. The first cali on Subscribed 'Stock
JTohn M,%cAnulty...........20.00
30.25
.....
James Ennis (deceased) ....
iras In 1888, 4 per cent. 17t1 Apri], 1897,
Hon. 'Mr. LA&NDRY.

DFECEMI3ýfER 10. 1907

7

Âmount. ! GRAND TRUNK PACIFIC SITE IN
Name.
$64.32
OTTAWA.
Joseph H. Moore........
21.70
George Gagnon-........
INQUIRY.
20.00
Colin MeNevin.........
23.66
Alexander Wilie........
Hou. Mr. BERNIER lnquired:
20.00
James Murray.........
59.99
William Kelly........
1. Has the government agreed ta transfer
30.91
Howard Brown.........
ta eomebody else part of the. park on the. Mac23.82
kenzie avenue, in the city of OttawaP
Robert Maxwell........
20.00
2. If so, ta whom has that portion of the
Patrick Sullivan........
21.04
park been transferredP
Thomas King.........
20.00
3. What je the consideration of the. eaid
James Handrahan.......
20.00
transactionP
Laughlin O'Haniey.......
20.00
4. F*or what purpose ie the. eaid park ta b.
Dennis LeBlane (deceaed).
20.00
icued?
Mrs. Elisa Flanagan......
20.00
5. Mn Ihi.h condition has the eaid transacPhillip P. LeBlan-......
20.00
tion taken plae?
James IL. Haymard.......
55.54
James Millican........
Hon. Mr. 800TT-Tle answers are:20.00
Charles B. Dunham.......
20.00
1. Yeu.
John Kenney.........
20.00
James Mowbray........
2. It bas been agreed ta make a transf er
20.00
William Grant.........
20.00
to the Grand Trunk IRaUway Company, but
Dauglass Nichai.......
20.00
Peleg S. Joues .. ..... .. .... ..
the transfer is not yet made, as legisiation
20.00
Edward S. Addison.......
Is required for the purpose.
.01.55
Andrew Rainnie........
20.00
3. $100,000.
John Donahoe........
49.22
Hugh Tait..........
4- Construction of a hotiel.
20.00
Ivan J. Slack........
20.00
5. Conditions mentioned ln Order In CunRichard Dibben......
.20.00
Thomas Meau.........
ci] of the 26tb September, 1907, are as; fol20.00
JTohn Good.........
lows.
.20.00
Edmund A. Moouey......
.29.88
lst The Department of Public Works
Alexander Anderson (deceased)..
20.11
..
Abraham Smith.. .... ....
'shall deline by stakes the limit of ground
.20.00
William Pickering......
.20.00
wbicb la to be used In connectIon with tb,ý
Dennis Driscoll. .......
.20.00
..
....
John R. Sherwood ....
construction of the building.
.20.00
John H. Foley........
2nd. The company, or the contractors for
.20.00
Thomas Fitzpatrick.......
.32.48
the building, will erect a fence on the Une
James W. Cale.. .. ......
51.26
Charles C. Davison.......
s0 Indicated. ta the approval of the Depart.20.00
Henry Tuppen.........
ment of Public Worke.
.20.é0
Daniel B. MscPhersn....
.20.00
Damien Pellerin.. .......
3rd. No materials of any klud will be
20.60
..
....
Alexa nder McDonald ....
piled on the grounds of the park outside
33.57
.... ....
Alexander Oudlet ....
34.71
of the Inclosure fence.
Alfred Shickle.........
.20.00
John Barnes..........
4tb. The stone eutting and the prepara.20.00
Fred Fradsham.........
tion of ail materlals will be doue aitogether
.20.00
Jacob Mosher.........
.20.00
away fromi .Yajor's Hill Park.
Alexander Madore.......
.20.fl
Norman Proctor.. .......
5tb. No cartig or drlving upon any of
.20.0n
JTohn Collins (deceased).
46.09
the walks or grass plots ta be allowed outJohn McDowell........
.24.(19
Robert Anderson........
side of the inclosure above referred to.
.20.00
Alexander Morin........
Gtb. Noue of the trees la the park ta be
45.73
'Michael Tobin........
20»0 used for guyiug or for any other purposes.
Etienne Turcotte.......
2000
Joseph A. Mnore.......
7th. .Should any trees be Iu the way of
25.01
Frank Archbald.......
.20.00
the construction of the building, they arI:
Michael McDonald.......
.20.00
Michael Ahern.........
not to boecut down, but they are ta be
21.7-q
Thomas MeLeAnn........
carefully uprooted and planted lu 'another
.20.00
Daniel McDonpld........
.26.34
John Ir. lfsgee........
part of the pari..
.20,M0
James Smith..........
Sth. Care muet -be taken not Iuny wfly
20.00
Patrick Driqcoîl........
27.42
ta Injura any portions of tbe park situa teil
Fdmund P. Shaw........
.20.00
.
....
....
Isaac Fournier ....
outside of the Inclosure hereiubefore re.20.00
Dennis J. White........
20.00
ferred ta.
Isaac G. Stevens........
29.01
Emile St. Onge...........
9th. Any damage doue ta the grass plots.
24.16
William Papineau........
ta the trees or ta the walks by the con21.27
John Aikewý..........

SEINATE
tractors during- the construction of the
building to be made good by the cornpany
or the coutractors, and any portion o! the
park so linjured to be restored to the condition lu which It was prior to the beginning of the construction.
1OUi. The hotel shaH be constructed'wlthlu two yearq frorn the date of said grant,
sald construction to be ln accordance witb
plans approved by the goverumeut o! Canada, and should said construction nout cake
place within the above period. thon the
property couveyed to the raiiway cornpany
to revert to the Crown.

are we ln possession of the Debates of iast
session-at ail events,. fot of the French
edition.
Hon. Mr. ýSCOTT-1 understand the JourThey are
nais are ready to be issued.
printed, and I think are being bound. And
so, If I amn correctly Inforrned, the Frenchi
edition of the Debates of the Senate.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I arn speaklng aiso
of the Journais. o! the House.

Hon.- Mr. SCOTT-Yes. I understand.
The Journals are prlnted, and 1 think they
are now putting the finlshlng touch ou
Hon. Sir MÂCKBFNZIE BOWELL-Would thern.
There has been a great pressure
the hon. gentiernan add to the Information on the.Bureau, and It has been quite ihe has furnlshed, 4 staternt of the quan- possible to keep up witb the work.
tity of land transferred for the $100,000-Hou. Mr. LÂNDRY-When do the govhow much of the park?
ernent expeet to be relieved of that presHon. Mr. ;SCOTT-I thlnk It takes lu the sure?
It does
southwest corner o! the park.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thInk it wiii connot extend to wlthin fifty feet of the monuof the Northwest Re- tinue growing.
meut to the soidiers
Then there le a wlng wblch runs
beilion.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We must relieve the
back a couple o! huudred feet to the rear governent.
aiong the ernbankrnent.
The Senate adjourned unl Three o*ciock
Hon. Sir MACKE)NZIE BOWELL-I rnny to-morrow.
express my owu view; I think lt le a great
mistake to transfer auy portion of that pnrk
to any cornpany, luereby destroylug lue
THE SENATE.
beauty of the park: to lue city. I remember
very weii that objection was taken by som.,
OTTAWA, Wednesday, December 11, 1907.
members of the House of Commous to the
late goverinent relieving lue clty frorn lue
The SPEAKER took the Chair at TPhree
expeuse attending th «e keeping o! their park
o'ciock.
It was iooked upon as a piece
ln order.
of. extravagance wblch was flot justlfied.
Prayers and routine proceediugs.
It was contended that it sbouid rernain
with the city and luat the goverumeut FIR.ST REPORT OF CONTINGENT ACOOUNT-S COMMITTE.E.
shouid uot assume the responsibllity. However, the governent baving assumed lue
Hon. Mr. WATSON preseuted the first
respousibiiity, and having made a beautiful report of the Cornrittee on Internai Ecopark of It, I luink It Is a great ndstake to nomy and Contingent Accounts, and rnoved
allow any portion o! that park to ho teken
the suspension of ruIe 24 H.
for a hotel site.
Hou. Sir MJACKENZIE ]BOWEîLjL-1
PRIXTING 0F JOURNALS 0F THE
shouid like to know wbat is lu the report.
SENATE.
I confess I couId flot hear distiuctiy what
propositions were made. As near as I couid
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I should iike to cail glean, I understood that there were a uumthe attention o! the House to the fact that ber of recommendations made Iu refereuce
we are flot yet lu possession of the Jour- to increfises of salaries and uppoiutmeuts.
knov
nais of the.Sonate o! Iast session. Neither Lt is important th.(t we sijouid reaiiy
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

DF.CFM1ER 11, 1907
wbat we are doing.' If I caught the word.
Ing of one of tbe clauses, It provldes for
tbe appolntment of a gentleman to take
the position of the late Mr. Bouclier.
A-n
I correct ln that?
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And
that gentleman la Mr. Evanturel?
Hon. Mr. JLAiNDRY-No, -Mr. Stepben.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIDLL-Axid
Mr. 'Evanturel is to take Mr. Stephen's
place at the maximum salary allotted to
that office? le that a tact?
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Yes.

75

of ascertalnlng really what. the report recommenda and what the requirements of
the Senate are. For that reason I object
to the suspension of any i ule by 'wicbhta
report can be adopted In its present shape.
-Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I would just cail
attention to the tact that there la no Increase lu the number of the staff. The
hon. gentleman la aware of the tact that a
death occurred durlng the recess of one
of the most able officers we have bad 0o1
the staff of the Senate and, ln consequence,
some appointment had, to be made to do
the work that gentleman was performlng.
It la really a reduction so far as the expense Io concerned.
The work la certaWny
no legs, and the committeo belleve that tbey
should foilow the proper procedureo0f promotion, and Mr. igtephen bas been promoted to occupy the position that bad been
occupied by IMr. Boucber. Another gentleman who, I believe, la amply well qualfle<l
to 111l the position occnpied by Mr,. Stephen,
bas been recommended lni bla place. I do
not suppose there Io any addItional work.
Tbere la no reason to suppose there will be
less work, and I do not thln1z any bon.
members belleve that we bave a larger staff
thon Là absolutely necessary to do the
work. I nnderstand that Mr. Evanturel is
well versed ln botb Engllsb and French,
and from ail the information at my
band le well qualifled for- the position,
not only as a gentleman familiar with
the English language, but also as a good
transiator. As the Hlouse Intends to adjourn
to-day or to-morrow -for a time, and the~
clerical work bas to be done. I saw fi't to
moi-e tbat -Rule 24 (b) be suspended and
tbat this report be adopted. I trust tbc
explanation wlll satisfy the hon, gentleman
and that bie wlll witbdra* bis objection.
I do not tblnk there lo any other explanation. There la no doubt about the qualifiTbere was no
cation of Mr. Evanturel.
doubt o xpresseid on tbe commlttee, of- the
fitness of tbla gentleman.
There was no
question of Increasing the staff at ail.
There la the same number of clerks. We
bave morely adoPted tbe principle of Promotion, and a savIng of $200, and a rearrangement bas been made wltb the staff.

Hon. iSir MÂCKIENZIE BOWELIL-I
have flot bad an opportunlty of seeing the
report to learn *what was in It. ix strikes
me-and I 'think it wiI strike every bou.
member, that ln appointing another clerk
to the table the House ta performing un
uinnecessary act.
If the House of (Jommons, witb 200 members, can be managed
by a clerk and an assistant clerk, I canuot
see the propriety or necesslty of placing
threo clerc aet thia table wltb about elgbty
or ninety sonators, only sitting, as wo do,
perhaps two-tbirds of the time that the
Gommons la sitting, and tbeî-e la certainly
flot one-twentietb part o thei work to be
perforrned so far as the table la concerned.
Wby we should add to the staff I am at si
losa io icnow. Wben we consîder the views
that have been so ofteu expressed I the
past by the Hon. Secretary of State i regard to economy lu expenditures, I am
somewhat aatonIsbed that be should concur lni tis extra expense, and wby an-outsider should be -brougbt ln to occupy the
position now filled by Mr. iStephen at the
maximum salary, under the resolution
passed by the committee, I am at a lass
to know. The -Act provides for à minimum
and maximum salary and a graduai lncrease atter a number of years servicetbat la If be sbould be appoited. There
la evidently somethIg belnd the appointment other than the Intereate and requiremonta of the Senate, and under these circumstances I think It la Improper that we
Hon. Mr. DERNIER-It là really Increassbould proceed to adopt this report ln lis
entirety utit! we have had an opportunlty Ing the staff.
The circimstatnces unde,

SENATE
wvhich Mr. etephen wvas appointed mnust be
At one tine certain Senareinembered.
tors were complalniug that *Mr. Boucher
did nlot speak the Engliali language very
distlnctly, and couid flot be heard by every
English juember, and tlîey therefore asked
for the appointaient of a man wlio couic!
speak the Engliali language very loudly and
We thouglit that was fair; s0
distinctly.
we appointed Mr. Stephen for that purpose
He w-as supand for no otlier purpose.
posed to bave no other work tu au there
than to read the tities of the Bis ln a loild
voice. It was nlot an Increase ln the work
that necessitated the appointment of Mr.
Stephen. If it bad not been for the cornplaints of some hon. gentlemen, Mr. Stephen
Thert,
would nlot have been appointed.
was no pressing work tiien for hlmi; be
was simpiy to read ln a tend and distinct
voice the tities of the Bis ln the House.
That was the only reasoiL ior bis appointment. By appolnting a third man now, It
la really an increase ln the staff becaus2
Mr. Steplien remaling at the table wlll lie
able to read ln a loud iad distinct voice
ail the tities of the Bis and petitions as
We have no need
be bas bitherto doue.
of another officiai at thec table.

officers ln the cmpioymeut of Uie Sonate
since coufederation, îrnd freai the Information I bave, lie bad superintended the translation braucb very faithully and efficiently. As lie w-as advancing hn age and is
voice bad become weak, it was decided
by the comniittee and approved by the
House, tiiat a valuable officer like Mr. Boucher sbouid not be asked to resigu or apply
for superannuation, but that bis services
sbouid. be utilized as long as It w-as possible for blin to attend particuiarly to the
translation brandi. I quite approve of thc
prom:3tion of Mr. Stephien, but witb Mr.
Chapleau as clerk, and Mr. Stepben as assistant. no furtber belp la required at th<n
table te do the work of the Sonate. Irf
assistance Is *required la the translation
brancb, let the appointaient be made on
that ground. I persist ln my objection.
Wben the question cornes up agnin, I shahi
be prepared to discuss ItL
The SPEAKER-The report cannot be
discussed unless raie 24 (h)i be -suspended,
and tic report must go over untIl the next
sitting.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-There
eau. be no iujury done by ailowiug It to
stand until ive meet again, except that tlwHon. Mr. POWER-I desire to cati the gentleman proposed for appointaient w-Il
attention of His Honor the Speaker to the be deprived of one montb's salamy.
fact that the discussion of the matter of
Hon. Mr. WATSON-And the work lio
tbe report is out of order until this question of suspending the miles bas been set- ought to be doing ln the meantiietled. I trust that*the bon. gentleman from
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOXELL,-There
Hastings (Hon. Sir Mackenzie Boweil) wli
the suspension of [s no w-ork to be donc ln the meantime.
not persist ln objecting to
the mile, but If lie does we cannot discuss
the
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Concemning
the report.
work to be donc, it Is a question w-beld
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The interests and puzzles me. I congratulate
explanation made by the cliairman 0f the the committee on baving rccommended the
couimittee, and w-bat bas falien froni tbe promotion of Mr. Stephen. I beileve la ail
hon. gentlemen who have spoken, onîr In- cases ln promotion.
tensifies the reasons I bave advaiùccd that
Some bli. GENT.LF.MEN-Order, order.
w-e 'should delay proceeding until w-e know
of the report are, and
w-bat the contents
The SPEAKER-I w-ould draw tbe boit.
whiat the duties of the gentleman lt Is gentleman's attention to the fact tint the
proposed to appoint are to be. We are herc discussion Is out of order inasmuci as the
asked to make an appointaient. I1concur to report must go over until the next meeting
a certain extent w-lUi niy bon. friend w-ho of the House.
sits behind nie (Hon. Mr. Bernier) as to
Hon. Mr. pOIRIjER-Is it not nllow-able
the reason w-by '%r. Stephen w-as placeJ
1 would
at the table to a9ssist. We ail know that to spenk on tbus motion? I thlnk
valtuable~ be ierfectly in order la discussing it.
Mr. Bouclier w-as oue of the most
Hon. Mr BERNIER.

DECEMBER 11. 1907
The SPEÂKER-Provided the bon, gentleman lnits bis remarks to tbe propriety
of postpouing the consîderation of the report until the 23rd of Jantnry.
*Hon. Mr. POIRIER-The ruies o! the
H-ouse allow greater latitude on a motion
of tbat nature, and I tblnk, wlb ail due
rspect to the chair, tligt I would be perfectly ln order ln extending niy remarks to
take i the whole situation. However, as
I was partially ont of order I slial subside.
Tbe report was aliowed to stand.
THE ROSS RIFLE.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. iLANDRY rose to draw the attention of this House to the followiag facts:
On the 5th of April, 1907, in a question put
to the goverament by the Honourable Mr.
Landry, lie askod how many rifles the uovernmont ha acceptedl front t ho Rqss Rifle Company, after a rogular inspoctioit_ of the rifles
manufactured by the said company, up to, tho
lot of Mardi thon last.

The governiment replied that from the commencement to the utt'n into oxecution Of
h
n
nto bteni
the contract entero

company, it lied, up to the lot of March, 1907,
aooepte 10,500 rifles of Mark: No. I., and 16,512i
riffés of Mark No. IL., atter a rogular inspection.
2. Subsequently, to wit on the 4th day of December instant, the Honourabie Mfr. Landry,

Marcbi 2 last and were not fma13- paid for~
uatil AprIi 6 last. Paynent thierefor ivas
not lucluded lu the repiy to lnqulry of
April 5 last, (Question à, askinq for the
payients la full up to Marcb 1 for rifles,
aud tbe reply given on December 4, Instant. was framed wlth a ilew to calling
attention to ibis discrepancy.
The correct figures are as follows:
Rifles accepted, passed into store. and
paid for up to March 1, (includlxig
1,000 rifles for the Royal Northwest Mounted Police, 500 rifles for
the Department of Marine and
Flsherles and 12 rifles for the Justice Depnrtment. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2,512
Rifles accepted, pald for and passed
lato store up to December 1, 1907. 7,500
34,012
FREIGHT RATES ON GRAIN.
INQUIR-Y.
Hou. Mfr. PIDII&EY rose to:
Âsk the goverament if thoy will not at once
make arrangements with the railway coinpanies operating railways wes of Lake Suporior, suoh as will redue the freight charges
on the inferior grades of wheat at ieast ta, the
extent of one-haif the present charge, from
western points of shipment, t, -the soaboard,
or eastern Canada market?
He sald: I did not intend to inake any

havin askodthe goverament hiow many rifles iengthened remarkis, fromn the fact that 1
il Ead aceptod front the Ross Rifle Com~pany, anm so unwell that I1can hardly stand up.
after inspection, from the lst March last. to
the lot Decembor instant, that is ta oay, durOQUETTE-The hon, genHon. Mfr.
inýg a.,eriod which the question put last sessi on did flot embrace, ho -received for anuan- tleman spoke too much Ia Toronto and It
swer the following information:mnade hlm sick.
No rifles of Mark No. I., and 7,500 of Mark
No. II.
Hon. Mfr. PER.LEY-Unfortunately for
But the Department of Militia added: ' Five
hundred of these rifles (of Miark No. 11.) were our western country, this year, we have
iiioluded in the number of rifles mentioned ta, produced a very large quantity of Iuferlor
Senator Landry in the reply -to hie question
grades of wheat as compared with the
<f 5th April last.'
And that ho wifl aakhlgher grades, and on these Inferior grades
To what proceïduro has recourse been had in we have to pay the same rates of freight
the Department of Militia ta flnd out that'
rifles, accepted by the government since the as on the better qualities. The raislng of
lot March last, should be nevertheless counted this Inferior wheat le not due te any fauli
among the rifles which were accepted before
or the farmers, and under the circumstanèes
the date in question?
Where i, the error?
the goverament mighit arrange wlth the
ls it in the answer given last spring. or
should one flnd it in the information fur- railway companies west of Lake Superlor,
nîished, this autumn?
ail of -which have received large subsidles
What are, definitely, the true figures?
botb ln land and money for the building of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The nnswer given ou their railroads, to reduce the freight charges
iu our
Aprîl 5 last was incorrect. Tbe 500 rifles on the lower grades of wheat.
inadvertently Included, as ploneer dayrs lu the west, on two occasions,
referred to were
they did not finaliy pnss ilispection until we lid what we call frosted crops, and the

SENATE
fariers biad spent ail their means trying sand buaheis ef grain lu au ordinnry year.
They w'ere un- Others bave been lesa unfertunate, but the
to develop that country.
fortunate in nlot understanding wheu and quaiity et the grain they have produced ls
On this grain they bave te pny
It Was Lot the inferier.
how to 80w their seed.
fault of the country or of the climate; bal the saine freigbit as on grain ef superler
A carload et wbeat is about
we understood thien as we do now how to quality.
eleven hundred bushels, and the freighit on
soi and when to sow tbe seed «%ve
tili the
For that grain f rein where I live te Fort Wilwould have biad magnificent crops.
knowiedge and experlence we liam Is ten and onè-flftbs cents per bushel.
want of that
On tbose occasions, In Hlowever, there Is ne miarket for It at Port
hiad frosted crops.
view of -the fact that the farinera had ex- Artbur, and we bave te send It as far east
This wbeat must be marbausted their own resources, the govern- as North Bay.
It 18 net a coinketed without delay.
ment came to their assistance and supplied
Lt mercial article, and we ean net get auj'
-tbei with seed grain for two years.
Tbe state of things In the
waa no charity to the farinera et the west, ndvance on It.
I bave
they had to pay about ten cents Nertbweat Ia mest deplerable.
becalnse
been told by a fariner frein near Moesejaw
a buabel more for 'that seed than It could
have been bought for In the market for that the railways will net take the wbeat
The fariner had te giv', unless the freigbt la paid Ia adv ance bemuhling purposes.
The freight
a frst lien on bis land until that mioney cause it is se lkely te speil.
Until It was repaid he on a carload ef wheat frein Fort William
was refunded.
could nlot get the patent for bis land. Lt te North Bay, I amn told by the dealers lu
was In the intereat ef the country that the Toronto, la 22 cents a bushel. Tbat weull
farinera sbould be helped In tbat way, be- be $242 for a carlead. I soi tbat that be
cause tbey were experimenting and learu- cut in twe-reduced te $121-and I hold
lng bow to tIT the soli in order to produce that on a train load ef wbeat that wonild
Wblle the
geMd crops. This year, however, tlhey halve be sufficient te pay the cest.
railway company would net make anything
been unfortunate, not througb any lack et
The geveffort on their part, becRuse they wvould, un- tbey wonld net lese anytbing.
ernint sfieuld corne te the assistance ef
der ordinary circumstancea have produced
I nt-ver saw such a the farinera et tbe Northwest ia thls their
magnificent crepe.
promise of an abundant harvest ln Canada heur ef calamity wbeu money le; se scarce
The governint shouid
as tbere was this year i the Northwest, and bard te get
the reductiosi
but owing to the unusual iateness of the maire some arrangement fer
pro- er tbe freight on the inferior grades ef
season tbe greater part of the grain
In my own wbeat, retaining the present rate on tbe
duced was of inferior quaiity.
This la ne uew requeat.
province two-thIrds of tbe seeding bad to better qualities.
be doue I the afternoon; nothing could be Three or four years ago when Nova Scotia
were
done In the forenoons because tbe grounl had a poor bay crep, tbe governinent
The seeding had to be appealed te and In response they carried
was frozen bard.
te Nova Seta
dene go late that tbe growth was late. Not- bay from Quebec province
the grain grew magnifi- over the Intercoienial Rallway free ef an,.
witbstanding that,
Tbe farinera ef Nova %Scotiawerfe
cently, until tbe montb ef August. lu that charge.
net ripen ai unfortunate, and the goverament came te
whole nmentiî our crops did
If the farinmuch as I bave seen thein ripen In two *their assistance la that way.
era bad bad te pay freight on that bay it
days In the saine montb In former year9.
more thain
Oni the l2tb September, wben the barvest- *would bave ceat thein $127,0O0
In vlew et the hardsblps the set*It did.
ing Je usually well advauced,-we had beavy,
If we had *tiers la tbe Northwest bave bad te undergo
trost 'wbicb Injured tbe grain.
justice If the
good weatber we would bave bad a nîag. *tl .a year, it weuld be but
lu consequence et tbe ex *goverument 'would come te their assistance
nificent crop, but
I tee!1
traordinary season we bad very littie grain Inl the manner I have suggeated.
my ewu dis *they will do se, because It la a case whlerP
I know thousands of acres in
ne use
trict where tbere Is net a peck er grair ithey can help the people. . Tbere Is
had ten thoil of the farmers golng te the railway c'A"*
where farmers would bave
Hon. NIr. PERLEY.

TDECEMBER Il. 1907
The governiment eau do wlhut
porations.
the fanmera could flot hope to accomplish.
1 feel that It Is oniy necessary to mention
the matter to tbe governient to ensure
tbeir attention, and I believe that they wiii
deai with the farmers in the Northwest lu
their. bour 0f trouble and mistortune as
tbey did witlî the Nova Scotia fariers
tbree or four years ago.

H1oa. Mr. SCOTT-Tbey
thiîemseIves o! the offer.

did not

avail

undoubtIloi. 'MIr. M ULE-hs
edly isa very important inatter fronu ait
Ountario staudpoint. If there was aur way
by 'wbich the Injured wbeat o! the West
could be got down to old Ontario, there
would bo a good demand for It. The fariers tire v'ery short o! feed this year. A
great mny of theni bave cattie that they
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tb-.re goverument bave rea ' ly do not know what to do witb. I bai"'
no control wbiatever over the tariffs of the no doubt a very large number of theni
raiiways that are lu operation In the Nortb- wiii die with bunger before sprnug, unlI.ss
west. Parliament -bas delegated any power soute relief ia given. If this injnred wheat
on that subject to the' Board of Rtailway couid be brougbt to Ontario aud sold at
Comînissioncra. The Railway Department about one cent a pound I have n doubt a
wiii be very glad to bring this matter under very large quantity of It would be used as
thé notice of the board, witb a view of as- feed for cattle and for borses. It makes a
certaining wbetber It la possible to acconi- very good food. 1 arn sorry that the govpi ish anythiug lu the direction indicated. ernuient are unable to enter into negotialut the Instance the bon, gentleman men- Lions witb the Canadian Pacifie Itsilway
t ions, of the interfereuce of the goveru- to obtain a lower rate for tbe transportamient it ivas a raiiroad owued by the gov- tion of tuia wbeat It la quite true that
crament and thiey could control the tariff. the goverument lias delegated to the RailTbey could eut the rates lu two If tbey way Commission power to regulate freigbt
liked. Tbey could not do it witb the Cana- rates; but tbey migbt suggest to tbe Canadiau Pacifie Railway, or the Canadian dian Pacifie Railway aud the Canadian
'Northeru or auy other road In the North Nortlîern that under sncb unusual condiwest. The goverument dld intervene two tions, It would be well If some reduction
Tbe grain Is too mnch
weeks ago lu a very unusual way, the oniy conld be made.
way they couid, 'wltb a 'riew of assisting the darnaged for foreigu export or for miiling
farinera to get tbe frozen grain out of purposes, and I can easily understand wby
the Nortbweat, wben they proposed to tbe the banks refuse! to, take a lban for the
bauks that they should accept a loan of ten purpose of moving sucb wheat. I bad au
million dollars, for the purpose of moving .exteaded. experience witb such grain many
this grain before the navigation closed: years ago In Ontario, and the bankers no
Frozen
but, owing to mattera, wbich the govern- donbt know what a risk It Is.
ment could not coutrol sud-I will not wbeat wiil cake lu a car aud become damsay jenlousies between the banks-for rea- aged and heated when frelgbted lu cars
sons that 1 bave not been able altogetber a long distance, If it bappened to strike
to ascertain, verSr little was done lu tbat warm weatber. Banks will not advance
direction. I arn told that the only portion of mouey to warehouse frozen wbeat or te
tbe boan tbat was tak-en up was two and sblp It. I bave no doubt that reason is nt
one-haif million. The goverument bad been the bottoni o! the banks refusing to adready to adance ten million dollars, be- vance the money to move that frozen wbeat.
cause the presumption lu tbe moutb of- But sonue- efforts sbonld be made I the luOcetober or beginning of November, was that tereat of the western growers wbo are sufthe banks were short of money. It ws fering sncb a serions reverse this year.
to relieve tbemt o! thiat excuse the gov- It wonld be well If relief couid be grauted
crimnt atrained a point and offered the themi Ia soute way. It would also be a debanka tbant were carrying tbe grain from cided boon to the cattle feeders and tbe bog
feeders la Ontario, If that wheat conld be
the Northwest to ]end theni ten millions.
moved down here. I bave not tbe î4uightest
Hlon. Mr. PERLEY-Tliey would, not ac- doubt that fromi ten te tweuty million
bushels could be sold lu Ontario. Ontario
-cept lU?

S ENýA TE
But I iwishi to point
diii ln the quality.
out to mny lion. friend from Wellington,
is the only nmarket thiat we can get for that a large percentage of the injured wlieat
thein at alh. if we had any asurance that this year Is good and dry and wIll keep
this frozen ivheat would be brouglit for- witli any graded wlieat we bave out thero.
ward and that ive could obtain It, 1 have There is solue of It whitcl will fot keep,
no doulit it wvould lie the mens of keeping but we have au efficient inspection siait itt
many eattle lu the country that would Wlnulpeg, andl any car of wlieat that arrives there flot fit for wareliouslng, is
otlicrwlse be seld at a sacrifice.
inarked by the inspecter. and II: is at once
Hon. Mr. OWýENS-Tlie relief asked for attended to and dried nt the hospital nt
by tlie faruiers of Ontario is notinhg more Port Arthiur.
riy-large percentage of
than lias been accorded in tlie past. Wheîî tliat wheat Is dried and is safe to plircliase.
the case was net nearly as desperate as it There is aiso a place la the markets of
Is this year, the Canadian Nortliern brought the world for sncbà whleat for use as stock
down frozen grainat haIt price, and 1 f eed.
That feedlng ocetirs durrlng the
tblnk this ii-a case tliat could ven' weli lie wliter, and It Is for that reason the Desubmitted te the Railwny *Commission to partinent of Trade and Commerce urged
If the niatter were presented the rallways te direct their attention tedeal wlth.
by the Commission te the ralway coni- wards forwarding lnjured grain as soon
panles In a proper spirit, I amn sure tliey as they pessibîr could, so that it would
would acquiesce la the proposai, and It: ineet the requiremlents pointed eut by mnY
would flot onîr be a benefit te the farmers hon. friend from Wellington.
The governof Ontario, but for the farmnerw of Quebec ment lias flot been asleep. so far as 1 arn
and the lower provinces as well, If frozen aware, nnd, as 1 nnderstand, the Canadiaii
wlieat could lie brouglit down and mille(, Pacific Railway bave taken the matter into
for provender. ',dt would lie a great benefit considcratlen also in connection wlth the
te the eastern provinces, and wouid certain- Department ef Trade and Commerce and
ly lie a great relief te tlhe Laimers of Mani- are reducing the rates on such freiglit, altoba, If the wlieat could lie bronglit dowii thougli to what extent. I amn not lt a1Posiand sold nt haîf price.
The matter lias flot been lef t
tion to say.
YOUNG-Tbis Is an Important iii abeyance and lias hoet been lost siglit
Hon. Mr.
question to a certain section -of our coun- or; everything lias been done that It Is pos'try, the clieap liaullng of injured grain, es- sible to do.
pecially wheat. I arn Iaformed that thé~ Hou. Mr. PERLEY-I sliould like to
Canadian Pacific ;Railway have already know wliose statement Is correct-tift of
'taken this matter into their consideration, the lion, gentleman from Killarney or of
and from ai that I have been able te the lien. -Secretary of State?
The lion.
gather, I belleve they are aiready reducing gentleman sald that the MNinister of Trade
the rate on lnjured grain. I may aIse and Commeree lias the peower and is dolng
point out to rny hon. friend who lias pre- thlngs. I am glad te bear that the Minister
sented this motion, that the Department of Trade and Commerce lias greater power
of Trade and Commerce have interested than the Secretary of State bas suggested.
themselves In Vis matter with the Cana. I think the government lias the power, and
dian Pacific Rallway and other raliways, a representation from the goveramelit to
in the direction of liaving injured grain the railwny companies wili be mucli bette"
rushed eut as soon as possible, se that it than a report from a private individual. I
may lie dlsposed of durlng the feeding sea- am glad to hear lie Is tnking the matter in
As a consequence, the raiiways eo hand, and I hope we wIli sec good resuits
son.
the west are giving preference te this quai- troin bis eff orts.'
lty ef grain, and are rushing it forward In
Hon. Mr. YOIJNG-I hiappeiied te lie on
preference to the higlier grades in ether
In the crop of iast a delegation, -witli my lien. friend frein
Parts of tlîe west.
year we lad a great deal of first ciasçi Portage' la Prairie. whicli discli-ed the
wheat, but buere and tiiere. tiiere wis a1 matter wltl) tie Niister- of Triflo mnil
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN.
cattie are b)eiug,- sent acroas te Buffalo aund
dlstributed tlîrough the United States.

lt

1)EOEMBER 11, 1907
ascertalned that there was 22,000,000 or
23,000,000 bushels of damaged grain tu the
west. We felt that the Department of
Trade and Commerce, that lied to do with
the regulation of those matters more then
any ýother department lu the goverulment,
should Interest themselves, and they dld tinterest themselves wlth the resuit that the
representations that were made by that
Hou. Mr. PERLEY-Wheu 1I asked the department induced the Canadien Pacific
question, I expected the goverument would Railway to give a preference to the export
be able to answer It without the assist- of damaged grain, and flot.only the CanaI arn dian Pacific Railway but the Canadian
ance o! enother hon, gentleman.
glad tbe hou, gentlemen from Killarneybais Northern; and it was represented that If
taken the matter la baud, and I hope the that grain could be readlly and cheaply
transported, as meutioned by tbe hon, genresult wlll be beneficial.
tleman from Welngton, it wonld find a
Hou. Mr. WÂTSON-'Irhe wheat farme of large market ln Ontarlo, If It reached a
ManItoba this year were practlcally free lake port before navigation closed. In adfrorn hnjured grain.
dition to wbat bas Ileen sald about the hospital et Port -Arthur for drying grain, I
Hon. Mr. BERNIEiR-I had no reference
miglit say that »the capeclty for the drylng
to camnaged grain ln Manitoba.
o! grain at that elevator la about 40,000
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No, but reference bushels a day; so that you can clearly see
has been made to Manitoba suifferhng f romi that any grain tbat can be dried cen be
the lateness of the season. In speeking o! treated ln that hospital and made perfectly
the, imount of darnaged grain In the west, safe for storege and shiprnt, and safe
I wish to call the attention of! the House to for the banka to edvence money on to
the fact that It bas been an exceptloually carry for whet it le wortb, and It la worth
b.irkward and cold year ail over the world, somethlug for cattle food. We are lu hopes
and the crop that wvas damaged by frost thet large queutities o! that damaged grain
this year in Alberta and Saskatchewan will be got out end that the farmers wlIll
should bave.been harvested et lenet a month recelve fair cousideration for the .crop. It
before the frost touched the grouud. It le one o! those unfortunate circurnetances
is n very unusual circumetance to have that la met wlth occasionally, fortunately
sucli a cold season. The frost was no ear- only occasioually, ln eny part o! Canada.
If But the situation there was thet the benks
lier this year, but the crop was'later.
the crop lied matured et the usuel time, appareutly did not have the money to carry
The goverunent
the damage would flot have been done. wheat across the lakes.
From the appearance of the crop lu the cerne to the relief by agreelng to adrnth o! Âugust, I arn not astray lu saying veuce ten million dollars to assiet the
that It Iooked llke an average crop, but, banka lu handling the grain. For eome
uu!ortuuately, It kept on growing aud did reason -of whlch I am flot eware,
flot ripen. I miglit add to what the hou. the benks have flot availed themselves
gentleman frorn Kilerney hes sald heviug of ail the relief off ered by the govtuken some active part la bringlng this ernment; but 1 was ixiforrned by the genmatter before the goverument some few erai manager o! the bauk of Moutreel lest
weeks ago that wheu the goverumeut did week, thet. about two and one-hal! millions
off er to corne to the relief o! the fiuan- hed gone to the west out of the amount
ciel Institutions-the bauks were not arranged for by the goverumeut to hendie
more severe on the grain trade than they the wheat crope and I have no doubt qulte
were on auy other commercial industry a lot bas . gone since that tîme. But one
lu Canada, but money was scerce-not s0 tbling I know le that the goverfiment came
scarce as lu the United States, but it was to the relief o! the Northwest fermers, and
scarce for the baudling of the immense Mr. Fleldlng's statement wili satisfy
crop. Provision wiis not made for ItL We the people that the bauke were ail riglit.
6

It was a matter of detai]
ComAmerce.
with that department, to which the hou.
Secretary of State's attention had flot been
called; but I arn speakiug o! the action of
the Departrnent of Trede and Commerce
frorn the knowledge o! what they diti do,
because I happeued to lie here et the time
whien the matter was belng discussed.

REVIBED

EDITION

SEINATE
and the banks knew that tbey were a]
riglit and perffectly saffe and they loosenedl
up onl tee reserves they held in the vault,
and the action off the government was very
commendable. I do hope tbat wltb the
assistance of the railroads and tbe banlcs
when they corne to realize that the wheat
can be safely stored, that a large quantlty
of that twenty-two or twenty-three million
bushels wlll be brought to market and wlli
flot only realize fair compensation to the
farmers of the west, but will also be ot
great benefit to the farmers of Ontario, wlio
require cheap grain food for cattie and
bogs.
QUEBEC BRIDGE COMPANY.
INQUIRY.
Hàon. Mr. *LANDRY inquired:
1. Ras the government ut any time paid
the Quebec
the Quebea Bridge Company, orany sums off
Bridge nd Railway Company,
it in the construction of its
money to aid
undertaking P
2. At what date, for what amount, and
under authority of what statute, was each of
such payments made P
3. Besides the sums hereinabove mentioued,
ha., the gEovernment, clirectly *or indirecty.
cornee t t e aid of the said aompany P
4. In what manner, when, up to what point,
aiid under what authority P
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The answers are:
1. Yes.
2. Date: Between December 28, 1900, and
Amount: $374,3W3.33.
Deceinber 16, 1902.
Autbority: Chapter 7, section 3, 62-6à Vic.
(1899>, 'An Act to authorize the grantlng
off subsidies iu aid off tee construction of
the Unes off railway therein mentioned.'
3 and 4. The government lias corne te the
aid off tee company In the way off a guarantee off bonds, authorized by an Order
iu Council of date January 27, 1904, under
the provisions off Chapter 54, 3 Edwaril
'Under Chapter 35, 6-7 Ed ward
VII. (1903).
VII. (1907), autborlty was granted by parliament to the Governor In Council to advance by way off lan the amount guaranteed under the provisions off Chapter ù4, 3
Edward VII. (1903), namely, $6,678,200, but
no advance bas been made teereunder.
Probably bon. gentlemen are aware that
there is a sum off 15 per cent advanced on
bridges tlîat are used by railways. -The
statute authorizes that.
Hon. MNr. WATSON.

THE FRENCH TREATY.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIFILL-I
should like te call tee attention of the government to some Information which I think
would be very valuable te every hou. senator who takes an interest I tee Frenchi
Treaty whlch -we will lie asked to ratlfy
I miglit mention
ln a very short time.
teat I have already spoken to the hon. Seeretary off State and Infornied hlm that 1 intended te call bis attention to Information
which I thlnk ouglit to, le contalned In the
If hon. senareport whlch Io beffore us.
tors wUll tura to the treaty affecting Importations Into Canada from France under
the new arrangement, teey will find teat
the number off the Canadlan tariff Items ls
given, so that we can refer to tee Canadin
tariff and ascertain at once what reduction
of tee dnty I tee hItermieffate tariff iI
lie couceded to tee French nation ln consideration off what teey concede to us.
That la information which every hon. senaIf you tuTu)
tor can obtain for hlmself.
to schedule (A) you wll find that the number off tee French tariff Is also given, but
I venture the assertion th«tz probably teer,'
are not haîf a dozen copies off tee Frencli
tariff test can be obtalned by teose wbo
take an Interest lu tbe provisions off the
treaty. Take for instance, the first Items,
schedu]e (B). 1, 4, 5, 6 and 7, referrlng to
tee products off tee ffarm, horses, oxen, cows,
bulis, steers, bullocks and heifers. Now.
take Item one, horses, are teere any present-tee mny be a few-who know what
the French tariff Is, or what duty te
Frenchi tariff levies upon the Importation
off a horse when It la taken toto France?
If tee m«aximum and minimum French
tariffs were placed after the word 'horse,'
teen we would know what advautages
wouid accrue to the breeders off homses lu,
Canada, when teey export to France. We
wll suppose the minimum was 25 and teIf the -word minimaximum 30 per cent.
mum and the word maximum were put at
the head off tee column, the exporter
would know the moment lie was exportlng borses to France under that
treaty that lie 'was reaping an advantage off 5 per cent. Iff there is no redurtion, then tee breeder off horses and cnttip,
would k-uow that he was receiving no0 cou-

DECEM13ER 11, 1907
It weuld b. oulatos in the press a lengtiiy analysis of the
cessions under that head.
new Franco-Canadian troaty. Ho points out
Iltti. trouble for the Departmnent of that Canada in a numbor of instances lia
very
Trade and Commerce er the Customs .De- gone below the intermédiato tariff and nmre
timea bolow the British rate, a1together mapartment te add these figures. I know the terially redncing the prof orence. Ro crianswer te that wouid be, take the French ticises tii. warohousig transiiipment clauses
Ais and emphasizes how an extension cf treatios
tariff and hunt It Up fer yourseIL.
te other countries muet subject British trado
I have peinted eut, there are very few in Canada te far more stronuous compotition
copies ef the. Frenchi tariff obtainable, even ir the absence cf a British roiRrocal agreement.
lu the. li'brary, and if we are te deal with
That le a very Important statemeDt, cerna question cf thus Importance the. more Information we have the. more intelligible It Ing from se Important a source. I finit anwili be. 1 notice another word contlnuallY other cablegram of December 4, deallng
iu the tariff, that I must con! 'as 1 do net more particularly with the firet portion of
understand, aitheugh I have badl mre ex- the. question te whlcii I cali the attention
perience In customs matters. For Instance, of the Houe, and that le as te how It afThis cablegram
take fresh meate. Tii. clause reads as foi- fects other countries.
readeýlewsFresi meats, mutton, pork, beef and -otiier. London, December 4.-Tii. now Franclias
Can the Secretary of State tell mie wiiat Canadian treaty first far more wido-reaching
anticipatod. Yesterday,
interest than at
If it refers te mente representatives of tiio Swiss, Âustriin and
lother' refers te?
in
salted it ends with the word 'other,' and ethor foreg embassies lie on in9juirythat
w tgratification
officiel cireslat
animai fat, &c. You wll find that ceoigta thie operation cf tiie moro favored
cure through the. whole lof thus tariff. I nation treaties. Canada lias given tiiem and
eighteen. otiier foreign countries tariff conread it very carefully, and I tried te decessions ini tiie Canadian market witiiout secîpher wiiat It really meant; If the. Secre- cnring anytbing in return. It i. pointait out
tary of State eu tell us, I shall b. very that Canada mîght hiave meured concessions
from oach. cf tiie countries if it had followed
mucii obliged te hlm. I amn netasklng for the German oxampie of first negotiating upean answer at thie present moment, but 1 ciel reciprocai terme witii eacii country and
tink it la vry important that we should making tiiese special terme tiie basis of tiie
Canadian intermediate tariff.
know, when we are ratifying a treatY of
On. feature cf. the. Frenchi troaty ia ospoOn. cially interesting and-is givn an en'tiroly
this kind, what w. are really dolng.
standing in Canadian boarde cf trado
of the. leading newspapers lu Ontario callid new chambers of commerce, wiiese importance
and
as the. the. successive congresses cf the. chambers of
my attention te the fact that, se far
cf
tariff affects the. products ef the. farm, or commerce Thie tiie empr wiil help te emtreaty bir.ed oaci government
pliasize.
the. breeder of herses and cattie, and aise te accept tii. chambersf' attestation of exmente, thnt there would be ne redaidoiln- *porters' certificates cf value, but the naturai
Canadian government's exstep will
thnt is, thnt the. maximum appies te tiiese tension cf b. tiieprnile te facilitate Angletus
articles. That la anether point Canadian trade under tii. preference.
particular
thnt bon, gentlemen who take an Interesi
I have taken the opportunlty cf calling
I notice
In thus matter sheuld consider.
the attention of my hon. friend the. Secreaise lu cables from 'London thnt tiiere te a
these very important stategreat variety cf opinion as te the exteni ttary of Itate to request ilm--and 1 do so
mente, and te
te whlcii thie concessions that are made In
respectfuliy-to brlng these facts under the
the tariff te the Frenchi nation npply tc
notice of those whe are more particularly
other nations with whlcii France le con
*respeneible for the. terme of thus treaty,
of the. F'nvoured
nected, through the. menue
order that h. and hie colieagues may bo
Nations Treaties. For instance, I wiI reni iu
enabled te inferm the. Senate, when the
ti
on, of these telegrame, and I amn doing
treaty le under coneideration, whether these
more te brlng it te the notice of my lion
and whetber the
friend than for the. purpoe cf cnvilling, e'r statements are correct
eextent te which it ls peinted out they apply,
of endenveuring te obtain an answer at thi Snamely, te sixteen or elghteen ether nations
present moment. This cnblegrami frou la correct.
London, December 1, rends as followsa, I do net object te the. extension of trade.
London, December «1.-Professer Hewinî -1arn net go!ag te argue the question beyend
secretary of tiie Tarif! Reform League, cir

84

SENATE

thbat, but It Is Important for us to k.now wlieither these concessions have been given un-der the treaty nlot only ta France, but to
other nations, without receiving anythlng
in return? 1 arn sure the han. Secretary
of State will nlot find fanit wlth me for
bringing this very Important matter under
bis notice lni this Informai way. 1 do nlot
expect that he ls prepared ta answer the
questions lnvoived ln the statements made
ln these cabiegrams tram Europe, nor do
1 expect him ta state what course the gov,ernment wIil pursue ln order ta give us the
Information I bave asked for in reference
ta tie duttes imposed upon Vie other articles ta which I have called attention.

not been clalmed, s0 we need nat bother
ourseives an Viat score. There are only
two or Viree ather countries, Rusa Is one
a! themn, and we have very littie trade with
The critics bn Great Britain who
them.
faveur reciprocal trade wlth Oa'inda, .support Mr. Chamberlaln's view that Great
BrItain should give a preference t(, Canada.
They, of course, are availing themoelves of
the occasion ta point ont what Great Bnltain la losing by not havlng bronght: about
a reciprocal tarif "In Calnadi, b~ut Viat Is
only a question of politicq, and we need
flot boVier aurselves with It. However, 1
shail cail Mr. Fielding's attention ta my
hon. frlend's pertinent remarks with neference ta the value It wonld be If the
nrEnch tariff as it now exiats-Vihat Is Vie
maximum and the minimtin--wene given
so that hon, gentlemen, when It «,mes up
for discussion, would know what advantage
It any, we wene really ,gettiiig

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have nat had Urne
or appartnty ta analyse the French treaty.
I was deferring Viat until the matter came
up for discussion before the Hanse of Cammono. I f ully appreciate the complaint that
the hon, gentleman first drew attention ta,
the omission ln the minimum and maxrimuma
French tarif ln defining the particular
Items of Canadian product that would be
entltled ta the benefit of the lower tarif
li France. I was under the Impression, not
havlng examined it, that Vie French tarif
was given on tie particular articles we are
receiving the benefit 0f. but 1 have nat verified that statement. If It has net been
supplied bn same othier part of the return.
I shail cail the attention of Mr. Fielding
ta It, and point out the very great advantage it wouid be ta any persan taking it np
ta know really what was the reductianwhat was the minimum tariff we were
getting the benefit af, because Viat Is really
Vie mast Important point. lI reference te
criticisms in England or elsewhere Viat
Canada was giving away very much and
receiving fia returna tram oVier countries
-entitled ta Vie favoured nation treatment,
If Vie hon. gentleman would study the trade
af Vie cauntries entitled ta Vie favaured
nation treatment, outside of France and
Ânstro-Hungary, he wauld Eind that we
really have fia trade whatever with Viem.
If my memary is correct 8witzerland was
'nat lncluded amoag the countries entitled
ta favaured nation treatment froin Canada.
For some time it was claimed Viat Spain
was entitled to ft, but an Investigation
same years ago, 1 came ta Vie conclusion
that Spain was not entitled ta It, and it bas
Non. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

SFINÂTE REFORM.
À QUB,$TION 0F PRIVILEGE.
Hon. Mfr. McSWEF>NEY-I sbauld like ta
cail Vie attention of Vie hon. senator from
Wolseley ta an article published ln Vis
mornlng's 'Citizen' ln regard ta Senate
reforin. It la alleged ta be an Interview
whlch firat appeared bn Vie Toronto 'News,'
and 1 st,auld lke ta know if Vie report is
correct or nat.Some hon. GENTLEMEN-Read, read.
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-The article is
as follows:.
IS DISGUSTED WITH SENÂTE.
Senatar Perley of Wolseley says plain things.
-No aigu of reform.-Says second Chamber is as partisan as Commans.
Toronto, December 10.-There is at least
one senaton who is thoraxghly disgusted with
the second Chamber at Ottawa, and who declares that the interests of the people demand
a radical change.
'The Senate at -present is a useless body,'
said Senator Perley. cf Wolseley, Sask., who
was ai the Walker hanse from Ottawa.
'You will not see any' refarmn this session
or next session eiher, in my opinion,' he
added.
'The primary function of the Senate is ta
protect Vie people against rash or hasty legislation. and ta be oi any use in this way it
must be independent. But it is not. It is as
partisan as the House of Commons.
'We amend the phraseology and grammar
af private Bille sent ta us fram the Lower

T)ECEMBER 11, 1907
Honse, and we introduce a few governîment
Bills. The work of the 83nate in the matter
iniof legislative activity conldl be freat1
creased, but that îe not the chiefwork for
which it is needed-to watch and revise careThis
the
fullyth legisiationdoofunder Commans. conthe present
it cannt properly
ditions. The senators are largely mcan who
have been defeated in politica or require to
lia laid off for some reason. They are natuirally gratef ni for their appointment ta the
Senate, and human nature strongly inclines
them ta support the government whichi appointed themn.
'There bas been fia independent action in
the Senate since Senator O'Donohue opposed
the Yukon Raiiway Bill.
'Wonld yon favour an elected Senate F'' hie
was asked.
'No, becanse'it would still be partisan.
Party politios have become a nuisance- and a
great evil in Canada. There shonld lie fia
party politics whatever in the provinces.
What !amfnity is there between Dominion
politics and provincial affaire F' hie asked.
The best solntion, in m opinion, ia ta
by samne Indehave the senators a paint
lie
pendentta tribunal. theThey wonid nat then
parties, and they wonld
ane of
bund
independenty
feel the obligation of acting
and solely in the public intereats.
«Sir John A. Maconald assnmd the right
enerai as ta apof advisixig the Governor
pointmente, but 1 do flot think there was
constitutional anthority for that. I think it
reste with the Governor General alone. In
that case hae conld obtain what adviQe hie
chose ia the matter of appointmaent, and could
act in an entirely independent way. As things
are now, the Sonate is not worth anything as
asafeguard on legislation.
Hon. Mfr. PF>RLEY-It la quite trne that
1 was in Toronto last Saturday. I dld not
seek an Interview wlth any newepaper man,
but a young man called on me ln the
Walker Hanse. He dld not knlow me, but
said hie saw that Senator Perley 'vas regiatered there, and hie hnd asked somebody ta
point me ont ta hlm. He came over and
interviewed mne ta same extent. I did fiat
keep any memo. of the Interview, and have
only rend. it over since my attention vas
called ta it to-day. I did not think, untit
I heard It rend by my hon. friend, that It
wanid sound so weli. There niay be some
slight inaccuracies, but it does not sonnd
bad. I *onld like ta ask the hou. gentleman lu what respect my remnrks appear
ta hlm objectianable?
Han. Mfr. McMULLEN-Thnt ls mot the
point.

Hon. Mfr. ELLIS-The hon, gentleman
0~ugbt to be careful about Toronto. I unlerstand that the last time hie was there
îe f el among thieves.
Hon. Mfr. PF1RLEY-It vas ln Hàmil:on, that I fell among thieves.
Hon. Mfr. ELLIS-It is flot really safe
te let the hon, gentleman go alone. I vas
very sorry to see the statement that my
lion. friend was disgusted.
Hon. lMr. PERLEY-I made no sncb
statement as that. 1 disclaim the headUnes entlrely.
Hon. Mfr. ELLIS-The hon. gentlemanl
said lie was nat feeling very welI la the
early part of the afternoon. It le very
easy to accaunt for bis condition.
Hon. Mfr. CLORÂN-There le one opinion expressed by the hon. gentleman ini
the Interview ini whiech I hope hie wil flot
perslet, because in the firat place It la an
Inmpeachment of the character and standing
of some of our greatest statesmen. Sir
John Macdonald neyer exercised any powers
that did not belong to hilm under the conenough ot
titution, and hiebad courage
toallov any governor ta Interfere witb
When the hon.
hIe constitutlonal rlghts.
gentleman from Wolseley says that Sir
John Macdonald assumed a right vhich did
not belong to hlm, he Is mletaken; hie took
1* under the constitution. Then we have
the case of the hon. senator from Hastings, when lie vas premier, Sir John
Thompson, Sir John Abbott, Mfr. M ackenzie and our present 'Prime Mînister. They
have ail followed the sanme patb and It
would -be a sorry day for this country If
one branch of this parlament were ta lie
named at the will of one man or on the
advice of one man, even If lie were the
Governor General himself.
Hon. Sir' MACKENZIE BOWELLr-It
would be a direct violation of the principles of responeible government.

Hon. Mfr. CLORÂN-Certaifly, and I
vould point ont aiso that the governor
adHon. Mfr. PERLEY-I do not sny 1* la cannot go outside of hie conetitutional.
wonld endorse visera for advice. The hon. senator from
a vei-batlm report, but I
had
alneteen-twentieths of it, and 1 belleve the Wolseley says that If His F>xcellency
an independent. commissio- -f ontside parcountry wonid endorse twenty-twentieths.

SEINATE
ties to advise hlm, we would have an Independent Senate that would be able te render service to tbe country. I have no doubt
that any body cf men norninated by His
Excellency wouid render service, but the
present metbod le quite along the lunes cf
our constitution, and the men who have
guided the destinies cf this country for the
past forty yearà have doue se without any
undue assumption of powers.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I hardiy thought the
Senate weuld treat this thlng seriousiy, because, atter ail, the way our hon. frlend
bas been Interviewed and the way he answered these questions put te hlm, tndicate
tbat lie rnust have :been labouring under n
delusion.
He cornplalned of slckness teday; I arn af raid he was net weli when lie
was in Toronto, because he bas forgotten
the record of the Senate.
He asserts that
there bas been ne Independent action on the
part of the Senate since It rejected the BIU
for the construction of the Yukon Rallway.
He forgets that for long years after that.
the party with whlch lie is allied were In
a majority In this House, and surely that
was not the only Instance cf lndependencs
on the part of bis friends In the -Senate.
They dld net go Into a dreamy state after
the Yuken BIhI was rejected.
The hon.
gentleman asks liow could the iSenate be.
independent wlien the men of whom It Io
composed are defeated candidates for the
Commoas?
How did the bon. gentleman
corne Into the Senate hîmself 7 He reslgned to make way for Mr. Dewdney who was
taken Into the cabinet.
He dld net corne
even because lie was defeated, but slrnply
tlirougli thie grace of Mr. Dewdney.
Hon. Mr. PIDRLEY-My successor was
elected by acclamation.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Tbere were twentyfive votes, perliaps, in the constituency, and
the whole trouble was my bon. friend was
afraid lie would not ýbe re-elected.
That
was bis ready way ef getting lnto the Senate.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Ne.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-M y hon. friead should
be careful about tlirewing stenes while lin
lives ln a glass bouse.

Hon. Mr. -GIBSON-oehe bon. gentieman
sliouid respect his position in this House.
If he would do se lie weuld respect the
other members of tlie House and net make
a laughIng stock of hlmself tlirough the
country.
An Interview ef this kind, cerning from an old member of the Senate,
casts a reflection upon this House.
If
he badl clalrned that lie had been improperly reported, there miglit be some excuse
perhaps for the enthuslasrn of tbe young
reporter wlie went to Interview this great
man at the Waiker Heuse.
The arrivai of
tbe hon, gentleman In Toronto was lieralded tbrougli Toronto, and the reporters went
to Interview hlm.
I bave always found
that tbe man wlie wanth te, be lnterviewed
gets an Interview wltbout trouble.
The
greatest trouble wltli statesmen of the
calibre of my lien. frlend. Is te keep away
frorn the Interviewer.
The hon. gentleman says that lie stands by nineteentwentietbs cf that Interview.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Hear, bear.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I presume the otiier
twentietli refers te lis opinion that 8orne
Independent body sliould have tlie power of
making appeintrnents te this House.
He
evën weuld leave the power cf appointment te the Governer General.
Does my
lion. friend net know that the Governor
General lias tlie riglit new te refuse the
recommendation of the Prime MinhLter,
Does lie want te supersede tlie power of
the goverament of the day te advise His
Excellency?
If thnt 'ceuld liappen we
weuld see an Independent iSenate along tho
Uinos and througli the spectacles of thp
lion. senator from Wolseley.
Thie eIder
members of this House sheuld net let tbe
matter drop, ta view of the agitation la the
country.
Fer the sake of a Ilttie cbeap
netorloty one cf is members lias pandored
te a sentiment whlcli exists In the country.
as we are lnformed by lien. mombors who
are very mucli alarmed cf public opinion.
Public opinion wIll respect us as we reI would feel asliamed te
spect ourselves.
beoeg te a body of mon wboso membors
fremr time te time condeman the Senate ef
Canada.

Hon. Mr. PEDRLEY-I do not live ln a
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Tlie headiue of
glass bouse in that respect.
that. article wblch lias been queted is net
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

JANUARY 22, 1908
mine, and It le tbe oniy part of the pub- S USPENSION 0F RULDS AND ORDERS
0F THE SENATE.
'lile
lehbed Interview whlch I dlsclim.
have
MOTION.
hon, gentleman from Welland mlght
toid us ln hie voluminous speech in whicb
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS moved;
he attempted to, be sarcastic, in wbat reTo amend section 128 of the Rules and Orspect my statements are untrue, 80, f ar asd Lere of the Senate, that ail Bills reported by
he Standing or Special Committees be comlie himself le concerned.t
aitted to, a Cominittee of the Whole House.
The Senate adjourned until January 22
He said: The reason for asking a change
at 3 p.m.
tf this kind arises from the tact that very
citten private Bills are rushed througli with
good deai of despatch, and gentlemen who
ire not upon these committees bave to
share the respousibillty of passing sucli
THE SENATE.
Bills witbo;t having the opportunity of
OTTAWA, Wednesday, January 22, 1908
hearing the discussions upon them, unles
convenor or
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three some statement is made by the
chairman of the committee as to the nao'ciock.
ure of the change that bas been nmade lu
Prayers and routine proceedings.
he BIil It may simply be a single clause,
or a single word, and it may not be necesDISMISSAL 0F THOMAS WILLIAMS.
sary to detain the House by golng into
INQUIRY.
Commlttee of the Whole, but we ought at
Ieast to have n statement from the chairHon. Mr. DOMVILLE inquired:
man of each committee, as to the nature
Whether Thos. Williams, late accountant of the change that Is made la each case.
of the Intercolonial Railway, je
and treasurer
stili in the emploi' of the Interoolonial Rail- and some explanation as to the ef!ect of
way; if so, in what capacîty, and at what the change that bas been made.
If rule
salari' ?
128 Le- reversed to allow every committee
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The anewers to the before making a report to the House to have
bon. gentleman's questions are as followe: lts report cônsidered ln (Jommlttee of tbe'
Thomas Williams is stillinl the employ of Whole, then we should have an opportuthe Intercolonial Railway, in the Accoun- nity of making sucli criticisme as any memtant's Branch, speciaiiy engaged as ac- ber mlght be dlsposed to make. The argucountant, ta checking up the Grand Trunk ment against this ie perhaps very largeiyaccounts on the joint section, the work a question of tinie. According to statebeing necessary in consequence of thé ar- mente made in the press and ln the flouse
bitrators' award againet teat company; hie of Gommons, we are a leleurely body and
have ample tilne to do our work and shopild
salary being $2,700 per annum.
take Urne to do it. We might extend the
Urne a little In this case. It le ieft at preSENATE REFORM.
sent to the judgmeut of the Senate; otherThe order of the day being calied
wise a private Bill coming froni a standThat when the question of the reforma or ing committee le not committed to a comabolition of the Senate je taken into consideration, as- suggested, the beet meane by mittee of the whoie House. I amn under
which the waste of time may b. saved and the the impression that the practice, of the
cost of legielation reduced in another place, House of Commone is just the opposite to
and the Senate empowered ta do more work
in the proper time, b. also considered.
that of the Senate, and that ail Bils are
referred to a committee of the whoie House.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Ae the motion of te
It le for this House to determine whether
hon, gentleman from Wellington covers the
this le a reasonabie request or otherwise.
same ground as mine, I give preference
What I wlsh to impress on the flouse is,
to hie motion and mine wiil be allowed to that It would be a special benefit to a large
stand.
number of senators, and in liue witb the
practice of the flouse of Commons. I have
allowed to stand.
The motion was

88

SENATE

no desire to find fauit with the rapidity witli THE MEMBERSHIP 0F THE STANDING COMMITTEES.
whicb -we do business, but it ivould -inspire
confidence ln our legisiation If we
greater
The notice of motion bieing called:
gave more time to the consideration of
By the Hon. Mr. DAVISeacli Bill as lt passes tlirough our bands.
That subclause 5 of Rule 78 bie amended s0
Hon. Mr. POWER-I did flot think It as to increase the number of Senators to
serve on the Standing Committee on Railways,
was altogether courteous to lnterrupt the Telegraphs and Harbours, from 50 to 55.
lie began to speak,
bon. gentleman when
And further to amend subclause 3 of Rule
but any one who looks at rule 29 wll see 78 to increase the number of Senators to serve
Standing Committee on Standing Orthat the hon, gentleman lias not taken the on the
ders from 9 to 12.
proper course ln movlng to have the standHon. Mr. WILSON,1At the request of
No notice lias been
ing orders nltered.
given to senators to attend at the session; the bon. senator ini wliose name this notice
sucli notice Is absolutely nece9sary If we stands, I move that the order be dropped.
Before leavlng the House lie desired me
wlsli to alter a standing order.
to say that this course sliould be taken as
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-I requested that lie hnd no intention of golng on any furthe usual notice sliould be given ln this ther wit l t
case, and I do flot thlnk It can be put aside
exactly on that account. I remember
THE QUEBEC BRIDGE.
distinctly wlien I gave notice that I would
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
move ln this direction, I asked that the
The notice of motion being called:
usual notice be given to the members of
the House, and I have delayed It, I may
By the Hon. Mr. LANDRY:say7 also, ln order that lion. senators might
That he wil.l inquire of the government1. What amount of money has each of the
have ample opportunity to consider the
present directors of the Quebec Bridge and
question.
Railway Company really paid into the capital
stock of the said company P
The SPEAKER-I remember the hon.
2. On what date did each of these directors
gentlemani maklng that remark, but I have make each of his payrnents ?
3. Have any among these payments or inmast lnqulred fromn the clerk of the House stailments been made by means of promissory
been notes or of nnaccepted cheques ?
and lie states that notice bias not
4. By whom individualiy, and for whaf
sent out to senators, so I would ask thie
amount, eacb one ?
lion. gentleman to postpone bis motion to
5. What amiount of mnoney has each of its
directors received from the Quebec Bridge
a further day.
Company and front the Quebec Bridge and
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-I do- flot know Railway Company up to this date, directly or
indirectly, personally or otherwise P
whetlier I would be ln order or any one
6. For what services rendered was each of
else, ln movlng that ln vlew of the fact these amounts paid P
present secretary re7. How
that notice lias flot been given, the House ceived outmuch lias the of the company since
of the funds
to stand over until such hie lias been in the service thereof P
permit this motion
8. Does the government know that subsetime as notice be given-say Tdlesday next.
quently to the coîlapse of the Quebec bridge,
following the
few days
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I sliouid lUke to withîn a the bridgeimmediutelyvoted a bonus
company
disaster,
can of $3,000 to its president P
Inquire If the officer of the House
9. Out of what funds was the ainount of
Issue sncb a notice wlthout a motion that
I sliouid think tbere this bonus raised P
the notice Issue?
10. Did the company, on the saine occasion,
ought to be a motion that notice be sent vote any amount whatsoever to aid the families of the victims of that disaster ?
to the members.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn advised that this
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It wili be in order for
the lion, gentleman wlio bas placed thls Information Is being obtained, but It willl
notice on the paper to move that the not be ready for a few days.
House be summoned under rule 29, for
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose we shaIh
Tuesday next.
haqve to adjourn for another tliree weeks
The motion was nrneuded and adopted.
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS.

or a month.

JANUARY 22, 1908

89

Hon. Mr. COMEAU moved that the moHon. Mr. SCOTT-I have gîven the hon.
Information I have received. tion be adjourued until Tuesday next, and
gentleman the
spectal
Bon.Mr.LANDY-WII he bn. en-that the senators be convened ln
.
cndrthsa
tleman tell us on what day the answersseio
The motion was agreed to.
will be given?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I cau only obtain tlue
information through a particular department, and 1 amn quite willing to admit that
they are flot very prompt lu furnlshiug the
The same complaint le made Iu
terms.
1 gave notice
the House of Commons.
some time ago to have thîs Information
furnished.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-WIlI this day week
satisfy the hon. gentleman?7

JAPANESE IMMIGRATION.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I beg to lay on the
table a communication fromn Japan agreeiug to restrict emigration from that counIt Is a communication by
try to Canada.
Minlater of Foreign Affalrs ln Japan
the
to the government of Canada through Mr.
-Lemieux, who was recently deputed to attend at Tokio for the purpose of arranging
for either a cessation or a reduction cf

it Is dated
emigration fromn that country.
Bon. Mr. SCOTT-I wll do my best to December 23, 1907, and reads as follow:obtaln the Information In that time. Tbat
Tokio, December 23, 1907.
Io the only auswer I eau give hlm.
Monsieur le Ministre,Iu reply to your note cf even date, I havé
THE EXPOUT 0F PUIJP 'WOOD.
the honour to state that althLough the existing
treaty between Japan and Canada absolutely
INQUIRY.
guarantees te Japa *nesesubjects full liberty te
enter, travel and reside in auy part of the
Dominion cf Canada, yet it is not the intenHon. Mr. BAIRD Inquired:
government to insist upon
In view of the large amount of pnlp wood tion of the imperial
eujoymeut of the rights and
being annually shipped from Canada, have the complete
guaranteed by tb.ose stipulations
they considered the advisabiiity of levying an priviieges would involve disregard of special
when that
expert duty P
conditions which may prevail in Canada from.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The matter Is under time te time.the spirit and having particular
Acting lu
consideration.
regard te circumastances of recent occurrence
WORKS FOR THE GENERAL ADVANTAGE 0F CANADA.
MOTION POSTPONED.

in British Columbia, the imperial goverament
have decided to take efficient means to restrict
emigration te Canada. In carryiug ont this
purpose, the imperial government. in pursuauce of the pelicy above stated, will give caref ul consideration te local conditions prevailing in Canada, with a view te meeting the
desires of the geverumeut cf the Dominion as
far as is compatible with the spirit of the
treaty and the dignity of the state.
Âlthough, as stated lu the note under reply
it was net possible for me te acquesce in ai
of the proposais made by you on behaif of the
Canadian geverumeut, I trust that you will
find in the statement herein made proof cf the
earuest desire of the imperial gevernment to
promote by every means within their power,
the growth and stability of the cordial and
mutually beneficial relations which exist between our countries. I venture te believe,

The notice of motion being called:
By the Hon. Mr. COM'EAU:That the followi ,ng be made a standing rule
of the Senate, namely :
When a standing committee or a special
committee reports recommending the passing
of a Bill containing a declaration that a
work or undertaking is for the general advantage cf Canada, or for the advantage of
two or more cf the provinces of Canada, the
report shall state the grounds on which the
committee have decided thiat the declaration
fciund
should be made, and shall contain a summary also that thîs desirable result wiflbybethe ful
materially
cf the evidenceor reasons for aud against the te have been views which advanced
has taken place beexehange cf
making of the declaration.
tween us, and it gives me special pleasure te
>acknowledge the obligation under which I have
The SPEAKER-As I understand, nc
been placed by your franlc and considerate
notice has been laaued to the memberi explanations regarding the attitude and
convening them spec*ahaly to niake thîs neN; wishes of your. goverument.
1Iavail Mysel,&,&c.,
I would suggest to thi
standing rifle.
(Sgd.) TÂDASU HIAYASHII.
bon. gentleman that he adjourn his motioi The Honourable Rodolphe Lemieux,
Postmaster General and Minister of Launtil Tuesday and that he move that thi
bour fer Canada, Tokio.
senators be conveued.

SENATE
In laying this paper on tbe table, possibly the House might desire that some
explanation shouid be given of the circumstances that led to the selection of Mr.
Lemieux as a delegate to Japan for the
purpose of coming to some arrangement
In reference to the emigration from tiiat
empire.
It wiil be wlthin the knowledge
of hon. gentlemen that In 1894 and 1895i
a treaty was signed between the United
Kingdom and Japan, granting certain commercial prIvileges to each country. As is
usuaiiy the custom In a treaty of that sort,
the outslde portions of the empire were
communicated with, and the government of
tbat day were aslred whether it was their
desire that Canada sbould unIte and nccept the then contemplated treaty. A gond
deal of correspondence took place betw-ýýii
our predecessors and the colonial office On
the subject, and more particularly on the
subject of restricted Immigration, which
seemed to be really the point of differencft
The governinent of that day pressed very
strongly that although the treaty wouid
gîve the Japanese Vie rilht to reside la
Canada, yet the treaty should be rend as
being subJect to any laws Canada mlght
make restrictiug Immigration generaily.
That was the condition et the time of
the change of government In 1896.
When
Vie subject came before the present administration, it was decided Viat owing to
Vie uncertainty that surroundéd the question, and particularly the uncertainty as
to the countries which wouid sbare ln the
favoured-nations clauses in that treaty, lt
was better to decline, and so we notified
Vie colonial office some montbs after the
change of government that Canada declined to participate In any of the benefits Vie
treaty might give.
As years went on lt
became apparent that the United States
was securing a very favourable trade with
Japan, and a treaty had been made with
that country. In 1903, Canada -was invited
to take part ln an exhibition held at Tokio.
We sent a pretty large exhibit of the products of our country, and It rather cantured the Japanese.
It was Vie best outside foreign exhibition Viat was on view
at that time.
Mr. Fisher was Vie member
of Vite government that represented Canada on that occasion,

and lie was enter-

tained, and returned blghly pleased with
Honi. Mr-. SCOTT.

the desire of Vie Japanese for dloser commnication withi Canada.
Tbe difficulty
even at that tîme we found was this question of Immigration. The Japanese were
then coming Into British Columbla, flot ln
very large numbers, but stIfl eacb year ln
increasing numbers, and so we represented
that Viat was a serions Impediment In the
way of our adopting Vie treaty In Its enHowever, Japan haît a year or
tirety.
two before that passed a law of ber own
inere motion, restrlcting the emigratlon
from Japan, and requirlng that ail Japanese golng abroad should secure passports
to Vie particular countries Viat Viey proi)osed settling lu.
The number was restricted. I canuot exactly give the figures
now, but Viere were somewhere about fifty
provinces In Japan, and It -was twentytive or fifty from each province.
I arn not
qulte sure of the number, but Vils restriction was adopted by the Japanese Diet,
which, Viey represented, was a safeguard
that any country migbt accept which had
any fear 0f Japanese Immigratiton assuming too large proportions.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Was that per annum?

Hon. P4r. SCOTT-Oh yes, so many per
annum, I cannot give you Vie figures for
that. However, Mr. Nosse, who was et
that time representing Japan here, but who
is not in Canada at the present moment,
tad raVier wider powers Vian a consulat least It was considered so.
The Japanese had no oVier r.epresentative lu Canada Vian ber consul general, Mr. Nosse. A
correspondence was had with him lu whichi
lie -was invited to state to wbat exterit
Japan would go ln Vie way of restrictlug
emigration lu the event of Canada enterlug
into any arrangements for the application
of Vie existing treaty wiVi Great Britain,
or any other treaty.
It wiil be seen froin
the correspondence

w-bat took place.

1

will not weary the House with reading ail
of It, but wiii sinipiy refer to certain portions. * So far back as January, 1903, the
premier sent Vhis communication te Mfr.
'Tosse:
I inclose a statenient which 1 have just received froni the Deputy Minister of Trade and
Commerce with regard to Japanese immigration to Canada. The total auniber from July,
1901, to Julie, 1902, was 563. According to my

JANUARY 22, 1908
information this number is larger than the
new legislation adoptad lately by the.Japanese
Wauld you kindly
government permitted.
explain ta me how this was done, and also
the numbar of
giv me an officiai statement cf
3apaelnese allowed to immigrate ?
Since the passing of tise legisiation abave
referred ta, Mfr. Nasse answered that:
In answer ta your inquiry as te why so
large a number of Japanese wera ailowed ta
emigrate ta Canada during the past year or
so, I beg ta say that the Japanese government
has been restricting for more than the -last
two years, the issuing cf new passports ta al
intending emigra7nts ta Canada. It is total
and absolute restriction, and there is net any
limitad number allowed for each year as you
have stated. The only Japanese who are ailowed ta leave Japan, under the present system, for Canada are:
1. Those who hold passports and also cartificates for the Japanese consul at Vancouver
certifying that they are residents in Canada
and only returning ta Canada.
2. The families of Japanese resideuts in Canada coming eut ta join them, upan appreval
cf the Japanesa consul at Vancouver.
3. The merchants and students duly qualified.

ports were to Hawaii. Under the terms of
he treaty we were powerless ta Interfere
wlth their Ianding, because the treaty expressly stated that the natives of each country sbould be .free to corne and go; no restricti6ns whatever. They were at liberty
ttravel through the country without any
limitation as to time and number, and the
attention of .lapan was calied ta this fact.
They said they were utterly powerless and
could flot inter! ere with the [apanese after
they had, left Hawaii and camue ta
Canada. Then bon. gentlemen wiil recolleet that the Immigration increased ln verY
large volume until it reacbed saeue or eight
thousand. It la quite true that 3,000 of
those Immigrants subsequently wvent ta the
United States, stili. It left an unduly large
niumber in British CJolumbia, much ta the
anayanca flot only of the labour element
there, but of the citizens generaily, and It
bacame necessary that something should be
doRe. Matters culmiated ln the month of
Septembar or October when the rlating took
place ln Vancouver when -a great deal of
fjhlnese and Japanese property was desit was then declded that a deletroyed.
gate should go ta Japan and ascertain from
that government whether Japan was willing ta adopt such rules and regulations as
would absolutely check, the emlgratioli
fram that country ta British Columbia and
Canada. A minute of council was therefore
passedl ln the foilowing words:
The Rt. Hon. Sir Wilfrid Laurier recommends that in view of the recent unfertunate occurrences which- have taken place in
British Columbia, as a resuit of the larirely
increased influx of oriental labourers into
that province, and in view of the f act that

In February e! that year, he writes to
Sir Wilfrid Laurier, who asked for more
particulars:
In answar ta yaur faveur cf yesterday's
date, in referenca ta the number cf Japanase
allowed ta immigrate from J«apan ta Canada,
1 beg leave ta state that prier te the f ail of
1900, the number cf hier passparts issued ta
Japanese emigrants for Canada used ta be
about flfty per month, but since then the Japanese government have wholly stopped the
issuance of new passperts ta any intending
provision of
emigrat far Canada. under a and no passthe igrtatian Protection Law,
ports are, therefore, issued at present. ta the
new emigrants except ta the marchants, students and taurîsts, duly justified. It is, therefora, practically the total restriction, an the
part cf the Japanese government cf the emigratian of their people ta Canada. The sys- there has been a treaty of Peace and Comtem is mest rigidly observed in Japan, as merce between His Majesty the Ring and the
every passanger is examined an lioard the Emperor of Japan since the year 1894, and
steamer priar ta hier departure, and thase wha that Canada became a party ta that treaty
are found without passports are ordered back less than two years ago, the Hon. Rodolphe
on shore by the police authorities, under the Lemieux, Postmaster Generai and Minister
penalty cf heavy fine.
of Labour, do procead immediately ta Japan
to discuss the situation with His Majesty's
Other communications followed durlng ambassador at Tokia and the. Japanese authe abject by friendly means
that year 1903. Mr. Nasse, wbo was then at thorîties, with the recurrence of snoh causes
cf preventing
Vancouver, seems ta have assumied that be- as might disturb the happy relations which
cause thse law ln Japan required tliat pass- have under the said treaty. axisted between
subjecta of His Majesty the King in Canparts be issued before the emigrants left the and elsewhere, and t he subjects of His
ada
went ta the Majesty the .Emperor cf Japan.
Japan, that necessarli they
reon
The committee concurringnth
cauntry- for wbich those passports were
recommandation, submit the samne for apReally that was net the fact proval.
prepared.
Thse inmîidation that came from Japan durIt became necessary, o! course, taget Mr.
ing thse early part of last year camne through
at Japan
Hawaii to I3ritisli Columbia. Their pass- Lemieux accredited in the court

SEINATE
and therefore a communication was sent
to the colonial office settlng forth the obiect of Mr. Lemieux's commission, and that
was answered by the followlng cable from
Lord Elgin to Lord Grey, London, October 17, 1907:
[CableJ.
LORD ELGIN TO LORD GREY.
London, 17th October, 1907.
Referring to your telegram of the 1Mt October as time does not permit of sending you
formai letter of introduction for Mr. Lemieux,
the Secretary of State for Foreign Af airs
proposes to send following teiegram to His
Majesty's Ambassador at Tokio, begins,
Canadian Governmeet with approval of H.
M. Goverament has decided to send the
Honourable R. Lemieux, Postmaster General
and Ministerof Labour, to Japan by steamer
leaving Vancouver 28th October to discuss
question of British Columbia with Your Excellency and Japanese Government with object
of preventing recurrence of such events as
migit disturb f riendlv relations nbetween His
Maiesty's sub ect nCnd
lehr
lehr
n
aud those of japau n Cnd
Inforra Japanese Government and present
Mr. Lemieux who wili be accompanied by Mr.
Joseph Pope, Under Secretary of State, te the
proper authorities on arrivai and assist them
in every way. Ends.
Teiegraph whether you concur in proposed
action.
(Signed.)
ELGIN.
The answer is:
FROM LORD GREY TO LORD ELGIN.
Ottawa, 22nd October, 1907.
In answer to your telegram of l7th Octeber,
Japanese Mission, Dominion Government concur in action proposed.
(Signed.)
GREY.
Foilowlng up that introduction, Mr.
Lemieux took passage for Japan, where
he spent five or six weeks or more
dlscusslng' this subject, and finaily succeeded In obtalning from the 'Minister
of Foreign Affaira the letter, mhlcb
I read when introduclng this subject
to the House, giving an assurance that
Japan wouli of ber own mere motion take
mensures to stop the migration of Japanese
to British Columbia or to Canada in numbers that would be dlsagreeable or opposed
to tee vlews of tee -Canadian people. Japan
naturally was opposed to maklng any formai agreement teat woula in any way Interfere with the treaty, and so the best
teat could be done was to accept this assutrance leaving. of course, the Canadian govHon. Mr. SCOTT.

ernment f ree to deai with Japanese coming
from countries oteer than Japan. So far
as tee labourers enterlng British Columbia
under coatract from the Hawallatn Islands
are concerued, our own Alien Labour Act
would enable us to defeat any Immigration of teat sort, and tee authorities aud
the ship-owners of Sandwich Islands and
oteer ports on tee Pacifia bave already been
advlsed teat Japanese, exceptlng those ailowed under tee treaty-teat ls professional
men, merchants, students and travellers,wou<I not be allowed to land in Canada.
It
ra
eported tee other day teat n vessel
%viten vcry large numb-r of Japanese w-ns
arrlving la British Columbia and tbat the
Japanese were not permitted to land. The
Ewjiire of Japan seem8 to bave a very
considerable control over its people and
tee Japanese authorities at Tokio satisfied
Mr. Lemieux teat wheu they came to te
conclusion to restrict tels Immigration they
found ways and mens of accomplishlng
It, se teat teey could give the assurance
tent we have received. This summer will,
of course, prove wheteer teey are successful Ia restrlcting the emigration of
their people or not. It would be rateer a
source of regret If other mens had been
aduîted, because tee trade uetween Japan
and Canada la year by year tecreaslng and
Is lik;ely to Increase more Iu tee future, and
the feeling of tee people of Japan, 1 may
say, la more friendly, w1th Canada, tean
-wlth tee United States; teerefore It would
be regrettable if tee agreement should nlot
be carried out lu Its entlrety. As far as
one cau. gateer from tee correspondence
that bas passed, and the statements that
bave been made by Mr. Lemieux in anoteer place, It seems that he Is quite satIsfied wite tee siacere expressions of the
Japanese to restrlct tee emigration of their
people. They seem 'to have more control
people than most nations have,
over ter
and that Is exempltfied by their giving persons who propose ienvlng the country passports for a particular place, and It is a
penal off ense If they go to a country other
than the one uamed lu te?-passport. Wlth
these observations, I teink we may express tee conviction teat no such Incident
wili occur again as bappened last year
-wheu unduly large numbers of Japanese ar-

JANUARY 22, 1908
rived dux Britishi Columbia. The largest
bodies tbat have corne in Vie paat bave corne
under contracta witx particular companies
that profeased to supply labour for Vie
rallways, Vie mille, the mines, and other
industries in Britishx Columbia.
LabouLr
comlng ln frorn countries outalde of Japan
under contract can be abaoluteiy stopped
under our law, and it la tierefore believed
that Vie mission of Mr. Lemieux wlll be a
success. However, trne will tell. The next
four or five montxa will furnlsh evidence,
and I hope It; wil be ahown Viat Vie Jàpanese were flot only sincere ln their proposai but Viat Viey have taken measurea
to rnake their proposai effective.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-The explanation
muade by my hon. friend the Secretary of
State seema iacking ln that definiteness
wli whlch Vie House should be acquainted.
I cannot appreclate, from the oba 'rvations whIch have fallen from my hon.
friend, what Vie policy of Vie goverument
reaily la upon his question.
Are we to
understand Viat It la 'opposed to Vie Immigration of Japanese, or favourable to the
free immigration of Japanese Into our country?
Whether we are to have freedom
or restriction In Vie matter of Japane8ie
Immigration?
One Viing la quite apparent from hia remarks, and Viat la Viat Vie
government cannot be absolved from responslbllty for Vie difficulties whlch have
aV~eady arisen.
Assuming, as we lare
bound to assume from Vie recent attitude
of the government, Viat Viey are opposed
to Vie unrestrlcted Immigration of Japanese, Vien we muet concinde Viat Vie gov,ernment were not blamelesa ln analysing
and lnvestlgating Vie provisions of Vis
treaty.
Prevîous to Vie adoption of the
treaty the attention of Vie government hail
been dlrected to Vis ver> important question, but It la quite apparent from Vie
communications between Vie Prime Minlater and Vie representative of Japan ln
Canada that thls government was opposed
to Vie unrestrlcted Immigration of Japanese, and conaequently entered tato Vie
communications which my hon. frIend bas
read.
It seema extraordinary, however,
ln that vlew of Vie case Viat Vie government of Canada, shouid reiy simpiy upon
a atatute of Vie Japanese government dealing wlth the restriction of Immigration. In

view"of entering Into the treaty, it le idie
to say that any law on the statute books
of Japan could possibly affect the treaty.
The leglalation could be repealed or modifled from Urne to Urne, and It certalnly ta
no guarantee to the people of Canada that
the Japanese wHI continue to Impose a restriction upon the emigration of their people to Canada.
After the passage of tie
treaty It was possible for fixe Japan goverument to repeal or modify their statute
In regard to emigration.
Now, ln fixe face
of public attention having been <iirected
to thia important question and assumlng
the policy of fixe goverament to be as I
have indlcated, namely opposed to the Immigration 0f.Japanese labour to thia couiitry, the goverument have deliberateiy entered Into a treaty wlth Japan by whlch
the subjects of tlxat country are placed ln
preclsely fthe same position with reference
to their freedom of entering into the Dominion as the cîtizens of Canada theniselves, and Lt la ldie for my bon. friend
to talk about the Allen Labour Law restricting ln any way the Importation of
Japanese labour ln the face of tlxat treaty.
My hon. friend muet very well know, not
oniy as a lawyer but as a statesman of
many years standing, that lni the f ace* of
the broad and unrestricted language 'of
that treaty, our allen labour laws could not
be brought Into operation.
We find that
fixe Canadian government, after dlscoverlng
fixe mistake which they bad made ln giving Vie Japanese an unrestrIcted rlght to
enter our country, sending a representative
to Japan, and are now expressing satisfaction at the assurances that have been
given by fixe Japanese government. My
bon. friend was very careful not to give
the -House the Information to whlch they
are really entitled, 1 thlnk, namely, wh-it
are the proposais that were submltted by
Vie representative of Canada to Vie government of Japan, and to whlch proposais
fihe goverument of Japan lnx plain ianguage
said they could not acquiesce.
Can my
hon. friend. now say what those proposais were?7 It can be no satisfaction to
his House or to Vie people of Canada to
bave an assurance couched ln Vie mont
diplomatie and dlgnied language from a
forelgn government, saylng Viat due reguard must be paid to their dignlty and
that otherwise due consideration will be

SENATE
such treaties. and for thls resson: W'e took
-the position that we knew not what moement it mlght be necessary for this country to enter luto some reciprocal or other
relations wlth forelgu countries -wltl reference ta trade sud commerce, sud we felt
that If we became a party to treaties Into
whieh the Imperial government had entered, we would be deprlving ourselves cf the
autonomy ivhich we clairned belonged te
this country. It would result ln our not
beiug able ta enter Into trade relations wlth
foreigu countries lu auy part of the 'world
wlicn It might be ta our advautage to do so.
We acted upon that policy with regard to
ail the treaties eutered Into for a great
number of years. I may add that dlmfculties arose lu reference to the favoured nations dlaim iu the differeut treaties, and
that a desire was expressed by the late
goverumeut ta have the treaties betweeu
Hon. Sir 31ÂCKENZIE BOWLL-May BrItain- sud Germany, Belgium snd many
I ask the lion. Secretary of State If lie other countries by which Canada was bound
proposes ta lay that correspondence be- and -which preveuted us fram eutering into
tween the members of the gaverumeut sud preferential relations with the mother countlie Japanese consul general of Canada, try, abrogated. Having thst pollcy lu view
on the table, lu arder that we msy have sud kuowing tee difficulties which had preni opportunity of resding it? I ask that sented 'themselves on mauy occasions -whcn
t:' ause sO msny statements have been we desired to extend aur ti-ade or make
mnade as -;, the chartieter of that corres- aur relations w.lth the mother couutry more
roude-ice «:l'at 1 thukij Ji iq well Ir the ln- lberal, we refused on ail occasions ta beteret of the goverument as weli as8 of the came parties ta those treaties. If my hon.
w o should know the -contents friend refers to tee treaty 110W under conrubýic tit
of those dqcuetniits. My hou. frieud. kuaws sideration, he wlll fIud tbat tee 19th clause
thit It lis t-een stated that Mr. Nosse provides that:
The stipulations of the present treaty shall
niad. c(-rtaii promises to the government
ail
isws permit
so
the treaty which lias be applicable audf ar as the possessi6us oftaHer
befare they accepted
foreigu
the colonies
been entered iuto between Great Britain Britanuic Mai esty exceptiug thase hereafter
ta say
and Japan. I thiuk it would be lu the lu- named, that is Canada, exoept ta India, the
Newfanndland, the
Dominion of
terest of the government as well as the Cape, Natal, New South Wales, Victoria,
public that we should know exactly what Queensland, Tasmania, South Âustralia, Westthat correspoudence le. I wisli te state ln ern Ânstralia, New England.
Then It goes on to enumerate tee differconnection. with the acceptauce of tresties
eutered luto between the home goverumeut eut countries, and the next clause proaud differeut countrles, that the late gov- vides:
Provided always that the stipulations of the
erumeut of Canada hadl a decided and positreaty shail be made applicable ta
poiicy. I speak with certaiuty on that present the above named colonies or foreigu
tive
auy of
question, because as Minister of Tral( possessions on whose behaif notice te, that
effect shahl
aud Commerce correspoudence relatiug te *goverunent have beau giveu ta the Japsuese
by Hier Britannic Majesty's reprethese treaties wss generally referred ta sautative at Tokio within two years from the
My departmeut for consideration, and, ex- *date of the exchange of ratifications of the
*present treaty.
cept ln a very few Instances of m1nor ligoveru- *Before tee two years had exýpired te
portance, affccting some outlying
government became a party ta the
we laid dowi ipresent
ments in the enst
tc provisions sud conditions of test treatY.
the principle of neyer becoming a party
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED.

given to the local conditions ln C~anada.
Surely there must be-some communication
f rom Japan sent by the Canadian representative to this government at the time
these negotiations were discussed, or there
must have been some matters discussed
whlch could nlot be acquiesced ln by te
goverument of Jsipan, witiiaut being too
Inqulsitive at the present mament-because
probably dnring the session we shall have
more information given us on this question, yet, 1 should like the goverument to
WVhlle
furnish the Information indicated.
the Information already given
appreciatiug
by my hon. friend I must Day It was te
duty of the governmeut ta apprise us to a
mucli larger extent of the nature of the
proposais and of the relations between the
empire of Japsu aud the Dominion of Canada ou tMs Important question.

JANUARY 22, 1908
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Mr. Nosse had
Thesp
nothlng to do wlth the matter.
proposais were made direct to the goveroWhat are the proposais
ment of Japan.
*Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEILL-I arn referred to ln that letter?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Doeh the hon. gentlereading the treaty that the present goverfiment accepted. The original treaty was ln man suppose tuxat the diplomatic -relations
1894, and that was the treaty to whlcli my between two countries are conducted ln
Does lie suppose that the paphon. frlend called attention when the cor- that way?
respondence took place with the late gov- ers dlscussed from day to day or from
erunent; but the present treaty was rati- week to week are ever given to the pubfied by this goverument la 1907. The date lie? They are thrown Into the fire whenThere could be
of ratification at Tokio was Juiy 12, 1906 the parties do flot agree.
Many
That was the late amended treaty. 1 no- no good resuit from keeplng them.
were made on both sides. It
maingthî exiq.a-propositions
ticd wieilieiva
tion that he was confuslng the original probabiy would be looked upon as higbly
treaty of 1894 with the treaty to, whlch improper by the government of Japan to
the goverament now la power became n submlt those proposais, to parliament. They
party, and that in why 1 bave taken the are very sensitive lni matters of that kind.
liberty of calling attention to the factsas~ The final settiement is the one 1 read to
tliey reaily exist so that any attempt made the House, the letter from the Forelgu
to fasten on the late governmeflt, the ratifi- Secretary, sud what we have to do Io to
cation of that treaty or the consequences accept bis assurance as the best we could
The treaty cau
which resulted from the ratification of it get-ail we could get.
to which my hon. friend called attention, be denounced by*givlng six rnontlis notice,
0f course
I whieb te a very short time.
le not ln accordance with the facts.
thouglit It well, la defence of the late gov- If Jfapan negiected, or refused to carry out
erament, to, let the House kno'w precisely the stipulations, then the larger question
what our stated policy. was on ail those would necessarlly corne up for considerato
questions. I sliould be very glad If my tion; but so far as 1 have been able
wlll consent to lay on the table gather from the correspondence and nelion. frlend.
e ln
the correspondence te which I have called gotiations golng on, 1 thlnk I arn saf
sayteg that we may place the fullest conof which lie bias rend.
attention, portions
assurances given by Japau.
COT-1 itendd t laythefidence lu the government Is stecereiy desirHon.Mr.
Hon.Mr.
COT-1 ttendd t laytheThe Japanese
letters from whicli I have read extracta, ous to, relieve us from the annoyance creaton the table. I have no obJection to fur- ed by this large Influx of Japanese. Now,
wlth reference to the other question brought
nlshing the whoie corresporidence.
corre- up by the hon. senator from Hastings, he
Hon.Mr.LOUGHIEED-Is the
i
e
iudrto
spondence now compiete? Certain prop>bssmwa
governrents of Canada for the iast forty
by the
sitions were apparently submltted Iperalvears have steadlly refused when the ImCanaianrepesetatve o te
ictpen t periai government was makîng treaties
to he
Cavendia neprsetativ
to wlth other countries, to be bound. In the
goerurncene diascn theigresrtion
arly days before confederation tliey dld
My
b
Immigration.
Jaansera
bon plced ongh
often. A treaty
asert b referenc tho not asic our leave very
fredernlh
lio.e
would read: 1And the colonies or butre tha thos
protoser leter wlc ejd lias
lylng parts- of the empire.' Bince conraaee
td
wer rt he oen eprsenta-h
prooas
apnes
tîvs f te gveruintsal teyfed1eration we have assumed to have a
sare
oc lnshmatr,-nd
could not acquisce ln those proposais. Are
proposais contalned ln the corre- suit ail governments bave objected to
those
lie lncluded in the Imperil treaties. The
spondence that ls now before us?
went a step further.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oli no, Mr. Nosse present governmellt
They xindertook to denounce and dld sueliad nothing whatever to do 'wlth the necessfuliy denounce treateý, with two coungotiation.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ohi no, «we only became a party to it three years ago. The
treaty was made ln 1894.

SENATE
tries that were proving a very serious emI allude to the
barrasameut to Canada.
treaties made with Germany and. Belglum,
whlch were altogether unreasonable and
unwarranted, and, after sorne dlfficulty, we
succeeded ln lnduclng the Imperial goverument to understand that it was ln the
Interest of the whole empire that those
It la a
treaties should be denounced.
great relief that the outlying portions of
I dld flot
the empire are free from them.
Insinuate that the late government had
comrnltted themselves to the Japanese
They were asked the question ln
treaty.
1894--will you be a party to the treaty
A long correspondence euwith Japan?
*sued, naturally, and the late goverument
stipulated that If they did agree It could
only be on condition that it should ln no
way inter! ere wlth the legisiation that
Canada miglit adopt ln regard to immigrïtion, leaving them to shut out emigration lu
thxe future if they s0 pleased. That was
the condition nt the tirne the negotiations
ceased. They ceased by the change of governmnent. The goverument of Canada ln
1896 a new government, thougbt their predecessors had acted wisely and prudently,
and we would have followed. very llkely in
their footatepa, but we thought It was
better until we saw our way, to have
nothlng to do witb the treaties the
empire was maklng, and therefore we announced that we decllned to be a party
to that treaty, and It so rernained for
nine years until the trade wlth Japan
began- to develope rnany important features.
The United States was cultivatlng a trade
with Japan, and the Japanese bad evidently shown a decided preference to trade
*with Canada, and that led up. to our considering whether we would accept the conditions-I need not repeat what I said before. We accepted it under certain regulations, that the emigration was to be restrîcted. Now they are adopting another
method. We are satIsfied with the sincerlty and abllity of Japan to control. It.
If they fal to do so, there la thxe opportunity to give six montha' notice and denounice the treaty. 1 arn sure that It will
not be at all necessary to resort to It, and
that our relations wltlî Japan from a commercial point of view wlll continue to be
happy. The Japanese are anxlous to trade
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

with us, and some sacrifices ouglht to be
made by Canada ln vlew of the anxlous
lesire of the mother country to maintain
in alliance with Japan. Japan bas been a
frlendly aJ.ly wlth the United Klngdom, -so
far as the Âslatic portions of the world are
concerned-a substantial. aid and allyand therefore it la the duty of Canada to
accept conditions that are flot altogether
pleaslng to us, If we are going to meet the
desire of the Imperial government. They
do a good deai for us, and we should make
some smail sacrifices on that account and
we
tbat la one of the reasons «%Yhy were
auxlous, If possible, to corne to a reasonable arrangement wlth Japan. We have
the approval of the mother country and
Japan to the present arrangement. AUl parties are satlsfied and believe it will -be
honestly carried out.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Are we to understand by the statement of the minister,-that
Mr: Lemieux was sent over to Japan without any Instructions at ail?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Mr. Lemieux's mission, as defined ln thxe order in councîl, was
to represent to Japan the conditions that
have arisen in Canada ln consequence of
thxe large Influx of Japanese where thxe
white population w-as »comparatively «limited.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Does that order in
council recite the proposais which Mr. Lemieux was to make to Japan?
Hoa. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-ThS.t was verbal?
Hion. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. Nobody could
foreshadow how the difficulty would be
overcome, or what agreement Japan would
enter Into. When two men try to make
a bargain, neither one may be prepared to
accept the proposals o! the other, but, after
dlscussing It, they gradually get together,
and arrive at a basis o! settlement.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
understood the hon. Secretary of State to
say that the acceptance by Canada of this
treaty, or rather the conditions upon which
the goverunent becarne a party to the
treaty, was upon the understandlng that
It should not inter! ere ln any way with
the Immigration polîcy of the country.

JKNTYARY 22, 1908

97

Hlon. Mr. LAINDRY-Is It understood It
viii be printed in the minutes?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWLL-f
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE -BOWELLthat be the case, 'where are we to Elnd a
' rhat wouid save the trouble of copying 't.
record of that statement?
Han. Mr. SCOTT-Oh yes, I bave no
.Hon. Mr. SCOTT-My hon. frlend bias
It wiii take same lime
misunderstood me. What I said was that >bjectian ta that.
.o copy them.
the late government decllned ta enter ita
a treaty If It were going in any way to
Interfere with the right of Canada to pasa RAIL WAY BILL AMENDMENT ACT1.
It was the
ilaws regulating Immigration.
SECOND READING.
late government took that step. We were
It by the representations
Induced to go Into
A message was reeived from the Hanse
made from lime to time by Mr. Nasse that of Commons with Bill (No. 3) An Act ta
Japan Inteuded ta restriet the emigratian. amend the Rallway Act.
We were led ta beileve that Mr. Nasse
The Bill was read the firet lime.
heid a higlier position than a mere consul,
and seemed ta speak: autharitativeiy. ProHan. Mr. YOUNG moved that the Bill
bably lie bail fot the power ta make the be read the second time on Monday next.
arrangement; stili the government were InHon. Sir MACKE~NZIE BOWELL-i-I
duced, by the represcatatians lie çmade
from time ta time after being backed by a want ta make a suggestion that ail these
very strong Act of the Imperiai Diet of Bis, no matter af what character, shauld
Japan, In which they deciared that only a be explained on thc second reading. My
Ilmited number of persans shauid leave reason Is ta avaid the discussions that
Japan for ail parts of the world-limited have taken place sa otten when the Railta so many fram each province, and that way Cammittee or any other committee
each Japanese going abrota had ta get a have made a report, and members abject
passport, and that If lie went ta a country that thcy know nathing about the cantente
ta which his passpart did nat autharize of the Bill. If a shart expianation la
made on the second reading, every hon.
hlm ta go, he was hiable ta be punished.
gentleman wili understand what he Io askHan. Sir MACKE~NZIE BOWELL,-Whefl ed ta vote upan.
wcre those representatiaiis made by Consul
Haon. Mr. YOUNG-It la perfectiy fair
General Nasse? Is there any record of them
In writing, other than the~ mere conversa- and right that that shouid be donc.
tion that toak place between gentlemen
The motion.- was agreed ta.
wha negotlated with the agent of the gavernment of Canada? And If there are
BILLS INTROIJUCED.
any documents of that kInd, 'wiIl tliey be
that we wiil knaw
laid upon the table so
Bill (A) An Act ta amcnd the Ralway
what they are?
Act as respects the seling of intoxicating
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-ýThey are contalncd liquors ta rallway empioyees an duty.la the correspandence I read. I read ex- (Hon. Mr. McMulIen.)
Bill (9) An Act respccting Uic survey of
I wiI have the carretracts tram them.
public lands of thc Dominion, and survey.
spondence copied and laid an the tablt,.
ors entitied ta make such survey.-(ýHanHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Lay- Mr. Scott.)
lug It an the table la not enougli uniess It
Bill (13) An Act rcspectlng Uic British
This la a
la prlntcd lu the minutes.
Columbia Southera Raiiway Company.burning question, and I desire ta become (Hon. Mr. Young.)
acquainted with the reai tacts. If the
Bill (14) An Act respectlng tbe Campbellcorrespondence la prlntcd la the minutes it
fard, Lake Ontario and Western Raiiway
would obvlnte the nccessity of referring the
Company.-(Hon. Mr. Bcitb.)
niatter ta the Printlng Committee.
iUEVI5ED

EDITION

SENATE
Iinakiiig this motion I feel that I amn
BIi (15) Ail Act respecting the Esqulinanît and Nauainio Raiiway Company.- assuining al vcuy seulous responlsibiiity ln
undertaking to discuss the question of the
tHon. Mu. Young.)
Western existence and reorganization of this ChamBull (24) An Act respecting the
Ontario Paciflc Railway Company.-(Hon. ber. The question is one tbat bas been very
largely discussed ln the public press of
Mr. MeMullen.)
this country for a great many years, and
Bill (26) An Act respecting the Manitoba it has aise been discussed in the other
and 'Northwestern Railway Company of Chamber.
It Is undoubtedly an ImportCnnada.--{Hou. Mr. Watson.),
We live in a democratic age
ant one.
and people are presumed to have something*
CIVIL SERVICE INSURANCE RETURN. te say ln the choice of those who are to
Under tbese circumHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I shouid like te legIslate for tiiem.
ask my hon. f riend the Secretary of State stances, the question as to whether the
whether among the returns he laid on the Senate sbould continue In its present form
table of the House to-day was inciuded -that is, appointed by the Crown--or whethe retura showing- the operations of the ther It shouid be chosen by some other
That body, such as the local legisiature, or whecivii service Insurance last year?
retura la called for by statute of 1893. ther it sbouid be appointed ln soine other
Last year it was shown that the Senate way than it is at present, Is one
bad been ignored year after year in re- thiat is now being considered by ail who
We
I calied my hon. take an Interest ln public matters.
gtird to that return.
friend's attention to it and we got 'bc know that there Is no written constitution
We live under a w-ritten
that is perfect.
returu for lat year.
constitution and we know by the history
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wIii make some tu- of other nations that amendments to conI presurne It is the Finance De- stitutions have to be made frein time to
quiry.
partment.
The people of the United States
trne.
bave frein thne to time amended their conHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes.
stitution. Aithough we have now been in
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wiil cali attention existence as a Dominion some forty years,
ta it.
very few changes *have taken place in our
There was one amendment
constitution.
The Senate adjourned until three p.m.
ln connection wltb better ternis for 'Nova
to-morrow.
Scotia, and somne other littlîs arnendments
At the
since confederation commenced.
tirne the union was arranged between the
severai provinces, it was the intention of
THE SENATE.
the fathers of confederation that the best
OTTAWA, Thursday, January 23, 1908.
element throughout the entire -Dominion out
should
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Thuee of which senators could be selected
I have read over carefully the
be chosen.
o'clock.
utterances of Sir John Macdonald, one of
Prayers and routine proceedings.
the ieading statesmen of that day, and of
the Hon. Geo. Brown, both of whom I11qiREFORM 0F, THE SENATE.
cated that It was desirable that the Senate
should be composed largely of men of exMOTION.
tended experlence and high records, men
moved:
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN
were Iooked up to ln the sphere ln
That in view of the agitation regarding the that
Unfortuservices rendered by the Senate as a part of which they lived and operated.
our legisiative system. and in view of the nately tliat principle was not carried out.
criticisrn both in parliarnent and the press
with respect to appointments to this cham.
Hon. Mr. POWER-HEear, beau.
ber, it is, in the opinion of this House. desirHon. Mr. McMULLEN-After a short
able that the question of the method of appointments and the terni for which. appoint- time, mea were chosen simply sud solely
ments are te be made in future should be
considered and the system recast.

because

they belong-ed

to

one

partichlfr'

JANUARY 23, 1908
i)arty. At the inception of confederation,
soine members of the legisiative ýcouncl
were le! t out. There was no roomn for
thein ln the Senate owing to the fact that
the number from each of the two old provinces was fixed at twenty-four, and twen
ty-four were to, be dlvlded amongst the two
smaller provinces down by the sea. lu
the case of Ontario, some very dIstlngushed
members of the oid legislative cotincl were
left out and neyer taken In. There was
the Hou. John MeMurrlih, of Toronto, who
had been a member of the old legisiative
council. It was fully expected tliat lie
would be taken Into, the Senate to fill the
firet vacancy that occurred, but lie neyer
was taken in, and tbat was looked upon
as one of tlie fIrst breaches of the arrangemnents made between the two pollticai parties. From that day to the pr6sent, the
party lu power lias usually appointed Its
own friends, wlth one or two exceptions
lu the earlier history of confederation. One
exception was John McDonald, of Toronto,
an eminent man ln many ways and a distlnguished member of this House for nme
yeairs. He lield a very prominent position
In the city of Toronto as a wliolesale merchant and was a great leader ln the Methodlst denomination of this country.
Thougli a Liberal, lie was appointed by Sir
John Macdonald as a senator. Ânother was
Mr. O'Donohoe,.an able Iawyer ln Toronto.
For some reason best known to Sir John
Macdonald and his colleag'ues, they appolnted hlm to the Senate, but tliese were
the only two exceptions tliat I can thlnk of.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Was flot Senator
Snowball appolnted by the Conservative
government?
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Mr. Snowbali was
flot an out and out pnrty man.
Hou. Mr. POIRIER-Oh, yes.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-HIe wns sonietîmes on one side and sonietimes on the
other. I have mentloned the oaly two that
i know ln the province of Ontario. If
there were sorne from the other provinces,
I leave those -w'ho are better posted to
settie that point For mnany years senators have been appointed by the goverument of the day froin their own political
rinks. That principle was established very
flrm]y under the rifle o! Sir John Macdo-

nald, and If it was followed by our friends
afterwards it was simply because they wer.!
couipelled to a certain extent to foliow ln
the.sanie lunes. Thus mnny men lni Canada
who sliould have been appointed, and advantageously appointed to the Senate, and who,
wonld have made, no doubt, admirable
members of this chamber, neyer got here.
Sudh has -been the history of appointments no far. As I have said already
the agitation for reform o! the Senate has
prevalled for 'nome tume. The question
ls what changes, If any, should be made.
In my humble opinion a change slionld be
made, and one renson for the change Is
slmply that I believe It Is highiy desirable
that the power vested lu the goverument
I care not whlch party they belong to, ln
the matter of patronage, shonld be very
My candid opinion
conslderably reduced.
ls that It would be for the best lnterests
of this country If every government,* Gnt
or Tory, shouid be forced to go to the peopie for their support largely on the merits
o! their own policy as a government, and
when the country eiects representatives to,
the House of Gommons that those men
should have a single eye, lu the service
they render, to the best interests of the
Dominion, and that no tempting offer of!
any klnd shonld be held out to tliem or
influence used to keep them ln Une wlth
It Is an evIl that I
the party lu power.
observed when I sat i opposition for fourI
teen years ln the House of Gommons.
knew fîere good men who were tempted
to leave the ranks of the Reform party
to become the servile supporters of the
other party for years, and dld support
tliem with the expectation that they would
receive a reward ln returu; and ln some
cases they neyer received that reward. I
contend aiso that no goverument should he
lu a position to hold their foiiowers by
off erng them temptlng positions to keep
them la line and support the party la
We know perfectly well that wlth
power.
both parties-I admit wlth both partiesit la generally nnderstood that If men do
not keep strlctly ln uine wlth their Party
there ls flot mucli Ilkellhouti 0f any reward
for them la the way of an appolntment.
This In one vicions feature lu our systeni,
and the Commons, lu place of discussing
the question of the reorganlzatlon o! the

S ENATE
Senate, would do weIl to consider the
present condition of their own chamber.
In the flrst place, lu my humble opinion,
the Gommons ls In as bad If flot lu worse
need of reorganizatien than the Senate la.
We have tee many members lu the House
of Commons.
If the representatlon of the
House, of Gommons to-day were reduced
by one-half 1 belleve the business of this
country would be better done; It would be
done lu shorter lime, and we would get
rld of the uever-endlng talk; talk, talk. We
have hail too much ef It for the last three
or four years. 'We, as senators, have aiways been prepared te carry on the work
of the country In the best Interests of the
country as far as we know, yet lnstead
of lnltlating and preparlng that work lu the
House cf Gommons and sendlng It up te
us, they have never-endlng discussions
night: and day, whlcfr virtually amount te
lle
or nothing.
Now what Io the tact?
Let any hon. gentleman take the ' Hansard' report of the House of Commons
from; day to day and he wouid require te
have nothlng else te do te read It through
from beginnlng te end.
Look at the enormous volume of their 'Hausard'1 report.
I du net thlnk there la any Canadian who
wlIll venture te say that from page te page
and book te book he bas rèad the entlre
report of the speeches that were dellvered
In the other Chamber.
I thlnk that money could be saved If
representation Ia the House of Gommons
was reduced lu number.
Bach member
et the House ef Commons receives $2,500
a year aud represents about 25,000 people.
Iu the United States every member ef
Congreas represents 150,000 people. Thon
we bave six inembers In the Houge ef Cernnions et Canada for ovory eue lu the United States Cougress.
It ceats us $15,000
for Commoners Iu Canada, wheu It costs
ouly $7,500 across the border. That shows
cIearly that we are now spendlng more
money in conuoction wlth the Chamber nt
the other end of this building than la really
necessar, and, lu my humble opinion, a
move should be made lu tlie direction ef
reducing that number.
Wlth regard te the method 110w adopted
lu the appolntment et senators-that Is by
the Crewn-and with regard te the changes
that are suggosted, I may say a few words.
Hou. Mr. MoMULLEN.

Some gentlemen have Iroîbosed that members ef thia Chamber sheuld be elected by
the local legIslature, and others say they
sheuld be seiected by popular vote.
At
the proseut lime we have lu Canada au
extended franchise.
I henestiy think Canada made a miatake wheu she gave a vote
te every man earnlng $150 a year. These
meu are given a rlght te vote for members
of the local loglalature and for municipal
purposea.
Evory man that oarns $150 a
year la placed upon the voters' lest Under our system a man who bas the privilege of the franchise la able te beave our
shores lu twenty-four heurs or lesa wlth
ail that belongs te hlm, perhaps a carpetbag, and go acroas to Uncle Sam's dominIons and we have nothlng more te do with
hlm. 1 thlnk we made a mistake lu extending our franchise se far, and I ebjeet
te bavIng the two chambers olected by
popular vote. If we are te have twe ebective chambers at aIl, then one <Jharnber,
the Senate, should be eiected lu some other
mannor.
If we. oloct two chambers by
popular vote, then the country wlll speak
vlrtually wlth two tengues-one here and
eue lu the othor end of the building. The
probablilltlos are thlit they will dlaimn equal
pewers, and It wouid bo dîfficult to fore,cast what mlght happen.
A deadIock
mlght take place betweeu the two chambers.
Therefere It la net deairable that
we sheuid have two chambers electod by
the same people.
A better method cau be
adepted.
I de net thInk it la right we
should burden the local legislature wlth the
duty et eiecting senators.
They have their
own business te attend te.
I kuow It la
the methed adeptod lu the lUnited States,
but, atter aIl, I ami net prepared te say
that la my humble opinion It la the best
methed. I admît that overy province lu
this Dominion should have a say lu the
electien ef members ef this House te ropresent them.
That Is quite rlght
I
thlnk that a better method ef filliug vacandles lu this Chamber weuld be te let the
members ef parliameut et the province and
the senaters ef the province fer the tîme
being, lu joint convention, by ballot, elect
members te I vacancies lu the Senate.
As soon as parliament meets, a certain
number et vacancles, say la Nova Scetîn,
are reported.
Immediately the members

JANUARY 93, 1908
note of wliat is going on here. Last session, I endeavoured ln my humble way te
answer some of the criticisme of thus
Chamber endulged in by a certain newspaper taTerento. I went carefully over the
business of the Senate îast session and
f und that notwithstandlng the nember of
members In the Gommons and the large
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbat weuld be the committees appointed there for the purpese
power mile.
et sifting the clauses of Bis Introduced
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-Then the clerk in that bady, it was necessary ta amend
ef tus flouse could be returnlng officer. à these Buis when tbey came te us iast sesballet vote la taken and the men seiected. sion. We made no less than two hundred
The names are reported te the SecretarY and tbree amendments to Bis sent te us,
et iState. whe could report these te He and ferty-seven ef these amendments were
Exceiiency and the commission would be made te gevernments Bis. ge that atter
issued te those men, that theyr were ta oc- ail this Hanse has been dolng werk, but
cupy the position ot senaters te I the the press and the cemmons de net seem
vacancies that had been created. The same te realize It The Bis are amended here
tbing cauld bie doue in Ontario, the sasse In and go back te the House et Gemmons; the
Quebec, and the same In any other pro- amendments are read and concurred In and
vinces. Then we ceuld hold the business that ls ail the netice thnt is ever taken et
ef the Dominion In Dominion bauds; In the werk done In this Chamber. The offithe hands et the representatlves elected te ciai record will substantiate 'what I bave
do Dominion business; In the bands et the said. Âgain, In sasse cases we have been
members et thus Chamber that bad been compelledl In this Ohamber to recast Bis.
appeinted here te attend ta duties connectedl I remember one case In particular In 'which
with the business of thus Dominion. We net a single vestige 'of the original Bill
would net relegate It te the local legIsia- was lef t but the preamble. I refer ta tue
ture. They are not cencerned with It. Bill In cennection witb the Improvements
They are concerned wlth local matters- at Fart Francis. That Bill passed tbe
provincial affaire, and have nothing te dc iHeuse et Gemmons and came ta the Senate
witb legfisiation for the Dominion. The3 and was referred te the proper cummlttee.
are legislating within their ewn sphere. The cemmittee said evldentiy there was a
I tbink that would be a better methed Il contract by the develeping party with the
any change sheuld take place at ail. Il ttown et Fort Francis, and betere preceedwould be much better than axiything elsE ing with the Bill they asked te have the
I bave heard suggested; but It Is open t( cantract laid befere tbem. 1 think that sugevery man te make bis ewn suggestions ai igestion came tram the bon. member trom
to) what he thinks is best. In the atheir Belleville. The consideration et the Bill
Ghamber, yen would fancy that some gen 1 was postpened until the contract was protiemen -censider that the tate et thli3 duced. When the contract was examined,
Chamber is entlreiy ln the bands et ti R it was found that It the Bill had been passed
Gommons; that If they. say the word, if witheut amendment It: would bave dethey pass the resointlon, If they adopt thie prived the town et every advsntage secured
principle, thnt the Senate is te be wipei j te them under the centract. Wbat was the
out and thnt la the end et It. In m;y result? The Senate recast the 'whele B ill,
humble opinion and with ail due respec t leaving none of the original measure but
te the men whe have spoken on that quei1- the preamble, and sent the amended Bill
tien in another place, tuere appears ta be back te the Commons. If It bad flot been)
aof
a very great deai ot Ignorance, wlth regar il ter the action of the Senate, the people
ts Fart Francia weuld have lout ail the advan-ta the duties and labours performed In tà
they had under the conle
Chamber. The press ef Canada and tQ tages and rights
b tract. But you would fancy, te hear the.
Gommons et Canada, do net know muc
about thls Senate. Tb-'y dlu flot take an y Cemmons talk, that the Senate do nothing,.

fr%)m Nova Scotia, both Retenu and Conservative, wlth ail the senators from Nova
Setia, wouid be notified that tbey shall
meet In a certain reom In this building,
and that a ballot vote would be taken, fer
gentlemen In Nova Scotia te I these vecancles.

SENATE
tbat tbey virtuaily louage iu their easy
-chairs and give no value for the rnoney they
*cost the country. Weil, I have flot been
Lere as long as maay of our members have
been. At one tirne, lu my Ignorance, 1
thought the Senate was an encumbrance
to this country. I admit the ifact. 1 thouglit
ive couid mauage to do witbout it; but aftet
being here and seeing the 'work doue lu
tuia House and the increase of work froni
session to session, 1 do not see very weU
how Canada could do witbout a Seuate li,
smre form. You may improve It, but you
cannot wipe out the Upper <Jhamber. Il
would be an exceedingly Imprudent tbiug
to do. The bistory of the world shows thal
airnost every civiiized nation bas a legîslative'body witb two chambers and Canada,
forgiug forward among the young nations,
had better keep ail ber legislative machinery la order witb the hope that by diligence and care we shall be able to eflact
a code of iaws whicb wi]i prove a decided
advantage to tie Dominion, and 1 believe
tbat ln doing so the Senate ii coutribute
Its share. Iu my opinion, the Senate could
be made use of ln iuauy ways hitherto negiected. The governmeut iicit gise us a
littie more work to do. I am fl saying
that Vils House bas flot liad to Initiate
a good many Bis, but we might have discharged some functious whicth live beeu
asslgned to others. For instance, Vie life
insurance Investigation. There are men ln
Vils House wbo could weli aid faitbfully
and with great ability bave looked Into Vie
11fe lusurance busiaess of this ccrtntry and
doue Vie work just as -weil as the commission that was appointed. They could at ail
events have gone a certain ie.2gth, and If
at iast It was fouud necessary to appoint
a commission, It could have been doue;'
but the Senate should have been flrst asked
to iîoid the investigation. We had investigated Vie New York Mutuai Reserve Life,
and I think we did it very well. As the
result, it was decided to intro)c1uce legislaCion witb regard to that company. I was
sorry Vint It was doue, but the Investigation that look place here with regard to
thaï: compauy accomplished much good. If
-ie had undertakeu the investigation of the
lusurance conipanies w-e could bave disebarged tbat dut-y instead of relegatiug il
,tu a commission.
Hou. Mr. I&MULLEN.

Witb regard to the ajppintmnîets to this
Cliamber, made by the present goverurnent,
1 have flot noticed lu tbe press that any
serious fauit bas been found, and 1 arn
flot saying but that: the appointments made
by the previous governents and during
the life of Sir John Macdonnid were on
tbe whole good. I amrn ot saying that they
were flot men capable of performing the
duties devolving on tbem, good citizens and
representative men lu mauy callings, who
brouglit wisdom and experience to this
Cbaiuber. I ar n ot finding fauit witb reThe fault fiuding Is witb
gard to that.
the press aud other people tbat the best
metbod lias flot been followed ia apl;oIntThere was one fanît lu conIng, senators.
with tie appointment to this
nection
Chamber that struck me la looking ovei
the bistory of this House since confederation: Wben coufederation was cousummated, the province of Nova Scotia had
eigbteen members. of wvnorn ouiy two
supported the governeut of the day. Vif.
other sixteen were ln oppositiou, yet the
goveruneut of thaï; day assurned the responsibility of appoiutiug ten senators from
Nova Scotia. It was said that Nova Scotin
1 do flot
was ou the verge of rebeliion.
The idea that a govmucli wonder at It.
erurnent that had ouly two supporters out
of eighteeu represeutatives from one proviuce shouid appoiut ten represeiititives of
tbat province to this Cbaniber to legisiate
It
for that proviuce, is wbat I condemn.
was absurd and unreasonable aud au lInprudent assumption of power, and I do
not much wonder that Nova Scotia was
I
Indignant at belug treated that way.
bere a statemeut of the number of
have
Bis introduced Iuto this Chamber up to
the present tirne, and 1 notice that the
amount of work bas been Increasing. lu
1905 no less than forty-three Bis origiIn 1903 there were
uated lu the Senate.
tweuty-six, lu 1902 tweuty-seveu, lu 1901
seventeefi, and so on; so that It wiii be
seeu that the Senate bias not been idie,
In 1906
but bas been doiug sorne work.
1
the number of Bills was tbirty:flve.
couid flot get the number for last year,
because a change bas been made In tbe
way of keeping. the records of the Sente
so that comparison cant be made witb
1 do not wis]î to further
former years.

JA-NUARY 23, 1908
detuin the House. 1 bave endeavoured to
point out what 1 consider to be the best
inetbod to adopt, but I do think that If
chianges are to be made lu the Senate,
changes should also be. nmade in the other
House, and I say that flot 'witb any de1
sire to reflect on the other Chamber.
repeat that the number of members li the
Commous should. be reduced one-half.
Every vestige of patronage exercised by
the Crown tbrough the goverximent should
Members lu the othei
be taken away.
Chamber should be guarded againat being
infiuenced. by any off er of place or posiIt 19 a vicions feature of our pretion.
sent system, and I want to seo it wipedl
out, s0 thut when members are elected to
the Commons they wlll go there for the
purpose of serving the country and not
to eura retIrement aud a comnfortable position for themselves for the balance of their
jives. I do flot say that tbey ail do that,
but past experience lias told us that a
great many do It. It Is one of the vicions
features o! our systemt which ehould be
Wheu this House lu under fire,
remioved.
I want to show tbat tbe other House Is
If there are to bie
not free front fuit
changes lu one Chamber, lot us also bave
changes ln the other, and make an lmprovement; ail round lu tbe hope that thingu
wil be botter lu the futtre thun tbey
have been lu the past.
Hon. Mir. ROSS (Mlddleuex)-I hope lt
'%vlll not be considered presumption on iny
part, so recently admittedl to the Senate,
If I offer a few observations on the motion moved by my bon. friend from Wellington. I bave at lest the advantage o!
very recently conuidering the Senate frQona
tbe outside. You bave bud the experienc!
of an bon. gentleman wbo lias seen it froua
the Inside for some time. I do not beiieve
tbere is auy strong opinion lu Canada In
favour of tbe abolition o! the Seuste. Out
people L-now too well the usages of legislative bodies, and the Importance o! the
parliament of Canada, not to know that a
second chamber is almost necessary for
the safety, perbaps, of tbe sunaller provinces composing the confederation, but at
ieast for the steadylng of that public opinion wbicbi sometimes over-reucbes itself ln
a popular body. .Looking ut the Senaite.

tluere!ore, front the outside, I arn couvinced
tat If a reform were neceusary it woul(l
xuot be lu that direction. I tblnk moreover
that public opinion is not sufficiently in!ormed yet as to the constîtutional limitations of thé Sonate, and because of these
limitations we do flot appear before the public as favourably as we otherwise mlght.
Tbe two greut questions that engross the
attention o! the people both through the
press and on the public platform are questions oaf revenue and of taxation. Wlth nel*
ther of these bas thtis House anytbing to
do. We cannot amend tbe tariff; we may
reject the whole Bill ut the perl I suppose
of! Vie constitution. We mur reject a supply Bill but w-e canfnýt ameud It, and If
you consider bow much o! the tîme o! the
House o! Commons and the space cof Vie
press 1s taken up lu Vie discussion o! these
two questions, aud bow much time Is occupied ou tbe publie plutforms lu presentlng themt to the electorate you wlll ueo
that lu Vie great mass oaf the business
wbich comes before purliament, the limitations of the Sonate practically force it Into
Vie back-ground. It is not because we are
not occupled, If 1 mur use that term, it is
not because we have not functions and
responsibilities of a weighty character, but
it lu because we are not in Vie fore-ground,
not in the firlng hune lu conuection witb
Vieso two questions. Now the position of
Vie United States Sonate -wiVi whlcb we
are often compared, ls entlrely differeut.
On boVi these questions, Vie United States
Sonate bave a potential voice. I lhave before me a directory of the United States
Sonate lu wbicb I fiud a list of its conimittees, aud one o! Viese is a committee
on appropriations and another a counmittee
on finance. The Sonate o! the United States
Is not restrained from maklng appropriations
front the public treasur, as wo are. Indeed it is only a few days stace It appropriated twelve million dollars to reduco
Vie indemnity whicb China was obliged to
puy to the United States ln connection with
the Boxer outbreak. Such a -question could
not arise li this House. I could not belp
'wlsbing that the Sonate, 'while it Is lu sucb
a philanthropic mood would movo to refunid
bal! the amount paid under Vie Washington Treaty la exceus of what was required.
it bau been shown Viat Viey were awarded

104

SEINATE

twice as muchi as was required to indemnify them for losces caused by the Alabama. The United States Senate bas aiso
a rîglit to deal with revenue questions. AItbougbi they may not Initiate a revenue Bill,
th(.y may amend It, and It is lu the kuowledge o! this Houce tbat the Dingley Bill
was really a compromise, that the Senute
amendments were lu mauy particulars maintained, aud practically over-rode the original Bill introduced by the House of Representatives. Now we bave no such power.
l'lace lu the fore-front of this great political eutity the punhiament of Canada, a
senator with power that tbe United States
Senate bas in regard to these particulars,
aud we couid soon spning into an Importance
that we do not 'now possess. If people had
to, come bere to ask for appropriations or
ameudmeuts to the tarlin we 'would be
heard. from ln tbose two particulars wbich
touch most closely the prosperity aud the
taxes o! the people of this country. But
the United States Senate bas other powers
which we do not possess. No appolutmnent
to, auy office cau be made by the presideat
o! the United States, unlees couflrmed by
tbe Senate. Even tbe cabinet appoiutments
lu the United States are made by tbe Senate-the recommendatIons made by the president as to bis owu cabinet bave to be
coufirmed by the Senate. The nominations
of foreigu consuls aud post office aud other
officials have to be coufirmed by the Senste, so thut the upper chamber comes Into
close relations witb the functions of Con-*
gress, or parliament, if we may apply that
term to a legisiative body, lu the United
States. Iu these respects too we are removed fromÈ the moat active spbere o! national politice by our constitution and put
luto the back-ground aud I sometimes feel
that tbere je good ceuse enough lu thé
people o! Canada and our press Is impartial enough, If lnformed of tbese limitations
of our power, to know tbat the Senate of
Canada should be treated 'wlth more consideration. But I propose to follow this a
littie further and see iu wbat respect this
Seuste bas lu its own way, sud I suppose
with the limitations of buman wisdom and
foresiglit which ail legisîstive bodies possees, discbarged its duties. In the firet place,
lookiug at the records o! this House, I do
not tbiuk, it can be 'with any justice said
Hion. Mn. ROSS (Middlesex).

that this Senate bias beenii a idie body. For
instance I have, through the kindness of
Mr. Young, the clerk of records, a statement
of the list of Bis passed througb the Senate
since confederation, Including those that
came up from the House of Commons as
well as those initiated here. The total number of Bis wblch passed the Senate since
confederation le 4,742. And firat, let me say
that ln regard to every one of those Bills
the Seuate bad sometbiug to, say, just as
mucb as the House of Commons bad to say,
and if the Lower Ilouse dlaims credit for
baving Initiated and discussed legisiation
to a great extent, the Senate can dlaim simllar credit, for every Bill discussed ln
the one House was consIdered ln the other.
0f the 4.742 Bis which we discussed, 872
wer initlated lu the Senate, or 18 per cent.
Of those sent Up from the House of Commous, we amended 1,068; that is to say,
out of the total legisiation which we onlglnated and amended here, we are able to
take credit for 42 per cent of the legisiation passed by the parliament of Canada
since 1868.
Now this means application lu committee, It meaus consideration before standing committees aud committees of the
It meaus consideration by
whole House.
deputation and otherwise, and it mens
that tbougb this le a comparatively emali
body, it can dlaim, up to this time, credit
for the consideratton of 42 per cent o! the
legIsiatlon submltted to, parliament since
coufederation, besides consideration o! resolutions and motions of varions kinds.
Then It le said that this Is a body given
to muchi obstruction; that, for some reason
or other, we are possessed with a genlus
for preventing public opinion declaring itself, and that whenever the House o! Gommons bas a good Bill, If it passes througb
the Senate it La one o! the miracles of the
The statemeut is not sustaiued by
day.
au examination of the facts. Wbat do we
We fiud that sdace confederation,
find?
out of 3,870 Bille sent up by the Commons,
the Senate rejected ouly niuety-seven or
2j per cent., a very smail percentage lnWe did not need to
deed la forty years.
be very busy, bon, gentlemen wlll see, to
reject uinety-seveu Bills la forty years. And
let me say thîs: tbat not one Bill Sent Up
by the Gommons that bas been rejected by

JANUARY 23, 1908
the Senate, lnvolved any serious public is- for the country to say whether these
Sonie of theni were private Bille. amendnients made by us to their Bills or
sue.
A few of tbem may have been Bills of their ameadinents to our BUis, will stand the
Then the Senate
some considerable Importance. But flot test of public opinion.
bas been sent up again, le said to be a partisan body; that is at
one of those Bille
except a Bill to nmend the Rallway Act, the present tlme-with apologies. Mr.
and it le now before us for the third Speaker-that at certain times, when the
time-sent up because it has been sue- Senate le constitutêd in a certain way, the
tained by publce opinion. It le not Senate le disposed to reject certain Bills
so wlth some 0f tbe Bills rejected by the fromn the House of Commons, If the House
House of Lords-sucb as the reform Bill of Gommons lo Liberal, or vice versa. This
rejected by that body and the Cathoilc te the strongeet charge, and one whlch 1
There was also -eut think lias most effect on public opinion.
Emancipation Bill.
back to the House of Lords an education If the Senate be a partisan body, It had
We have no room
Bill. Those -Bille represented the ewel- better be abolisbed.
ling tide of public opinion, to which for more partlsashlp than there la at prethe Lords had to accede or the Lords them- sent, and I do not know that the people
selves wrnild have been swept out of ex- of Canada should be asked to pay a conIstence, a course whlch would be sustalned sîderable suin for malntalnlng under the
by vast majorities in the constituencles constitution a body pureiy partisan. Herof tbe United Klngdom, and sustalned bert Paul, who wrote a hlstory of England
by public opinion through the press since the days o! the Corn *Laws, stated
Has there been any that the House o! Lords, when the Conaad otherwise.
sncb public opinion at the back o! servative party was la power, remamned
any o! the Bille tbat we rejected? Has like a giant refreshlng himeelf; but when
the Senate shown tbat It stood acrose the Liberal party came Into power, the
the track o! public opinion, which It bas Hlouse of Lords rose like a glant refreshed
no riglit to do except under certain Imita- to attack a Liberal government. SomeThe Bille were rejected purely as what similarly, It la sald that this House,
tions?
a matter of opinion and judgment, and the reserves Its power o! attack for measures
fact that these Bille have not been Intro- orlglnatlng wlth a Liberal governiment.
duced or submltted to us a second time, Now, the charge ougbt to be capable o!
or urged upon us througb the public press proof or It ought to be wltbdrawn. In
o! elther party wlth any degree o! force, order to satls!y mysel! as to Its accuracy,
showed that the Senate was rlght ln rejectlng 1 have tabulated the Bille rejected or amthe Bills, and our sober second thought was ended by both Houses since confederation
the sober second thought o! the country, and have dlvlded them. Into four perlode-mest as the rejection by the House of the firet of six yeare under Sir John MacLords o! Mr. Gladstone's Home Rule Bill donald, !rom 186 to 1873 Inclusive, the
second under Mr. McKenzie, from 1874 to
was the sober second tbought o! England.
But the rejection of Bis by the 1878 Inclusive, the third from 1879 to 1896,
Senate bas been many tumes reclprocated under Sir John Macdonald again, -and the
by the House o! Commons. How can !ourth !rom 1897 to 1907, or eleven
you explain that ? How can bon. gen- years under Sir Wilfrid Laurier. I
tlemen justlfy the House o! Gommons find ln the first perlod the Gommons
la rejecting the leglelation of tbis honour- sent up 588 Bille, that the Senate amle the Conservative
able body; yet, they have done so. The ended 133 -that
Gommons, since confederation, Senate amended LU3 o! the Bille sent up
House o!
bas rejected elghty-eight Senate Bille, or by the Goneervative House, namely 24 per
10 per cent o! our legIslation, as against cent and the Conservative Senate rejected
2j o! theirs rejected by us; and they have twenty-one Bills, namely 31 per cent. Was
Let us take the Mackenamended 275 Bille, or 31 per cent, as that partisan?
The Gommons
against 27 per cent o! their Bille which zie perlod of five years.
o! rejection sent up dnring that perlod 467 Bille, and
The privulege
we amended.
and amendment la reclprocal, and It le the Senate amended 132-133 ln the other

106

SÉNATE

tc.se-or 28 per cent, as against 24 per Senate la partisan because of its rejeccent, and rejected twelve-as ngaînst tion of Bis from the House of Comtweiuty-one iii the previous ,case-being 2j inons, what will wie say of the House of
per cent, that la the Gonservative Senate Commons If it pursues the same course ?
rejccted 24 per cent of the Reform gov- Lt ls said that wbiat Is sauce for the goosp
eriment Buis, and the previous Conserva- is sauce for the gauder. They have tried to
tive Senate rejected 3j per cent of the cook our goose because we are partisan.
Can you read as they say. Wbat about the other bird?
House of Commons Bis.
I was glad to find In the first perlod, we sent up to the House
Into that partisanship?
this fact, because it wns somewhat of a of Commons 121 Bis. Tbey amended 38
Take the next period per cent of those, aithougli we only amenddiscovery for mie.
of eigbteen years of Conservative ruie. ed 24 per cent of their Bis. They reout of 1,981 Bis introduced. tbe Senate jected 6 per cent of our Bills, although we
amended 500 or 25 peu cent, as against ouly rejected 3j per cent of theirs. Wbicli
28 per cent of the Mack-enzie period. is the more partisan body ? In the MfacThere were more ameudments of Con- kenzie period %ve sent 70 Bis to thent.
servative Bis by the Conservative Sen- The House of Gommons amended 28 per
ate than ameudments to, reformi Bis cent of Our measures, and we just amended
by the Conservative Senate I the previouft 28 per cent of theirs, ln order to keep the
They dld not reject
period; and tbey rejected Il per cent. That thing about even.
to during tiiat time a single Bill sent over
was the fewest number of rejections up
date. Then take the last period. the Lau- by a Conservative Senate, altbough we were
rier period of eleven years, there were 1,706 kind enougb to reject 2j per cent of theirs.
Bis sent Up. Tbrougb the whoIe of that In the second Macdonald period, the House
period, or the greater part of it, the comn- of Commons amended 33 per cent of ou
plexion of the Senate was, I strongiy sus- Bis and rejected 14 per cent, as agalnst
Hlowever, li per cent of their measures rejected by
pect, somewhat Gonservative.
they amended M0or 18 us, and In the Laurier period they aniended
during this period,
per cent, as against 25 per cent amended by 25 per cent of our Bis as against 9j per
the previous Gonservative governmeflt, Bo cent of theirs. which Nve amended. So that
tbat the Conservative Sonate bas been more if thle number of Bis amended or rejected
tolerant to*~ards the Bilis of the Reforn is to, be the only basis on which the charge
goveraxuent than towards the Bis of Its of obstruction is based, then the House of
predecessors, and it rejected 41 or 2j per Commons wlll be found to, be the more obcent, being more tolerant towards the Bis structive body of the two. But as I said beof the Liberal govermnent that It was to- fore, no large Bill'involving any great public
wards the Buis of the Conservittive gov- Issue has been rejected by the Senate, othererniment, that held Power the first six wise we would bave badl these Bis tbrust
years after confederation. Tbere [ thIDÉI Is upon us from Urne to time, and there would
a pretty conclusive ans-er to tbe charge bo a public agitation outSide In favour of
the reintroduction of these Bis. 0f course
tbat the Senate is partisan.
lon, gentlemen may say that the ImporHon. Mr. POLRIER-How many Buis did tance of the Bis is to be considered rather
the Senate reJect fuom the other Honse since than the number. Weil be It 130. Let any
a Liberal majority commenced to reigu in one ivho wants to, argue the question pro
this House?
duce the Bill and defend it on publie
Hon. Mr. ROSS-I bave not divided It grounds. Theai it is said the Senate
up so fine as that. I could get that Infor- should not bave a veto on the Gommons
mation for my bon. friend. I mlgbt say, legislatioti. This seems to, be a popular
in parentbesis, if the hon. gentleman will view as to ws-at the power of the Senate
allow me. that 1 propose later to ask that sbouid be. It .la quite a false view of our
tkis table from 'wbich I bave quoted, be constitution. I need flot niake that statebrought down as a returu, so that hou. gen- nient. Lt is self evident. In the public
tlemen will have the samne information as I mind there seemns to be an idea that t-le
have. Let us tiurn to the other side; If the Flouse of Commons, elected by tlle People,
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

JANUARY 23, 1908
.wbo are ai] powerf ni, should flot be obetructed in legisiation, and should flot have
its Bis amended and certainiy should
flot have tiiem rejected. But that was nol
the principle of the constitution, nor wap
it for that purpose the Senate was constituted, nor ls it for that purpose that there
i s a -Senate ln P rance, Germany, or anywhere else. If it la to be a Senate, without the power of emendation, or of reJection then lt la flot required at ail. The
single chamber would serve every purpose; but the fact that It la given the power
of veto places lt high up ln the grade of
legisiative authority-and legisiative power,
and, therefore, makes it an Important factor In the government of the country. No
Senate could be considered for a moment as
a useful body, unless it had the power of
veto. We find the president o! the United
States has d'e. power of veto over Congrese
and over legisiation passed by Congress. A
UJnited States governor bas d'e power of
veto over the legisiation of the State. The
lieutenant governors have a veto, If they
-choose to exercise it, over d'e legisiation
o! local legislatures, and it ls on the ver>'
face of It one of d'e essential functions of
a Senate, If it la going to be usef ni,
that it muet have sme power. If it lu
going to be deprived of that power,
yvou had better destroy lts usefuiness as a
s3teadying force in legisiation would be so
completely impaired.
Then d'e Senate lu blamed for hurrylng
Imtportaînt business. I have seen l stated
over and over again that Bils go d'rough
the Senate -with very short notice and witb
very- Areat rapidity; but t'at bappens with
e'-ery body. I bad a seat ln the House of
Coiiimou. for eleven years, and utany lion.
getitlem-Len lu this House were similarly honoured, and we have seen more legisiation
go through d'he Hlouse o0*f
Commons the last
two or three days of a session than perlîaps ln d'e last two or d'ree mond's previous]y. Itla
isfot d'e fault o! the Senate
altoged'er If Buis are held back until thé
iast moment.
Everybody ls anious for
d'e prorogation and we would be biamed
If we kept the House of Commons
waiting, unless we put d'e Bis tbrougli
~with the same rapidlty and facllity 'with
which tbey themseives pass d'eir Bis lu
the final stages of legIslation; and If yoil

will examine d'e proceedings of conferenceq
o! religious, educational or deliberative
bodies o! any kind, you wiil find a
tendency towards hurrying at d'e close.
Tlhen it lu said d'at the Senate la d'e
retreat for defeated members of d'elHouse
o! Coinmons. I find d'ere are twenty-nine
members of d'e Senate who formeriy held
seats ln d'e Hlouse of Commons, but as
far as I can make out only fourteen could
be caIied defeated -members, and of these
fourteen, five were defeated as far back as
1891; so that a man's retirement from d'e
active duties of d'e House o! Commons for
eleven years should not be brought home to
hlm as a charge, because he was stili considered fit for d'e duties o! this Hlouse. But,
after a0I, d'at lu a ormaîl matter. To be defeated, and thereafter appointed to d'e Senate, under any circumstances Ia nothing Bignificant.
Some o! d'e best members of
parliament have been defeated, some to
remain ouI of parliament for a Ierm or
two, and sme to return aI an earlier data,
and d'e facî d'aI a member o! the flouse
o! Commons bas been defeated somelimes
may be a proof o! his fituess for appointment 10 this House rather than d'e leverse, for a man lu sometimes defeated as
d'e protagoniat, as d'e pioneer ln some
great political movement wbich has flot
yet been accepted by d'e public, and consequently he bas to wait unll public opinIon Is read>' for it
The great leader of
d'e Conservative party, Sir John Macdonald, was defeated, Sir George Cartier was
defeated, and the present leader 'o! the
government and d'e present leader o! d'e
opposition were also defeated. Would an>'
man say If d'ese were ail lni the fiesh today, Ihat the simple effect of their defeat
would be a disqualification for a seat ln
d'e House o! (3ommons?
Men have gone
back to d'e Bouse of Commons who have
suffered defeal. Gladstone did nol go 10 d'e
Lords, but he auffered more d'an, one defeat, and yet there is no one wlll say that
for 'whatever position Her Majesty might
have sought 10 appoint hlm he would have
been disqua]ified simp>' because of his de.
feat.
I have gone over some o! d'e more patent and popular objections 10 d'e Senate,
and If I chose to analyse d'e matter, d'ere
is not n single objection taken to the

SEN-ý,ATE
Senate which canuot be taken to the
House of Gommons. Reprisais are flot ln
As lt was
order and are flot necessary.
sald by Sciplo, It le flot necessar to carry
There Is no need to
the war lnto Africa.
do It, and yet ln courtesy and kindness, If
we are charged with idieness, we may say
that sometimes the House of Gommons
If we hurry
wastes a littie of Its Urne.
Bills, so do they. If we do nlot represent
public opinion ln every case, I have known
a House of Gommons that did flot represent public opinion; and If there are men
who corne Into this House who are supposed flot to be worthy of the position, I
amn afraid that there are men lni tue House
of Gommons who would flot pass mustez
under'very critical observation, an& If this
House costs too, much, the House of Gommons costs a great deal more, and if there
are men here of mature years, there are
men ln the House of Gommons who have
passed the early forties, I arn sure.
Passlng now some of the objections, let
me corne to what I think le vital, and that
Is that there are two reforme which the
There are two direcSenate requires.
tions in whlch I think It le Important, and
shall I say essential-I use the word essentiai ln its full significance--that the Senate
I characterize the
should be reformed.
first as administrative reform, and the secBy adond as representative reform.
ministrative r«form I mean that the goverument of Canada le flot represented adequately in the Senate, and neyer was. The
executive of Canada, the administrative
force whlch makes legislation and controls
legislation, le not adequateiy represented
ln ibis Hlouse. We have only two minlsters ln this Hlouse out of fourteen ministers and a Solicitor General. The House
of Lords is not so represented li the
British cabinet. There are six Lords out of
nineteen in the present cabinet, and there
are thirteen Lords out of thirty-eight li the
administration. That le, the cabinet as reThe
presented in the House of Lords.
administration consists of thlrty-eight-I
wili expila what that means later-and
thirteen are in the House of Lords. You
have there a cabinet fairly represented,
nearly one-third being ln the House of
Here we have two out of fourLords.
The Idea in England is, that certeen.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

tain important legisiation may be initiated
la the House of Lords, and there must Le
a minleter there to take charge of it, and
ihat there must be a minister ihere io
represent the most Important depariments
In the Salisbury cabinet
of the State.
ihere were twenty-one members, eleven ln
the Commons and ten la the House of
Lords.
There were-forty-one ln the idministration. and twenty-three of the fortyone were In the House of Lords.
Now,
wLlle we are ably represented ln thls
House-no one would think of casting a
reflection on the hon. minisiers ln this
House-It Is Impossible for two members
of the government, no matter what ihelr
lndustry or capaclty may be, to present
to thls House the quantlty of legislation
which naiurally wlll be submltted durlng
the session, which would natnrally be our
Bills foliow
f air share of legisiaion..
If It was an Important
their sponsor.
Bill, and lu introduced. i the House of
Gommons, It ought: to bo repreeented by
somebodyhIn ihis House who would have
Lad charge of ht; or, if produced. ln ibis
House, it sbould, have It represeniative
la the House o! Gommons. And that brIngs
me to what I ihink Io the Important featare of administrative reform, thai Is the
appointment of Under Secretarlee--not ail
ln this House-to represent important departments of State, so ihat If a Bill passed
through the Hlouse of Gommons It could be
taken Up ln this House by a representative
of the government. We are kept in a state
of legisiative starvation for want of administrative representation lni this Hou se, and
until we are given a larger share of administrative representation, ht lu mosi
difficuit for us to have Initlated here 'the
amount of legisiation whlch ibis Senate
Nobody says
could fairly grapple wlth.
We do not
we could flot do more work.
We keep school as long as
play achool.
there are tasks for us to perform; but If
we Lad a schoolmaster here, or our fair
share of the schoolmasters, the cabinet
minîsters or their representatives ln ibis
House, then between the two Hlouses the
work could Le carried on with grenier expeditlon, and the Senate could prepare
Bilas, amend them, correct them and revise
themn la such a way that when they reached

JANUAIRY 2ô, 1908
the Hlouse of Commons they would go ivide field for Investigation and examinaILu regard to the Fisheries, there la
tion.
through with less delay.
Now what departments would I say expended a large amount of money. There
1 la a system of quarantîne, llghthouse sershould be represented ln this Hlouse?
the transportation Depart- vice, steamboat Inspection, plot service,
should say first,
ment of Rallways and Canais should be hydrographie survey, and aIl that ahi dusThen
represented here by somebody, either by terIng round that department.
the Minister of Rallways and Canais or by Agriculture la another department that 1
an Under Secrètary; and If you look over think should be represented here. I would
the field of that subject you will see what also mention the Department of the Inan immense field it is. It deals with. tue terior. The Departunent of Trade and
problems of the Transcontinental Railway Commerce 1a represented here, and later
and the Georgian Bay Canal and the deep- on, if the House wlll hear me, I hope
ening of the St. Lawrence Canal, and the to discuss some phases of that department.
graving docks, &c., an Immense depart- We have the Department of Secretary of
ment, and although the' Senate costs per State represented here of course, and very
year the sum of $250,000, yet when we satisfactorily represented. Now, 1 have
corne to discuss the department of trans- mentioned some o! the larger departments
portation there la not a representative whlch, if represented ln this Rouse, would
of the government who Is specially charged give a dlgnity and Importance to the Senate
with the knewledge of that department which it cannot have wlth the present IlIts
It Is mited bill o! fare submltted to us.
ln this House to help us through.
not s0 ln Great Britain, with regard to the debates would be more extended, we would
Important departments. I see that the be better employed and the press would
sum spent on railways amounts to $98,- know that the Senate had something to do.
000.000 odd and'on canais eighty-n1ne ml- How long would the Senate of the United
IIon'oýdd, and yet this body, supposed to States have beld Its position If It could not
bear Its f air share of the burden of legisia- deal with matters of that klnd? For Intion, has no direct representative of a de- stance through its committees it deals with
partment that burdens the country wlth agriculture and torestry, appropriations, Cathls enormous sum of money, and around nadian relations, the census, the civil serwhich gathers snch matters of Immense Im- vice, cuban relations, education, labour,
It fisheries, foreiga relations, Inter-oceanic
portance to the Dominion of Canada.
charged that we 'passed the Trans- canais, Indian affairs, Inter-state commerce.
was
continental Railway Bill on short notice. the judiciary, torest reservation, geological
I was not here at the Urne, and 1 do not survey and so on. That is the full sweep
know. However, that la flot material. But of the Senate of the United States; little
It does seem to me unfafr that when legis- *credit te the Senate of the United States
lation la proposed whlch affects the pros- *to be heard from. These are matters on
perity and lite of Canada, that there la no whlch we cannot very weli be heard froni,
representative of the government la this unless some different organization la made,
Then unless through some committee or repreChamber to discuas the mensure.
the Department of Public Works should be sentative of the government we can grapple
aise represented. In the accounts of lasi t wlth those questions, and my Idea la that
year the expenditure on revenue was seven iIf there was the sanie justice done te the
millions, and on capital account be - Senate as la done to the House of Lords
the British administration, we would
tween two and three millions, or near -by
ly ten millions. This means aIl th<e be so represented here that something would
public buildings of the country, the de -be done that would add te the interest
partmental buildings, harbours, docks arn o f our discussions and to our importance
wharfs and so on, under the contro 1 in the country. That is what I wish to
of the department, and yet we have to tal- esay upon administrative reform.
our information lndirectly, not as it ough tUnder representative reformiI wish tedisto be. Then we have the Department o f cuss the constitution 0f the Senate? There
marine and Fisheries, and that opens a are various ways suggested, that members

S EN A TE
precisely as
should be appointed by the legisîntures, that the House of Itepresentatives,
the Crown does lu Canada, lu selecting
tbey should be eiected by the people or that
they should be elccted and nppoiated, bait those wbo have bad experience ln the House
and bal. Let us for a few moments, witb of Gommons. Then twenty-eight members,
your permission, refer to Uic system of of the United States Senate bad experience
election by Uic provincial iegislatures. For lu state legisiatures, or 30 per cent; tbat le
some time It appeared to be lu Uic air a grade or two iower down, and bere again
ln
that this was thc most popular system ln we flnd that tbirty-two of our members
tbat ls the Senate bave bad experlenoe lu local lethe country. I do flot -know that
Senate eiepublie opinion now. From the debates iii gislatures. In tbe United States
yen senators had been State Governors. In
another place It appears it is flot Uic most
one provincial governor
popular view%entertained by the House of tbis Senate only
bas been appointed. In tbe United States
Gommons. It la beid that lu tbls way,
judges;
however, wc would get a bigber c]ass of Senate two of its members bave'been
bas been
representatives than we get tirougb ap. 1 believe only one of our senators
In tbe 'United States Senate six
pointmcnt by Uic Crown. Let us make a a Judge.
gencral for
comparisons between this Hou se and members bave beca attorneys
few
states; I thlnk wc bad only one who bas
the Senate of tbe United States; tbis House
one of the
nomlnated by thc Crown, and Uic Senate becia a solicitor general, for
provinces. In the United States Senate four
of Uic United States nominatcd by Uic State
of the United
legislatures. The tbcory at tbe time of members bave been members
States cabinet; we bave seven of our memconfederation wnas that Uic old inembers
members of the Domiof Uic legislative council, as far as was bers wbo bave been
bave been memberg
necessary to flil vacancies, sbould be se- nion cabinet, seven who
wh-at of local legislature cabinets, four wbo bave
iected for scats lu Uic Senate. On
legislatures or
was that Uieory bascd? On this, that par- been speakers ln the local
or ln the Dominion parliament. In the United
Ilamentary experience o! soine formn
have bad
auotber was of great value for scuatorial States Senate thirteen members
experlence lu botb Hlouses; lu this Cbamduties. Sir John Macdonald and the fabave bad experlence lin
thers of confederatlon entcrtained Uiat view, ber fifteen metubers
both Houses. This ls a remarkable coinand the first list of senators, as the bon.
of members to two
member from Wellington bas sald, was cidence lu the selection
tbe state legislatures
up largely from members o! thc different systems. If
mnade
special lnsight as
legislative council, and subsequcntly, since bad any prescleuce'or any
ougbt to
Uic legisiative councillors bas to wbat tbe duties of a senator
the list of
be, thc Crown ln Canada bas had similar
bccn exhaustcd, Uic same course bas been
and insight, and I think it is
followed, and, strange to say, lu the United prescience
rather a compliment to the nominations
States, -wbcre appointments are made by'
Senate since confederation tbat
Uic state legisiatures, Uic selection ls made made to tic
they bear out that representative character,
from prclaely Uic same class of people as
our
the sciections are made bere, that ls, from We do not necd therefore to change
representation just
who bave bad experience lni state legis- system ln order to get
inen
they get iu the United States
latures or in thc House of Representatives as good as
taklng Uic by the selections made by the state legisat Wasbington. For Instance,
got It 110W. Tben It
preseut Senate of the United States, latures. We have
these bas been said that election by tbe provinwe find the foliowing: 39 of
would be a better guaran.
bail experience li the bouse of Represen- cial legislatures
tee that provincial luterests would be
tatives at Washington, or 41 per cent.
primarlly our funcTwenty-nine of our members bave bad ex- protected-that it is
It
tion to protect provincial interests.
perience lu the bouse of Gommons, or 30
entered largely lnte
a rather strange coinci- inay be that that idea
per cent. It is
of thc fathers of confederation
dence that the state legislatures scattered ttie iuds
It was
select for the v.len thec Sevate was organized.
ail over the country should
tte ,i imvrry idea iu thec organîzation of the
higbcst gif t or legislative honours lu the
United States Scuate, and fi is one of the,
Ufkited States, men -who bad experience in
Hon. Mir. ROSS (Middlesex).

JANUARY 23, 1908
anomalies of the constitution of the United
States that Delaware witb a population of
about hait a million sbould have two senators, while New York with seven millions
lias only the samne number.
It - does appear reasonabie tbat this
House siiould protect provincial Interests;,
but bas this H9use been dereliet In that
direction?
I am unable to recali any Bill
affecting provincial Interest very closely
that this Senate rejected. It must flot be
forgotten, however, that the House of Coin
nions bas the saine responsibility to protect
Provincial Interests that we have, we mi
ay
be a court of appeai, Yet the lower court is
as mucb bound ta conscience to give a
righteous decision as the highest court, and
the House of Commnons cannot repudiate
responsibillty ln regard to provincial rigbtse
sending a questionnble Bill to the Senate
In the hope that the Senate 'wlll reject it.
Ibat is no apology for suci, a Bill comlag
bore, but I l<now of no Instance ln wbicb
a Bill said to have been an encroachment
on provincial rights bias been rejected by
the Senate.
However, It Is sald that Bisl
encroacbing on provincial rlghts should
have been rejected, aud the Autonomy Bill
Is given as an illustration.
I arn not goIng to dlscuss the Autonomy Bill.
It bas
been discussed thoroughly aiready, but tbe
provinces themselves affected by the Bill
did flot reject tbe principles of the Autonomy Bill. So far they regard it as witmln provincial rights, so, If they are right
we are rlght, and the House of Commoas
is right, and there Is a complete vindication of the Senate ail round that that Autonomy Bill was flot a violation of provincial
rlghts.
If It cau be shown that any Bill
should have been rejected by the Senate
wbich was an Interference 'wlth provincial
rIgbts, I aM Teady to withdraw what I
bave sald, but until that Is sbown I take
the stand that tbe Senate bas not been a
paicty to any encroacient on provincial
rights. It bias been respeetful to the rlgbts
of the provinces, and tbe House of Comnnions ln that respect,
Tmon it bias been said timat if we were
appointed by the logisiatures we would get
more representative mon.
That is a very
If thore is anythlng to
important point.
give charactor to the Sonate, it Is that It

is to, be composed of mon of the highiest
standing, 1 need not say socially-I do not
moan that lu the ordinary society sense,
but men of good standing. 1 suppose the
Confederation Act sougbt to guard tbat
by requlring a property qualification, and
that we sbould be mon of reasonably mature years, because no mita can enter the
Senate untIl hie bas roached the age of
tbirty at least; but It Is Important that the
-Sonate should be composed of represen tative men; its numbep being fow and its
Lot us compare ourresponsibiity great.
selves with tbe reprosentative character of
Sonators of the United States appointed by
the State logislaturos.
I find. tbat the prosent Sonate o! the United States Is composed of sixty-soven lawyers lu the House
of ninoty-two members--only n1nety yet I
think, because the Sonators from Oklabama
have not yot taken thoir seats.
We b'qve
ninoteen lawyers lu a House 0f eigbty-seven
members.
They have no mon who bave
occupied the position of public officiais;
we have tbree.
They bave six capitalista
and bankors; we have eight.
Tboy bave
one Journalist; we bave threo.
Tboy have
five engaged in agriculture; we have thIrteon.
Tbey have six engaged lu morcantPle pursuits; we have flfton. "They have
two engaged lu manufacturing; we have
nine, fivo o! wbom are lumbermen.
Two
of thoir membors coma under the head of
nIlscailaneous; wo bave seven under the
Tbey bave one doctor; we
saine head.
bave seven doctors. We are more largely
rapresonted iu agricuitura-nearly two to
one-in mercantile pursuits nearly tbree to
oue; ln manufactures four to ona, and ln
Iu lawyors, as I
capîtalists eight: to six.
bave shown,. we have only ninetean to
their sixty-seven. I do not know wbethor
that Is unfortunato or not but at ail avents
we could not dispense with a very fair representation o! the legai profession, and
that ls bow tbe matter stands. Now, that
shows a really botter represantation here
than the appointments as now controlled
Sixtylu the United States bave given.
seven lawyers ln a House e! ninety members, auy reasonable man will say Is teo
many of one profession.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Teo iimucb of a good
tbIng.

112

SENATE

Hon. Mr. ROSS-Too much of a good lic opinion can you bave thut stability
thing-ratber a surfeit. and I do flot won- wbicb a constitution wauts, sud you bave
Public opînder that tbey have a good deai of trouble that stabllty, I trust, bere.
iu the United States Senate on account of iou-would you have that If the senators
that disproportion of lawyers to business were elected by state legisiatures? Wbat
tbey represent?
On the other hand, people say tbat public opinion would
men.
the agridultural and mercantile sections of Tbere la one public opinion lu Toronto on
the 'communlty should be more largely re- local matters, and there Is another public
We have a respectable opinion lu Vie House o! Commons bere, a
presented here.
number o! capitallats and of journalias, <Jonservative party lu the provincial legisof course, wlthout wbom we could n&t get lature, a Lîberal party lu Vie House o!
I couteud, therefore, that Commons--whlch represents public oplnon very well.
They.are both public opinion. You
we ueed not go to the legisiatures to get ton?
a better representation than we have, for cannot compromise Inasny other way Vian
0f course by golug to sme source wblcb Is entirely
the Crown lias given it to us.
in the United States Seuste there have above tiese varlous gradations of public
been dlstluguished figures, larger perhaps opinion, whlch ives In some serene atmosthan any that have loomed Up Iu the Sen- phere, uudlsturbed by these conflcts be- ate here yet, If I may be so uuklud as to 10w, sud wbo can select for the Senate
make a comparison; but we are young yet men who are beyoud the control of Viese
For that reason, the present
compared wlth the United States. Their fluctuations.
present constitution dates from, 1787, a system la even better Vian election by state
Tbere la more stabllity; begood many years ago compared with ours, legislatures.
tbey have had great Issues, because aides, Vie people of Canada should hold
and
the l1te o! the nation bas been at stake the goverument of Canada always responsud It takes great occasions to produce sible for Its legialation, not the goverumeut
The greater contains the
men like Webster, Clay, Caiboun, Hosr, of a province.
less; it is sImply absurd Viat we sbould put
Sbould
Sumner, Thurman and Conkilng.
the occasion corne iu the hlstory of thia men luto the Senate sud hold Viern recountry tiiere may be found among the sponsible to the Dominion of Canada for
men' appointed to the Senate statesmen their leglalation wheu tbey are, owing
equal to those that have arisen In tbe Unit- their appolutrnent to the provincial legised States, sud I trust there always will be lature, sud held responsible to Vie provThat canuot be; they
men In this Chamber equal to protecting incial legisiature.
the interests of the nation aud savtag ber must be responsible to Canada aud not to
Vie provincial leglslature:y, sud it la only
from decay or decline.
I amn not golng to diseuss the question by withdrawing Viem. from appoiutrnent by
whetber the Senate refleets public opinion Vie. provincial legisîstures that you appoint
That ls rather a mysterious and Viema luto this larger sphere o! respousior not.
Therefore appointment by Vie
What ls public billty.
metaphysical. question.
you going to get at provincial legisiatures must be rejected.
opinion, aud bow are
The public opinion of the House of Agalu, why Viruat Dominion politica luto
it?
The arnaller
Gommons to-day may not be the public the provincial legislatures T
opinion of the House of Commons .to-mor- the pit the fiercer Vie rats fight. The pt
BUis the House of Gommons passed la small euough uow, and the rats do figlit
row.
last session, tbey are going to amend this fiercely, sud If there la auythiug more to
session. Wbere they right last session, or be !ought for, it will only inteusi!y their
Let us net thrust these apare they rlght this session? The Flouse struggle.
It
Up poiutments into the local legislatures.
o! Commons that governed -the country
to 1896 goverus It no more; but between has been said that it will raise tbe status
those large revolutions o! public opinion of Vie local legislatures; but who la coinyou -have the shifting sand of public plaiuing of the status of the local legisînThey cousider themselves as
opinion from day to day in the Flouse or tures now?
Only important-at least I did so when I was
aud ail elective bodies.
Gommons
ln. a body that la not dependent upon pub- a member of the local legiaslature o! OnHon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

JANUA1IY 23, 1908
tario as memljers of the Dominion parlia- of a deadlock, and lu fourteen
contesta the
ment, mutatis mutandis and 1 suppose tbey baliottlng lasted frorn forty ,four to one
always wlll.
But wouid this plece of hundred and fourteen days.
Now, we do
patronage raise the statue of the legisla- not want to Introduce Into our Canadjan
tures?
Does patronage maise the statua systern anything that would be no
Irritatof any party, any individuai, or any body?7 lng, and that would Interfere s0 seriously
I have my doubts on that subjeet, very wlth business.
Then If you transfer the
serious doubta that patronage, after ail, la field o! election to the local -legislatures
anything more than a clog on the wheela you make eaaier the use o! corrupt
or Inof governent rather than a benefit.
proper Influences.
Since 1857, In the
Now, these are my chief arguments United States, there bave been
ten cases
agalnst the election of niembers of the Sen- of corruption tried by the
Senate of the
ate by the local leglalatures.
But there United States.
Some of the senators that
are sorne dangers which such a mode of secured their election by those
practlces
election rnlght create.
In the United resigned ha! ore tbey carne to trial,
or
States they have had this difficuity in the the others I tbink only one
was nnseated.
election of members by the State legisla- The Senate acquitted the greater
number
tures-they frequentiy corne to a deadlock. of thern, but thxe tact la apparent,
and It la
Goldwln Smith maya that we owe confede- one of the scandais of the United
States
ration to a deadiock.
They have bad that these practices prevail. Let me quote
their deadlocks tn the State legisiatures !rom a work that I have under my
band,
over the election of Senators.
In the last wbich gives a aummary of the opinion of
fifteen years forty-two states of the Union a wrIter of sme distinction, Mr. Geo.
H.
have suffered froni deadlocks, and In smre Haynes, Profesmor o! Political
Science, ln
cases the whole session bas been loat In the Worcester Polytecbnic Institute,
and
electing a Senator.
Let me state bow author o! 'Representation ta State Legiathese are couducted : The law o! the Unit- laturea.'
I quote frorn bis book ' The
ed States la that when a vacancy In the Election of iSenators,' asi the opinion of a
Senate bas to be flled, the two Hlouses of wrlter wbo la not a!raid to publiah.
bis
the State legisiature meet la separate views to the world, of the United States
bodies on the firat day o! the session, or Senate as au offset to what la sald of
our
the first week of the session, and if the Canadian Senate.
He maya *
two Houses by a rnnjorlty agree upon the
Judged by the fruits which it bas produced
election of John Smith to the Senate, John in recent years, in the estimation of the pubfrom
estte.
Srnith la elected accordilngly.
iL! they lic, the Senate has fallen even its high but in
lb' power remains; it
grows,
should disagree, then on every day there- large measure its eminence bas been loat.
a! ter during the session until they corne In the ve.ry years wben the United States ia
a world&power.
to an agreement, or untIl a majority la asserting ber new mission as more. than
a.nd when ber motives need
ever
obtalned, or until the session closes, the before to be free from ail taint of commercialism, in the exercise of its power of paslegisiatures muet meet jointly and take a
sinz npon
bas allowed its
ballot. .Now, it bas happened that la the decisions tatreaties the Senatethe xnost sordid,
be governed by
State of Delaware the legislature ballotted and most narrowly partisan considerations.
every day for 114 days and no senator
Nothing worae than tbat bas been sald of
was elected, and Delaware was not repre- this
Senate.
sented la the Senate for that year. Four
Neyer before in its bistory bas tbe Senate
states bad speciai sessions la order to been the target of sucli scathing criticism as
elect a senator.
The deadbock continued during the past fifteen yeara. On ail aides is
until the session expired; for ln many heard the charge that tbe Senate bas ceased
ta be repregentative of the commonweaitb or
States the session la limited by the con- of the people of the United States; that in
stitution to thlrty or forty days, and If its membership statesmen are lamentably few
are today
they cannot elect their senator during that and bas becomýe becoming fewer: tbat tbe Senate
a ricb rmn's club-, a paradise
tirne, a special session la called or the State of millionaires; that it is now the stronghold
la unrepresented.
In the Fifty-thlrd Con- of the trusts, and of corporate interesta.
gress, three sents were vacant by reason
That bas neyer been said o! this Senate.
o! a deadlock. In the PfIty-fonrth ConThat througb sùbcesaive congreases sme
gress there were four seats vacant because

RNVI5ED

of
aur greateat statea continue to be represented
EDMTON

SI A T E
E
by senators without a glimmering of states-I
manship, mnen who owe their elevation to theI
arts of the ward politician; while in other
states a seat in the Senate ie made to serve es
an old age pension rather than as a cali to
high and effective service.
One would think I was readIng some Canadian newspaper.
When it je remembered that in the Senate
of a single congress-the ôth-at ieast one out
of every ten mernisers had been put on tria]
before the courts, or subjected to legisiative
investigation for serions crimes, or for grave
derelictions froin official duty, and that ini
every case the accused Senator either was
found gnilty or at least failpd to purge himself thoronghly of the charges, there certainly je enougis indication of iow standards in
the Senate to warrant the inquir 7 whether the
process by which the Senate is con8tituted
is such as je calculated to select men of
great ability and high character.
That la thse opinion of an author of distiction upon a Senate elected by thse state
legislatures; so I add we do not 'want to
venture upon sucis dangerous navigation as
they have found tisere.
Now ivhat is thse trend of publie opinion?
That brings mie to, the lune of observation
witb wisicb I hope to close lu a very few
minutes. What la the Uine of opinion in
thse United States after an experience of
one isundred and thirty years of their Senate,. and wisat la tise lue of public opinion
In regard to the second ebamber In other
places? 1 shail briefly show. Tise hune of
opinion ini tise United States la tisat thse
mode of electing senators by tise state leglsiatures shouid be abandoned. Let me
state a comipreisensive fact. At five different
sessions of Congress tise House of Ihepresentatives voted for elective senators-senators electecI by tise people. Tise last vote
la 1900 wvas yeas, 244; nays, 15; so it Is
aimost tise unanimous opinion of tise House
of Representatives of tise United States
tisat tise senators sisould be elected by popular vote. A joint committee of tise Senate
and bouse of Representatives was appointed to report upon thls subjeet, but thev
neyer miade a report, so tise game was
blocked lu tise Senate. Tise Democratic
party In 1900 and 1904 has made election
of tise senators by popular vote one of its
pianks. Tisirty-one state legislatures bave
by vote favoured tise election of senators
by popular vote, and in some of tise states
wich candidates are requlred to accept at
thse primaries, às tisey cail It. Tise legisiaHlon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

tures have foliowed tisis direction In some
cases; in otisers they isave not. Tbey are
not obliged to accept that as thse wvill of thse
peopie; they exercîse tiseir own wlll. I mention tisis to show thse tendency In tise United
States wisere tisis experiment bas been
tried, to have senators elected by tise popular vote instead of by tise state legislatures,
s0 that If tise opinion o! that large nation
is to be of any value, we have It very distlnctly stated.
Let me say also tisat In tise Englisi pariarnent, altsougs tise House o! Lords le
isereditary, consistlng o! 620 members, this
curions process la golng on ail tise time,
tisat tise House of Lords le being fertiiized by tise Infusion o! a popular element.
Since 186 no less tisan 256 new peers have
been appolnted. Tise hereditary elernent lu
tise House of Lords, tisat la tise bereditary
element wisich goes back to tise Tudors, or
even later to tise Stuarts, 19 a very smail
element lu tise House of Lords. 0f tise 62W
mnembers of tise bouse o! Lords, as I have
shown, 256 are new peers appointed sînce
1868, so tise bouse of Lords Is not tisat
rnoss-grown body tisat bas corne down to,
us froni tise ages, witis Its isereditary predlections, and Idiosyncrasies, but it la a
body tisat bas been fertillzed and !resiseued
by tise frequent Infusion of fresh elernents
new fromn public opinion. Gladstone appointed 80 new peers. Carnpbell-Bannerman, wbo went in In 1905, bas appolnted
sixteen Lords, so, tisat you seen tisat It Is
Impossible for tise iseredltary elernent te
predominate altogether, and I mention tiss
fact to lndi'cate that lu'tise mother of parliaments, tise greatest deliberative body ln
tise world, tisere Is a certain deference to
public opinion. Tisat deference rnay bé
shown here by our successive nominations,
or in another way, as i willI attemupt Io
show. Nevertiseless there la tise !act; not
only have 256 peers been appointed, but
there are four judges o! appeal wiso are
members o! tise Housc of Lords for life,
and tisey are appointed wisenever a vacancy occurs. Tisat is a new and popular
element.
1 cannot mention offisand any
persoil who lias been appointed a judge of
appeal of. late years; but tisey are a new
elenieit lii tise lereditary cisamber. Theli
sixteen Scottisis peers are eiected every parliament. There is a new element coming in

JANUARY 23,
froni Scotland, and, from the breezy character of the country, one can readly beleve that these Scotch pe.-rt. would freslien
the House of Lords. Then the Irish peers,
28 lni number, are elected for 11fr. Just the
otber day Lord Curzon was elected an Irish
peer, fresh frorn his experience ln Indis.
glving new ]Ife and flot a nomlnated but an
elective elernent. There are aiso 24 bishops,
and two arcbbishops appointedl for life.
Then the Speaker goes to the Hlouse of
Lords when bis terni expires, and also the
Lord High Chancellor.
Practically, bowever, the new peers are a refreshing, f ertilizing element entering that hereditary
chlamber. Some of the great men who have
been appointed ln the House of Lords tui
our time are Wellington, Sir Colin Campbell,
Lord Roberts, Lord Cromer, Kitchener,
Mount Stephen Âiverston, Avebury, Playfair, Kelvin, Tennyson, and Stratbcona.
Most of these men have been appointed of
récent years. Then the governent have the
power to uncrease the House of Lords as we
ail know and this would prevent a deadlock.
I mention that to show thqt there la, even
In the House of Lords with Its hereditary
distinctions and ancient usages, a partially
elective and partiaiiy nominated body, but
somebody la goung up from the people aIl
the tume, as Curzon is going up, as Lord
Mount Stephen, and Lord Stratheona and
others that I need flot mention, have been
going to keep the House of Lords fresh and
to keep it somewhat modern.
Ini France they have 300 Senators elected
for tbree ternis, and the other House eleeted for uine years, and they are a large
body. This body la nid to be too large.
1 have flot the number of the members of
the other House.
Senators are not nom -nnted
by the governent ut the time, but
elected by a sort of electoral colIege, and
members of the general council. When a
vacancy occurs, delegates ut the electors,
chosen by the Municipal Council, meet and
elect a senator; so that there Is a popular
side there.
In Germany the Senate is eiected every
purliament, and consIsts of only flfty-eight
members, and they are norninated by the
dIfferent States.
The twenty-sIx provinces
appoint two ench, and three cities appoint
two eacli, mnking Ilfty-eight la ail.
Ini Australia ench Stute eleets Its own

9oOS

ropresentatives to the Senate of the Coûtrnonwealth by popular vote, and except !l
Queensland the whole State votes npon the
election of senators. The provinces are not
dlvlded Into districts as they were ln Canada under the old legislative council, but a
senator is a candidate for a whole provlace or city, mast as a lieutenunt-governor
ln a State or Union ls a candidate for tbe
wbole State or Union.
That Is a wlde
electomate. but It la the Austmailan aystem.
nnd I think It worka well.
This brhngs me to rny ciosiag observation,
ad that Is what shall we do?
Shall we
allow the présent system -to stand-and 1
arn afrnid frorn the courst ut my argument
that yon would thluk I was leading up to
one conclusion, that the present system la
the systeni, and ttat there ahould be no
channge.
I do not know after ail that
there would bie an advantage lni a composite Senate, and I nam golng to submlt
this as a view of one hon. member of the
Senate, Ini order that we rnight corne to a
conclusion later, or to one view ln wblch
we mlght ail agreé. I arn goung to suggeat that a better mode than the nominative systemn wonld be a composite system,
bal! nominative and haîf elective; that la
balf the Senate from each province, should
be elected by the province, and the otber
liai! nominated by the Oruwn.
Now, wby
do I retain tbe norninative syatern? Tbeyv
say If you are going to the people, go to
the whole people.
Well I would suy, go
to the whole people -rather than. to the
State legislature; but why do you muintain
a nominative system ut ail? There la a
good deal ln the experience of Great Britain
la regard to the manner ln whlch the
House of Lords bas been appointed fromn
time to time.
There are men, some of
Britaln's most distlngulshed mea, who have
found gse ln the Honse of Lords wbo
wouid flot have gone to an élection or neyer
would have been appointed ln any other
way. There was Sir John Lnbbock-wouid
he go to a constituency?--Then Sir Lyon
Pluyf air, Lord Oromer and Sir Donald
Smith.
There are men in every country
whose advice la wortb a good deal, whose
hlgh position In business, finance, art or
Ilterature wiil do honour to a senatoril
body lîke ibis, and I feel that-these are men
of such pecullar pursuits, habits, tustes ind

SENATE
association, that they wouid be lost entirely to the country from a legisIative point
of view If they could flot be appointed
to Vie Senate In some oVier way Vian by
direct election.
So, in order Viat we might
maintain, we mlght say what would otherwise be a wnste, Vint we might secure ahd
add to Vie dlgnity of this Houe sucli men
as could b. sougbt for-I ar n ot golng to
mention names--by Vie goverament, irrespective of Vieir politics, and place these
men in Vis House and, Ilke the names 1
have mentioned of members of Vie Hanse
of Lords, Viey would brirg to Vie Senate
the confidence and respect of the publie
In a manner perbaps which could not be
doue In any other way.
We muet trust
the Crown a Ilttie.
I am conservative
enougb-I arn fond enough of Vie methods
of Vie old land, to trust Vie Crown pretty
fully, particulariy wlth sucb safeguards as
we bave upon It bere, and I woyuld. like to
see Vie Crown's bande f ree to honour witb
the -dignity of a place la the Senate men
whom we couid not procure In asy other
way.
SAnd Vies wbat would I do?
I would
fIrst allow present senators to retain their
position during lIte, as was dose In Vie
old parliament of Canada when the elective metbod was adopted.
I would divide
Ontario into twelve districts, and I wouid
allot from the exlsting senators one seaitor to each district
That wouid leave
twelve members wltbont a district. As
-'soon
as a vacancy occurred In the representation of Vie district or of a senatoi
allotted to a district, or of one wtio was
not allotted, let sncb vacancies be. flled
up, ose by election and one by nominee.
You have there a very simple process, and
for Viat we have a very very etrong precedent.
Hon, gentlemen will remember the
Interprovincial Confereuce that was beld
la Quebec, ln 1887, at wbich the premiers
of Canada and masy other representatives
of Vie provincial goveruments were present, and arnong other resolutions agreed
upon at thnt conference was one In regard
to the Sesate.
Tbe following Is the resolution :
That a ieading purpose of the Senate was
to proteet the interests of the respective provinces as such. That a Senate to which the
appointments are made by the federai government and for lite, affords no adequate s
c-nrity to the provinces and that in case n
lion. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

other early remedy is provided the British
North America Act shouid be so arnended as
to limit the term for which Senators hold
office and to give the choie when vacancies
coeur to the provinces to which the vacancies
belong until one hait of the members of the
Senate representing snob provincies are senators chosen by the provinces; that thereafter
the mode of selection be as follows: If the.
vacancy i8 occasioned by the death, resignation or otherwise of a senator chosen by a
province, that province to choose his successor, and if the vacancy is occasioned by the
death, resignation or other-wise of asy other
senator the vacancy would b. filled s now
provided by the. Act but only for a limited
term of years.
There they mention the word 'province,'
and I arn not sure whether tbey meant by
that tie provincial legisiature or Vie popular elections; but we would i'Lave Vils state
of things: the present senators to retain
office during lite, and twelve senators from
Ontario to be aIotted to tbese districts,
and If ose dies there will be an election to
that district; and what do we do in that
case ? We preserve' Vie elective Senate, and I would let Vie Senate continue for
two terms of Vie local House. The rule In
the United States is six years. In France
it la three terme. In Germany lt Is only
one terrn. Now what would you bave If
my systemn were adopted? You wouid have
the public opposition bearing constantly
upon Vie Senate. The objection to Vie
old legielative council was that a considerable number of new men came
into Vie Senate at every election. In
the United States oniy a third of Vie Senate
is eiected every Viree years, so Viat twothirds remain constant. You would avoid
Vie contagion of public agitation and Vie
contagion of party zeal If only senators
were elected as vacancies occurred. Perhaps a vacancy may not occur In two or
Viree years, or two or Viree vacancies may
occur i a year. I wonld have Vite
senators serve for two terms. The nominative senators would serve for Ilte.
There should be no man in this House wbo
sought by any method of condeecension, or
by a patronizing career, or by associating
himuseif la a patronizing way wiVi ministere, to ask for a prolongation of bis terrn.
He sbouid be Viorougbly independent or
not be here at ail. The elective senators
would be independent. They come straiht
from Vie electors. The nominative senators would be independent because they

JA-NUARY 23, 190S
hold their position for lite. Thot would Introduce two classes of senators. In the
House of Lords they had heredltary lords
ln the days of the Tudors, and appointeti
lords witbin recent Urnes, and there ls no
harrn done. It may be said that the district would be so large that senators could
not secure election for a large district without great Inconvenience. I do not attacb
much Importance to that. As I sald a
moment ago, a whole province la Australia ls the elective district for a senator,
ln tbe United States a state, and New
York le large, and Texas la larger stililu the field for a state governor, and they
get elected. We surely could get senators
elected for a district composed of threo
or four counties. No man would presume to
offer himself for a district tbrough wbilh
he was not himself largely acquainted. Hc
mnuet be sornewhat tall to be seen at a
distance of three or four counties. It le
eay to get a amaîl man ln a small sphere
wlth three or four thousand electors, but
It is a different motter where there are
15,000 electors, and the result would be
that we %vouldhave men of larger knowledge and wider experience. Then there ls
the other advantage of the nominative systern. By maintaining the nominative system the cabinet of a governrnent could be
more easilyý recruited. It was otten Inconventent under the old system for a legislative councillor when taken-into the council to go *back for election. There ahoutit
be some way of getting capable men into
the government 'who are flot required to get
ai seat The British constitution has lasted
a thousand years, and yet one-haîf of the
cabinet do not go back for re-election. The
government should be free to take hold
of a man of great financlal experlence or
of great experlence ln other departrnents,
and 'place hlm ln the cabinet and let hlm
at once go to work and diseharge the du-ý
ties of bis office. Tou limit the sphere of
capable Canadians If you insist that no
man saol have a seat ln tue cabinet unless
he ls elected ln some constituency.
Then there is another phase of this question which is rather a discovery to me, that
aniong tÉe legisiative councillors elected
under the old law s0 many men came ta
the front by way of election. It Is a very
strong argument la favour of a haIt elec-

tive Senate, and I do flot know but it would
be even strouger ln favour of a full elective Senate. There came into the legisia.
tive council forty-eigbt men by election, and
notice the dlstinguish names I arn going to
read. There was Ferguson Blair, a mesober of Sir John Macdonald's fIrst cabinet;
there was Hon. David Christie; Mr. J. C.
Aikens, Mr. Allen who was Speaker of the
Senate, Sir Alex. Campbell, Minister or
Justice, Leteliler St. Juat; 8fr D. 'L. MePherson, Hon. J. G. Currie, who came ln
by election; and of tbe oid members
of the legisls.tive council, who came ln by
appointment were Etienne Taché, Sir Narcisse Belleau. The elective system brought
these strong men into pdblic lite. If a man
bas a strong personality and great force
and energy, the trlfllng difficuity of a small
constltuency may not interfere wltb bis
promotion. I have outlined a scheme whieb
was approved of ln 1887, a scheme whlcb
is reasonably conserva tive, whlch I think
w111 answer most of the objections th it
eau be urged to a Senate no matter bowv
constltuted, and a scheme wb.lch would
give to the Senate the public element we
cannot fail to recognize, and stili maintain
that stabllity which ls necessary to a body
of this character.
Hon. Mr. COFFEY-I feel I shouid pass
a compliment to my hionourable colleagues
from Middlesex and North Wellington for
the statesmanlike. attitude w¶ich bas characterlzed their remarks upon this question,
ja question 'which bas now assumed a complex form. The hon. member for Wellington started tbe bail rolling ln vigorous
fashion, and the tast speaker bas given It
a fillip whieh brougbt It Increased speed.
Periodically there arises ln some sections
of the country a subdued flurry of agitation for the reconstruction or the refur.
nishing of the Senate. In the fashioning
of the national edifice the Senate of Canada was deemed a most Important Part Of
Âround the Council Board
tlie structure.
were gathered men of renown-men of
ripened statesrnansbip-rnen who feit they
were flot building alone for their own tImn'
They were
but for future generations.
men whose tboughits rose far beyond the
giddy world of small party polities-not
sparrlng for political points, but Imbued

SENATE,
with a splendid resolve to make Canada
great eand free and prosperous.
They
would construct a nationbood strong and
enduring.
Indeed one would be led to
tilnk, after studying the bistory of those
times, and taking to heart the well-nigh
lnspired utterances of the ernlnent men of
that period, that tbey foresaw a tirne when
unrest and lnconstancy would becomp a
characteristie of a section of the peoplewhen there would be a cry, faint though il
be-for the uprooting of oid traditions, foi
the dernolition. or the transformation into
a weakling of that part of our governruental system, against which tIdes o! passion
wiil, it Is to be hoped, but beat to break
and pass away. There may be-indeed
there are-a few uincere and good men,
who wlsh tD see a change ln tbat handiwork 0f tlie masters-the -British North
America Act-but they are men who bave
not delved helow tbe surface. Tbey have
not deliberated upon the consequences
which would ensue were their levelllng propositions carried to completion. Rtemove
a component part of a atrong building and
there wfll be mlsgiving as to the durability
of the remainder.
In like manner may we not fear that an
Inroad upon the Confederation Act will but
bring us nearer and nearer to other
changes wbichi wIll be iooked upon wIth
kiudiy eyves by tbose who are cbaalng willl
o' tbe wlsps, the realization of whose
dreamas would be as deau sea fruit.
We
hear an echo from another place as follow:"'The Canadian Sonate as an institution
bas nlot proved to be o! any decided benefit
to Canada, and cannot be regardod as a
necessity.
That the dtsadvantages coitnected with and resulting !romn the maintaining of the Sonate greatly outweigll
the advantages and benefits derived therfrom, and that tbe Senate may with advantage and gain be abolished."
Tmils may bo consldered the prologue of
the play "Radtcalism going far afield."
Thon will corne the epilogtie, but 1 believe
it wli be delivered ln confusion, deserving
not the plaudits of those who truly love
Canada.
There are tbose who tell us tbat
the Senate at tbe dawn of confederation
and the Senate of our day are not from
the standpoint of usetuiness, Identical.
lion. M4r. COFFEY.

This is but an assertion, and Is unaupported by facts and figures.
It Is too
otten an appeal to the sordid Instincts
wbich ileasure the length and breadt.h of
everythiug by dollars and cents.
When
the welfare of Canada's people ln the mass
bas been concerned, when bas the Senate
been fouud recreant to those bigb Ideals
whil hbave been placed In its keoping?
When bas It failed to give proper consideration to the mneasures road from the Speaker's chair?
If cases are pointed out, it
Mill be found that the blame did not rest
with the Uppor Chamber.
The cry bas
been raised that the Sonate Is nlot a body
for which the people bave regard-is nlot
an assemblage of leglalators possessing
their confidence, because Ils membors do
flot corne fresb from the constituencios at
the close of oach genoral eloction.
But
it is well to rocollect that a large number
of the mombors had for long yoara been
the rocipients of the confidence of the eloctors when tbey were ongaged ln thue more
strenuous phase of political life.
Many
o! them were sent to tbe elective cbamber with goodly majorities to their
credit, parliament after parliarnt, for
a generation or more, and wben the timue
approached to relinqulsh 1ýheIr posta along
the firiuig Une o! party strife, they still
retained the esteem o! their constituents,
and, ln cases whero a passage was opened
for themi lnto the hlgher aphere ln the
Canadian 8onate thero went out to thom
a full nieasure of that confidence which
,hnd been thelrs Ini the early years.
I1
norlng this. phase of the situation. the
weak cry la stili hoard ln seime places that
the Upper House is flot a reflex of public
opinion.
But the cry, it seexns to me,
wili go out entirely rather tban Increase ln
volume, for the roason that Its foundation
la but of sand.
In this country we bave
reason for gratitude thore are nlot those
degrees o! clasa distinctions which breed
discontent. We have no privileged set
which fancies that Providence made tbem
first, and afterwarda brought other people
into existence for their special use and
benefit.
The membera o! the Senate of
Canada have sprung fromn those .sons of
the soil who ln the early days changed
the forest lnto a gardeu and laid the corner
stone of a nation of manly men.
And

JANUARY 2,3, 1908
are we now to be told that those 'who have
fie boue and uinew and brain of Canada's
pioneers do flot truiy represent the people
We hear very many
of this country.
times the assertion made that the Senate
shouid be brought Into dloser accord wlth
the popular will. Give this phase of the
question the f uliest conslderation--examine it ln ail its varied pbaaes--end lu
the end we will find that [t Is but a parrot
cry. The popular wil! What is It, as
we somnetirnes find it represented lu real
lite, stripped of the stereotyped verbiage
of the orator to whom the appiause of the
uuthinking la miik and honey. When
the hopes of charter mongers are dashed
la Committee Room No. 8 the cry cornes
1Away witb the Senate.' la that cry a
reflex of the popular will ?
When the
Senate holds the scale of justice between
ail classes and conditions of the people of
Canada and refuses to sanction legisiation
of a partisan character, Interested parties,
checked lu their crusade of Injustice, wIll
exciaim 'Âway witb the Senate.' Who
Â
cails that shout the popular wil?
emali portion of our population, the Immatures who are tinged with socialisrn,
the fiedgeiings who cbirp et the feet of
Eugene Debs snd Jack London, wiii, 'wheu
they find the realization of their day
dreams baulked lu the Senate of Canada,
Mr * Away with the Senate.' Is that the
popular wlll?
I takre It that heed shouid
oniy be pald to the popular wlll as we
flnd it expressed by those who supply tbe
good red blood to our commercial, Industrial, agr!culturai and professional lUfe.
From tbese Canadians wUl not corne Vie
demand to uproot that structure whlch wll
ever prove Vie stauuch guardian of our
liberties sud.the patrimony whlc *h Providence gave us lu such plenty.
For a moment let ns compare the dominant note
heard ln the early days of our national
lite wltx that modern spirit (whose adherente are easliy nnrnbered) which wouid
brlng the leveller Into the arena to stay
our march towards greatneqs and permanence, In Vie Confederation Debates, page.
88, we finni this utterance from Hou..
George Brown :

sistent with the right working_ of the British
parliamentary system. I voted almost alous
against the chaage wheu the counicil was made
elective <1855), but I lived te see a vast majority of those who did the deed wish it hied
not been done. I readily admit that meu of
the highest character sud position have beon
brought into the Commons by the elective
system. but it is equally true thLt the system
of appointrnent has brought into it mon
of the highest charactor and position. Shiould
the elective element bocome supreme, who
will venture to affirm that the council would
not claimi that power over money bills, ivhieb
this house dlaims as a right belonging te
itseif. Could they flot justly say they 1-eprethat the
as vo
Sent the of Vie as woilstrings do and therefore
ought
control peou)le purs
to belong te Viem as much as to us ?> What
we propose iq that the lUpper House shall
be ai>pointed from the best men in this couintry by those holding Vie confidence of the
representatives of tho people iu this chambor.
[t is proposed that the goverumeut of the dey,
which only lives by the approval of this
chamber, shail mako the appoiutments and
be respousibie te the people for, the appointments they have made.
There was haif a century ago a remarkably unanimous concurrence ln Vie beiief
that a second Chamber was necessaryb,
partiy no doubt because Vie wisdorn of the
ages lu every civilized country under the
sun bad brought Vie conviction to the
niinds of Vie thinkers that there should
be some tribunal to stay the baud of
passionate haste ln Vie iaw maklng forum.
Iu Vie words of Sir John Â. Macdonald :
There should be the sober second thought
in legisiation. The Senate vould be of no
value whatovor ver. it a more chambor for
regitering -an decreos of the Lover Hous.
be Vie independeut biouse haviug a
It t
free action of its owu for it is only valuable
as a regulatiug body. calmly cousideriug the
iegislatiou proposed in the popular branch
and preventing any hasty or ill-cousidered
legisiation vhich. may corne front that body,
but it vili nover set itself in opposition
againat the deliberate sud weil understood
wishes of the people.
Ânother public man who held a prominent place In the national councls. HoL
Alexander Campbell, sald :
He v-ould, have the Upper Houas calm, considerate aud watchf ni te prevent the euactmeut of moasures which in its doliborato judgment vers not; calculated te advanoe the comnmon veeal.
We should take a lesson fromi Vie experience of those who on Vbis continent
rejected Vionght of the garnered wisdoni
of Vie ages wheii the thirteen colonies
started ousekeeplug.
1 have always been opposed to a second
The elective system was given fullest
eiected. chamber and 1 amn so stili, frorn the
conviction that two elective hoiises are incon- rein and every officiai ln the public Ilfe

SENATE
of the republie from the president to the
Honourable Gentlemen of the Senate. We
caretaker of a public building beld plie
we will give
copain of your inactivity, but revel in
While we rnay
subjeet to the will of the ballot marke-* you ohngt o interminable you must the
iuxury of debte
be
Even the judges of the different courts, idie. Are you mot ashamed o! your idleaess P
save and except only those on the bench
Tbe mission of the Senate should. be exof the Supreme Court of the United States,
held their terni of office only between elec. tended so Viat It rnlght corne more conipletely Into barmoay wlth those bigb Ideals
tions.
United States senators are sent to Wasb- of usefuiness wblih ls -and bas. ever been
Ington by tbe votes of the members of Vie Vie dominant note of Its character. This
State legislatures, but it bas been remark- change could be brougbt about witbout
ed that only very wealthy men succepd infrlnging ln-tVie slightest degree upon the
In gaining the coveted prlze.
We have prerogatives of the House o! Commons.
evidence tbat Our American friends are [t might be consldered unbecoming to
each year more inclined to bring into prac- make any reference to refornis whicli
tice somne of tbat conservatismn which tbey milght be introduced Into the manner ot
so completeiy erased from their poitical procedure of our neit door neighbors.
But as Viey have seen fit to discuss the
catechism In the enrly years of their existadvisability o! brIaging about changes ln
ence as a nation.
Although it is the practice to eIect t h- the Upper House it sbould nlot. be out of
judiciary, save that of Vie Supreme Court, place were Vie members of that body te
A conference beln many. cases, when a judge bas proved retura the compliment.
bhIs comnpetence irnd integrity, there bas tween Vie two Houses migbt resuit la a
been a mutual understandlng between the more equitable division of legisiative
My fellow senators "I feel astwo politicai parties to permit hlm to re- eaergy.
sured are anxious to take a fair sbare of
tain bis place on Vie beach.
It is quite true that as Vie world tid* the burdens of the law rnaking stress for
No class o! men love
vances changed conditions have to be Cauada's weal.
their country wiVi a greater or truer love-taken into accountL
In legisîstion as In other spheres of ac- no class are more auxions to give of their
tIvIty alteratlons of a saiutary cbaract n best Viat Vie Dominion may be enriched in
may become advisable.
While holding ail that creates a natlon's glory-no class
fast to fIrst principies-whle leavlng the are more jealous for Canada's fair naine
construction of Vie two Houses in close or more zealous for Its preservation-no,
toucb wlth the manner In whicbi the fathers ciass sre more concerned to uphold the
deslgrqed lt-Vie body politic may be given rlgbt and condeýmn Vie wrong-no ciass to
a new garment whlch would render Il a greater degree possesses that Virice noble
hmbition to prornote and strengthen and
more comely.
A reductlon ln numbers could be arrang- weld together la unbreakable forni feeled wlthout impairlng the usefulness of Vie ings o! love, of unity, of purpose, o! patr!
Senate.
And there are other legîslatIve otism, between the varied creeds and
bodies wblcb mlght be benefitted by nl races Viat go to make up our nationhood.
May Vis feeling grow la volume and
change along the samie Uine.
One Important feature of our leisiation strength In -every section of our vast Dozainion.
No true patriot will 100k. askcornes to rny mind.
While one section of our parllarnentary ance nt bis brother Canadian because lie
inachinery may becorne overloaded wilh Is not of the sane blood or of Vie sanie
Dangers confront us
Orders of Vie Day, another rnay bave toc creed as hîiself.
Let us meet Viem as men Immucb leisure time.
[n a recent débate at tumes.
one of tbe speakers gave it a more Inele- bued witb an ablding faith ln justice, ln
fair dealing, lu charitable Instincts one
gant designtion.
Dangers will then subside,
He said the fanîts of tbe Senate as at for the other.
present constituted were Ietbargy and In- aad -%-itb Vîrgil we may say, 'After passertia.
He rnlgbt bave put it la other lng perls It is ai pleasure to rememb,r
ternis. Candour wouid, I amn sure, prompt theni.'
If it ever cornes to pass, whilh beaveni
hlmi to address us in Vis wise:_
Hon. Mr. COFFEY.

JANUJARY 24, 1908
forbid, that passion brlngs danger ta out
THE SENATE.
future-that the couduct of Oanada's unOTTAWA, Frlday, Janusry 24, 1908.
worthy sons brings ber shame and disaster
-If It cornes to pass that a blow w1Il be
The -SPEAKER took the~ Chair at Three
almed at our Canadian brotherhood, rnny o'clock.
It be, and I amn sure It wlll be, the higb
purpose of the Senate of Canada to hold
Prayers and routine proceedingo.
the hand tbat would strike that blow.
QUEBEC BRIDGE AND HAILWAY
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I presurne there wil
COMPANY.
be other gentlemen who would like ta
that the debate
spenk, and I would suggest
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
be adjourned tili Tuesday and stand at thé
The order of the day being called:
foot of the orders of the day. I make the
By the Hou. Mfr. LÂNDRY.suggestion, not wlth a vlew of Intendlng ta
That lie wili Inquire or the gavernment:
speak on that occasion, but I presume that
1. Rau the Quebec Bridge and Railway Comthere are sorne other hon. senators Who
was imobligation
wonld like to express their opinions on the pany fulfiuied. the clause 4 of whichagreement
the
posed upon it by
demi- made, between it and the governrnent, on the
it would be
subject. In tact I think general expression l9th day cf October, 1903, which clause reads
rable there sbould be a
as faiiows :
of opinion, because a change la In the air,
procure subscriptions
cornpany
, addîtional stock will the amount cf $900,000,
according to the opinion of nome of te
ta
for 4. The
price
issued at
members of tlue House of Commans, and I such new stock tatabebeirnmediately apaid up not
in
below par and
think every bon. senator mhould express bis f ull. the proceeds ta be applied in the first
place in the payrnent cf the discount at which
own frank~ and candid views on this Imthe bonds cf the cornpany were issued as aforeportant unatter.
said, ta wit the surn cf $188,721.' (Being exactiy the dilference betwen the sum cf $472,Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BO>WELLr-Sure- 000, the arnount of bonds issued, and the sm
ly the governrnent muet have nmre opinion of $283,279, for which these sarne bonds were
accepted) P
on the subject. I gathered tram the re2. When did the coanpany mc furnish submark of the hon. Secretary of State that scriptions for additional stock ta the amount
P
he did flot intend to discusa the question or of 3.$200,000 are the persons or the companies
Who
ta speak hlrnself.
who divided among thern this additional stock
ta the round sum cf $200,000 f
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Not on Tuesday.
4. On what date and for what amount did
each cf these persoa or each of these coinHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLr-Then, panies becorne owner cf the aforesaid stock P
5. On what date did each cf the eforesaid
Ilke the hon. premier, he ba@ been consider- persoa or companies pay into the hands cf
lng the question for tweive yearm and lis the company the price (in part or in whole)
of the stock s0 subscribedP
s0 far found no solution of the diMeiulty.
6. Was this amount of $200,000 -paid in full
rnuch in cash,
manuer P
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Well I plead guilty and ini what promissory How and how much
notes
how much in
ta the charge. It' la very difficuit ta get in any other way P
fourteen men ta agree ta a constitutional
Hon. Mr. SCOJYI-I hiave already luchange.
torrned the bon, gentleman that IF sumpThe SPB.AKER-If smre bon. gentleman posed It would be a week before this.indesires ta mpeak, an Tuesday, perbaps the formation could be prepared.
motion ta adjourn the debate should bc
*Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-This Is a new
macle by hlm.
question altogether.
Han. Mfr. FROST-I beg ta nuove the
-Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I bave no information
adjournment of the debate I the name of in regard ta It.
It looks s0 like its prothe Han. Senatar Davis, Who requested me decessors that I supposed It was the sme.
ta do so.
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-TheY are ail chîlThe motion was agreed ta.
I suppose we
dren of the ame father.
The Senate adjourned till three o'clock. rnight receive the information amked for
by this Inquiry ulong with the other one?
to-mnorrow.

SENATE
.Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I hope se.
-Hon. Mr. LANL>RY-The hon. Secrotary
ot State -might put thomn together and thoy
would be twIns.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-We do net know
them apart.
INTF)RCOLONIAL RAILWÂY
MOTION.

TÂRIF'FS.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY movod:
That an Order of the Senate do issue for the
production et a copy ot the different tariffs
in force upon the Intercolonial Railway, in
1896-7 and 1906-7, between Quebec and St.
Flavie, and ail intermediate stations betweezi
these two points, for the carniage ef passengers or et goods, under the eperation et the
winter-tariff and under that et the aummer
tariff.
The motion was agreod te.
A QUESTION 0F PRIVILEGE.
Hon. Mrn BOSTOCK-Betore the ordero
of the day are caliod, I wiah to ask the
Secretary of State whcether bis attention
bas beon callcd te a report In the Ottawa
'Froc Press' of ycatorday 0f the proccedings Iu the British Columbia legislatune, In
whicb It ls stated that Premier McBnide
said that Instructions hied been givon to
the Lieutenant Govenr at tbe time ef bie
accepting tbe position et Lieutenant Gover
non, by the Clerk ef the Privy Council, wbicb
justifled hlm In refusing te assent to the
Bill wichi wns passed at the hast session et the Igilture caiied the Natal
Act, and aise further whit neason Premier
McBrlde- bas for saying is interview with
thc Secretany ef State waa a private oniel
Hon. Mn. LOUGHEED-Pandon me for
intcrvcning.
If my hon. friond refera te
a passage or te nn oxtract takon from any
panticulan newspaper, I think It ls vory desinable In the interest ef the Houso and
lu the interest ef exactitude, that tînt particular panagraph should be rend.
Hon. Mn. BOSTOCK-I have the nowspaper bot oro me, but I thought I would
put It more shortly. The paragraph rends
as foilows.
Premier MoBride (replying to Mr. Macdonald) denîed thnt hie was responsible for
the Act ot the Lieutenant Governor, donc a8
an executive et the Dominion government,
and contended that the Lieutenant Governoi
had instructions.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

Mr. Macdonald-Where are the instructions?
Mr. McBride said instructions were given
to the Lieutenant Governor when he took the
oath of office which justified him in following
such procedure as was done in this case. Re
was satisfied to rest hie case with the statement that lis honour was in possession of
instructions handed him by the clerrk of the
Privy Council of Canada when he was given
his commission, and which. instrucétions were
fuit and ample in se far as te protect hie
executive act in withhoiding royal assent to
thîs Bill. . . . Ile admitted having a conversation with the Secretarz of State, Hon.
R. W. Scott, at Ottawa in his private office,
but denied that it was susceptible te the construction put upon it by Mr. Macdonald. AI]
that he said was that he expected that assent
to the Bill would be wthheld. This wasspoken in private conversation with the Secretary of State, but it seemed that in Canada
the sanctity of privacy was abused in sncb
matters.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
Wbat paper le that?

BOWELL-

Hon. Mr. BGSTOCK-Tbe Ottawa 'Free
Press' of Thursday.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-What led up to this
was a conversation that I had with Mr.
Mcisride wben ho was in Ottawa on bis
way te England at the thune hoe wüs going
there te support the position et Britishi
Columbia In connection with the botter
terras that the other provinces had acquiesced In.
He called on me. It was prosumabiy about a letter ef Introduction te
some persons In London.
Whlle I was
Ini my office-net a private office, *but the
office of the Secrotary ef State-the conversation reforred to occurred.
A Bill1
la reference te the immigration ef Asiatics
had been passcd by the legisinture ef Britishi Columbia, and I was anxious to know
what would be done with It, se I asked
Mr. McBrlde 'Wbat are you going te de
'with that BUt?'I, rofornlng te the Immigratien Bill, «WillIit be assontod te or roservcd?'
He sa4d: 'Itwihl be reservod.'
Atter lie lett the office, I thouglit it better
te get positive Information on the sub'
joct, aithougli I had ne reason te deubl
the truth ef what Mr. MeBrlde liad told
me; at the sane time lie bad boon absent
from the province a woek and I did nef
knew what changes mîglit havei taken
place In that time. The Bill laed net beon
nssented te.
On the 23rd of April, prosumably the day Mr. McBridc was In niy
office, I sent this telegram:

JANUARY

24, 1908

123

.ssented ta a number of Bills, duplicaté copies
a~
Ottawa, April 23,-1907.
f which I arn forwarding to-day by registered
Lieutenant Governor of British Columbia, 0nail.'
Victoria.
Yeur Premier, Mr. MeBride, assnred me t I have thought it advjeable ta réserve for
thé Gavernor
of Ris
the Bill entitled an Act ta regulate immi- hie pleasure Conil, Excellency 30, an Act tu
Bull No.
in
gration inta British Columbia, would not; re-r !serai immigration io British Columbia.
ceuve assent but would be reserved for con- eiulate
that
Bill
Mv reasons
sideration of gavernment here. Can I rely an appears ta be for daing sa are, farin thisothei
of
but a modified
this assurance P
icts dealing with the saine subject, which
R. W. SCOTT,
have already been. disallowed by His ExcelSecretary cf State.
1ency, and should it become law, might soniinterfere
The assurance referred ta was that given >usly and federaiwith aur international relaintereste.
tions
Naw, that has been
me by Mr. McBrlde.
I have the honour ta hé, air,
Your abedient servant,
The Mantreal 'Gazette'
twisted, I find.
<Sgd.> JAMES DUNSMUIR,
contains a paragrsph on the subject, dated
Lieutenant Governor.
tram Victoria.
It 19 headed 1Acted for l'h.. Honourable
The Secrétary of State, Ottawa.
Dominion. Dunemuir wlthheld assent ta
The Lieutenant Governor gave, I thlnk,
Act an request of Secretary of State.' 1
I merely asked very sound reasons for the course bie had
made no sncb request
Mr. Dunsmuir If I coula rely on the as. taken, and I see no censure that could apsurance given by Mfr. MeBrIde, Premier of ply ta anybody, but it seems ta be made
British Columbia. I did flot asic the Lieu- a casus belli lu Britishi Columbia, and the
tenant Governor -for an assurance-I said correspoudence bas been twIsted ta draw
6'Can I rely an this assnrance,'-tbat is the tram It a meaning that ls entirely couAs I said before, the
assurance given me by the premier. Re- trary ta the. truth.
port bas twisted lt the other way, and It conversation taok'place In my office. Thert,
bas been discnssed In the British Columbis was natlhlng canfidentiai about 1t.
législature on the assumption that I waa
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-Wili the ban.
giving Instructions ta the Lieutenant Govgentleman lay the papers an the table?
The ' Gazette'
ernar. which I did nat.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
proceeds ta say :
In the legisiature to-day, Attorney Gênerai
Han. Mr. LOUGHEERD-The reasan 1
Bowser quoted a telegram of Secretary af asked. the han. senator tram Yale ta read
State Scott ta Lieutenant Governor Dunsmuir
in respect ta the Natal Act passed tast session. the paragraph referred ta was on accut
It said, in brief, 'We have beeu assuréd by of the Impression left on my mind at any
Premier M~cBride that yan will withhold yonr rate, that Instructions had been given by
assent ta the méasure. Can we rely upon your
doin g saP' Ta this Dunsmuir replied promis- the Premier of British Columbia ta the
ing nat ta allow the Bill ta become law.
Lieutenant Gavernar of that province ta
I
Iil
Naw, I .did not put it that way. I did witbbold lits assent frai. the
nat maire an appeal ta the Lieutenant Gov- think tram the observations' which f el
I asked. hlm whether I conld rely fram, my bon. friend-I do flot say It was
ernor.
on the assurance given by bis premier. intentional-that was the Impression lef t
The telegram of my han.
The 'Gazette' continues:
an the Hanse.
To this Mr. Dunsmuir replied, pramising triend the Secretary of 83tate ta the Liei.tenant Governar of British Columbia was
nat tua show the Bill ta bécomé lsw.
Mr. Dunsmuir said notbIng of the kind very astuteiy waorded, and -calculated ta
leave the Impression on the public mmnd
He said :
that the Lieutenant Governor of British
Your telegram received. Bill réf érred ta will
Columbia bad withheld bis assent an the
uiot réceive my assent.
Naw, It is quite
advice of bis ministers.
Later on when the Bis were assented
apparent tram the- carrespondence whicb
ta, he sent the fo.1lowing letter dated thé
bas been brought dawn, and even tramn
29th of April :
thue statement of my han. frlend, that that
»d Goverament Huas, Victoria, British ColIt ls the constitutional
is nat the case.
April 29, 1907.
right and would have been the practice
Sir,-I have thé Honour ta înformi you that folwed by the Lieutenant Governor entireI proroguéd thé Législative Assembly of this Iy irrespective of bis ministers, ta reserve
province on thé 25th instant, at which time I

SlE:NATE

124

bis assent to a Bill involving imperil
considerations, and that notwitlistanding

the advice of the provincial ministers that
Bill would bave been referred to tbe
federal
government.
Now, my hon.
f rieîîd must bave bad au object ia view Ini
those Inquiries from the Premier
îuiingii
of British Columbia as to the measure,
wbether tbey wouid advise the Lieutenant
Governlor to withhold bis assent. It la quite
apparent that inferentialiy it was tbe intention of tis goverament that the assent of
the Lieutenant Governor should bie witbbeid
from tbat Bill. I make those remarks In
view of the deniai given by the Premier-of
British Columbia to the statement that lie
bad advised the Lieutenant Governor to
wiitbbold bis asseat. Lt was withbeld on bis
own responsibiiity, and bis correspondence
witb the federai goveramelit not oniy justi-

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat ended it. 'Your
Bill referred to, will
teiegramn received.

flot receive my consent.'
lion. Mr. FERGUSON-There
reply ?
lion. Mr. SCOTT-No.
lion. Mr. PERGUSON-Silence
prvl

was

no

means

lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Lt
seems to me that no otber conclusion can
be coule to, nfter heariag tbe statemeat
mîade by tlie bon. Secretary of State, tbau
tijat an attempt bas been made to show
that the premier of British Columbiat, though
respoilsible for the passing of an objectionable Bili-that is objectionabie ln the eyes
of the Dominiion governmeit-tbat bie advised the Governor to wltbb.old bis consent.

Now are these flot tbe facts wben fully
known:
ihat lu the conversation bad betweea the
lion. Mr. SCOTT-I amn not endeavour- Secretary of State nnd tbe premier of Brning to give any tone to the correspondence tish Columbia, Ia Ottawa, lie intimated. that

lies the position bie took, but gives. the reasons ivby be pursued that course.

In the flrat place the Governor bad told bim that lie would
that it does flot bear.
deny that the conversation was prîvate vjthhioid lils consent. If tInt be tbe case,
1
thc Premier only repeated wîat be knew
ln an3' sense.
hnd fallen f rom tbc Governor bimseif. If,
lt
lion. '-%r. LOUGE jD- cquston e
on bue contrary, tue statement made by the
wltI ~feaor 0fDIwa
that
Secretary of State be accepted llteraily, as
fteqeto.
ing wihta etr
to it lias been presented to, bIls House, lb canlion. Mr. SCOTT-L was prornpted.
ask tbe question from natural curiosIty. 1 not but leave the Impression upon tbe mlnds
bad not been deputed by bbc governmenit of every one wbo iistened to lb, or Wbo rends
Lt was only my la- lt, tbat the Prenier of Britisb Columbia,
to ask the question.
Bill,
dividual desire for information on tbe sub- after liaving passed tInt Important
Bis bnd been disnllowed rccommcnded the Governor to witbboid bis
Previous
Ject.
for a sertes of years and it was most na- lissent, and leave It to the federal autbority
plcascd.
turzil t0 ask if there was a change of policy to, sanction or disailow, as thcy
bave
Ili Britislb Columbia and the premier 'l'Irn is about the state of tbings. I
ln- a distinct recoilection of a Bili-not exsecmed to be the best person to give
Huse, w'itb
formation and lie very frankly said 'Tue acîî]Y siimilar, la the Ontario
regard to bbc incorporation of n certain
Bill xill not be asseutcd to.'
accepted tie
ERGSON1 ak m bo. 1society, wvhere the goveramehit
lio. 'r.
FERUSON-Lask m bon.inîciîpe of the B iii, acquiesced ln Its pasHon. M.
set
erontt
friend if lie rmade any reply to the tele- sgavedteG
ot
otetè
u orfrI
of bhe Governor of British Columbia t t
grain
to tmee Ilin Domirimefer
gv
l wlî-Iicli lie declared that lb was bis linten- toni.btt
Did any one the rcpiy of Sir John Macdonald. Ris reply
lion 10 dIsallow the Bill?
answer for the goverament, ciler agree- to bbe Governor and to bbc Premier of Ontario ait tbe lime was tis :'That Is a quesliln or' disagreeilg. ?
lion. )Ir. SCOTT-Oh. no.
Honi. Mr. FEIIGISON-Shlence therefore
-iVes- eonsent. The governîîment qpproved.
Ilon. Mr.

LOUGHEED

tioli witbin the powers of your legisiature,
and it is for you to sny wbether you sanction it or not.' Does tbe bon, gentleman
,vant nie 10 repeat what the Bill w'as. It

JANUARY 24, 1908

125

was the Incorporation of the Orange So- a Bill passed by the provincial legislature.
ciety. Hon, gentlemen wiIll remember it. There la no doubt -about that, and I tbink
that seems reasonable. That Is a matter
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
wbich conmes ivitbin the purviewv of the
Hon. iSir MACKENZIE BOW!>LLI do local government The Dominion deals with
flot hesttate to say that the Ontario gov- the Act after it bas been passe by the
erniment at that tine deaired to place the local legisiature and cames here, but the
responsibiity upon the Dominion goveru- Dominion lias not anything ta do with the
ment, of whicb Sir- John Macdonald was manner ln wbicb the Bill Is ta be deas1,
premier at the Urne, of eitber rejectlng the with by the province or by the Lieutenant
Bill and therefore coming ln conflct 'with Governor of the province, and, consequently
a large body of people, or of approving It, If the Lieutenant Governor of the pro-and then coming ln confliet with a large vince bad acted under the Instructions
body of people on the other aide. But of the Governor General, and had rethe Premier of the Dominion was too, riised assent ta that Bill, .contrary ta
astute ta be cauglit ln that manner. He the advice of bis ministers, it seems
toid themt it was their prerogative ta do as 1<> thnt the proper tbing for the minisine
they pleased with it, and hie would leave lt ters ta do would be ta resiga. This nonwltli tber ta be dealt witb. M*y only rea- assent ta a Bill which has been passed by
soit for caiiing attention to this la, that I the legisiature is a matter as ta which the
thiuk the Impression left on the public governor la supposed ta take the advice of
mmnd front the atatement made by the bis own ministers. If lie does not take
boit. gentleman who brought this before their advlce, and If lie reserves a Bill whicb
the House, and tue expianation given by they say hie shauld assent ta, then there la
tbe hou. Secretary of State, that the pre- a figlit on between the ministry and the
mier of British Columbia actually advised governor, and the mlnistry resign and they
the lieutenant governor, though responsIbie go ta the country. It seems ta me that la
for the Bill, ta witbhold the assent and souuid coustitutional practice, and it Is conulenve it with the Dominion government ta mon seuse.
Tbe Dominion goverrament
deai with. I can easily understand that would not be calied upon ta act upon tbat
the Premier migit: bave sald, ln the con- Bill until it lad been assented ta by the
versation with the hon, gentleman whicb ls Lieutenant Governor and' had corne u-p bere.
alluded ta, not confidential at ail, 'The They have then I tbink a year ln whIch ta
Governor will not give bis assent ta that decide whether tbey shah! veto it or aihow
Bill.' But the atternpt Is being made to it ta go Into operation; and I cannot underbold the Premier responsible for that for tand why the central government have
which the British Columbia Governor Is been brouglit Into this provincial quarrel
x'esponsible and not; the 1reier.
at ail; while It Is quite clear- front the exHon. Mr. POW.ER-I did not know this pianation given by the Secretary of State
question was coming up, or I should have that there was no Intervention on the part
fortified. myself wlth some authorities on of the Dominion government.
the matter.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-None not diff er materially front the eonstituof us knew it except the Secretary of State. tional position taken by rny hon. friend
It is evident lie was qulte prepared for 11L front Halifax.
He la qulte correct in the
Hon. Mr. POWER-One does flot Rike ta main, but lie knows very well that under
speak of a nîce point of constitutional prac- the *constitution by which this country la
tice without fortlfying oneself with the governed, the Imperial authorities reserve
authorities; but I understand front the bon. ta themselves the riglit of annulling or
gehtleman front Hastings that the former vetolng a measure passed even by any
premier of Canada, Sir John Macdonald, calony, which cornes ln contact or ln conlaid dowN the doctrine that the local ad- filet with 'what they consider imperial lnNow, ln this case, I do not finI
ministration of the province of Ontario was terests.
responsible for the tassent or non-assent to fault wlth the Gavernor for withholding bis

SEINATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The 1WI p~assed Iwo
I do flot wisb to be
assent to tbis Bill.
ln this case days before the House ndjourned.
uuderstood as doing that.
the Governor migbt properly have taken the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I stand subject to
view that the nssenting to a BihI of that
The Bill pnssed two dnys
c2orrection,
cliaracter would be ln direct conflct witb
H1e cornes
the treaty whlch existed between the li- before Vie House adjourned.
perlai governrnent and Japan to whicli to Vie capital of Vie Dominion, and InterCanada had become a party, and I amrn ot views Vie Secretary of State, and wliat is
.prepared to say that lie was flot rIgit.* stated ln behaif of himself in regard to Vie
That Is flot the point I desire to bring be- privacy' of 1t4 1 do flot take account of at
He came here as Prime Mixilster.
fore Vie Senate.
The opinion laid down al.
by the hon, gentleman on the constitutional H1e interviewed Vie 6ecretary of State, Vie
question is qnite correct to the extent to representative of the government ln these
whlchli e carrled It, but lie did flot go far matters, and the question was put to hlm,
and I Vioroughly agree w1Vi Vie hon. Secenougli.
retary of State that Vie interview was not
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-My attention bas been a private one In any measure at ail. Now,
cailed to Vie fact that I have flot given an to rny mmnd Vie question Is Vis: was Mr.
answer as to the general Instructions.
1 MeBride, the Prime Minister of British Cohave looked over Vie instructions to thec lumbia acting Vie part of a constitutional
Lieutenant Governor, and Viere Is nohIlng ndviser of the constitutional governor, ('r
whatever on Vie subject ln the Instructions of a sharp practîce politician? He knew
sent to hlm, so Viat Vie hon, gentleman la Vie Bill had. passed.
11e carne here and,
wrong so far as that goes.
The conversa- lie said to the Dominion governient, 'It
tiou with Premier McBijue dld flot last will be disahlowed. The Lieutenant-Govmore than fitteen seconds.
It was sixnply ernor wiil not sanction It. Now, to rny
'Ili that Bill be assented to?'
He said, inid Viat is a position Vint no hon. states'No, It won't be.'
inan shouid take.
H1e was responsible for
H1e knew it was to lie
Hou. Mr. CLORAN-I have just one thnt mensure.
H1e had It passed, as I arn told,
word to say frorn a practical point of view passed.
lu regard to tVis question. I have been and lie knew before it was pnssed Viat It
go Viat I
reading Vie matter and considerlng It, and was golng to be disallowed.
I have corne to the conclusion Viat Viere sny, and I say deliberately and advlsedhy,
are two points involved, one of sha'p that bis conduct ln this matter was sirnply
H1e had been urgpractice in party pl)oitics, and one con- one of sharp practice.
stitutionai adviser of the Lieut. Gor,- lng- Vie electors of British Columbia to
ernor of bis province, Premier McBride, support hlm ln Vie coatest then taking
wlio was known as an opponent of As!- place, on Vie ground that lie was opposed
ntie Immigration into-is province.
That to the Immigration, and in Vie meantirne
ls admltted on ail bands.
H1e appealed to he was a party to have that leisiation
That Is the positie electors of British Columnbia ln several disalhowed or vetoed.
elections on that ground, that lie would tion the hon. Prime Minister of British Colie a deadiy opponent of Asiatlc Immigra- lumbin cannot hold and inaintain before
It lias been stated. ln antIon Into Britishi Columbia.
His legisia- the country.
ture 'was ln session.
The Bill wns before other place, and more forcibly tin 1 cau
the House of that province, called Vie Natal say, that this double shuiffle or sharp prncIt Is stated on the
Act, for the purpose of excludlng Viat class tice did take place.
of Immigrants.
H1e leaves bis province word of honour of hon. members ln aubefore the mensure Is passed.
He cornes other House-and 1 hold Tuiat the declaradion of these hon, gentlemen shouhd lie
to the capital of the Dominiontaken, especially ln view o! Vie nîlegations
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Bill liad passed and the declaratlons made here, and I say
the House at that tîrne.
tînt Premier MeBride does not deserve Vie
Hon. M_%r.
CTORAN-Wýýell, 1 arn stibjeet confidence o! the.people o! British Columbia, nor of tuis governinent, for In Vhil
to correction.
I-on. Sir M.NA!CKENZIE BOWELL.

JANUARY 24, 190S
Contingent Accounts,
matter he waa playiug a double act, pre- terual Ecouoniy and
to be againat tbe immigration, and as follows
teudiug
1. Your committee recomend that their
then practically counselling an exercise of quorum be reduced to nine (9) members.
for Ita disallowance.
authority
2. Your committee wish ta place on record
sustained bY
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Thia la a very their appreciation of the ioss Mfr. Antoine
the Senate through the death of
Important question, and It la really a pits Alphonse Boucher, 1.S.0., deputy clerk and
tbat the House was not tware that It was fi rst clerk assistant. The late IL.Boucher
lind beeu in the service of the 'Upper House
comlng Up, ln order that we migbt have for fifty years. having been appointed to a
to authorities. clerkshir' in the old legisiative council on the
an opportunity of referrlng
a most reliabie,
1857. He
However, 1 have bad smre experience witb fi rst of May, painstakingwas
officer, in fact an
capable and
my political ideal public servant, whose place it wilI be exa similar question once ln
life, and I think that the true constitu- tregnely difficult ta 811 satisfactorily..
3. Your committee recommend that MLr.
tional vlew la that the Governor, on ques- Rtobert W. Stephens, second cierk assistant,
tions that are ciearly wlthin tbe power of deputy clerk. first English clark, and clerk of
ta be firai
4te provincial ,legislature to deal with, English Journals, a be promoted
salary of $2,M0 a year, in
clt.rk assistant at
nct on the advlce of ia constitutional the rooni and stead of Mfr. Â. Â. Bouchler, demusat
*advisers; but where Imperial or Federal cead.
4. Your committee recornmend that Mfr
Iuteresta are iuvolved, he has a rigbt to Aif red E. Evanturel ba appointed second clerk
look, for Instructions from theFederal gov- ass-istanxt, at a salary of $2,400 a year.
5. Your committee reconimend that Norman
erument, and these Inatrucflons must be
M-%cLeod Wood be appointed a permanent mesregarded as paramount when Faderai In- st uger nt $900 a year.
AI] of which is respactfully submitted.
teresta are cleariy affected. The Premier
ROBT. WATSON,
of the province la not Involved lu the matChairman.
la flot calied
ter at ail, and bis resignation
The firat, second and third paragrapbs of
for, because ha bas not tendered any adthe report was adopted.
vice on the matter, furtber than the passage of the Bill, as be was reaponsible for *On the fourth paragrapb,
ail the Bis that passadl the local legisHou. Mr. LOUGHEED-I bad not; tbe
lature. Now, the Governor might I thlnk *privilege of being ln the House when this
very properiy, acting as a Federai officer, report was brougbt down, but it seema to
Inrnged me to be a very fit subi ect for comment
and conaiderlng that this Bil lu
Imperl interests, of bis own volition bave and lu tact for adverse crlticlsm. Iu the
reserved the Bill or wlthbeld bis asseut tc ftrst place, it would present ltself to my
It. He migbt have done that, but wbatevei Lmind as au unnecessary step on the part
he lntended to do, be was not ieft luin of this Senate to appoint a thîrd officer at
position of doubt, for be badl a telegran
fthe table of the House. It need not be
from tbe Sacretary 0f Stata asking hlm 1 mentloned-because It la well known-tbat
the government of Canada could rely oî nat the table of the House of Gommons,
the Information tbey bad. He aaid, 'Cai nwbiere the business ls certaiuly very mucb
we '-meanIng tbe goverument of Canadamuore Important and very much more one.
' rely on Information raceived tbrougb Pet roua than ini tis Chamber, there are only
mier McBrlde, tbat It was the Governor'
etwo clerks, and the work whicb la done nt
Intention to wltbhold bis assaut from tb e the table of that House must necesarly
Bill. The answer was that It was hi ebe ifnitely greater than la Involved lu
intention, and I think auybody will se e thjj Chamber. Now It would not be unreaat a giance tbat tbe Governor whateve r sonable, partcularly ln view of the many
migbt have been bis position before thie homilles my bon. frind the leader of thla
telegram came trom Ottawa., was clearl dHouse bas dellvered to. this Ohamber, upon
fortlfied as a Federal officar to withbol dthe uuuecessaiy expenditure wbich we lncur
bis asseut to the Bil.
lu couection witb the expeuses Incident to
principles and buINTERNAL ECONOMY AND CONTIb the Senate, that business
be applIed with refsinesa methoda sbouid
GENT ÂCCOUNTS COMMITTEE.
erence to the couduet and the administraFIRST RLEPORT ÂDOPTED.
There la uo reasoin
Hou. Mfr. WATSON moved tbe adoptlo ution of our officiai staff.
and a
on 1 n. whatever wby a chamnber like this,
of the Committee
of the firat report

SENATE
quallfied than the gentleman
committee such as the Internai Ecouomy much better
thiR
business men, should wbo is proposed to be appolnted-for
Committee, composed of
Are we to overlook these gennot introduce business 'princîples Into the position.
have eerved the country
couduct aud administration of business af- tlemen who
falthfully for many
they have to deal. No fin- and this Obamber
faire wlth wblch
for years, and, at the Instance of the
e.ucial or commercial Institution would
upon their dictates,
a moment thlnk of incurring the very large federal governnient,
because 1 do eay the party whip bas been
expendîture whlch le uecessarily luvolved
over the heads of members of
ln this third appointment. I would ask the cracked
this commlttee, and because of tels presHouse whnt duties tis gentleman, whom 1
gentleman le appointed to the
do not kuow, wbom I neyer saw to my sure this
of thîs House. 1 protest agalnet a
kuowledge, wi have to performa for the table
of that klnd. I thlnk thls body
country? This Chamber le not in session procedure
show a greater measure of lndepenmore than one quarter of tee year. We should
certainly dence than la belng exhibited ln thîs Immnay be in session longer, but
motter, and while I cast no rethere le no work to do Involviflg close atten- portant
fiection whatever on the gentleman who lo
tion more than 25 per cent of the twelve
appointed-beCause 1 f anc.N
months. Would any linancial or commercial about to be
and the pratest of those on
Institution thlnk for one moment of appoint- my protest
House will not be effeclug three clerks to the table of tels House 7 this side of the
stopplng this appointflent-yet it
i do mlot wlsh to be persoual. I do flot tualinl
proteste should go
cast auy refiections or make any advers;e Is desirable that those
an appointient of this
agalnst
comment upon the transaction of business at upon record
opinion cannot be Justithe table of the House, but 1 say positlvely kind, which in my
body would think of ap- fled.
test no respousible
polntlug three clerks for the purpose of
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-I desire to say a
transactlug- the business of this Ilouse. Iu
word in answer to what the hon. member
tee next place, this Senate is subjected from
from Calgary bas stated. The hon. gentrne to time to adverse criticism. The tones
tleman was not preselit at the committee
of crlticism ln-the House of Commons have meeting when they recomniended the apreference to te
scarcely died away wite
of thîs gentleman. I thlnk
way ini whichi we manage business ln tels pointmeiit is no question whatever with
ln that there
Chamber, and while 1 amn not concurring
regard to the qualifications of the gentleteat criticism, and while I amn not lu symthiuk there
wby man mentioned, and I do not
pathy with i t, yet teere is no reason
be any question ini the minds of
shoUid
tee Sente of Canada should not set au
hon. members of thiS House, as to the neexample to tee oteer deliberative bodies
cessity of appointilig a man- to take the
of the Domnion of Canada, and tels I say
as
place of the late Mfr. Boucher; because,
le not beiu.- doue at the present time. We
report adopted by the
is set forth in this
are accused of a lack of ludependefice. We House, a report referring to the duties
I say adpartisauship.
are accused of
that had been discharged by the gentlevisedly test this Rppoiurtient ls beli 1 man that formerly occupied that 'Position,
mode at thé dicta tes of the federa', La report whlch the House bas concurred ln,
governmnt. 1 venture to say that t -there
can be no question as to the characvery small minority of tee Internai Eco ter of the work doue by that gentleman.
nomy Comrnittee know anyWhng personally
Mr. Evanturel le selected to perform these
about the gentleman 'who bas been ap- *duties on account Of bis qualificationls. He
polnted to tels position. Are we going tc Is well versed ln bth English and Frencb.'
sacrifice the well-established principle 0f *He le a lawyer and a transistor, and bas
coutinuiflg promotion to teose who havE *been Speaker of the Ontario legisiature
served tee interests of this Chamrber well, *for two terms, and Is therefore well quali-who have served the intereste of the couni- fied for the position.
The hon. gentleman
try wOll ? So far as I amn aware, therE *suggests that Mr. Evanturel bas been apare at least three gentlemen in tee transla. -pointed
here nt the dictation of the other
tion brancb that are well qualifiedHon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

JKNUARY 24, 190S
I want te lnHouse for party purposes.
form the hon. gentleman that the nomination ef Mfr. Evanturel was proposed and
seconded by lis ewn politîcal frienda, and
bis appointient was recommended te the
committee by those gentlemen.

12i

Mr. Evanturel's qualifications is requlred In
the service of the Senate.
Hon. Sir MACKE>NZIE BOWELLrWould the hon. gentleman mention wliat
tme other duties are to which lie refera?

Hon. 1fr. WÂTSON-The principal dut>'
Hon.- Sir MÂCOKENZIF> BOWEL-l
la translating.
suppose the hon. senater knews that lie la
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEBD-Wbat about the
vielatlng the miles governing cemmittees lu
WIll an>' et them lie
other translsters?
atatlng wliat tol place ln commlttee.
dismlssed to make way for Mfr. Evanturel?
Hon. Mfr. WÂTSO N-I quite underatand
that I amrn volating the rules, but I thouglit
Hon. Mfr. WÂTSON-We need more
It well, as the question bas been raised bY translatera. We hear complainte ever>' sesalon that the translation la net kept up.
the leader, te mention that tact.
1Mr. Bouclher was one cof the hardeat worked
Hon. -Mr. LOUGHEED-I do net thin<
translatera in the Heuse Up te the Urne
the>' wlll do It again.
Hon. Mfr. WÂTSON-I consider It. a
Hon. Sir MACJKENZIE BOWELLe-TIJ
ver>' satlsfactery reply to the charge made
was prempted by explanatiefla made by the cliairman cannot
that this appointaient
eue. He bas toitslly
the government and the Liberal part>' ln be satisfacter>' te an>'
omltted te reter te the fact that a strangel
the Heuse of Commena.
knowledge of the duties lie la
ACKNZIEBOWLI,-oeswho bas ne perforrn la te lie folsted on the
non.Sir
called on te
BOWELL-Doe
MÂ.CENZI
getlmnra
hon.
Now,
Senate at tlie maximum salar>'.
lien gtlgoemn > twsnt
ted
duties whlcb an assistant clerk ef the
gevmuinntthe
geatd b> th
aport freon those
Hon. Mfr. WÂTSON-I de net think Rouge lias te perterm,
b>' the two experleiiced men
there la an>' question as tu the qualilica- perfermed
I arn lnformed we have liera now, miglit lie doue b>' auy
tiens ef Mfr. Evanturel.
The
at $1,OOO a year.
that the translation ef Bis that pasn thla ordinar>' clerk
the House lias net been lnfermed wb>' Mr.
House la ver>' difficuit werk except
Personaîl>' I Evanturel should lie appolnted over the
translater la a lawyer.
clerks now ln the
knew uethlng about that, but 1 de knew heads ef experienced
recelvilià
bas ever lieen appelnted translation brandih whe are
that ne officiai
smiller salaries than tlils gentleman wlll
lu tbe Senate wlio Is better known than
upon his qualifica1r. Evanturel, liecause lie lias eccupled the get. I paso ne opinion
Ris talents would lie ver>' meagre
position of -Speaker ln the Ontsario legis- tien.
table aud
Others weli acqualnted witb hlm If lie waa net able te ait at the
lature.
the two experlenced gentlemen ws
The obi- assiat
wlll probably rater te that fact.
There la. ne use et
jection la raised that we are unnecassarfl> have bere to-day.
hldlng this tact The Senate la belng
appointlng another dlemI for the table. 1
for a polîtical dead
de net tblnk it was lu the minds ef the made the receptacle
I de net desire te cast an>' perInternai Econein> Commlttee that Mfr. duck.
Mfr. Evanturel. Theme
Evanturel sliould. occupy a seat at the seual rellectien upon
ot 'talent wlio are ln the
He migit; lie called on are man>' men
table at ail Urnes.
and 1 do net ma
te 'do se lu the absence of the clerk or the position of dead ducks.
We have promotad Mr. anythlng disrespectfil te the gentleman
clark.
assistant
The lien, gentleman frein
Steplien te tlie position occuplad b>' Mr. personnhlly.
that man>'
and the cominittea have nemi- Middlesex t6ld, us yesterda>'
Bouclier,
ver>' eminent men bail been rejected by
nated Mfr. Eviuturel tu 111l tbe position
and political>' mîglit
formemi>' occupiad by Mfr. -Steplien, but net their constituexta,
It bas oca mernt the naome 1 bave used.
wltli tbe Idea tliat lie shali always bave
,net
1 arn lntormed b>' thoqe curred before that wben there was
seat at the table.
enougli for baugera-on eft he party
famillar wlth translation, that a man eft rom
9

SENATE
lu power they were dumped upon the
Senate, and lu this way messengers and
others bave been appolnted who were froin
age and lncapacity not quallfled to perforin
the duties they were em.ployed to discliarge.
Is It not true that Mr. Evanturel, who accupied a very prominent position ln the Ontario legisînutre, and wlio ls very much
respected as a gentleman, I beileve, was
promlsed a senatorhlpHou. Mr. WATSON-We do nat know
that.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.-Is lt
flot true that an hon, gentleman who la
sittiug on the second row of benches,
euchered hlm and got the position hlmself?
In defauit of keeping tiat promise, It hias
been declded ta dump Mr. Evanturel on
the Senate at $2,400, the maximum salary
paid to any 'official occupylng that position.
I have before me the report of the Contingent Accounts Committee, ln whlch they
laid down a schedule of salaries to be paid
ta the different cierks employed by the
Senate and the minimum salary for this
very office la $1,800 a year. Why bas promotion not been given to one of thie experienced transiators already ln the employ
o! the government? Why shouid an outsider be seiected, except for political reasons, and paid the maximum saiary af
$2,400 a year. Miy hon. friend, the chairman a! the committee, very aatutely avalded referrlng to the point raised by the leader
of the opposition, but ft la due to thia House
that; we should know what the superlor
talents and the ablUty of Mr. Evanturel
are ta justlfy the committee ln recommendlng the appointment ta an aasistant cierkshlp at the maximum salary, when he haa
had fia experlence of the wark ln this
House. I have no daubt If the question
cornes ta a vote the report will be adopted;
but ln tii case as ln many others to whlch
I caîl attention of the Hanse, I consîder
It my duty ta enter my protest againat a
proceedlng of thIs klnd wlthout some satiafactory explanation for the apipolntment of
a stranger ta fIl the second position at the
table on a maximum salary. I notice my
lion. frlend from Halifax (Hon. Mr,. Power)
Is. about risiug ta bis feet ta make an explanation; I hope lie wli be able ta make
a more satlsfactory one than tlie chaîrman
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

of the commlttee bas given. He may have
a little more political dexterity and a littie
more astuteness ln making expianations
and justlfying an extraordlnary recommendation of this kind. What lias the Secretary of State to say to this? I remember
haw often he used to rise indlgnantiy at
suggestions maae to mncreaae tue sataries
of a few cierks who have been ln the emnployment of the government for yeara.
An increase of $100 shacked hlm; his economical vlews at that perlod ln the history
of bis litfe were such that he couId hardiy
swallow any increaae. Now lie acquiesces
in the appointment of a stranger to a position to this table at the maximum salary.
Let us have some explanation as to why
this is belng done. If the government Bay
that it la to pravîde a place for one of their
supporters because they have been unable
to give hlm the appointment promised hLm,
we migflt accept it w taout: a wora, ana tuat
ls preclsely the situation as 1 underStand It.
Every senator wao supports tfle report la
violatlng a rule laid down by this Honse,
and takes the reaponalblty of aU the Poltical Iniquities connected with it.
Hnon. Mfr. CLORAN-Probably there ta
no gentleman In thia House who would
have personal reasons greater, stronger,
deeper, and broader thon I have to oppose
the appolntment of Mr. Evanturel, ex-Speaker of the Ontario House, but I do flot stand
here to-day on the strength of my animoslty to a man. I stand here on the Information I have received i regard to what la
required, and that Information ls that the
translation bureau of the Senate la short
of workers. Very often the translation is
s0 delayed that senators from &iontifagfly
and other places are complalning ail the
time. That is one reason for the necessity
for thc appolntment-there are not enough
transiators to do the worlr of the House.
Another reason 1a that the committees o!
the Senate are often without clerks and
have to send for juniors. !These are two
reasona which jusftify the appolntment Of
an extra official. what his salary may be
I care not, but once it is establlshed that
the requirements of this House are flot supplied by thc ordinary staff, then it la our
duty to, Increase the staff and give our
Frencli colleagues the opportunlty of having

JANUARY 24, 1908
the measures and proceedings of this Hanse
translated Inta the Frenchi as soon as possible. In regard ta the qualifications of
Mfr. Evantural, I disagreê with the hon.
member from Hastings, who evidently In
bis aid days does flot believe lu rewarding
pont services, flot only to thie party, but
t» the country.
Han. Blr MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
glad ta hear the hon. gentleman's opinion.
Han. Mfr. (ILORÂN-He neyer put that
inta practice when he naît the opportunlty,
and 1 never dlsapprovecl of bis conduet
Mr'. Evanturel la flot an ordinary clerk; lie
nua rendera services ta ils county, ana
bis country, and I feel that 1 have more
menlt I saying sa because If there la any
one man lu thia Dominon-aid he la the
only man-wha stoad in my waY lu Political matters, it la Mr. Evantunel, aid oea
wbat I say here I- say franklY and sincereiy.

Hon. Eir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-The
hon. .gentleman bas no spute.

131

no necessity for mare than twa officers at
the table. It la true we liad tliree officers
at the table for smre lime, but that"was
due ta this tact; after the death a! Mr.
Âdarnson, whan Mr. Boucher was appointed clerk assistant, lie came ta the table.
Hon, gentlemen wba have been soma lime
i tbe Hanse -%vli remember that for some
lime there wene just the two clerks at the
table, Mfr. Langevin and Mfr. Boucher, clerk
Previona ta that lime, 1fr.
assistant.
Langevin and Mr. Âdamson had set at tlie
Â!ter nome llttle lime a number of
table.
hon, gentlemen thouglit that 1fr. Bouclier
dld not read Engliali dIstincty enougli ta
enable them ta understand hlm and follow
hlm readlly; aid, lu ardar ta meet that difficulty, the commlttee necommeided that 1Mr.
Stepliens, the second clark assistant, be
brouglit ta the table for the purpose o!
There la no
neadlng Englal documents.
necessity for a third officer ta read the
We have the clark ta
documenta now.
read I French and the clark assistait ta
raid i Engliali; oa bon. gentlemen maY
disabuse thair minds of the Idea that they
will ba troubledl wltli the presence af Mfr.
1fr. Bouclier had
Evanturel at the table.
'Mfr. Bouclier
a salary oif $2,900 a year.
receivad nome few yaars ago a leus m
than that,- aid aftr smre service ln the
position oif clark assistant lie recetved $2,800. Now Mfr. Stephen Io ta be paid $2,600,
and Mr'. Evanturel la ta necaive the soe
salary whtch Mfr. Staphens had, sa that
Hon.
the Senate la saving $200 a yaar.
gentlemen amile at that; $20 mraY sears
a ammil thing, but It la Warth Saving.

Hon. Mr. O)LORÂN-I should have spite
Mfr. Evaitural 11300
but I have none.
gtranger ta thlh Hanse, because he hian
been a publie mai holding higli Positions
If we
lu the country for many Yeans.
brlng hlm buta the Hnsne we sliould treat
I arn Informed that It
hlm accordingly.
la neceasary ta have another mai ta OnpIf Mr. »vantUrel la ta
plament the staff.
be thue mai, I shail be plaased. -What bis
galary may be la ai Incident but it cauflot destnoy this fact that Mr. HEvnturel 10
Hann. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Di)ot you tlink
capable or fillUng tbe position. Re la parfectly versed I bath Frenchi and Bngilali tliqy could bave saved $2,00?
mo that the House I taking hlm an tbe
And If .the
Han. Mr'. IPOWUDR-No.
staff la simply doing a service ta the Senate hon, gentleman nadt coisentedl ta aet on
aid ta the country.
the Internai Economy Committea no that ha
POWER-The bon. gentleman could ascertain the position o! thingu ha
Hon. Mr.
Mr'. Boucher
tram Hastings expressedl a desire ta under- *wauld nat thunk o e ther.
I bad been able ta support was about the liardant warklng officer we
stand haw
Ha was, I suppose, as akilful a
this paragrapli of the report. If the had.
the translatai' as there was lu the public serHause wll permit me, I aol àtate
Hon. getlemen muet have otten
position whlch presented ltself ta the com- *vice.
mat .him leavlng the Hanse about elavai
In the firat place, It was nat thue
mittea.
translatlng staff
Intention of the committee that unlasE io'clock at niglit. Our
was ta amali aven wlien Mfr. Boucher
either -the clerk or the clark assistant, wae
disabled from attendlng at the table, th( was a member of ut, aid wlian you lase a
Uke that, If you wlsli ta supply bis
new appolntee was ta go there. Thera hEimai

SENATE
place by appolntlng axiother man, you muet
be sure that the man you are appointixig
la cornpetent, and you cannot get a man
Ilke that for lees than $2,400. We had to
It would flot do
brlng ln a skIlled mani.
to brng ln a junior, because there la a
great deal of work for a very skiiful mani,
and a junior would not fill the bill. Thene
were two courses openi to the comrnittee.
We could, I dare say, have secured for the
sum of $2,400 the services of one of the
elenke I the House of Commoxis, and it
was a question for the committee whether
they should try to get a man frorn the staiff
of the House of Commons or take a gentleman lUke Mr. Evantunel. Mr. Evantunel,
we were assuned, and hie record seeme to
show It, wae a man of manked abillty who
spoke both languages fluently and was a
That, of course, we
akilful translaton.
have te find out, but that le wbat we have
been told-that he la a eklful transiator;
mnd as betweexi brlnglng ln Mr. Evanturel
and trying to get a gentleman frorn the
House ef GJommons, I thlnk It Ie flot unnatural-party feeling entera Into almost
eveny political act-that membens were lIfluenced by a desire to do a good turn to
a maxi who had been working actlvely ontBide.
BOWEL-T
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
Hear, hear.
Hon. Mn. POWER-I do not thlik that
la a crimixial offexice. As a matter of fact
the statement made by the chairman of the
comrnlttee with respect to the nomination
was correct, that he was xiominated by
two Conservatîves. I rememben some yeans
ago when Mn. Boucher was appoixited
cierk-asslstaxit that *a motion was supported by a numben of gentlemen of
thue Consenvative party to put lu a gentleman from the outside, a lawyer lu
-the clty, as clerk-assietant instead of Mr.
Boucher. He was a maxi, who, I have no
doubt, would have dlschanged the duties
very eatisfactorily, but lie dld flot succeed
ln being appolnted. The gentleman te whorn
I refer was the late Mr. Gemmill. That Is
ail I cmxi say lni the matten. It was a chelce
practlcaliy between an offIcen lni the House
of Commoxis and Mn. Evanturel. We conld
net by promotion li our own staff have filied
the blli. We wmnted, lxi addition te the exHon. Mr. POWER.

isting staff, another man of ability, and a
capable transiator. No junior mani would
bave suited. Perbaps the officer lni the
House of Commons would flot have been
willing to corne, but we might bave trIed
to get hlm. We did not. We took the gentleman who liad experience and wlno nad
eerved the public for a number of years
outside, and I do flot think it le a very sernous on:ence.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I do flot Intend to
go luto the menite of the reasons given by
the hon. gentlemen who have spoken In
support of this report, nor do I want to
question the qualifications of Mr. Evanturel;
but 1 do wlsh to say that the appointment le creating a new systern which le unnecessary. In former years we had only two
clenke at the table, and the neason why Mn.
Stephexi was brought to the table was not
because there was any urgency about mfe
work, but because Mn. Boucher dld flot
speak the Engllsh language distinctly, and
some of the English members cornplalned.
The House brought Mr. Stephen lni to read
the Bills, but now there Is no such situation. The two gentlemen at the table now
caxi read both languages plainly and distinctly enough. As to the salary, Mr. Stephen did not receive $2,400 or $2,600, as
He received it for other
assistant-clerk.
positions that he occupied. For sitting at
the table lie nxad no remuneratiol wflatever.
The situation being comxpletely changed, 1
do flot see wh y a n ew situation sheuld be
crnted at the rate of $2,400 a year. If
there la need of a tranelaton, let the cernmittee make a recommendatIon bearixig upon
that fact. The report does net necommend that Mr. Evanturel be appointed as
French transiator, but only as assistantclerk, and If you want to impose new dutlec
upon hirn such as French translation, we
will be called upon to pay hlm a larger
salary. We are creatixig a new position
wlthout any necessity for It; therefone 1
do flot support the recornmendation of the
committee.
Hon. Mfr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I ar nfot ln
a position to say whethen an additional
transiator Is required. I accept the report
of the cormilttee as conclusive on that point.
The comrnittee Is charged with the duty of
advislng the House witb respect to these

JANUARY 24, 190S
niatters, and I assume they bave given it
the attention that our commîttees usually
give to tUe duties asslgned to tflem. 1!,
bowever, a transiator were requlred, ILarn
quite confident from.Mr. Jivanturersa trainIng and education that he could diseharge
such a duty well. I belleve he la a graduate
of Lavai University, a universlty whose
students rank bigh la scholarshlp, and do
credit to their Alma mater. IL nerstand
ho Is also a notary of the province of Quebec. On both tflese points 1 tflin tne qualifications are ample.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-No
one questions bis qualifications.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-It la well
the House should have no doubt at 'ai as
to the abillty of the appointee. The reasons
for bis appolntment are practically foreign
to this discussion s0 f ar as the eflclency of
bis services la concerned. I amn toid. and
so advised by the commlttee that addltional
transiators are required. If so, la ho compotent ? If be le, couid we get a botter
man elsewhere ?
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-He la net appointed translater.
Hon. Mir. POWER-'I!hat la the work

ho bas to

do.

Hon. 1fr. BERNIIiR-Tfloiin appoint Uilm
for that
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middiesex)-I understaxid
that the duties of translation belong to that
omco.Hon. Mfr. S OOTT-Hear, bear.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesox)-)&r. Boucher, who was first clork-assistaflt, bas
been apoken of as a transiator.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLr-I will
read the duties of bis office-a deputy clerk,
second clerk-assistant, firat Engllab1 cil*r,
and clerk of Engllah journals-that la the
position to whlcb ho la being appointedl.
Hon. 1fr. BOSS-I' undoratand that la
tho Englisb Bide of the appolntment.
Hon. 8fr MACKENZIE BOWBLLC-That
la the report of the .committee on contingent accounts.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He bas te do anY
work asslgned to hlm.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-Mi. Boucher was s
transiator bofore ho waa given a seat: at
the table. Prier te that ho had actod as
chiot transiator, and ho continued to occupy that position when ho came to, the
table.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-Is It not wlthln, the
competence of the Internai Economy Commlttoe te asslgn that duLy to Mr. Evanturel, even If ho ¶ designated clerk assistant ? Ho does net pau from our control
because ho la appolnted second clerk aisistant; ho la stîli. an officer of the House,
and If the House should ace lit after bis
appolntment, te give hlm other dutles than
those deslgnatod ln the report, it la comIt la morely a
petent for us te do so.
play on words to, say that Mr. Evs.nturol
Ho la
cannot act as French transiator.
our officer, and If ho fails In the duties
asslgned to hlm we can get somo one else
The main 'conalderawho wlll flot fuall.
tion la, are we appolntlng a second assistant to whom we may assigu duties ot
translation wlth a probablllty of succesa?
I arn confident wo -are se doing, s0 tliat
romoves from the fild of discussion the
question wbether ho la a franslator* or
That la well wlthln our
second assistant
grasp. Now, as lu the matter of salary,
I have no concern about that, for I do flot
know wbat the scale of salaries ln the
Sonate ln. The salary la not an excessive
one. But to get back to the point 'whore I
started, what I want lu assure the House,
and wbat I feel strongly upon myself ln
regard to, and about whlch I arn satisfled
myseif, la that Mfr. Evanturel la thoroughly
competont for any duty lu, whlch ho rnay
b. assigned. ln connection wlth bis servies
as assistant clork. Ho was Speaker et the,
Ontario leglalature for six years. That la
no snail honour or distinction, and Mfr.
Evanturel bas the satisfaction, and the geyornment that nominatod hlm, bad the satisfaction, that whon ho retired frorn bis
office, before ho left the chair at the close
of bis term, bis services as Speaker were
cormoended by betb aides of the House. I do
not know that I remember a single Speaker
upon whom so nlany encomlums were

134

SENATE

passed, as ta the manner ln whieh he discharged bis duty.
Now, If a man ls capable of discharging tbe duties of a fSpeaker,
we need have no fear that hie wIll be Incapable as an assistant clerk.
The only
thing tben to be determined la,_bas hie the
education, the training, has be the knowledge, bas hie tbe capacity to supplement
tbat by the duties of a transiator.
1 have
no doubt at ail upon that.
He le a mani
of good presence, and wIll be useful, perbaps, lu the Chair, and It miglit not be
against hlm at the table.
He le a man of
excellent voice.
If ever hie la celle upon
ta nit at the table, hie eau discharge the
dutles of Cierk, I arn sure, ta the satisfaction of this Hanse.
-He speaks Englisb
as fluently I think, aimost as hie speaks
French-as fluently as a man whose native
tangue was French, could be expected ta
speak Engliali.
He speaks Frenchi like a
cultured Frencbman.
I amn not a judge
of that, but I amn so advIsed.
As ta the
political side of the question, I need nat
discue
that.
*Everybody knows that
Polîtical qualifications are consldered ln appolntrnents ln the public service. It waa
s0 during the haleyon days of my hon.
friend from Hastings.
I do flot suppose
a Liberal could corne withln sIglit af this
'Chamber. I do not suppose bie could find
a place lu any office of any consequence or
Importance unless lie bad some political
qualifications, and we do not blame hlm
for It, because I suppose lie plays the gaine
accordlng ta tbe rules of the game, and I
do not k.now any rnan wba underatands
the miles any better than my hon. frlend.
I do not know any rnan who le rnore capable of fallowing the mules, and follows
tbern wlth greater bon ami and good
humour and with greater pertinacity than
my bon. friend.
We gîve hlm credit for
ail that.
But then others rnuet be allowed to play tbe gamne aiso and must lie ailowed to follow the mules, and If Mr. Evantumel bas been a Liberal, that la no discredlt ta hlm; otherwlse there are a lot of
us here wbo ougbt ta be ashamed of aurselves, but we are not.
There are men
In the public service -who ouglit ta lie
Ésharned of tbemselves.

'Hon. Mr. RLOSS-We muet be allowed to
live, and we muet lie allowed appointments
ln the public service for ourseives and
frienda; we muet lie prornoted when we
menit promotion, and If we do get It 'when
we menit 1t, then we would flot feel, I supPose, any reasnable dread of being recognized. Now wbat 19 ail this trouble about?
We are getting a good man; we are getting
hlm cheap; we are getting a man of experience, a man who bas been in public 111e,
who bas done himself credit. He 'w&s defeated, as other men were, and he la now
presentod by the commlttee for the approval of this Houas. I think we ahould take
hlm aud lie glad we are getting a man no
capable, and we ahonld sustain M, and
If be bas flot work enough ta do, give hlm
more Work. .He la able and vIgorous, and
let hlmi underatand that whether the Sonate
takes 111e easy or not, It expects Its civil
servants to work late and-early.
Hon, Sir MACKENZIE BOWELII
should like to ask the chalrman how be
recouciles the paragrupli lni the addres
wîtb the positive orders that stand upon
the record of parliament as to wbat the
salary shal lie. Would it flot lie better for
the hon. gentleman ta, adopt the prlicIple
whlch bas prevailed for some time ln the
Lower Hous, li deallug wlth this Increase of aalary contrary ta Iaw, that they
add ta it ' Notwithstanding anytfling lni the
repart adopted by the Senate on July 6,
1900, ta the contrary.'
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I have certaiuly no
objections to the hon. gentleman's suggestion.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I amn
sirnply making the suggestion ta the hon.
gentieman-not tbat I Iutend ta vote for it.

Hon. Mr. BELCOUW-lt la not my intention ta ta4e any part ln thls debate, for
measous whIcb probabiy wouid Die obvious
ta rnost people; but the report af the chairman af the committee ta my mmnd la conclusive as ta the opportuneneas, the necessity even , of this appointment; and as ta
the qualifications of Mr. Evanturel, what
bas been sald I think in aIea conclusive.
BOWELL--No Siace I arn on my feetb hawever, and before
I proceed ta say what I rase ta say, I wish

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
doulit about that.1
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

JANUAIRY 24t 1908
to add my own personal. testimony as to
Mr. Evanturel's qualifications. I know they
are the best. I have known hlm for twantyfive Years, and 1 knaw that ha wll discharge the duties for whlch the commit-i
tee has recommendad hlm In the most able
mannear; but as I said, my abject là ris
lng la more for the purpose of raaentlng
In a good-natured way, the ramark made
by the hon. and vanarabla mamber from
Hastings.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
venerable.

135

c~ontests of that mort for sats ln thia Houge,
*o that I am campellad ta think that the
>nly reasan for the statemant made by the
1 oan. gentleman was that ln the days when
ie wam Prime Mînister, thesa unseemly
~ontemtB prevailed.

Hon. Mr. POWEIR--In arder ta remove
tha dficulty suggesled by the han. gantieman rram, tt. isanilce, i maya miat tfle
paragraph under conoî4iaratlol De aLmenaea«,
Lnsartig after the wards 1clerk-assistait'
BOWELL-Not; te words 'and Franch transistor.'
The motion was agreed ta,

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Ha wishad the
Houge to infer that my appolntmeflt ta
the Senate wam the resuit af a sort of contest, a sort of game of euchre, I thlnk he
called ItL I wlsh ta assure the hon. gentleman that mo far as that is eancernad,
there was no game or contest ln connection wlth my appolntmeflt to ilils House.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE~ BOWELL,-Tllê
hon. geleman haci the joirer.
Mr. BELACOURT-For reasan a
HOn.
wfllCli are pretty weu Krnown, 1 was campelled ta abandon the seat; which I held
in the <jommolil for a great many years.
Hon. sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Na
one aver ob3ecteCi toM Dnynn rrena's aP.pointmeflt.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I restgned MY
seat ln the Houge of <Jammons because my
health would not permit me to- continue
to occupy the seat any longer. My resignation was sent ln, and before I hadt any
conversation, tallc or intimation fram anybody, I wam offered a seat i thisHanse,
whiclI 1 gratetully acceptea.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-ýQulte
rigit
Hou. Mr. BELCOURT--SInce there was
no contest af that klnd, meemly or otherwlse, ince the hou. gentleman, I am sure,
never rimes ln this Rouse ta mpaak without some reasan, I am compelled ta mearch
for the reamon for the statement 'which ha
made, and 1 can find na other reason but
that ln the days when he gulded the destintes af thîs country, there must have been

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I W»s
ta ait the Secretary af State ane question.
As the cabinet la mupposeci ta De a -unit On
ail questions ai this and other kinda, I
wish ta ask hlm if ha la awara of the fact
af Mfr. Evanturel approachlflg the premier
aiter the appolntint -Of mBy Yaung friand
'will not cmli hlm venerable-ta the
-1
Senate, ha complained, to the.Premier that
ha 'was ta have a seat ln the Sanate and
that the premler's answar wm, 'Well YOU
shah hava a seat ln the Senata,' and s30
tbey maka hlm a second clark. la that flot
the tact Y1
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The han. gentleman
knowm verY well'that under the oath a
privy cauncillar takes ha la nat at liberty
ta divulge these -matters.
Han. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELIl,-I accept the explanatlon. The hon, gentleman
need not go any fumtier.
Han. Mfr. S<JOTT-I may sas I neyer
beard tue statement until me noan, gentleman mentions it flow.
TuVie paragrapil or tme report was aaopteu
on dtivision.
On tMe 5thi paragrapfl,
an. Mr. WAt3ulN-it wam waii ufaerstaod ln the cammîttee and ln the Hanse,
I tbink, that Mfr. - Wood was appolntad -tO
the position ai steward ta the Senate restaurant, and of course wss amplayea an
Navember 1, and aiter the figures $90
we add the wordm, 'ta mun from the first
af November last.' Ha bas been i the
employ and bas been working ince that
date.

136

SENATE

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Hns
Mr. Wood been a messenger in Vie past ?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-No, he 1s steward
of Vie restaurant
HEon. sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-What
la the salary Vint has'been paid to, Vie
messengers 7 I notice Vint li Vis report,
permanent messengers are to receive $600,
and Vie next year $650, and Vie maximum
la $700. Has Vlils man such superior abilities Vint he la to be nppointed at $900-$200 above Vie maximum as laid down lni
111e report Y
Hon, Mr. WÂTSQ-N-HEe le steward or
the restaurant He l9 not an ordinary messenger.
The pnrngraph was ndopted, and Vie report as a whole was adopted.
The Senate adjourned till Tuesdny the
2Sth Instant, at Viree o'clock.

gentlemen have flot heard the reasons for
They may have been occuthe changes.
pied on other committees at the tîme, and
under such conditions are oblged, to, vote
for the Bill bllndly, and assume the responsillity for such legisiation witbout
havlng ample opportunity to make up their
minde as to, what they ouglit to do under
ihe circumatances. By this amendment, It
A Bill will
wlll be done more leisurely.
come to the House as a whole, and bon.
gentlemen will hear the reasons for the
changes which have been made, and wll
be able Intelligently to cast a vote for or
against the mensure. I may say to the
House that Vie Iaiiguage I have adopted la
this ameadment Is very much the same as
that of the Book of Orders of the House
It is just following the
of Commons.
practice of that House with reference to,
reports of committees on private Bis. It
seems to me to be reasonable, and I expect
that hon, gentlemen wlll be very glad to
support ft

The f3pFAKER-The hon, gentleman bas
varied hls motion- somewhat, and he now
moves as follows : That section M2 of the
Rules and Orders shail rend Vins :
THE SENATE.
That &Il Bills reported by the standing or
select committees, shall, after their second
OTTAwA, Tuesday, January 28, 1908.
reading -e piaced on the Orders of Vie Day
followig gthe reception of the report for reThe SPEAKERL took Vie Chair at Three ference to a Committee Of the Woe Hlouse.
O'clock.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-There le somethiag
Prayers and routine proceedings.
wrong with that. The second reading takas
rince before a Bill Io sent to a committee.
AMENDMENT 0F RULES AND
and it ls Vie report of Vie committee I
ORDERS.
underetand Vint sbould be submltted to a
Committee of the Whoie House.
MOTION.Hou. Mr. DOUGLS-That is whnt is
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS moved:
of the rules and or- meant.
To amiend section 128
ders of the Sexiste, that ail Bills reported by
The SPEAKER-I wouid suggest to the
the standing or special committees be comhon. senator Viat he place bis motion, As
znitted to a Committee of the Whole Honse.
it is now framed, on the Orders of the Day
He said : I need not detain Vie House for Thursd ay.
by axiy speech, because I have already explained the object of Vis motion. We
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-The phraseology Is
have abundant time at our disposaI, and slightly varied, but It la Vie language used
we can afford to, devote more attention to ln Vie Orders of the House of Commons,
private Bis Vian we have been accustom- and I thought it might be more aeceptable
ed to give to, them. A Bill may come sp for that renson.
from a commlttee sud some hon, gentleHou. Mr. POWER-As we all und-ermen have not heard Vie discussion on It.
Changes have been made, and these honi. stand what the Intention of Vie hon. ge.i-

JÂNUARY 28, 1908
tieman Is, It would be better on the whoie the attention of hon, gentlemen te clause 8
flot to stand on the technical question of ef that erder, whlch reads as follows:
order, but to deal wlth the matter now.
The. Senate will net pass any Bill containing a declaration that a local wonk or underno, It le a thin taking is for the gencrai advantage cf CanHon. Mr. SCOTT--Oh,
ada, or for the. advantage cf two or more
Honse.
of the. provinces, unleas t he truth cf the declaration has been proved.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHER VILLE-If the
I submlt that t. a very Indellnite expresmatter t. to be postponed untIl Thursday
next, will it lot be necessary to speclally sion : 1Unlees the truth cf the. declaration
bas been proved.' What t. the proof as
summon tbe members of thie House ?
appled to tht. House? A mer. opinion Is
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-No, there is no ne:, niot preof. A person may be of the. opinion,
cesslty to summon the members; the or an hon. gentiemuan may b. cf the opimotion ls postponed until Thursday, and nion tint a work Is or le net for the genthe. postponernent te in the nature of ain eral advantage cf Canada, but I submit
adjourument of the debate.
that a mer. opinion la net proof, and, there-ý
The motion was postponed until Thurs- fore, I censidered at the tlme-.although I
amn prepared te take rny ahare of the resday next.
ponslbilty-that that particular clause
should not have been adopted by tus Houge.
SENÂTE.
STNÂDING RULES 0F THE
We should b. extrernely careful not te
adopt ruies tint cannet very weIl b. auMOTION.
forced; but once adopted, we should b.
Hon. Mr. COMEÂU rnoved:
careful ta see that they are strlctly adhered
That the following b. made a standing te. I think I can fairly claim for the. one I
rule of the Senate, nameý'"rWhen a standing commîte or a speial arn now proposlng, that it la at t.n.t ln clear
committee reports recominending the passing terme and can b. adhered to.
of a Bill containing a declration that a work
or undertaking is for the general ..dvantage
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I tbilk It sheuld be
cf Canada, or for the. advantage of two or
more of the provinces cf Canada, the report made ta apply te select committees. A
shail state the gronds on which the cern- Senate cemmittee t. a committe. embracing
mittbe have 'decided -that the. declaration
less than the whoie number of senators,
should b. made, and shail contain a summar
Yven. for aud and It may b. dlvided inta two-inte a
of the. evidence or resons
agaimat the making cf the. dec¶ artion
standing committee, whlch la named fer
He said: This resolution le, I thlnk, sufli- every session, and a special committee,
rlently clear to b. self-explanatory. I de- whlch la named for a special objeet; but If
sire, hewever, te give a few reasone whlch the. words ' select committee,' were inserted,
have led me ta Introduce tht. resolution, I thlnk it woutd embrace beth of thos. diand reasone also why I think It should b. visions, and would answer the purpose.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I presume the object
-ndopted by the. House. In the firet place,
permit me to say that I arn entlrely ln ac- t. that when a select commlttee ta whom a
cord wlth the views expressed by the. hon. BIRlihas been neferred report a BUI te tht.
Secretary cf State, that when a Bill cornes House, ln whtch the phrase ls contalned. that
before ti House containlng sucb a decla- It t. a werk for the general advantage of
ration, It muet be deait wlth upon its own- Canada, then thie neasons for that conclumenite. Such belng the. case, It means that sion muet b. given. The suggestion t. a
we are toasit here as judges, and it dees very good one. If this House has erned
appear to me that It la very unfair te those ln the. hast thirty odd. yeare thnt I have
of us who are not membere of the Railway been a member of it, and year by year
Committee to be asked te vote as judges has encrcached more and more on pre,without being placed firet lu possession cf vincial rlghts ; If the. Senate of Canada that
the. facts. I arn aware thnt" we alrcady professedly t. loo ked upon as the guarhave an order deallng wlth this very lin- dieu of tie provinces, have allowed gentieportant subject, and I would like te c-il men to corne into their lebbies, and te

SENATE
press, beg and plead for the passage of
Bils that were clearly, ini my jnd gment,
witbin the purview of the province, 1 think
the Urne lias corne when that practice
should be checked. The Senate would add
to Ins usefulness, and to a recognition of Its
value, If it adhered strkçtiy te the priciple laid down In the British North Americs. Act, that BUis that corne dlrectiy
-%witln the purvlew of the province should
flot be taken up by the federai parliament
On one excuse or another it ls urged thît
they corne within the purview of the federal
Curisdictlon; but If you analyse It you wll
find that the conclusion is a forced one.
It Ir. a very easy matter to add a provision that the work is to reach smre remote
point hi iviere the promoters have no Intention whatever of taklng It, but I order
*to«bring It within the federal legisiation.
Now 1 think the Senate will do Itself honour bý 'adopting that mile and adberIng
ýta w
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I concur i the remarks that have been made. The motion
la certainly timely. I commit no indiacretien la telling tus House that this very
question bas been diacussed year afttr
year without apparently any one flnding aý
If sucb a report bas te
proper solution.
be made, la writing 1 understand, and the
reasons givea, no sucb clause will I future
be inaerted In a Bill except for good. reasons. Withont such a provision, lobbying
influences would prevail to have that clause
railroaded through the House la any Bill
Hencewithont sufficient justification.
forward It will be necessary to give reasons for Inserting sncb a clause. I therefore believe that this motion lu a decided
Improvement on the vague rule now existing, and wblch bas not been enforced, and
In fact is difficuit of enforcement.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-I was somewhat
disappointed thnt the hou. leader of the
House did not more clearly define what
rnight constitute the prirîciple that Is to
enter Into tbls particular step we are about
The Senate bas not been the
to take.
The Departchie! sinner I this regard.
ment of Railways bas invarlably been a
quiet sponser to those Buis that have gone
tirough parilament containing the clauses
I
to which objection bas be<rn taken.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

notice i the public press that the Minister
o0f Railways bas lateiy announced that
somne new principle lu to be laid do wn
as to tbe relations between the federal goverament and the provincial authorities on
It seéms to me
this particular question.
smre well defined. principle should be laid
If It lu simply to be a capriclous
dowa.
matter to say what shail or saah not be a
work for the advantage or Canada wlthout
actilng along well establlshed ues, Ijustice wiil be done to the railroad legislatien and lnterests of the Dominion. I have
always taken the ground that wbere a road,
thongh entirely witbin the boundarles of a
province, forma bona. fide part of a tmunk
Uine with the Intention of exchanging trafflc
wbicb may possibly affect the whoie ailway interests of the Dominion, It la quite
as mnch n Dominion road as tbongh it
extended througb two or more provinces.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Let tbem amalgamate.
Hon. Mrn LOUGHEED-That the Dominion goverilment or the Dominion parliament after having provided most elaborate and efficient machinery for the administration of the d.ifferent roads thronghout
the country, should. conclude that because
a road ls necesaarily confined withi the
boundaries of a province, It therefore caunlot become a Dominion nndertaking, lu, Io
my mmnd, injurions to the public Interest.
I tbink It very desirable that the wbole of
the raflways i Canada should be coutrolled and governed by one board, as la
I need not
very largely tbe case to-day.
point out that many of the amaller provinces have not the machinery to properly supervise rallways, as the Dominion
of Canada bas, and I arn satisfled that
It is In the Interests of the whole country
where a railway is to form a lLnk I the
chain of great trtiffic lines that even thougb
It Is within the boundaries of a province It
should be a Dominion nndertaking snd declared a work for the generai advantage
I arn not In sympathy with
of Canada.
many ineasures bronght into parliament
wbicb contemplate local works, but !t
seems to me the duty of the govemument
lo to have some well defined poiicy on this
question, partlcularly i riew of the great
difference of opinion expressed upon It. and

JANIJARY 21~ 1908
that this House sbould b. made aware of
w'bat tbat policy of the boverument ls.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I do flot think £lie
leader of the opposition bas taken a fair
view of this motion. Wbat the mover bas
in view is to enlarge the scope of discussion. This motion does flot attack ihe
principle whlch la iargely snpervised and
directed by the Rallway Commission. The
motion simply asks that wben a commlttee
lias considered a Bill involvlng the question whether It contempiates a work for
the general advantage of Canada, that the
report shahl state on whai ground the Bill
la one for the advantage of Canada so that
the House, as a wboie, msy have the Information ou wbicb the committee bases Its
<clecision. Tbat la ail that the motion
seeks to accomplish, and I bave the agreement of the moyer of tbe motion In sayiug
so. Therefore the obstacle pointed out by
the leader of tbe opposition does flot apply
Ail that Mue mover wants,
to this motion.
:and it sla Une with the motion moved by
the hou. senator froma Saskatchewan ls that
when a select committee bas dlscussed. a
its
matter and reported 1 decision to tbe
House, tbat the House shall be lu possession of nl necessary Information to come
Under the existing mile no
to a decîsion.
mention may be made of what lias transHow is the
plred In tbe committee.
House to be ln a position to judge of the
merits of a Bill wltbout bearing or knowIng the arguments or statemients upon
hcbthe commlttee that consldered it
This motion, and tbe
bases Its report.
one wbicb preceded It, will bring Into this
House a source of Information wblcb bas
beau denied it up to the present. We have
been restrlcted In car discussions of these
A railwey Bill la reported by
matters.
the Railway Committeeansd we bave very
littie opportunlty to disdusa lit at the third
readlng. and on the secund reading may
1 remnember
oniy discuas tbe principie.
contendlng on one occasion wben a Bill
was reported from tbe committee that we
sbould bave the right to discuss It ln del fat]
tati, and It was not permitted.
to see that the leader of tbe opposition bas
given any renson why we sbould rejeci
Wbat lie says Is perfectl3
this motion.
correct. but it does not apply to the motion

Ail that the motion cais for is to bave the
reasons on wbicb tbe commlttee bases tts
decision, laid before tbe House.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbls ls a matter
wbicb deserves some lutie consideration.
I do not tblk we sbould biasten the vote
Tbe hon, gentleman from Dlgby
on It.
is to be congratulated on tbe llveiy interest
be takes la the procedure of the Housé.
Posslbly If be bad. been a littie longer bere
be migbt bave relized that is motian
This queswas not absolutely necessary.
tion bas been consldered by tbe blouse on
varlous occasions, and some tbree years ago
we appolnted a committee to consider the
rules and auggest ameudments and lmprovements. Tbat commIttee beld a good
many meetings, and tbe report of the committee was discussed at very considerable
iengtb Ia this House, and, as far as my
memory goes, It was neyer suggested by
any one ecuber before the commlttee or before the bouse that the change wbich Is
now proposed sbould be made, and the reaRule
son was that lt was flot necessary.
115 of tbe Senate sars:
Any private Bill, shall, if it bie demanded
by two senators, when read the first time,
be referred to the Committee on Standing
Orders to ascertain and report whether or
not the said Bill cornes within the classes
of subjects assignede exclusively to the legislatures of the provinces.
Now, thîs Is mast the tbing wbicb the
bon. gentleman's motion proposes to do.
Then rule 116 provIdes:
At any time before the final passing of any
private Bill, the saine may, if the Senate
think fit, be referred to the Supreme Court
for examination and report, as to any point
or matter in connection with such Bihf expressed in the Order for Reference.

Then back of that agalu, at a stili carlier stage, tberc is a provision lu rule 107
wbicb rends as follows :
And, if the works of any comnpany <incorporated or to be incorporated) are to be declared to, be for the general advantage of
Canada, sucb intention shall le specifically
mentioned la the notice; and the applicants
rhall cause a copy of such notice to lie sent
by regîstered letter to the clerk of each county concîl and of each municipal corporation
which may lie specially affected by the construction or operation of such works, and also,
to the secretary of the province in which such
iworks are, or may be Iocated.
t So that thiere Is a provision now that
rwbere tlits question arises ini connection
wvith n Bill the parties intcrested shahl

SEIÇÂTE
have notice before the Bill la lntroduced;
that whien the Bill ls read the tirai Urne
lt ray be referred. to tbe <Jommittee on
Standing Orders to report to the 'Hou,-je,
or that It may be referred at any stage,
to the judges of the Supreme Court. -In
addition to ail that, when a Bill cornes before this House at the second readlng or
at any subsequent stage, It ls qulte lnx order
for any hon, gentleman to object to It on
tbe ground tbat It bas not been shown that
the work la for the general advantage i f
Canada.

committed to a Cornnittee of the Whole
House. Our rule does nlot hinder that
The rule provides that unless the Senate
otberwlse orders, a Bill does nlot go to a
Cornmittee of the Whoie House. Let us
look at what the practical operation of the
proposed rule would be. The motion reads:
When a standing committee or a special
committee reports recommending the passing
of a Bill containixig a deciaration that a
work or undertaking is for the general advantage of Canada, or for the advantage of
two or more of the provinces of Canada.
That la a universal rule. It la nlot iimitcd
f0 cases where there la àny objection
to the BI11. It slrnply says that even
in a case where It ls most clear, the worlc
la one for tbe generai advantage of Canada, If that declaration happens to be ln
the preamble of tbe Bill, then the comrnittee to whom tbe Bill la referred have
to make that report..

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-How can he object
If be does not know wbat transplred lit
committee ?
HEon. Mr. POWER-It la not necesaary.
In the first place, the notice of the Bill
mnust cali attention to the tact that '.he
Bill does contain this provision, deciarIug
the .work to be for the general advantage
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Thiat la ail rlght
of Canada. Then It la open to any member to refer the BI to the Committee on
Hon. Mr. POWER-It la qulte unnecesStanding Orders. They report. Then when sary ln those cases.
they report, every hon. member bas a
Hon. Mr. COMBÂU-I slmply ask tbem
chance to understaud and discusa the matto give a sumrnary of the reasons.
the Bill speaks for Itseif.
ter, and
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-Certalaly, but the
Hou. Mr. POWER-If the hon. gentleman wHi allow me, I shall deai with that
expianation of the Bill does not.
part of bis resolution presentiy. It just
Hou. Mr. COMEÂU-Does tbe hon. gen- menus that there wiii be a great deal of
tleman agree wivth t1he prIncIpie laid down unnecessary time wasted lu maklng tbis
by the hon. Secretary of State iast year, report la connection wltb every Bill where
that 'wben a Bill contalalng sncb a decla- this declaratio . occurs. Sureiy hon. genration cornes before this House, It must
tlemen who are members of the commlttee,
be deait 'wlth ou It own meris?
and who take a declded interest ln proHon. Mr. POWER-Every Bill la deait vincial rights, are not golng to sit there
and aiiow a Bfi to pass containlng a dewlth on Ias merlin here, I hope.
klnd, If it bas been linHEon. Mr. COMMAU-I sbould Mie to claration of this
a
that the properly included ln it. We know as
point out to the hbon. gentleman
matter of tact that we bave had ve-y
question he bas ralsed, and the miles be bas
on ibis question before
clted, do not alter tbe fact that an bon. ively discussions
the Raiiway Committee. Two-thirds of tbe
gentleman ls asked to pase judgment bemembers of thîs House are members of the
fore the Bill reaches those stages at ail.
Raiiway Commlttee, and they watch ibis
Hon. Mr. POWER-Oh, no. We do nlot matter wlth very keen eyes.
pass judgment on a private'Bill until It la
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-What about the
rend the third trne. We have every Intervening 'stage from the day wheu the peti- other one-third who are not on the corntien cornes ln until the third reading; we mlttee ? Tbey must swailow what the
have a chance to deai wlth ht, and ai a two-thirds say.
laie stage, after the comrnlttee bas reHon. Mr. POWER-The other third apported, there is notblng te hinder an hon.
that the Bill be pears to be the Important third. The other
gentleman frontrnovlng
Hon. Mr. POWER.

JANUARY 28. 1908
third have a riglit to be present at the
meetings of the coimlttee. If there la a
Bill which any hon, gentleman of the other
third la lnterested In, lie can attend the
meetings of the cornmittee and lie can address the committee.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-Ând lie can vote
to?

141

o'nd I do not think the chairman's summury
of the effeet of the evidence would be
satisfactory.
Hon. Mr. (JLORÂN-It landed the man
ln Jail ln New. York. Tue cap fits, and 1
take It.

Han. Mr. POWER-Then the ban. genI thank him
tiemani was the chairman.
for the Information.
Han. Mr. POWER-He can addrea the
Re can bring the matter up
cammittee.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-And yaur frlend la
We
ln the House ln dIfferent shapes.
ln jail now.
the manner ln which aur
have ta consider
The Railway Commitbusiness la doue.
Han. Mr. POWER-Tlie hon. gentlemau
tee, we wlll say, meets and deals wltb la mistaken; he lu nat ln jail.
elght or nlne or ten Bis at one meeting.
Look at what la requlred by thîs resoluition
lie Is-or
Han. Mr. <JLORÂN-Yes,
-- the report of the committee shail state ouglit ta be.
the grounds on which the commlttee have
declded that the declaration should be made
Han. Mr. POWFIR-Perhaps lie ouglit ta
That la flot 13o un- be, but lie lu not.
That la not s0 bad.
reasonable; but listen ta thîs:
Hon. Mr. CLORAN--Condernned ta jai
And shall contain a gummary of the evidence or reasons given.for and against the anyway.
making of the declaration.
Hon. Mfr. POWIIR-I appeal ta hon. genTake the Railway Co.amittee-becau5se
tlemen that they ahanld. nui adopt thlu resothat Is the one where the question geneircarefully
aiiy arises-it means that we should re- lution wltliaut stapplng ta weigh
the fuil effects of it. I arn satlsfled It wiii
qulre the presence of the Senate rePorte.i
end that
at every meeting of the Railway Commit- do no good whatever, because the
la praposed can be reaclied wlthout this
tee.
We have aiready the
machinery at ail.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-If necessary, ail machlnery for deallng wltli the question,
and It la gaing ta cause great Inconvenlence
right.
and delay and nddltlonal expense. I thlik
Hon. Mr. POWEDR-Tliey muet be there, we liad botter stand upon the aid ways. I
because wlth respect ta every Bill whleh do not thlnk the way In whlch we have
contains this decaration-and a great mauy been dolng business for farty years, and
of aur Bis do-we are to have a suim- whlch lias been found satisfactary, auld
mary of the evIdence or reasons given for be departed from at the suggestion of every
and agalnst the making of the declaratian. hou. member, no matter 110w good bis InThen every statement whlcli le made byi tentions rnay be.
iuny member of that committee or sny
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I should lîke ta ask
jerson who appears befare the committee, muet be reported by the sliortliand re- the bon. gentleman a question: has lie
porter, and that report bas to corne up to any recahlectian of a single Instance whe1e
the Hanse. There la another question sug- a comrnittee bas reparted, givlng the reagested by the hon. gentleman f rom Kil- sons for corning ta the conclusion that thc
Who la ta decîde that the sum- wark was one for the general advantsge
lsrney.
mary Is satisfactory?
1 do flot recoileet myseif any
of Canada?
particular case where tliat lias been doue.
Han. Mr. CLORÂN-The cliairman.
The Bill lias gane tbrough the Hanse after
Hon. Mr. POWER-I remember that .1 it bas been carried tbraugb the committee
-carried tlirough generaiiy by lobbylng. I
commlttee sat here twa or three years ag,

142

SENATE

Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-This le one of Vieoe.
can point out fifty Bills which properly belong to the province, whicb In my lifetirne
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My hou. friend
have been passed ln this Chamber.
WIth regard
thinks Vis is one of Viem.
te Vis partîcular eubject, 1 may Yjay Viat
Hon. Mr. DÂVID-I arn ln fuil accord
ever sînce I have had Vie honour cf a seat
with the view expressed by Vie hon. geni Vils House there hae been a great deal
tleman from Digby (Hon. Mr. C(omean)
'Su*m- of difficuity wi it, and it has recelved
provided he strikes out the words
I remember that my
That is asking mucb conelderation.
mary of tie evidence.'
toc hon. friend from De -Salaberry endeavonred
It would be better te ask
toc much.
tegrapple wi It Borne years ago and the
littie and get It than te si too much and
substance of his suggestion la to be fonnd
not get any.
lIn Vie third edîtion of Bourinot at page
Mr. CLORÂN-The summary or the ,t27. The proposition was Viat another
Hon.
commlttee of Vie Hlouse should. be orgareasonsnized te be entltied. 'A Commlttee on
Hon. Mr. DÂVID-Yes, I would be salis- Legisiation,' and with regard te Vie Bills
fied with Vie summary of Vie reasons with- containlng Vis declaration, it wonld be firet
out the evidence.
the dnty cf Vie law clerk te examine Viem
before Vie second reading and caîl attenHon. Mr. COMIDAU-I desire te polat tion te them, and then Viey ceuld be reont Viat I do not think It: la lmposing any ferred te a commlttee te be called a Cciiigreat hardship on Vie committee. 1 under- mittee on Legisiation.
However, I do
stand that people seeking Incorporation, are net Vhink that was ever put ln operation,
always represented before Vie commlttee, but we have Vie mile whlch Vie hon, genand It would be easy te ask them to put tleman from Halifax bas read; and it Io
in writing a snmamary ef the ressorts.
lni Vie power cf twe hon. members, before
a Bill la read Vie flret time, te send It te
a generail
* Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-In
the Commlttee on Standing Orders, ln order
way, I would express Vie opinion Viat Vils that an investigation Into Vis question r.s
House, having taken up Vie subject of the te whether It wae for Vie general advanrevision of our miles seme two or Vira-e tage cf Canada.
We have therefere a
years ago, and having given, as 1 kno w, provision under our present mules which
the best part of Itn time, or a great deal would probably be more effective, If It
of Ins lme for two sessions ln revising weme put Into eperation, Vian Vie amenland perfectlng them, it is net very degir- ment which Io new propoed.
Able Viat we should, almeet befere Vie ink
la dry on Vie volume, or immediately aftýr
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Hear, hear.
lt has been dlstributed, for anythlng but Vie
non. Mr. FERGUSON-Blit what are
gravest resens, commence Vie werk of revision agaîn piecemeal. I hink we shou'ýd the facin of Vie case ? Âlthough we aigive any changes that are propoeed very ready have this provision, 'which 1 hitnk
serions censideration, and It ls only when would be a very effective one, we de net
we are ef opinion that Viey are absolntely p~ut it hIte operation but we propose
ptecessary Viat we ebeuid change mn'leà to previde another safeguard. Ncw, Viere
that have been framed and revlsed with la nothMng whIch wlll bring Vie miles
Vie great care Viat these have been fram- Inte disrepute more than pasng r'ne
I do net know that ever mule on top of another, and Vien disrega'ded and revIsed.
ln Vie hbistory ef any parliament ln Cati- irig Viem. We paesed a resolution lasf
ada Viere was se much work lni comm't- session on Vie motion cf Vie hon, gentletee and on Vie floor efthVe House given Le .man frem Mille îles (H1on. Mr. David)any rules as Viese we have now before us. I say it as one efthVose who must bear a
0f course we are net clalming they are share cf the blame-and I Viink within two
It mlght turn out that very liuperfect
days afterwards, ln the face ef that reseportant matters had been overlooked, or
lution, we passed a Bill ln utter diiiregard
net properly considered.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

JANUARY 28, 1908
ot It. If this amendment is passed, I arn
vory iucli afmald that It 'would nat be opemative and would nat effeet vory much good.
A Bill is submitted-which cantains this
declaratian. My hon. trlend the leader of
the House refers ta the power of the lobby.
Here la mast where the power of the lobby
wauld corne ln, and I venture ta say this
Hanse would not have this mile very long
ln operatian betore the lobby would be
strong enough ta make very flimsy reasans
muffIce for the Insertion of that paragraph,
and when the exigoncies wouid becoine vemy
great, and the lobby unusuaily strong, it
would be found that theme would be suffdlent farce la it ta socume the admission of
some P'easons which would be acceptable
ta the Hanse, and then a procedent would
be establisbed and the door wauld be as
wide open as ever il was betore. I roally
think If the Hanse wants ta have a care»ul
inquiry, that the mile we have at presont
la better than the new one prapased. 0f
course this would be an additianal safo'
guard, but 1 tear it would nat bave any de
Érmable effect, and, as I said before, I think
there la nothing that bings aur practico
more generally Into disrepute than passing
mules that are not destined or even at ail
likeiy ta be carefuily or weli entarced.
Han. Mr. BEIQUE-As was stated by
the bon. gentleman tram Prince Edwamd
Island years ago, at my suggestion, a mIle
was adapted by this honaumable Hlouse.
That mile provided that any Bill containing a declaration that It was a work for
the general advantage of Canada would ho
retermed ta a special committee appointod
fam the pumpose, and that It would be the
duty of that committee ta repart upan the
declaration, as ta whethor It 'was made
within the spirit of the British North Âmerica Act. My opinion at the time, and my
opinion to-day, la that a matter af that
kind cannot bo dealt with by a numeraus
committee; that It would have ta be deait
wlth by a small committoe, ln order that
a general mule would be tollo'wed which
would be Upplled ta ail Bis of that kInd,
and secure unitommity of decision and of
practice. If the Railway Committee bad
ta Inquire as ta this declaration, as ts suggested ta be done by the prosent motion,
the committee being sa large, and it being
composed ta-day of certain members of

143

that committee, and ta-rnorrow of sorne
other members of the same committee, the
sarne ruie would flot be applied, and therefore it would flot answer the purpose. As
I have stated, this mule was adopted by this
honourable Hanse. It was late lu the session, and it was deerned advisable ta wat
until the tollowing session betore appointing a comrnIttee whlch was ta be a Comrnittee on Legisiation. At the ensuing session I called attention ta the matter, but
It -was claimed that It had flot been adapted as a standing mule, and that therefore
the ruie lapsed with the past session, and
the matter was never taken up again.
There was then a committee formed, at the
suggestion of the hon, gentleman from Halifax, ta revise the mules of thls honourable
Hanse. I was a member of that committee.
I braught the matter before that committee, but the committee came ta the conclusion that it wouid be better ta proceed
under mule 115 than the mule ta which reference was made by the hon. gentleman tram
Haifax. I arn stIli of opinion that It
wouid be botter ta have a mule such as was
adapted tbroe or four years aga, that a
committee of that klnd would be the proper committee ta trame a general principle
upon whlch a committee would act la ail
cases, and I would not be ln favour of the
motion as It la now worded.
Hon. Mm. BERNIER-I really fail ta see
the force of the argument advanced againat
this resolution. -It la true that in late years
considerabie work has been dane la amending aur mules. We do not question that
at ail, but, au a matter af tact, this reolution does not alter the mules at ail. It
adds ta them, but does not alter them. I t
adds ta them on the same lines, and what
It does la simply strengthening the mules
already exIsting.
Hon. Mr, EDWARDS--I amn perfectly la
accord with the objecte ot the hon, gentleman who introduced thia mesalution, and
if the resolutian should be effective lni attainlag wbat ho desires, I would strongly
support it; but ln my opinion It does not,
and la the discussion of this matter, the
question of provincial ights, it appears ta
me, is not involved at ail. It is a question
ot the pracodure ot thls House. Now 'what
are the conditions ? The conditions are

SENATE
that every niember of this House eau atHe cau discuss
tend evIery committee.
every Bill before the committee, just as
fully as If he were a member of that comnmittee.
Hou. Mr. CLORÂN-How can be, wbeu
lie 19 attendlng another committec.
Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-There mlght be a
dIfficulty there, but I tbiak the hou, gentlemen who attend committeeis as megularly as
tliey can wll not find d.ifficulty very often
lu 80 far as this Is concerned. The Bill
te repomted to this House, and It Is open
for auy member to oppose the Bill, to move
to bave it refemmed back, or to defeat It on
givin£. hotice o! motion ln this House s0
to do. go I do not think that this mesolution wll accompiish anythlug at ail. It
wIll simply encumber and embamrass the
procédure and necessitate the addition of
n great deal to the reports. If It was a
rest-lutior. whlch would have the effect of
accomplishlng exactly what the hon, gentleman desires. I would heartily suppoet
lt; but it Is a matter whicb will sImply
encumber the miles of the House and do
no good wiintevem.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The next urne aviy
hon, gentleman speaks a second time 1
shall cal attention to the fact
The 6PEAKFhR-Tbe hon. gentleman has
been called to order flot because he is
speaklng the second time, but because he
is proposlng to move an ameudment.

Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto)-This quwstion bas received a good deai of consideration ln the Senate, and it culminated a
short time ago ln a ruie whichi bas beau
read, Introduced by the bon. gentleman who
has now quoted It f rom Bourinot. That
ruie was for the government of the Senate
until the standing orders which we have
Wben that matbefore us were adopted.
ter came before the select comrnlttee it
recelved a great deal of consideration, and
It was feit It was flot a couvenient way o!
It practically
dealing with the matter.
was on the Uines of tbe proposed rule, except that It Intervened at an earlier stage
than the standing committee would deal
with that part o! the subject, and ln that
respect It was to my mmnd a very rauch
preferable pln to the oue now suggested.
If anything were 'wantIng on the subjet
1 would say it could be provided by reHon. Mr. BEIQUE-May I give the ef- peaiing the order as It now stands and
tact of the mile to which I refermed? It was adopting the mule that was proposed by
this :
the hon. gentleman trorn De Salaberry.
The haw clerk shahl examine ail private The mile whlch we have now appears to
Bills, and shahl, before their second reading, me complete, and the adoption of the uew
Sil the attention of the Senate to, sucb of
them as contain exceptionai provisions, or proposai would mean a.mepetîtion and crecontain. expressly or împliedly, the dechara- nte confusion ln deallng with a Bill. What
tion mentioned in paramax5h (c) of sub-section 10 of section 92 of tthe British North Is the mule that we have to deal wvIth. If
America Act, or may otherwise raise a ques- this question arises as te jurlsdiction, then
tion ci jnrisdiction as betwreen the parlia- under mile 115 any two senators may dement of Canada and the legishature of any
awcl
te
Birovince.
mnnd, and, on their demand, the Bill as n
hc telwcei
AiR private Bust
niatter of course stands referred to the
calls attention as containing the above-menor othemwise raising thE Standing Orders Committee to be deait with.
tioned declaration,
question of jurisdiction, shahl thereupon Now we mnigbt have this absolute Inconsisstand as referred, without special order tc tency, If the proposed rule were adopted,
that effect, to the Committee on Lgisiatioll
that the Standing Orders Committee mlgbt
for the purposes of ascertaining and report
ing whether the said declaration cornes withir hear evideuce and consider the matter and
the intent aud spirit of the British Yortl
America Act, or otherwise deaiing with th( >corne to a conclusion and present a -report,
question of jurisdicti.'a
and after the adoption of that report by
1
CLORÂN-I ise to move aqi the House the Bil wouid be sent to the
Hon. Mm.
Raihway Committee, where the whole qu3qamnendment1tion wouid have to come up and be deait
Hon. Mr. POWER-The bon. gentiemii wlth again, and another report presented
bas already spoken.
ln the form proposed by this mile, and we
undcr
The SPEAKER-The bon. gentleman ha 9 would bave a continuns discussion
You might have, at a
such procedure.
already.
spoken
Hlon. Mr. EDWARDS.

JANUARY M81908
later' stage, atter the report of thie etanding
Orders Committee had been received and
approved of here, the Seaate reviersing Itself, probably, by reason of a report coniing Ia such as Io suggested by the proposed
ruie.
It appears to me tbat would be
complicating our proceedings and cauming
unreasonabie delays, and that it la a procedure which ls unnecessamy. You bave a mule
now under which an inqulry can be made
and evidence taken, and under whicb this
House shall decide yes or no whetber ta
adopt the proposition wbich bas been. refermed to the committee.
Tbat being so,
It should be a finality, unless some new
lght can be thrown on tbe subject.
if
you adopt t)uis motion every Bill la exposed to the possibilty of having a rnning fight from tbe Urne It ls untroduced in
the House until It reaches its final stage.
The Senate would be stuitifying Itself by
adopting a mile of that kind.
This is alto.
gether aside from the question of dealung
wItb provincial rigbts.
Tbe wbole point
here la what procedure would be mont conventent for the Senate to adopt
We have
a mule wbicb wlll memain lni force, a mule
which it Le flot proposed by iis motion eo
rescind, and whicb la a convenient and
proper way to deat witb the niatter, because the Standing Orders Committee la
the proper one to dent witb It; but If It
should be necessary to appoint a seloct
committee, it shouid be at tbe Inception of
the proceedings of the Senate. Before the
Bill is entemtalned, the question of inrisdiction sbould be settled. It ehould be
Eettied before tbe Bill goes to a etandiag
committee.
* Hon. Mr. BEIQUE--The bon. mnember
says that tbis mile wbich 1 bave quoted
bas been tried. He la mistaken; lt was
flot tried.
Hon. Mm. CLORÂN-It strikes me as
pecullar that a large number of senators
opposed to this motion, have misconceived
the object of the mover. Re does' not
want to upset tbe precedure of tbe House
or of the committee. He aiks, and I do
not see why those who have taken the
opposite aide cannot sec It-that the llgbt:
let lui at the committee meeting shall be
given to the House, Under tbe present
.system, the chaimman of tbe comnulttee stm110
IREVI5zDI

145

ply reports a Bill recommendung that it be
adopted, and the Hanse adopta It without
knowing wby the committee mecommended
It, and no member of thla House, since I
bave been here, bas bad tbe courage to
protest against a report of the committee.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Yes, lots of them.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Not ln my experience in the tast five yeams bas an hon.
member risen and spoken agahnst a report
of the camm.tttee.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Yes.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-If be bas, it bas
been votcd down. Ail the bon, gentleman
f rom Digby asks, la that the ligbt furnisbed
ta the committee on a Bfi, shail be communicatcd ta, the Hlouse, as bricffy as possible. .We are upsetting no pracedure,
breakung no mule. Ail wc are asking
In
that the House shall be put Ita a position to pass a fair, impartial judgment upan
any mensure comung before it, and not a
h'Iind oneas we bave been doing for the
hast forty ycars. I protest agaunst bcing
blindly lead. I protest against the suggestion of tbe bon. member frora Prince Bdward Island. that mules should be obscmved
simply because thcy bave been adopted ln
the past. Whcn mules are worn ont, let
them be patched, litre an old coat. We are
heme ta judge tbings on modemn lUnes. Modcmnlsm ta-day la the -cry, and I do not
sympathize wltb these gmandmothcrly appeuls to past stages of public opinion. The
public opinion of to-day differs.from the
public opinion of the Dant. Even Ini my
short 11f e, public opinion differs, with me
from- what I thanght it was twenty-five
ycars aga. I appeal ta the House tliat the
motion pmescntcd by the hon. senator fmom
Dlgby shonld be adapted witb these thmee
words '0of the evidence' strieken out fromn
the fifth lUne.
Hon. Mr. CÂSQRIN-I bave had the
bonaur of making very many reports' ta
this Hnsne, and ln evcmy Instance have
tried ta give when asked, tbe measons why
ignch and sncb a clause was eithcm Insemted
ai omItted fmom a BiI.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-Then why abject to
this motion?
reasons
Han. Mr. CASGRIN-Special
werc also given, and 1, for one, fait ta
EIMON

SENATE
see the usefulness of tbe present motion,
because any bon. member of this House
has a perfect right to, ask any one introducing a report of a committee and moving
its adoption, why the committee came to the
conclusion reported.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN2\-Have it ln writing
and we can 'study it.
Hon. Mr. CASGRIN-What bas been
suggested now bas been going on for years
to my knowledge. When a report is preuented to the House, any senator may rise
and ask wby such and such a change is
reeommended ; for Instance why the contemplnted work is declaped a work for the
generai advantage of Canada. Now what is
the object of tbe hon. senator from Digby?
1 amn sure wben he will bave heard the reports brougbt ini from the Railway Committee, he wili see that the object be has
In view, and whlch ls an excellent objet,
lu aiready provided for. His object Io that
this parliament shouid not pasa rallway
BUis whicb properly belong to the provincial legislatures. I for one have objected
many a time to, the encroachment on the
rigbts of the provinces, and on one occasion, I went so far 'as to say that If such
encroachments were continued, and this
parliament was to continue passing Bis
incorporating companies to construct Ulnes
of a provincial character, the provinces
mlght just as weii forego for ever the right
1 know
of passing railway legisiation.
there is a very strong sentiment, not oniy
In this parliament, but throughout the country, In favour of placing ail rallways under
the jurisdiction of this parliament, and
this parliament alone, and that railway. legisiation sbouid flot be passed by the provinces; but we must remember that we are.
working witbin the constitution, and, as
far as 1 can rend the constitution, the provinces have an undeniabie right to pass
raiiway legialation. I arn giad to announce
that durlng thia session the provinces will
be represented before the committees of
this House Ini order to guard against encroacbments on provincial rights. I know
that Ontario will bu represented, and abiy
represented at our committees, so0 that no
encoachments on the rights of the province
of Ontario wili be made. Other provinces
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN.

may foiiow suit, and 1 believe tlat with
th(_ isew departure, which 1 arn sure it ls
the Intention of every memnber of this
House to foliow, that the hon. senator front
Digby, after this discussion on bis motion,
anid seeing that we are ail In sympatby
w!th bis object, oniy we do not consider
lt necessary, wili agree with us that ail
be wishes to accompiisb Iu alruady provided for by the rules, and wlll let the
matter drop. If In tbe future he or otber
members of the House should find. tbat attempts are being made to encoach uî>on
tbe rights of tbe provinces, some other
mens may bu devised other tban this to,
protect them; but the rights of the provinces are now fully safeguarded. If we
only abide by our miles.
Hon. Mr. BEL4OURT-It seems to, me,
on perusai of the motion and mile 115, thst
there is In tbe minds of many bon. meinTbe mule and ý'he
bers a misapprebension.
motion seum to, provide for two tbings entirely distinct separate and different~ Rule
115 provides :
Any private Bill shail, il it be demanded
by two senators, when read the Birut time, be
referred to the Committee on Standing Orders, to ascertain and report whether or not
the said Bill cornes within the classes of subjects assigned exclusively to the legisiatures
of the Drovinces.

Now, I take it that if under thîs rule two
senators made a dumand, tbe Committee
on Standing Orders would be seized witb
With the question of ascertainlng
what?
and reportlng whethem or not the said Bill
cornes withln tbe classes of subjects asuigned uzclusiveiy to the legisiatures of
the provinces and nothing else; so t.hat the
Commlttee on Standing Orders would look
at the sections of the British North America
Act and determîne as a purely tecbnical
matter wbetber or not it is a subject exclu-

sively wil±iin tbe purvlew of the provinces.
We eil know that there lu a great deal Involved In the decreuing that a work la for
the genemal advantage of Canada. In other
womds, the Committee on Standing Orders
would not be selzed with Lue question, that
la, the propriety of declaring the work is
it
for the general advantage of Canada.
would be cbarged*simply witb the duty of
deciding as a matter of law whether tbe
Bill ls wltbin the exclusive jurisdiction cf

-7
JANUARY 28. 1908
What the hon. gentleman
the province.
has ln vlew ls that where the question la
carrled a point further and where it mlght
be beld, for instance, that the subject
though wlthin the exclusive jurladiction of
the legisiature, would yet be properly declared by this House to be a ivork for the
general advantage of Canada, that ln snob a
case the report should contain a resume
of reasons given for or againat the necessity or propriety of snch a declaration.
There are two things lnvolved Iu this
discussion, the deciaration, whicb would
be purely academlc, whether the snbject Io withilu the exclusive jurisdiction of the province and the further
question, whether It might flot be proper sud expedient, notwlistandiug sncb a
declaration, to declare the work one for the
It seems
general advantage of Canada.
to me a solution of the dlfficulty could be
found in a flot very serions alteration of the
llStb rule, assurning the existence of a Committee on Legisiatian such as le praposedl
by the hon. member for De Salaberry, the
Bill conld be referred to that cornmittee.
I might say here éthat I hope that when
the hon. member tram 'Middlesex (H1on.
Mr. Ross) proposes bis motion ta add to
the committees of this Hanse, it wlll lncînde a judicial committee or rather a Com0f ail the committee on Legialatian.
maittees mentioned in the han. gentleman's
notice of motion It seema ta me that a
Committee on Legislation. wou]d be the
moat Important
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-The whole Senate
le a Commlttee on Leglacton.
Hton. Mr. BELCOURT-I think It would
be quite proper before the Senate discusses
the question wbether a wark should or
should not be declared a work for the
general advantage of Canada it should be
the subject of discussion and Investigation ln a select committee, and 1 should
thluk a committee of that kind onght to
be a small one. Thot would meet the objection in the minds of same hon. gentlemen
that that subjet has not recelved proper
consideration-in other word. tbat works
bave been declared for the general advantage of Canada ln many instances where,
prabably. If the matter had been Inqulred
Into properir, no such declaration would
li
e

have been made. The solution of the whole
inatter wuruld be ta amend mile 115 ta provide that when the question arises at the
first reading, an the demand of two
be ret erred
senatars, the Bill shahl
Committee on Standing
not ta the
Orders because I do nat think the
Committee on Standing Orders as at presoet
constituted would feel It badl suificient know-;
ledge of the snbject to make such a declaration, sud I may make this sftatement freely
because 1 happen ta be a member of that
commttee-but ta the Committee on Logislation which would be qualified to decide
that question, aud I see noa reason .why that
committee should. not give Its reasons for its
decision no that* the matter might be discussed thoroughly ln the Hanse later on
if so desirod.
Hon. Mr. COMEÂU-The hon. gentlema.n's roasons are good, but they do not
go f ar enough.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-My han. friend
dld nat undorstand me; I said it would be
the duty of that commIttee ta give the
reasons on which it based Its decision.
.Hon. Mr. ROSS (Mlddlesex)-I see no
reason why we should nat adopt the resolution of the hon. gentleman tram Digby.
It la aloged that It would Interfere with
It wanld add to the prothe procedure.
codure, but would flot Interfere wlth any
Etep proposed by these regulations. Rule
115 provides that two senators may ask
for the reference of a Bill of this kind to
the Oommittee on Standing Orders. Whon
a Bill is read the first ie, we know very
little about it. It cornes before the 'Boucse
for the first trne, snd lmrnediatoly the
Then It goes to
fimat reading ls taken.
the second roading, as I understand the
mules, forthwlth.
Hon. Mr. POWER-No, two day. mnst
Intervene.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-Let us say it la two
days. Withln those two days, two soDators may adopt the procantlonary measuro
provided by mIle 115; but supposing It escapes at that stage, wauld It flot be wise
for ns in a matter'0f s0 much importance
ta have su estoppel of the Bill at anothiýr
stage.
Han. Mr. POWER-You can stop It at
aiiy stage.

148

SENATE

Hou. Mr. ROSS-Of course ive can stop cause the promnoter of a Bill bas a brief.
It nt any stage, but here le a definite In- I bave seen briefs of Bis already that
struction for the reasons why It sbouid are likely to corne before us. There la
be stopped, at a particular stage. When lt a brief, and that brie! may be briefly stated
goes to the Comrnlttee on Standing Orders, and then we bave the basis for an argument
I understand that tbey express an opinion, and we eau form a judgment. The quesand that opinion may be expressed by the tion la so large that we should. on
Hous. If accepted by the House It stops no account let an opportunity escape
ciosed.
be
the door may
there. It does flot reacb the position to wbereby
which the motion of the hon. gentleman I do flot objeet to a change in procedure.
It le not a
applies. But suppose it goes to the Rail- It le not a serious matter.
way Committee. It Is discussed at greater matter that compromises us lni any way. On
lengtb, more llgbt rnay be cast on the Bill, the contrary, If there Is good reason shown
and If ligbt le cast upon it, wby should not why BUis bave passed tbrough this'House
the House get tbe benefit of that llgbt ? withont due investigation that we are wa'It may be simply a deliverance of the ranted lu changing our procedure, and
Standing Orders Comrnittee without any adopting additlonal precantion to guard us
reason being assigned. The value of tbe agalnst comrnltting errors, Borne of whicb
judgment of a court is that it gives a ren- possibly migbt have been Inadvertently
son, and that is one valuable feature of a commltted ln the past. For that reason I
Supremne Court decision-it gives a judg- feel that I sbould support the resoluttbu
ment with a reason, and lu tbe same res- proposed by rny bou. friend, flot only for
pect a Judgrnent of the Judicial Cornmittee the addltional safeguard, but also that I
of the Privy Council la of value because a might myseif be lnformott wben a Bill
reason la given. If this goes before the cornes before this House as to bow I
Railway Cornrittee, wbat barrn would en- should vote upon lt by having the reasons
sue If the reasons for the judgment of the given to me for or against it. It is a very
Bailway Cornrittee were given to the serions matter that we shonid go on and
House ? Tbere rnay be an objection to suifer the reproach of. interferlng w1th progiving a surnrary of the evidence, but thîs vincial rights, as we are now reproacbed,
is a large question. This House bas been and for that reason any precautionary
reproached over and over again with pass- measures sbould be encouraged. Thbe ho..
ing Bils wbicb interfere wltb provincial member frorn Mille Isles (Hon. Mr. David)
rigbts. We are taking additional precau- placed resolutions upon the paper last year
tien, and have we not good reason for 'which I had the pleasure of supportlng,
doing so ? We ail plead guilty to baving and of -whlch the House approved. This
perrnlttedl sncb Bills to pass tbrough this Is perhaps a Uittie more definite than those
Honse in former sessions. Here is an addl- resolutions, but tbey are precisely lni the
tional precaution, a precaution lu the ligbt sarne line, and therefore they are wortby
of reason and not an arbitrary one, but nt support.
a precaution designed to guide tbe Hlouse.
Hlon. Mr. DAVID-I wislx to Inforni the
I amn not a member of the Railway Com- bon. gentleman that I wIll vote against
rnittee. Supposing a Bill goes to the Rail- the motion as it la worded, uniess the
way Cornmittee, I may know nothing about words 'summary of the evidence'
are
wbat transpires ln that cornrittee, but with stricken out.
the chairman of tbat comrnittee when preHon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I move that
sentlng a report of a cormlittee which gives
upon a Bill, the words ' Sumrnary of Lue evidence ' oe
a. reason for Its judgrnent
then when the matter cornes up in the House stricken out
I -have bef ore me the reasons why 1>e The SPEAKER-The bon, gentleman bas
committee recornrended tbe Bill to be pues- already spoken and cannot move an arnended -or reWeted and I arn lni as good a posi- mentL
tion to Judge as thougli I had been a mernber of the Railway Cornrnittee. There cau
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I move that these
ho no diMeiulty lu getting those reasons, be- words be stricken out
Hon. Mfr. POWER.

JANUARY 2&. 1908
our standing
*Hon. *Mr. WILSON-I doe fot; think: thc 1Lnd If we place amonget
r~ules a rule which, ln the nature oft things,
hon, gentleman bas a rlght to inove an
out and
amendment atter the question has been put wsl! be allmost Impossible to carry
'Vhlich wlll place thinge ln a worue poslfrom the chair, until a vote be taken, and
prosent trne, it
if a vote be taken in the negative thon ho t :Ion thnt they are at the
wouid be well that we should consider thc
ean move.
natter. The motion bas been amended utriHon. Mr. POIRIER-Then It would ho king out the word 'evidence,' and 'what ls
out of existence.1
eft? That it shail contain a .ummary of
e reasons for and against the making
there an amendThe SPEAKER-Io
of sucli a declaration au ia reforred to.
ment?
Nobody ln the Houso has any quarrel wlth
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I movè that the words a membor who desires more lîglit on any
evidence or' be stricken out, secondcd natter whlch cornes boforo the Sonate, and
If there is any wvny in which thc House ean
by the Hon. Mr. (Jostigan.
to pronounce a
at- be enlighitened ln order
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-May I oeil
botter judgment, I amn sure we will al
tention to the tact that the French trans- on both sides of thc Houso hoid Up our
lation saye nothing about the evidence.
bande to have that adopted, but when you
The SPEAKER-Ail I have before me speak oft what this order will cal! for-a
summary oft the reasons for and against
Iu the Euglilh version.
the adoption oft the declaration that thec
Hon. '-%r. BELCOURT-There la nothing work shalr be declared to bo a work for thc
ln the French version about the ovidence. goneral advantage oft Canada, or of two
will makre sucu a
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It seoms to me that or more provinces--who
summary that it wIll bo more satisfactory
It lu a matter of considerabie Importance,
mcthod oft dealing -with
and I would suggest that the matter be than our present
Uic question ' Hon. members wlll coic
adjourned until to-morrow, so that wo con
with different opinions as
see our wny to adjust the matter te meet into Uic Houso
to whetlucr Uic summary ls correct or not,
the generai opinion of the House.
and you will have no end of those difficulHon. Mr. BERNIER-The mover of thc tics of opinion. Lot us, nt least, have suchl
motion lu willlng to have these words a wording oft our rulcu that they can be
etruck out.
carrled out, nnd, as one hon. gentleman who
a few moments ago said, when we
out "«evi- spolie
H-on. Mr. POWER-Strike
have those ruies reasonable, insiet that tioy
dence or.'
shail be adhcred to. Borne hon. gentiemen
th e say that a Bill mny be passcd through this
understanci
SPEAKER-I
The
Frenchi version does not contain the words House with Uiat declaration ln, and pase'evidence or,' andi that le just what the cd wiUiout the House giving it duc consiI wouid therofore deration. I cannot conceive of such a Bill
amendment calls for.
Buggest that flhe motion be put in that way, getting throughi this House If thero le such
it, on which there la a
a declaration inl
witliout aily axnendment.
differenco of opinion, because in thc flrst
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-What text wlll pre- place Uic municipalities are notificd, Uic
vail?
provincial secretarles oft every province
through whlch Uic Bill lB to operate are noThe SPEAKER-I wll put the motion tified, and the provincial governments are
of the bon. gentleman to rend as I find It watching and guarding their interets so
ln the French version.
far as provincial rights are concernod, and
thon wc have the Bill bofore us for second
lion. Mr. YOUNG-Before thec Speaker
reading, and we have a chance to read it.
pute the question, I think the House shoulci
We have alse tie turther reference to Uic
be advlsed as to whant this mens. A mocommitteo to whlch it is asslgned, and Uic
tion is being- put liere. and it is more than
committee takes it under consideration.
a motion. We are nualing a standing rule,

SENATE
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-The hon. gentloinan is une, and no desire to shut off opportunity,
out of order. The question bas been put I do flot for one moment imagine that thus
is a workable rule to be placed on our
from the chair.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-There la either au
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I cannot at ail see,
amendment or there la no amendmeat. If the difficulties that my bon. friend perthere is an nmendment moved, I have a ceives in presentlng the summary. We
right to speak. -If there is nu arnendment bave examples of the summaries being
I have read the motion and arn prepared given in the passages of certain BUis froii
to vote againet It.
Reasons or su mnone House to another.
the thing is,
CASGRIN-The ameadment le maries are given. Therefore
Hon. Mr.
If it cnn work, between ou
workable.
witbdrawn.
House and the other, It should be workcomrnittee a.nd lime
The SPEAKER-As to whether, the Mo- able as between the
tion should not be put as it la in the French House, and therefore ail those objections
version wlthout the words 'evidence or,' I that loom big ln .the eyes of hon. gentlesbould not like to limit the discussion. The men are invisible to me. The main difference,
ia my estimation, between the rules th«.t
hon. gentlemnan may finish bis remarke.
exist and the motion of my hon. friend
Hon. Mr. YOUN(,-When1 the Honse 15 frorn Digby is that accordlng to the existpaesing a motion, it is 3vell that we should ing rules, any senator may, but practically
kaow whnat It contains la Its final stage. none do. There le nothing to start the
Whiie adopttng this
I waited until the motion had assumed, as machinery going.
t cornes automnaticaily into
and wae presented amendaient
I thougbt, lts final shape,
In many instances-in most
and It operation.
to the House for consideration,
struck me-I may be wrong-tbat we were of them, the resolution, juat as much as
placing a rule on our standing orders that the exlstlng raies, wili not be applied, but
was going to give us more trouble than It in the summaries the reasons will be glveiî,
was going.to do us good, Inasmuch as the and It wili be necessary that they shouid
chairmain of the comrnittee coming la bere be given when Bille corne, the jurisdlction
We know that
a
to niake bis report w%%Ithsummary of the of whicb is questioned.
rensons for and againet, If It were a con- the provinces are now protesting at our
tentions Bill ln the cornrittee, apart from lndlscriminnteIy adopting la our rai]way
the merits of! tbe case. contention might legielatlon the words 'for the general adIt is only lu thoge
arise as to the menlts of the summnary, wbe- vantage of Canada.'
ther it was accurate or not, and we would cases that the reasons should be given qnd
have no end o! trouble. Every man lis- wlll be given. I do not see any case
tening to the argumenta for and agaiuist where evîdence wli be necessary. If hio
might, la bis own mind, have a different evidence was given, the word 'evidence,'
summary altogether from what would be in the motion lapses. If evîdence is given,
presented to the House. We provide no why not have the evidence and reasons
machlnery to deai witb the matter except automaticaily, let that question be taken
whlch
by a committee. Tbe committee itself lnto consideration by the House
wbat would be an otherwise hias flot been taken, although It
migbt not agree on
that
accurate summnary. It would necessitate le the daty o! the Senate to discuse
to, question as one particuiarly affectlng the
a shorthand reporter at the commlttee
report the arguments for and agalnst. It rlghts of the provinces which we are here
If thait
was suggested by one o! tbe hon. gentle- more particuIarly to represent.
bias spoken, that the brie! of one question ls to be taken up and dlscussed
men who
of tlie Iawyers who mlght be pleading for by either Hlouse, It behooves the Senate to
or agaiast wouid be a basis on whicb the take bold of It, because we more directly
report would be muade to the House. Tbe and more partlcularly represent the pronighit ignore tîmat brief aitoge- vinces, while the other House represents
conumnittee
tiien
ther. as it mighit happen to be. and whie 1 more directly and more particularly
any we do the electors.
bave uuo desire te shut out ligbt from
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

JANUARY 28, 1908
Hou. '-%r. KERR-Just let me a:sk the
House one moment to stop and consider
what we are adopting.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Surely it le not f air
to open the argument again.
Hon. Mfr. KERRL-No hon. gentleman
present desires.to pass a nonsensical order.
-Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I thlnk my hon. friand
15 wrong.
Hon. Mfr. ICERR-Âllow me to read--

151

Hon. Mfr. LA.NDRY-I rend my motioas
ln English, but 1 make theni lu French.
The question le, the motion bas been
prlnted ln our officiai papers iu French
and Englisb. French and Engllsb are both
Whleh le wblch?
officiai languages.
The SPEAKF>R-The question was rend
by the bon, gentleman ln english, and this
being so, the discussion le no'w on the
ameudment, and the bon, gentleman froni
Toronto bas the floor.

Hon. Mfr. BERNIER-It la read lu
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I appeai to the SpeakEnglish because lt ls customary to read it
er whether we are to debate this question
ln English, but the motion lu' French ls
any longer.
The bon. gentleman
perfectly sufficlent.
The SPEAKER-The bon. gentleman la fron Ottawa bas called attention to the
debarred fromn speaking agaln If there le fact that the French version was correct,
no nmendmnent before the -Eouse, and that and the hon. Speaker had a perfect righit
le what I would like the House te decide. to put It that way, and he did put It ln
1 Iutend to askz, is It the pleasure of the tbat way.
House thaRt the hon, gentleman f rom Dlgby,
The SPIjDAKER-I wili give a further
the miover of the resolution, sbould put lits
and drpp therefrom the words 'ev!- reason to the hon. geutisînan froni St. Bonimotion
The only party who could decide
face.
dence or.'
as to the two versions was the hon. gentleHou. '.%r. POWER-I rîse to a question man himself, and he tooic the option and
of order. 'The hon. gentleman from Dlgby put It ln Engliab.>
proposed to do that, and attention was
called to the fact that he could not. Then
Hon. Mfr. KERR-I do not intend to argue
the hon, gentleman from Prince Albert the question. 1 have said ail I wvisb te sas
moved. seconded by the hon. gentleman with reference to the niants of the motion
froin Victoria, N.B., that the words ' evl- and I dasire hon, gentlemen to conqider tly
dence or' be stricken out and your honour, crîtical Interpretation of what It la Nve ni.
ns I understood, put tbat question, that asked to pass. The motion rends :
the original motion to amend the strikWhen a standing committee or a special
The House comùmittee reports recommending the passing
lng out tbokie two words.
a declaration that a
bas been deallng wlth the Engllsh version. of a Bill containing is for the generai adwork or undertaking
Âs 1 nnderstand, the motion was written vantage of Canada, or for the advanta ge of
ln English and we are deallng with the two or more of the provinces of Canada. the
on which the
state the
Now It bas been dis- report shallhave decidedgroundsthe declaration
Englisli version.
that
commjttee
beeause I suppose our French should be made, and shall contain a sumunary
covered,
reasons given for
transIstors know too weil wbat should of the evidence or of the declaration. and
against the miaking
jiave been, and they have omitted these
words: but that does flot relleve the House
The committee muet report the grounds
from the necesslty of dealing wlth that on wblch the commlttee bas decided thnt
ni-endment 1 thlnk.
the declaration shall be done, and the reand state the reaHon. 3fr. LANDRY-Last year 1 was port shall aiso contain.
already stated the
out of order on just such a point sons gîvan. Having
ruled
the reasons for the
1 do net see how the hon. gen- grounds, you muet state
as tbis.
against.
siys the motion was recelved ln -rounds and the reasons
tlenman
He bas no Information yet.
Euglish.
d>es int mean

Hon. 'Mr. BELCOURT-It
It simply states that the
grounds advanced for or n ga inst the men-

Hon. '-%r. POMW'ER-Tlie hon, gentleman that at aI].
read( it iii Engllsh.

I

SENATE

sure shahl be stated, and the House shall position to say, because it ls one of those
say wbich o! those grounds tliey adopt lu great questions whicli it la diffiuit to determine. 1 amn sure that every one ln the
support of the decision.
Senate deplores any loss of buman Ilfe on
Hon. MEMBERS-No, no.
our railways, and we must admit that
The House dlvided on the amendment, these.accidents are not on the decrease but
rather on the Increase. Whetlier this Bill
whicl was declared carrled.
on the motion as meets the vlews of the House or flot ln
The House dlvlded
ask you to
amended, iwhicb was lost on the following that direction, I would stili
give this Important matter your very sedivision :
rious consideration and endeavour, as far
Contents, 23; non-contenta, 31.
as possible, to minlimize the loss of life
and at the saine time make the Bill as
COIZrsirrs
workable as possible. As the Bill spenks
The Honourable Messieurs
for ltself, witliout any furtber remarks, I
J afiray,
Belcourt,
Mongh,
Baird,
move the second readlng and If ny hon.
McM3Bn,
Bernier,
gentleman desires to take the inatter up,
McSweney,
Bolduc,
lie may do so.
Poirier,
Bouoherville, de
Ross <H1aifax),
Comean,
Boss (Middlesex),
Costigan,
Hon. Mir. MeMULLEN-I desire to say
Roy,
David,
a few words upon dhis Bill. It Is undoubtScott,
Davis,
It
edly an exceedingly Important one.
Talbot,
Douglas,
Tessier.-23.
Fiset,
deals witli the whole transportation quesGilimor,
tion of thils Dominion. I qulte agree wltb
NOlq-CONTENTS
the remarks dropped by my .hon. frlend ln
the Introduction of the motion for the seThe Honourable Messieurs
Baker,
cond readlng. It la now gettlng late, and I
Lovitt,
B6iq re,
should like particularly to deal wlth sonie
Beit%,MacKeen,
points ln It; but If my hon. friend wil
McKay (Truro>,
Bostock,
Miller,
Casgrain,
consent to refer the Bill to the Rahlway
MeMillan,
Dessaulles,
Committee, 1 prefer to discuss it there. 1
Mitchell,
Edwards,
Ellis,
Penley,
thlnk It wll give those who bave any obPower,
Ferguson,
jections to the provisions of the measure
Godbout,
Rile,
an opportuaity of presenting their objecBos (Moosejaw),
Jones,
Thoznpson,
King,
tions, and It wlll give those that are ln symKerr,
Watson,
pathy with the Bill an opportunlty of exLandx-v,
Wilson,
pressing tbeirs also. I think It would be
Liegris,
Yeo,
Young.-31.
Lâougheed,
thie proper course to take and 1 would suggest to my lion. friend, If be would con-.
RAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL. sent, to refer It to the Railway CJommlttee.
I shaHl reserve my remarks until lt Is beSECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG moved the second read- fore that committee.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I arn entirely ln the
lng of Bill (3) 'An Act to amend the ]Railway Act.'
hands o! the House on that matter.
He sald : I desire to cahi the attention of
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-It la customary
the House to tlie fact that tiiis Bill lias
to refer such Bills to the Rallway Coinbeen before us on other occasions for our mittee, and I shall move myeif that the
consideratlon. It la very short, containlag Bill, after it la read the second tie,
be
practlcahly only one clause; yet It le a Bill referred te the Railway Commlttee for cono! very great Importance, and Involves se- sideration.
rlous consideration, Inasmuch as it touclies
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If it Is read the
on the question of transportation and also
on the question of savlng buman life. Whe- second tine without any discussion, it is
ther this is a Bihl whlch will meet what It understood that the House has adopted the
Is intended to meet or not, I arn not ln a principle of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT.

JANTJARY 28, 1908
Hon. Mr. WILSON-In the discussion of
a Bill of this nature, a very important messure indood, affocting transportation extensively, It la hardly fair to senators who are
flot on the Railway Committoe to shunt
this Bill from the House to a committee.
Thase who are not on the Railway Cammlttee wouid have no opportunity of taking part In the discussion. If wo sent tht,
Bill tu the Railway <Jommittee, I may bo
told. as I wvas on a former occasion under
similar circumstnnces, and It bad boon
thoroughiy dlncussed ln the committee,
and thore would be no discussion upon
it In the House. No doubt my hon. friend
from Wellington is honest In bis Intention
ta have this mensure tboroughly discussed,
but it would be botter for ail parties concerued that tlxe discussion shouid take place
here. It la a public Bill of very great Importance affecting tbe whole Dominion, and
It cauid be discussed. to great advantage
In the House. I wouid suggest to my hon.
friend from Wellington that the second
roading- should bo adjourned until nme f uture date so that he may have an opportunit-y of tboraughly postlng bimseif ili
reference to it. The hon. member who bas
charge of the Bill promised to give us, a
full explanation of it. Therefore, If be
wants to give f ull opportunity for a*discuselon of the mensure, that he should move
an adjourument of the debate.
Han. Mfr. DAVIS-I recognîze this Bill
as an aId friend wlth a new face. Whoever is In charge of it, I should like hlm
to give us an explanation and state what
he bas to say In favour of the mensure.
Hon. 1fr. YOUNG-The Bill contains anly
one clause which oxplains itself. Does the
hon. gentleman wish me ta rend It ?
Hon. Mfr. DAVIS-i did nat know that
the. hon, gentleman bad become a convert
to the principle embodled lu this clause.
I am glad ta know that he has badl a
change of henrt ince iast session.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I amn glad to menlt
that expression from my bon. friend.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If the principle
of the Bll is to be challenged, it should be
doue noxw. Rule 6i4 says that the principle
i sually debated at the second
of a Billh
reading. Of course If tbe. principle of the

153

Bill is unchalienged, and we are adopting
it ail rIght; but If It la ta bo challenged
anywhere it should be challenged on the
floor of this Hanse.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The han. gentleman.
la rlght in the point ho raises; but it la
sometimes the practice, If It la understoad
by the House that they are not committed
to the prînciple of the Bill hy penmltting it
ta taire the second rendlng, tbat the door la
open ta challenge the Bill at any stage.
Trhorefore I want it ta be clearly understood, that should the motion of the hon.
senator from Wellington provail, no one
be
%vould. committed to the Bill eithor for
or against It, se that wben it neturna from
the committee It could be discussedl In the
lighit of any additional Information that
might be suppled ta the Houso.
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-Could the hon, gentleman state noNy wbat is the principle of
the Bill ?
Hou. Mfr. 'YOUNG-The prînciple of the
Bill is ta limit the speed of trains in thickly
populated places. The speed is limlted ta
ten miles an hour unless the cnosslugs are
properly protected, 'whatever that means.
Clause 275 of the Railway Act provides a
hImit of that kind ta the speed of trains
in thickly populatod places, so long as tho
crossings are pratected or permission ls
gîven ta run at a blgher speed under a
regulatlon or order of the Railway, Commission. The board may lîmît the rate of
speed as It deems expedient Now It la
proposed by this Bill ta make the imit
ton miles an hour, regandless of the Railway
Commission, and still retains the other protections.
Han. Mn. PERGUSON-We are now
This ts a
talking of the procedure only.
Bill of one very short clause, and that la
If
ta have railway crossings protected.
we rend It the second time and send It ta'
a committee, we reverse wbnt we have
done for two sessions, and It would seem,
knowIng the strength of corporations ln
committeos, and the Influences they bring.
ta bear there, that the abject of sending
the Bill ta commlttee la ta do something
there that could handly be doue decently
I may
ln the publie llght of this House.
be wrang about that, but It seems ta me

SENATE
This Bill
that that would be the effect.
has been passed three ties in consecutive
sessions Ia the House 0fý Gommons, and
ln the hast two sessions it bas gene tbrough
unanimously. There has been a change of
Minister cf Railways, and both the present minIster and his predecesser baye
We shouid
given the Bill their support.
stand up and in the llgbt of day discues
the principle of this Bill at the second
readlng. To send Lt te a commlttee without discussion weuld Jay us open te the
charge, probably, nt some later stage, that
we had done se fer the purpose of having
the Bill killed ln committee or somethlng
done whlch we weuld nlot take the responslbilty of dolng ln this House.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I amn net acting
at the request cf anybody. There are some
features of this Bill that 1 do net like,
some tentures that I tblnk should bie careIt ,is true that the
fully considered.
House of Gommons bas passed the Bill
Nevertheless, it is the duty et this
twice.
sideratlon, and If I theught tbat ît was
at ail intended te amiother the Bill by referrIng It te committee, as my hon. friend
bas intimated, 1 would be the hast mernber of tbis House to consent te anytblng
I arn quite wilîng te acc ýrpt
cf the sort.
the suggestion of the bon. gentleman wbo
bas charge cf the Bihl te allo,% it to go
My hon. friend is a
te the committee.
Wbien lt is
member of that committee.
reported back te the House If there are
any amendments which are objected te, the
House eau deal with them. 1 am quite wiIhIng te let the Bill go te the coniiiittee witbl
a perfect uaderstanding tbat by givlng ît
the second readiag we do net enderse the
Seme ef its provisions are geed.
principle.
but there are otbers wbIcu are ebjected te.
The object in sending the Bih] te the co.nmîttee is te give everyoae an oppertunîty
ef expressing bis vîews.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS--This is one of the
mensures the Senate sbould pass. s0 that
we may escape the lobby te wbicb the
hon. Secretary of State bas referréd. IAiqt
year it piaced us La really a very uniThis Bill weat te the
pleasant position.
coaimnittee and senators were caavassed te
!ptecewt
the~~~~~~~~~~ hastw exrmt ead
fion. MIr. FMhGUSON.

«£he House
What are the tacts?
te It.
of Commnons passed this Bill twice. This
time tbey would nlot aflow the gras
to grow under their feet before sending it
They are throwing on us the eeto us.
sponsibllity of defeating the BIIL, If It ia ta
Two ministers of raiiways
be defeated.
have given this measure their assent As
Lt la an amendment ta a publie Bill promoted by the goverument, and having been
supported by the whole ef the government
in the other Heuse, It must bie apparent
te everybody that It la the Intention of the
goverument that this Bill should pass. P'urther, Lt la a measure demanded by the public safety, and tbough It may be of great
Importance that rallroads should pass at
blgb speed througb unoccupied portions of
the country, they ougbit flot to bie allowed
te go over level crossings ln populous centres at a higher rate of speed than Is provided for ln this Bill. 1 shall therefore vote
for the second rending. with the idea that
Lt should net go te the committee but
should pass bere..
Hon. Mr. WATSON-This Bill bas been
before the Senate on two different occasions, and on beth bas been defeated. Are
we te admit that we were entirely wrong
on those twe occasions? Âlthough the geverament tavoured that Bill before, a nmajerit! o! the senators did flot support the
ineasure. 1 opposed- Lt before because I
tliougbt the Railway Commission lied power
If this Bill
te Iiuiit the speed of trains.
is te pass-and I feel Incliaed. te retract
te a certain extent and let the BlIl pass
inasmuch as the House ui. Commnons bas
passed lt unanimously twice-it sbould 'be
modified. We know that the Ganadian Paciflc Railway have ixaugurated a train service between Montreal and the Pacifie ceast
of seventy-two heurs. If this Bil] hecemes
law, the compaay wIli bave te add tea
Should we force them
heurs te that time.
Tbe Bill heaves ne
into that position?
eptie te the Railway Commission; the
rallway company rnust 'rua Its trains
tlneugh tbilckly settled portions of the
country nt a speed net exceedlflg ten miles
New, why sbould the trains be
an heur.
held Up without necessItyt Probably durlxîg business heurs, and la the early part
of the evening. Lt migbt be aecessary te
i~ trains et certain cressings: but
p

JANUAIRY 28, 1908

155

there is no necessity for it between the Ilshall pass tbrough thlckly .populated sechours of înidnight and six o'clock ln the tiens at a iiiglier speed than ten miles an
moruing.
Either bere or ln the commit- heur, unless the level crossinga are protee, where probably there wauld be better tected or maintained Ln accordauce lvithopportunities of bearing the parties inter- the directions of the Railway Commission.
ested-I refer ta the raUlway companles- The board nmay limit the speed. As I unan opportunity would be afforded every- derstand the -Bill, it means this, that bebody ta discus the detals of the Bill, and fore tbey cari run trains at a greater speed
1 would faveur the suggestion of the hon. than ten miles an haur thraugh a village
senator from Wellington, ta send this BHIt or town, they must get authority tram the
to the Railway Commlttee.
1 would nlot Railway Commission.
vote ta kil! thîs Bull ln the Railway ComnHon. Mr. POWER-No.
mittee.
I amn prepared ta support amendHon. Mr. DAVIS-That ivas the argumente ln the line I have indicated-tbat la
where the Railway Commission consider nment put up lu the Railway Commlttee hast
there ls no danger ta the public, trains year-that If a corporation wished ta run
should nlot be required ta slow up.
1 its trains faster than ten miles n heur,
shall vote ta amend the Bill and make It they could apply ta the Railway Commismore useful and nlot ta take it out of the slan, and by doing certain thîngs get perjurisdiction of the Railway Commission. milssion; but tliey must apply ta the RailAs I take It, If this Bill la passed, the wNv Commission. Last year it was nat
Itallway Commission wlll nlot be able to more tlian twio days atter the Bill was
slow Up trains ta a less speed tlian ten thrown out by tais House, that a couple ot
miles an heur.
p>eaple were kiihed at a level crossing at
Alexandria. The otaer day some people
Hon. Mr. POWER-Th-.re board nay limit ,%ere klilled at St. Thomas. In fact, the
the speed but cannat let the speed exceed
railway crosaings are veritable shambles.
ten miles an heur. ln thickly populated The -Hause of Commons bas passed this
places.
Bill twice unaaimously, and I do nlot see
Han. Mr. WAT'SON-I agree wita the why we shauld send It ta the Railway Coinbon, gentleman in charge of this Bill. tat mlttee. Let us take the responsibillty of
w.e should not allow anything ta iniperil discussing- and settling tae Bill bere aud
buman lite, and I think it wi]1 not be long iIow. If ive send It ta tae committee it
bel are the Railway Commission will re- ineans either that It wlll be rejected or sio
quyre ail] dangerous erossings ta be pro- nîinended tliat it wili be of no use.
tected. At the samne tume, wliere it is unHon. Mfr. POWER-I do not see the
necessary ta lnterfere with the operations
force of the last observation made by the
of trains making fast time between the
Atlantic amd the Pacifie, we should not by bon. gentleman. I amn lu faveur of the
aur legisintion unnecessarily restriet them. principle of the Bill, if the principle ls to
Our corporations are carrying passengers lu imcrease safet3- ta hurnan lfte. 1 see the
campetîtion with railwvays ln the United lion, gentleman bas a copy of the Bill beStates, and they should nat be need]essly fore hlm. but be bas not had time ta conaider It carefully, because he misapprehampered by restrictions.
liends one of the most important provisions
Hou. '.%r. DAVIS-The Bill was the- la It wbich la that as regards tae speed of
roughly discussed in this Chamber and tea miles an hour, the Rallway Commisin the Itailway Committee on previaus occa- sion have no power. That appears ta lie
sions. It went to Its death in the liailway substantially the change wblch tais Bll
Committee last year. I amn glad ta see saine pr-oposes ta make lu the existing law. The
bon. gentlemen wha oppased this Bill last present law provîdes that no train suail
year bave seen new light, and are naw pass tlirugh any city, tan ai- village at
prepared to support sanie legislation of this a speed greater than ten miles an heur,
character. But the boa, gentleman froni mîiless the track la fenced or protected. or
Marquette does not seeni to understand the permission is given ta the board. Under
Bill1 thorou.-hiy. It provides tbat no train the Bill1 before us, the board cannot malie

156

SENATE

any régulation whicli would allow a speed
of more than ten miles an hour tbrough a
thickly peopled place. In my opinion, the
*Railway Commissioners are In a better position to Judge whether It is necessary, In
the Intereat of human safety, that the rate
of speed should be iimited to ten miles an
bour in a given place, than we are. The
commission are appointed for the purpose
of carrying out the spirit of our legisiation. Take thie case put by the hon. gentleman from Portage la Prairie, the case of
the Canadian Pacific ]Raiiwày; the same
wlll be true of the other railways running
across the continent and trylng to maire
good time-if you are going to bold tbem
up you hamper them in their competition
with railways lu the United States. Lt la all
rigbt 'when there la traffic in the streeta,
but in the hours between midnight and six
o*clock ln the morning there does not seem
to be any reason why, If the Railway Commission are of the opinion that there la no
risk, companies sbould flot be allowed to
run their trains faster. 1 quite approve of
passing the second reading of the Bll, but
the language o! the clause requires to be
scrutinized more carefuly than it would be
In a committee o! the wbole. I bave no strong
feeling about lt; but, as a matter of business, it will be better a!ter the Bill la read
the second time and Its principle adopted,
to let it go to the Rallway Committee, and
let tbat committee make a report as to
wbether or not it la necessary to adhere
to the phraseology that is now In the Bill.
1 do flot think myself it ls.
Hou. Mr. CASGRAIN-May I call the
attention o! the House to the fact that this
ls a public Bill, and in the usual course It
should be discussed in Committee of the
Wbole Senate. Now is the time, wben those
mieiubers -%vlo are so anxious to know wbat
ls goiug on in committee with respect to
rat!wày legislation, to insist on having this
Bill discussed In the House. It la only by
makiug an exception of this Bill that it
need be sent to the Railway Committee.
Hon. Mr. POWER-When the Bill cornes
back fronu the cornmittee, it then goes to
a cornrittee of the whole.

inyself. 1 agreé with the hon. senator !roim
Marshfield, that this Bill shouid be discussed openly here. and not let the impression go tbroughout the lengtb and
breadtb o! this land tbat we bave sent
this Bill to a committee for the purpose of
stifling it there. We must remember that
this Bill bas been passed unanimously by
the House of Commons.
Hon. Mr. POWER-A commlttee cannot
Tbey are bound to report
stifle the Bill.
the Bill either favourably or adversely.
Hon. M~r. CASORAIN-W%%e know very
well tbat the practice hbas been-and the
debate to-day bas proved it-that reports
of committees are very olten concurred In.
If you look at tbe authorities on tbe subject you will see that once a Bill bas bepn
rend the 'second turne and referred to a
commlttee, the report of that committce
ls supposed to be adopted by the House,
because tbey say the committee la the proper place to make an Inquiry; that tbey
can bear counsel and take evidence and get
a knowledge of tbe facts, and tbe committee are snpposed to be a better Judge thatn
the Senate can be whether the Bill shall
pasa or not If tbey

report It favourably.

But this is a public measure, and the matter should be discussed In the House, sud
the Bill amended If the House deem 'it
As to the priaciple
necessary to do so.
of the Bill itself, 1 think every one la la
favour of having safer level crosainga. The
Llailway Act provides tbat trains may mun
at a biglier speed them tea miles an boum
provided the crossings are properly proIt came last year to the knowltected.
edge of members o! this House that to
proteet a level railway crossIng entails an
expenditure of fifteen to seventeen thonIf you will add Up the nunusand dollars.
ber of railway crossings on a huie froni
ocean to océan you will see what an lm-.
inense cost It would Involve to pmotect ail]
The
the level crossings In that distance.
cost of Installing modemn gates Is froin
fifteen to seventeen hundred dollars ;then
you must have at these gates two men
that you cannot get for ýess than $50 or
Supposing rou get
$60 per mouth each.
That is $100,
themn for $50 per month.

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I tbink it shuould
be fully discussed here iu ýomrnittee of th)e or $1.200l a year. Capitalize that at 5 pe~r
I ani onix speakiiig for cent. aud you %v-li fiud that to protect one
whole Senate.
Hon. Mr. POWER.

JANUARY 28, 1908
crossing praperiy witb modern appliances
Invoives an expenditure of $15,000 to $17.000. If you add that Up fram one end of
the lune to the other, you wiil see wbat an
enormous expenditure it would entail. It
would probably bankropt same of the beet
rallways lu the country if you requlred
that
We are »ail ln sympathy wlth the
It bas been sugprincipie of the Bil.
gested that at certain hours trains mlght
be aiiowed ta mun at a higher rate of
speed; but this Bil deais wltb ail crossings
ln the samne way at ail heurs. Some crogsings are nat dangerous, uut there ls no
discrimination In the Bil between crossIngs; you apply the saine bard and fast mule
If this Bill were cointo ail crossings.
mittèd ta a cammlttee of thls Hause, everyone would bave an opportunIty of discussiiig it, and the Hanse might evolve a warkable mensure whlch wouid beneflt the wboie
country.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Speaking for myself, I bave not the slightest desire ta place
one dollar of unnecessary expense on the
They contribute in a wanderful
railways.
degree to tbe prosperity of the country and
are dolng mucb for its deveiopment and
we sbauld nat burden themn unnecessarlly.
At the saine Urne, tbe question of expense
should net be braught in as against the
That la, we should
safety af liunan life.
nlot hesitate to put the raiiways to somte
expense, or even a great deal of expense
to prevent. the lives of the peaple of
this country being sacrificed as they undoubtedly are at these unprotected level
I believe tbe isili befare us ls
crassings.
It bas quite a
the resuit of compromise.
history. It was introduced in tbe House
of Camnions two years aga and sent to a
smali committee of the Hanse cansisting
mostly of lawyers on bath sides of tbe
House, and tbe Mlnister of Raiiways at
the Urne was ane member a! that commitTbey heard ail tbe parties âffectedi,
tee.
the railway campanies and others, and meAs I
parted the Bill as It is befare us.
*understand the measure, it means mast thlq:
the' first clause wltb reference ta the ten
miles an haur does not dIffer from the exTbere le aiready a lirn1tati,3n
isting law.
of speed; but there le a uifferent principle
ln tbls Bill governing that regulation.
It is that no train shall pass over a levai

157

crassing ln thlckly peopled places at a
higber speed, than ten miles an boum, unle4s
the crosaing la properly pratected. TliAt
clause tbrows the respoasbillty on the mailway companies to have their cmassings prctected sa that if any livesa bould. b. lest
there it would become a question for a
jury whetber the protectian was ample or
nat. But It gaes furtber and providea that
sucb cmossing must: be constructedl and
thereafter maintained ln accordance with
the orders, regulations and directions
af tbe Railway Committee of tbe Prlvy,
Cauncil and of the Board of Rallway Com'Tbe railmissioners ln respect thereto.
ways will bave ta pratect tbe crossing, but
they can go 'ta the mailway board and jet
an order. respectIng lt and whatever the
arder of the board la wlll be the prop-?r
It wlil nlot thon be a matter
protection.
for settlement evon before a court as ta
whether the protection was proper or not;
the Ralway Commission baving passed on
it and decided the question wll settle the
Objection was taken hast year,
matter.
and lu tbis Hanse, on grounds whicb
snrpmlsed me at the Urne, and whicb
bail no farce lu my opinion. It was
urged befare the smali commIttee of the
Hanse of Commons ta wblch I have referred, that the mailways had aiready gane ta
the PmIvy Cauncil before the passlng oaf aur
flailway Act aud obtained orders wth
large numbera very
reference to
country.
ail over the
cmosslngs
of
And, ln ordor to prevent any unnecessary
expense being impased upon the railways,
the clause was drafted sa that the regulatiens passed by the Privy Council would
remain lu farce, and It wauld nat be necessary for the raiiways ta obtain fresb ordors frein the Railway Commission. That was
provided ln the Bill, but it was urged
against the Bill iast session tbat it was revivlug the power of tbe Privy Council as
against tbat o! the Commission. 'It simply
pravides tbat the orders that had been madebeforo wauid memain In farce, and it wouid
not be necossary for the malways to go ta
the Rallway Commission Iu order ta get
arders 'wlth reference ta crasslugs alreadv
dealt witb. It seema ta me that the propositioen ls quite simple. The raiiways are responsible for the crossings, unhoss they are
iaroperly protected. They wl1 bave to face

SENAIE
the court and jury, ualess they do one of
two things: that is, protect the crossings in
able to sho-,vt
sucb a way tbat they wiil be protection is
before the court "that their
ample; or. if they do flot choose 10 ruii
the risk of that-and I thInk they wouid
be very foolish to do so--tbey can go to
the Raiiway Commission, and the Commission can decide with regard to every
crossing the measure of preesutIon necessary, and that would take sway their responslbility, as long as they conipiied with
the order. I know that we were told iast
year, by the raiiway companies, that this expense would be enormous. Figures on the
subject were presented to us, and, aithough
'I have notblng but my own opinion on the
mubject, I thlnk the expense would flot be
anything llke the amount It was represented
to be; but as I said before, no matter how
xuuch It would be, when human lite Is lu
danger, we should make provision. But my
opinion ta that the railways would be able
to group the cases, snd tbey could be deait
witb ln groups. The Railway Commission lias experts, and they could send them
over the roade, sud group the cases,
If the railway did not do It themselves. It would not be a very difficuit
matter. The legislation Is very Important,
and affects the railways very seriously,
aud we shonld not be in too great a hurry
to put this proposedl law in force. We
shouId give them ample time and shlow
them, to proceed csrefuliy aud deliberately,
ln order to arrive at the best possible conclusion, whIch would Involve the lest ex.
penditure to the rallways. We would not
want to put tbem to any unnecessary expense. It might be ssid: 'If that la doue,
lu the mesutime you wouid be leaving lit e
exposed.' We would be doing that, sud we
migbt be consldered by some people as
being remiss In our duty, because we did
flot aet et once. But, ln view of the exposure that bas existed lu the past, and
remains up to this tinie, and lu view of
being providedmaehInery
excellent
which I hope this House will help to provide by the passage of this Bill-we should
give aIl necessary tîme for the railways
to put their House lu order, and not subjeet them to unnecessary trouble by forcinlg
them at once to take action.
Tt being six o'clock the Speaker left the
Chair.

Af ter Recess.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-Wheni the Speake~r left the Chair et six o'elock, I was undtem the Impression that we weme going Io
dispose of the Bih, and I themefore eut my
remarks short although there were two or
three observations I intended to, make with
regard to the' law as it et present stand-s
sud I presumne there will be no objection
I desired to point
to iy doing s0 now.
out the weakness of the isw as It Dow
It le
stands with regard to this subjeet.
to be found in section 274, sud 1 want to
point1 out in connection with that, a remark I made before six: o'choek, that the
proposed ameudment makes no change
The
with regard to the speed of trains.
ten mile an hour speed Is also deuit with
under the law as It at present existe, sud
the closing part of the old section and of
the new are word for word allke: that iq,
giving the Railway Commission power Io
fix sny rate o! speed, the> see fit
Hon. Mfr. ROSS (Middesex)-Wbat is the
real differeilce
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The reai diff e,ence is in these provisos beginnlng with
The Act s It stands
the word 'unlees.'
et present la the saine Up to the word 'unless 1 lu section 275 sud ' unless' lu this
Bill. it Drovides:
iUnless the traok je fenced or properly protected in the manlier prescribed by this Act,
or unless permission is given by soins regulation or order of the board.
The differeuce Is that the Bill reads in
this way :
Unless such crossiug je properly construeted
sud thereafter properly protected, or unlees
such crossing ie constructed and thereafter
duly maiutained in accordance with the orders, regulations and directions of the Railway Committee of the Privy Couneil snd of
the board in force with respect thereto.
There la where the difference cornes in,
and, when we corne to look loto it, we
wlll find it le very materlal. The proviso
Unless the track
la the law as it stands la, 1
Is fenced iu the manner prescribed by thie
Act, We turu to section 254 sud there
we find ail the provisions with respect to
feneiug-, and it provides for a fence four
feet si-, luches hlgh, sud for cattle guards.
That is the provision that Is there. Then
although It would seem slmost ridieulous
that sucb should be the case, still as far as

T
JKNL ARY 28. 1908

159

I find sucli is the case, if the track is waY cowpauy were to be protected, 11o
fenced, and the provision of cattie guards, nlatter liow fast the trains zaight: rua, froin
and a fence four feet six luches high, that the mnere fact that there was a fence aioug
aliows them to run at any speed they the track of the railway ieaihg up to
choose, through populous places irrespective this street or road, and that there were
of any protection of the crossinge. Then cattie guards on each side. The provision
there is another proviso 'Unless it le pro- wlth regard to fencing ls to my mind very
perly péotected, ln the manner prescribed absurd, nnd I cannot understand the plaI have iooked througb the cing of that clause in the Bill. Then the
by this Âct.
Act and the only provision I can find te second hais a more direct beariug. That
section *274ý where It provides 'for the says: 'Uniess the track le preperiy prosounding ef the whistle and the ringing of tected lu the manner prescrIbed by this
the bell eighty rods before me train reachas Art*' and tiat refers te section 274, %,rbieh
the croeeing, and It provides that thaLt provides for the whistle and the bell. It
shah flot apply to trains approaching such le no wonder that a strong agitation bas
crossinge within the lImits ef cities or been p'uing o'r te have seme change ln that
towns where municipal by-laws are lu force section, ln order to provide better pretecprohibiting sucb souudiug ef the whistle tion. Having made that reference, which
1 contend that the I think ia correct, to the provision that is
or riuging of the bell.
provisions ef the Act as it uow stands with ne in the law, let me point out what the
regard to the level crossings are of no value Bill proposes to de. It says :
No train shail pass over any highwa y rsat ail, and it muet have been the subtlety ot
peopled porin any
railway jawyers that got these dlansAs 11ng at rail level town or thiokLy at any greatvillage
of any city,
they are, forIl tionsPeed titan ten miles an hour.
et
framed ln the way ln whIch
certainiy'hon. gentlemen will see that noe
That le the same as the law at present
protection at ail for passengers on the cr0.- except by the addition of the words "bhigising Is provided, merely from; the tact that way crossing."1 'nen the clause preceeds:
a fence four feet six high Io found on the
Unless such croesing je properlyz protected,
adjoiniug property, or that there la a cattie or unlese suoh crosaing is conaruoted and
accordance
We muet admit that that Ie no thereafter duly maintained, inidirections ofwith
ginard.
the
the orders, regulations and
protection at aill for people using the cross- Railway Committe. cf the Pi;ivy Counoil and
cf the board in force with respect thereto.
Ing.
The tlisr le 'Unlese it Is properly protecHlon. Mr. McMILLLÂN-Does the heu.
gentleman mean 1t weuld net be auy pro- ted.' Thaat means wbere there li ne order
of the board passed i reference to It that
tection ln towne, cities snd villages?
the protection muet be et sucit a nature
,Hon. Mr. F'ERGUSON-No, I think *t thal a court of justice weuld hold. to be a
would be no protection whatever for peo- preper protection. That perbape would net
pie. crossiug the street, the mere tact that be a very desirable position for the raila feuce four feet six luches higit had been way companies to be placed ln; but they
placed ou each side of the railway ieadiig can easily get out ot that position by applying to the Board of Railway Commiesioners,
up to lt and a cattie guard was put ln.
ouldnotwho would be depeuded upon te make fair
cMILAN-ou
Hon.Mr.
decisions, and they are net obliged to apply
gn
fouur fesi
MecMILN-o nb
eu.e ar
their crossvilags
town an werethee cossngsto the board with regard te &Ul number
nge. I am told that a very large
rsig
hs
iigswee
aen an
of the crosige have already been dealt
are?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Weil you would with by tbe old Railway Committee ot the
net, but that le the provision. This Privy Council and by the present Board et
section is dealing with thickly peopled Rtaiiway Cemmissieners, and thie provides
portions et any city, town or vil. that any regulation lu force with respect te
lage, and stili the only construction creesinge made by either the old commitwe can put on It 1e that the framers tee, the PrIvy Council or the Railway Cemof the Act meant that as against the people missioners will be held te be a sufficient
using the street or road crossing, the rail- protection.

160

SEINATE

Hon. Mr,. ROSS (Middesex)-As I under- visions, under one of whlcb, of necessity.
In -i
stand it, the Bill only appies to crossiugs the railway must operate Uts trains.
section we have under discussion, the*e
In thlkly populated districts ?
are one of two conditions which tbey must
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Yes.
comply with. As stated liy hlm, they
Hon. Mfr. ROSS-Not to other crossing-3 must elther have the track fenced or properly protected In the manner prescribed
Ia rural districts ?
by this Act, or they must have an'order et
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-No, only to cross- the Railway Board-one of these two,
inge 'lu thlckly peopied parts of the coun- conditions they must comply wltli.
if
try, and althougli there wae a great deal they could comply wlth the first they would
of misconceptlun, apparently, when we were not, necessariiy, as I understood what thîn
conu:il1ering the Bill last year with regard hon. gentleman said, and as I read the
te this provision that legalized the deci- section, need to go to the board wlth an
sions of the old committee, the Privy Coun- application to enable them to go beyond
cil, wheu it Is examiued carefuiiy It wll the ten miles per bour.
lie found that ail that that does le to hoid
HEon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Exftctly.
still in force any decisione or orders made
by that committee; so that.the railway comHon. Mfr. JONES-It would flot be pospoules would not be obliged to lncur the exsible, as I read the section to which yoi
pense of beginning afresh and getting new
refer, In a town or city, for themi to coinorders with relation to crossîngs already
with the first provision lu clause 275.
provided for. Very many of the moet dan- piy
It would not lie possible îuL the th.ickly setgerous crossings have been deait witb by
population, such as a town or viIllgý,
the old railwaye committee, the Privy Coun- tied
comply wIth whàt ie pr.-Commissioners; but that they could
cl or liy the Raiiway
vided In section 254, because that provId:ý.
undoubtedhy a very large number o! crossthat they shall have fences of a certa'a
iugs would have to lie deait with If this
heiglit; that they must have swing gates
Bill were passed. There 'can lie hardiy
upon such fences, et farin crossings, of the
any doulit that that could lie doue -without
minimum height, to provide eliding or
Involving extraordinary expense. They would
hurdle gates and so forth. They muet
be deait wlth i groupe, classes 1, 2, 3, 4 provide cattle guards on each of the
and 5. They might not be able to deal
They must provIde railsaid -highways.
wlth thein ail I groupe, but a large proway fences at each of the croseings.
portion could lie deait wlth ln 'that way,
Sucb feuces and gates and cattle guardis
aud a regulation couid lie passed providing
shall le suitable and sufficient to preveut
what the nature of the protection wouid lie
cattle and animais from gettlng over, etc.
for class No. 1, ciase No. 2, and chase No. 3,
These are conditions laid down Iu secttb)j
and so on, and where there were parti254 that could not possibly lie made to apcularly exceptionai ones, they couid lie ply I a town or village.
If they canni)t
deait with by separate orders. The im- lie made to apply, and as they are neyer
pression I have la that the applications
made to apply, so far as I am awsre, and
would not have to lie made for each mndithe railway travelling I have done bas envidual crossing liy itself. The whole matabled me to observe, then of uecessitY I
ter would come up, and the Raiiway Board. should think that If they complied. wlth
who have competent men la their service,
the Act they would be obliged to couic to
would examine the crosslngs, and they
the board and get a ruling by the boacl~
wouid no doulit make orders that would Dlot under the second condition laid down lu
put the raiiway companles to any unneces- clause 275, which provides tbat If ther
sary expense, but that wouhd at the same
don't do the liret they muet do the second.
time maire such provision as Is necessary
1 think that Io a fair Xnterpretation to put
for the protection of human if e.
I have look'ýd
on these two clauses.
Hon. Mfr. JONES-I should like to asic through this Act aise, ana I flnd no clau;e
the hon. gentleman this question- In sec- except 254tion 275 there are apparently two proHon. Mr. FERGUSON-274.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON.

JANTTARY 28, 1908

161

Hou. Mr. JONES-No, 254, as to fenc- ln the railway making rensonabie tiie, as
The conditions provided in 275 refer well as the interest of safety. Both are
Ing.
to the conditions laid down In 254-the de- to be consldered, and if you refer to sectails, the particulars-ana this clause says tion 30, it would appear that ln that secthat 1uuless the trnck le tenced or properly tion they had lu mmnd ln framing the Âct
protected in the manner prescribed by this this particular condition, because It reads:
The board may make orders sind regulaNow, to appiy clause 254 to the
Act'
conditions we have under discussion would tione;.limiting the rate of speed at which rail<a)
Therefore, if thxy way trains and locomotives may ho mun in any
be an impossibiiity.
claie
are running trains at a speed. exceedIns city, town or villa ge, or of any board or of
mayr,
and the
towns
tbey muet be either cities, thinka or villaM~
ten miles an hour,
fit, limit certain rates of speed
il it
doing It agaInat the Act Itzeif, or they within certain presoribed portions of any city.
1 amn town or village, and différent rates of speed in
muet-have an order of the board.
other portions thereof.
wonderlng If the hon. gentleman knows
It would appear to me that the Act lu
has corne
whether that la a question that
before the Railway Commission or not, ani that regard le peculiarly adapted ln the
If there bas been a ruling; because ln oth ýr machinery furnIshed to brIng about pracsections of the Act I notice conditions tical results, If the Act were made oporative
enabllng, ln detail, the board to deal as It stands. Because If thia House underwith tbese matters, especially to deal takes to deal with this it would not be, I
with them so that a railway company take It, practicai to deal with the rate of
would not necessarily be oblIged. to run speed for ail these varions conditions that
the trains at the samne speed through a arise to get the bout resuit; while If
city a long distance under these particular the Railway Board deat wIth the question,
conditions. As was pointed out by my nuder the powers given them, they miglit
hon. friend wbo spoke bejore recess, there limit the speed In certain sections to five
are conditions under whieh It might be miles per hour, 'whilo lu other places withfound that at certain Important crossings lu the limita of the sme town ht might be
ln a town or city the speed of the railway fifteen miles an boum. It appears to me
cbould be lesa than It should be one, two It la Important in the consideration of this,
or three miles furtber aiong, where there that wbile we sbould endeavour to have leare other crossings; but where they are gisiation that will prevent undue rieks,
very little used, and therefore not the saine that we ahould have also planned tbat madapger existe. Take the city of Toronto chinery wouid be available to be made -te
as an illustration; they would have seven apply whother It le under or over the ten
miles to go to cross the city from east mile lirnit, and If that condition could be
It would not ho necessary or de- woven into fixe suggestion that la here made
to west.
sirable that the limit of the speed of a ln this new resolution, then it would aptrain should be 'withIn ten miles per hour pear to me as a practical resolution ; but If
That would be a very it la passed as It cornes down tofor seven miles.
day, fixe hands of the Railway Board are
time to take to cross the citv.
long
tied. If this is added to the Railway Âct
Ân hon. MEMBER-How many crossings or If thia change Is made, it wouid be abln that seven miles ?
solutely Impossible for the board to, pershould Imagine from mit ln, what may be judged to be a thickly
Hon. Mr. JONES-I
the country, cities,
50 to 100. There would be a very large or densely settled part of
ones have gates, towns or villages, or regulate 'the speed
number. The Important
nor the couand It ivould not apply to them. There ls at any hour. Neither the Urne
at. ditions are provided for here. The Railsufficient flexibiiity i the conditions
the conditions diftached to the Act to enable the Railwa3 *way Board could.make
way feront lu different sections, and could
Board to deal with thoso things ln a
at differIf they did or would deal with; it, or worn make the conditions different
nxuch eut hours of the day, and they could
asked to deal wlth it, it appears to me
practical;
more desirable ln the interests of the pub- *make the conditions entirely
is, wbhile this Bill proposes to make it imlic, because the Interoat of the public
il
REVISED

EDITION

SEINATE
possible for the board f0 do wliat the lu use, and in that way tbey lituit tie
clear intention of this Act ls that amount of trains that would be necessary
tlie board sbouhi do, and Il know et no If it had to be ail done durlng the day. ft
more important function that tbe Railway they undertook to do-their work during the
Commission bas to deal with, no ether so day It: would be almost Impossible. Now,
Important as' the protection of lite and the Grand Trunk Rallway should flot be
the property et the citizens of Canada, at tied down to, these conditions for the
the sanie time enabiag the railway com- tremendona tramfe service they have tbere
poules f0 so rua their trains and manage -what they terni their nigbt service-,n
their road so as to get the best practical the ground that It le necessary to protect
results under sucb conditions as are neces- lite and property, because lite, generaliy
sary for the safety ef lite. ]if hon, gentle- speaking, Io asleep at the time, a very
men will take fitteen minutes te, consider great part of this traffic passes througb
tiiese tbree clauses, thbey wlll see that we Toronto.
The Railway Board under thle
propose to bring about a condition tbat flexibllity of the Act as I read It now, have
cannot be chaaged or altered. It may be ail the powers surroundlng tbemn to enable
right under certain conditions. Lt înay be them to deal exactly wlth such cases ýs
right passing througb a clty' at one this.
crossing. It will be absolutely wrong at
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Have they doue if?
May be abselutely
the other crossing.
rigbt at a certain cresslng froîn six In
Hon. Mr. JONES-W%ý1e should flot burry
thue morning tii ten at nlgbt. If is abselutely wrong the remainder et the day, so mucbi that we would prevent the couwhich is extremely Important f0, railway sideration ef ail these tentures, or the erncompanies la large cities. Take la Toronto bodylng lu theni of sncb other features
Grand Trunk as will leave the Act flexible; but If we
as
n Iilusfration,-tbe
railway more than the uanadian Pacifie can give to Canada an Act that will !be
In tact tbey use exclusively more practical, that will make the tramei
Railway.
whiat mnay be termed the water front iuf safer through the densely populated cîties
They have no road and towns, that Is desirable. Lt is desirthe city of Toronto.
r6uud the clty. The Canadian Pacifie RaI- able aIse to make if workable, and I fear
way use the samie Une of rnllway alongthe that If this mensure Is pa8sed as if stands
water front for their passenger service, if wilI be entirely unworkable under many
nother Une of rallwav, conditions suchi as I have named, and we
but they have
double f racked la the nortb part et theý will be taking ýaway f romn the Railway
city, stili withln the clfy lumit, but whe,' Conmmission who are abundantly capable of
thue difficulfies are mucb less timan ln a dealing- with difficulf and Important questhlckly settled part of the city, and a gre it tions. wbat bas been carefully planned and
deal ot their treiglit ls taken on the nortb- put there to enable fhem to deal wlth just
erni section for two reasons: one, there '.q suchi cases as I have named. and as miurbt
manch less difficuit on acconnt of the tact be named in many otîter cities and towns,
The botti for nighf service and day service
that the population Is not so dense.
Grand Tru kz Raiiwny are flot similarly where there is any considerable business,
sftuated lu that respect. Tbey bave had and where, ns frequentîr happens, one or
are used a great
yards created Ia the last two years west of two crossings In the city
(leal. wbile others are almost unused.
the city tbree or four miles, and east of'
tbe city tbree or four miles, tbe distance
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I understood the
betiveeîî the two helug feu or twelve miles
lion. gentleman to, ask wbether Ia my opInLt Is ai
-I arn guessing at the distance.
!on the flrst condition expressed bere would
tact thant the Grand Truniç Itallway bandb,
lie applicable to towns or villnges?
the greater part of their freighit betweoii
There Is r
Lt is optional,
the two yards la tHe nighit.
Hon. Mr. JONES-No.
ohicetion to their passlng through at su ~ as 1 read It. wIth the railway conpany
speeti practically as is most convenient to n-hiech Of the two conditions nain1eci iii this
tlueunselves. becauise tbe crossings
llfoîî. Mr. JONES.

are

a

pliluse they use.

fore, my hon. friend la exactiy of the opinion
thiat 1 arn, thiat the Act as it at preseiit
Hon. Mr. JONES-Thiey iy operate the stands Is of no value with regard to
road under elther on1e of the two.
crossings, as far as protection and fenclng
Is concerned, and the only remedy is to
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Or three.
apply to the Railway Board.
Hon. Mr. JONES-I asked the lion. geaHou. Mr. JONES-If you eliminate froîîi
tieman If It la flot possible to operate under the first condition lni the towns or cltis, that clause the first proviso under wbichi
and if s0 they are oblIged to operate under they can run through these cities, it will
the -second, ln the Act which makes the read this way :
Raliway Board control the situation.
No train shall paso through a thiokly peopieprtion of any city, town or village, at
* Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My lion. friend's a sedgreater than ten miles an hour, unquestion completeiy proves the suggestion less permission is given by nome regulation or
order of the board.
that I made, that the Act as it at present
I think that wvould be compiete, because
stands is pra<ctlcally a sham; because white
It provides that the first and second con- thien tlîey are not permitted to go faster
ditions shall apply ln thickly peopled por- tlîan that unless the board makes the retions of cUtles, towns and villages, the hon. gullation. That suits me, and I thlnk that la
*gentleman says It Is Impossible that it cau the way of looklng ait it; but when you
be carrled out there, and, therefore, that provide that no matter what the board
It cannot have any application.
says, the trains shall not run faster than
tea miles an hour ln any city, town or
Hon. Mr. JONES-No. I say the first village.
condition la Impossible, and they nmust operHon. Mr. FERGUSON-No.
ate under the second whlch is under the
Raiiway Board, If they rua faster thenl
Hon. Mr. JONES-T-.hat la what the reten miles.
solution says.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The answer I have
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It onys the track
Is. tiîat that lsan plea which the rallway ainat be.properly protected, unlese some
comj)ay cau set in a court of justice If an oid egulation of the board of Privy Couinaccideut hiappens; that they have provlded cil ib enforced with refereuce to it, or the
certain fencing and cattie guards aud thlngs third condition that new orders have been
of that kind, and if tbey can show they muade; but It legalizes the orders thiat are
baivedonce that. they are not liable ln ci- now lu existence, whether made by the
ties. towils and populous centres no mat- old Railway Committee of the Privy Couinter how fast they may ruu. If that cil or the present Railway Commission. My
Is net the construction to be put upon it, I lion. friend. îvould support strik*;ng out
cannot flnd any reasonable construction lit eî-erytmlug, and provide that they shoulcl
ail. aind that Is one of the reaisons why I have to get permission from the board dithink there should be a ainendinent, bie- rect. 1 cannot see wherein that would differ
cause it la opeu for the railway company very much from the Bill we are puttlng
to ,et up tilts piea whicb niy lion. friend through. It is a matter which would have
sava. would lie altogether au inapplicable to be very carefully consldered, and from
one: that they bave doue certain fencing ; the point of vîew *of mailway men there
9tili the Act says thnt thnt la one of the iinight be a considerable ifference between
Conditions Mhidi if they Cali Compily Nvithi. the two) provisions, but it certainly would
they caxi runi their trains through at any eliminate froun the Bill tlmese two condis peedà that they tbin], proper. The next is tinis. whili iny lion. frîend agrees with ume
that tlîey lhave riung a bell anud solinded aî iare not conditious that should permit of
wlïistie. -My lion. frieniff seeins ta) think this great speed.
that is an inipracticable provision ini cities,
Hon. Mr. JONES-No. The first two are
t ovi and villages. Lt la iii cities, towns
.111. vilages tluat it ki-, II to :i)plv. 1inda'i. not. 1 admit. I do îîot tiink it la practicul,
aMl( it slîould nlot prevail.
Tii cith iz ý\c t. aund oui Y i n tlioei l a o'
* Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Three.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Tiiere eau be no
question ln sny opinion as to the principle
of the BJi banving for its object the protection of buman lite, but it bas been suggested that because tbis Bill was passed
three or tour Urnes by the House or Commous, that It sbould also be passed by this
House, and leave tbe responsibllty to tbe
House of Gommons. For my part I do flot
agree wlth that. T'he tact that the House
of Gommons bas passed this Bill tbree or
four times does flot relleve this bonourable
body from fu}filling Its duty, and the duty
of this House 18 to deal wltb It and amend
it In order to make it the best law possible
under the clrcumstances; but after the Bil
bas been sent back to the House of Commons, and the House of Gommons lnsist on
the Bill as it dld pass It tbree or four times,
tben the question may arise as to whetber
this House sbould not give way to tbe
House of Gommons and leave them wlth
the whole responslbilty of a bad law. This
BihI which la lntended to deal wlth section
2745 of the Railway Âct, ls dealing wlth a
thlug altogether separate from section 2715.
1 desire to eall attention to this, Important
tact: section 275 provides for oue thlng
and this BiHl provides for another thing
altogether different no much s0 that hn my
estimation section 275 should, be left ln
the law as it le, and t.bls Bill ahould be
deait wltb by way of ameudment or addition to section 275, flot leavlng the Bill as
It la.
Hoi.. Mr. FERGUSON-Dld the bon. gentleman say tbls Bill should be passed as
an smendmeut to some other section ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-No ; an Independent
section.

is to be feniced in, and, of course, the crossings cannot be fenced in, and tbls Interpretation of section 275 was supported
by the courts lu several cases, and espeeialiy the supreme court.
This Bill deals
excluslvely wîth blghway crossings, and
not with the rallway ln tbickly populated
parts of cities, and woula have the effect
of unnecessarily repealing that very Important provision contaied. lu section 275
Now, it la Important to bear lni mind what
are the provisions relating to this question
as they exIst In the Railway Act The
fist provision la section 30, to, wbich attention was csiled by the hon. senator trom
Toronto. So that bon. members may have
the -whole of the sections together, I wll
Section 30 of the
read tbem over again.
Railway Âct deals wlth the powers of the
Board of Railway Commissioners:
The board may make orders and regulationsiimiting the rate of speed at which. railway
trains and locomotives may be rua in any
city, towu or village, or in any class of cities,
towns or villages, and the board may, if it
thinks fit, limit certain rates of speed within
certain described portions of any city, town
or village, and different rates of speed in
other portions thereof.
You wlll notice this la wide enouglu to
empower the board te malte full regulatiens not only as regards the speed at higbway crosslngs, but at any other place, and,
therefore, lu ail parts ot tblckly populated
portions of the country, and, of course, It
contempiates different speeds according te,
the circumetances.
Then we have section
237:
Upon any application for leave to construct
raiiway upon, alongr shaîl submit te the
a railwy, the applicant or across any existing
board a vlan and profile of such crossing,
showing the portion of railway or highway
affected.
<2) The board may, by order, grant such
application unon such terms and conditions
as te protection, safety and convenience of
the public, as it may deem expedieut, or may
order that the highways be carried over or
under the railway, or be temporarily or permanentlv diverted, and that sucli works b.,
executed, watchmen or other persons employed, or measures taken as under the cir-

Hon. Mfr. BEIQU-I ao flot bowever,
propose to go into tbe merits of this Bill
now, except ID a general way. My object Is malnly to draw the attention of bon.
members to sucb things as may better enable us to deal wlth the Bill and form «i
proper judgmeut upon it wben It ls taken cumistances appear te the board hast adapted
I desire bow- to remove or diminish the danger or obstrue.
lnto consideration lni detail.
ever, at the outset, te cali attention to tion arising or likely te arise therefrom.
thîs tact that section 275 deals wlth the< Hon. Mfr. JONES-Tbat reter;s te conspeed of rallway trains lu thickly populatel struction and not to, operation.
It
parts of cities, but not at crosslngs.
BEIQUE-This refers to future
Hou. M.Nr.
cannot affect crossiugs at al], because It
deals with that part of the railway whIcli highway crossings.
lion. Mr. JONES.

JANUARY 28, 1908
Hon. Mr. JONES-Under construction.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-TJnder construction.
but empowers the board to adopt sncb ruie'i
and regulations as will protect the public
the speed at wblch
.and, therefore, lit
the higbway crosslng may be crossed. But
the following section (238) deals with railways already constructed, and la ta the
lame effect. It saya :
Where the. railway i. already constructed
upon, along or aoross auy highway, the board
may order the oompany, within a specified
time, to aubmit ta the board a plan and profile of auch portion of the railway, and may,
upon such submission, make any order ini respect thereof as in the last preoeding section
provided.
Therefore, the rules wblch may be made
In regard ta railways under constructious
or ta be hereafter canstructed, may lkewise be made, under section 238, for railways already constructed, and, therefore,
thie Railway Board bas the power, undgr
the statute, ta make such regulations as
may appertain for the protection of the
public as well as for the speed of trains In
tiiickly populated parts of any-clty or village, as for the speed of trains at bigbThen we bave section 275
way «crossings.
of the Rallway Act whicb says :
No train shall pass in or through auy thickiv peopied portion of any city, town or village,
at a speed greater than tan miles an hour, unleus the. track is feuced or properly protected
in the manner prescribed by this Act, or unleu permission is given by somne regulation
or order of the board.
And subsection 2 of the sme clause provides :
(2) The board may limit sncob speed in any
case to any rata which it deeme expedieut.
You wIll notice that under section 30 the.
Rtallway Board lu given power ta limit the
speed iu any case; but tInt section 275 aetually limits the speed In those IndIvidual
cases, and, therefore, renders unnecessary
for these cases any rules or regulations,
and wlthdraws, so ta speak, from the board
the rigbt to make ruies except for the purpose of limilting It lu the cases mentloned
[n section 275, except to reduce thxe speed
under ten miles an our.
Hon. Mr. JONES-Do 1 understand the
bon. gentleman ta say tbnt under section
275 the board caunot give an order enabllng
them ta run at a bigher rate than teu miles
an bour ?

165

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes.
Hon. Mr. JONES-The board cun mnkie
the order to run more than ten miles or les.9
tau ten miles an hour, but at teu miles
tbey need no order.
There la no
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-ýYes.
qiuestion that tbe board bas f ull power ta
lent wltb the matter. No'w wbat la souglit
to be doue by the present Bill la merely ta
deat wltb hlgbway crossinge. Yoil notice
section 275 doea not deal at ail wltb that,
but, deats merely wltb the speed of trains
lu populated parts of cities, but ut other
places flan blgbway crossings.
Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-May
clude hlghway crossingis ?

It not lIn-

Hou. Mm. BEIQUE-No, because tbe context of tbe clause says unleas tbe track lu
fenced or properly pmotected lu the manuer pmescribed by this Bil: themefore It excludes blghway crossings. The preseut Bill
deals wltb something altogether different,
hlgbway croasings, and aftempts ta determine that tbe speed of trains shahl not exceed teu miles an hour, iu any part of the
country in crosslng a blgbway ln a thickly
populated portion of a clty or village unleas
sudh crossing lu properly pmotected or proaccordance
lu
le malntalncd
tection
wltb the orders, directions,, and regulattons of the Railway Commlttee of the
Pmivy Condil or tbe Ralway Commission.
I cai attention 'ta tbis vcry Important fact
fiat ever since we have bad a Railway Act
the Rallway Commlttee of the Privy Council bas becù lu existence but has been
supcrscdcd, by the Railway Commission.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbey do not exiat
now ; thls Bill presumes tInt tbey do exIat.
Hon. Mm. FERGUSON-Oh,
orders exlst.

no! their

Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-The Bill is correct
lu thnt respect. Tbe Railway Commlttee
of the Prlvy Council bas been superseded
by the Board of Rallway Commissloners,
but tbe ruIes and regulations passedl by
the Ralway Commlttee of the Prlvy Council, untIl uxuended or mepealed by the board,
are in existence and Iu force, and that la tbe
reuson refemence Is made ta the rules of
eltbcm of those two bodies. But the fact

SENAT E
way crossings but to the trick of the
r:Lilwfly outside of and apart front the
crossings ? Does bie giv'e due weigbt to
those words and to the other fact that you
caunot traverse those places without going
ov'er the crosslng itself.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The p~oint lias not
escaped my attention, because of the context of this Bill. 1 answered affirmatively
You will notice tbat
the question as put.
1No train
the first portion Is general.
shall pass over any higlftývay crossings,' so
it Is limited to crossings.
regutations
Hon. Mir. BEIQUE-These
Hon. Mr. FER.GUSON-But the bigîw'ly
ttiat are referred to were passed trrespec- is iLot ln the Bill or lu the Act we s-e
tive of speed at ail. The Ratlway Commit- amending.
tee of the Privy Council, ln passlng tiiese
Hou. Mr. POWER-Tbe bon. gentleman
regulations, neyer had occasion to take lmb
which It bas
consideration wbether tbe trains sbould pass bas not tbe BihI la the form ln
He bas the Bitl
corne up to the Senate.
at ny particular speed, nnd to apply these
Commons.
miles and regulations to a new eleinent not as introduced Ia the House of
conternptated aI the time of the passtng of
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The Bill says that
the mIle would be very dangerous. This no train shall pass over nny hlghivay crossBill would aiso be dangerous la this other ing, etc.
Therefore It deals exclusive:y
respect; tbat we would be unable to un- wtb the btigbway crossing, and not with
derstand what would be the effect of tis
any otber part of the railwsy Une.
Bill1. As was very properly pointed out, a
Hon. -Mr. SCOTT-It la very evident
speed of fifteen miles an hour, at certain
from the discussion we hiave had that this
)tours of the nigbt, may be a proper speed
It
at certain places and flot a proper speed clause bas been very crudely drawn.
tbrougb the House this year.
at other places. 1 arn under the Impres- went
sioni tbat ao liard and fast rule can be
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-At railroad speod
apî,Iied ln a malter of Ibis kind, aDd any -more than ten miles an hour.
way we would have to know what are the
I-on. Mr. LANDRY-I thougbt lt was aemies and regulations wbich are to govemn
tlis speed of ten miles an bour ail over cepted by the goverrument?
the country. For my part. before dealing
iMr. LancasHon. Mr. SCT-twas
witli the Bill, as it sbould be»dealt with, I
The government did not thtik
ter's Bill.
would bave to obtain certain Information
to itervene ln any way.
of whicb 1 amn not possessed. 1 would it proper
hiave to ascertain, wbat may be tbe effect of
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The Minister of
this Bill If It la enacted either lu Ibis form Ritilways gave It bis endorsation.
or ini an amended form. but I do not proit
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat inay Lie.
pose for tbe moment to go hlo the details was not a goverament measure; rtiat ts
of tlîe Bill. 1 merely caît attention to the clear.
It is quite clear from the disposifact thiat tbe Bill is of considerable impor- tion shown bere to-ay that there is a very
tance and sbould be carefully scrutlnlzed vride difference of opinion ns to wbnat thle
liefore being ainended or passed by this clause means.
1101150.
Hon. MNr. LANDRY-Does the bon. g'Limv lion. tliman say that a public mensure of tbis
lion. %Ir. FEIIGUSON-Does
frieîîd give due n-eighit to these -words
nature brougbt into the flouse of Couinons
'Tlroigh any thickly peopled portion of by a îpîivate mnemlber, and pnssed wlthout

t> whii 1 %vanted tu eati your attention is
tbis, that these rules bavg been passed
wltliout ny regard nt ail for any limitation of speed, and now this Bilt would be
applylng ail these rules *to an order of
ýthinge flot contemplated at alh by etther
the Railway Comnnttee of the Privy Couincil or by the Board of Raitway Commissioners.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The provision
wlth regard to speed bas been ln the Act
for a long time, iand bas governed the
mîîkiug of aIt these regulations.

that Ibat clause lias no reference to hizli- i n mlensurle jeeeptedj hy the governiimi.,
lon. '-%r. BEIQUF.

JANUARY 28, 1908
is onily reasolnHon. Mr. SCOTT-I said it wvas not -1 kuow wbat they are, but it
The illeinbers of able, wbere sucli large interests are afmeasure.
governient
given every opthe governument may support a publie Bill fected that tbey sbould be
If the principie of the Bill can
its being a governrnent mnensure.
witbout
certain provisions
Since the House rose, I understand that ibe accepted, to admit
i)arties
companies intend subinitting that NxIl1 make it acceptable to tbe
the raiway
that i nost affected by ItL
their views on the measure, assunxing
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
the Bill would go to a standing coinmittee
Hon. gentlemen know It Is %vas rend the second time.
as Is usual.
custornary, wbere a Bill affecting private
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-In view of the suçInterests la before the House, to refer ît te
meinthe lnterested parties gestion whlch bas fallen from several
a cornmittee where*
bers, aud witb the understandlng that tbis
eau be heard. Understand that the railbefore the House for furtber
way companies are prepared to inake Bill WiI corne
consideration, and to meet the wlshes of
smre suggestions as to this Bill. Tbey
tbat It be referTed to
believe a fair and reasonabie compro- the Hlouse, 1 move
ou Railways, Telegrapbi and
mise of the Bill eau be effected, carry- Cominittee
ing out the views of those snpportlng it, Hiiibours.
Ilou. Mr. FEItGUSON-I rnight jnst
and at the sarne time not entailingi. serions
that make tliis suggestion to the House : The
prejudice to the railway companles
reprethe Bill lu its present form 'wouid cause. railway companies wiil, no doubt, be
to sented before our comnnittee by very able
Now. If that lo the fact, it would seem
tbey have tbese nien Iu their emme oniy reasonabie that it sbould be re- rn;
ploymnent, and tbey are thorougbiy posted
It wil corne
ferred to a select committee.
to
back to the House afterwards, and the lu raiiway law. 'With due deference
of the erninent legal men In thîs
House w-ould sthi be lu possession of It- many
were
I thought the suggestion thrown ont by House I arn afraid that even if they
coinsorne liou, gentleman lu the early part of to take the side adverse to the raiiway
we sbould allow the BI panies, tbey are not as conversant wvitb
the debate, where
lawyers
to go to the second readlng witbout any one raiiway legisîntion as tbe railway
prinCiple ut it, was are. Would rny bon. frieud, the Secrebeing commltted to the
-No doubt some modification can 1,e tary of State, facilitate the appearance befair.
or exfrarned that will remove frorn it sorne fore the committee of the solicitors
Coinof the objectionable fentures that have perts lu connection with tbe Railway
are qnite evi- mission lu order that we might get the benebeen poiated out, and that
mmnd
There Is no question about it, the fit of their views. I have no ldea lu my
dent.
It bas at this moment wbat particular officer or
Bill bas nlot been carefully drawn.
for, but any
been pointed out by rny bon, friend, Who represeutative we would ask
lit professes represeutative that 'would be able to give
bas just sat down, tbat 'while
might appeur
to supersede section 275, It sbould nlot do assistance to the committee
an entirely dif- before it.
Section 275 apples to
So.
o.M.OUGIhvnonfra
Que applies to the
ferent condition.

jportunity,

tion, but 1 take it that If this Bill goes
musht be quite det t a i w not
illnetdobefore the Comrnittee on Raiiways, Telemu stbc uie tatlt
eidet
h
n ih
rpsadHrorta
te eut out section 275, because tbat ls n
pobtwicb
any
The pro- grapbs giud Hrbours atse
section.
extrerneiy Important
vision lu the proposed arnendment la alto- cNvl be given fom any ae ormtt an pon
aWil
gether different. It le a provision entîrely bvlil be accepte by he cornttee nd
Under the cIrcurn- ve ano giend te rny rnpreite sentain. ie
omitted In section 275.
stances, it would be well If the House carne 1yet It: wvil be in tbe nature of a treaty
te the conclusion to rend the Blill a second tbat the Bill shall bu returned to the House
further consideration.
go
t t
timn. mud alow o afor
it wili be for thr rilway companies to
Flon. Mr. FERGUSON-Would the govprobably, the
iuake sug'tom.ichm.li
I do nlot ernment facilitate tbe appearance of sonie
to lecCClt.
lieuse will lie r'eady

SENATE
of the Rallway Commission experts ? Tbey
rnlght give ln answer that tbey would flot
corne, that It Is no part of their duty, but
If the governmnent wauld Intimate their desire that they should appear before the
cormlittee, tbey rnlght corne.
Han. Mr. WÂTSON-I thlnk It is understood when this Bill lu galng to the comrnlttee that it la ta be returned ta the
Hanse It lu flot belng sent to the commîttee ta be strangled.

It
and that Is that experts mlght came.
Is very desirabie that members and officers of the Railway Commission sbouid appear befare the cornmittee.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The engineer of the
commltt es?

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-If we are departing tram Vie. generai rule wblch prevals in
regard ta public Bills, and sendlng It ta a
select commlttee, we ehould have ail the
advantages of taklni Viat course, and
Han. Mr. POWER-The Bill must corne everybody sked ta appear befare the camta Vie House again.
mittee ta enlIghten them shauld be given
take It for granted permission ta appear.
Han. Mr. WÂTSON-1
that when this Bill goes before Vie camHon. Mr. DAVIS-This lu practically the
mlttee It wi1l receive due consideration and same BiIh that was befare Vie Rallway
be reported back to the House, and Vie Cormlittee hast year.
It nas been befare
Hanse can deal with It. I amn sure Viat Vie Hanse of Commons for three sessions
Vis Hanse, with Vie aid parliamentarlails rnnlng, and Vie rallway authorities bave
that are here, lncluding the hon. member appeared an every occasion la farce. Al
tram Marshlield, wlll not bave ta ask for Vie arguments that legal gentlemen couid
legai counsel ta take part of Vie Senate advance, and aIl the pressure they could
In Vie Railway Cammlttee or in the Sen- brIng ta bear an the twu different mini eate. Any arguments that may be advanced ters af rallways they brougbt, and yet Vis
by Vie railway campanles can be given Bill bas passed the Hanse af Commins on
fair consideratian by Vie gentlemen of tbat three different occasions and passed the
cormtttee, and Vie members of Vils House, Ralhway Committee of that Hanse and bas
and 1 bave no doubt Vie promoter of Vie came bers wli Vie sanction a! the goveruBill wlll be Viere advanclng Vie arguments ment because wlthout thelr consent If
he bas been uslng for years. In agreelng couid not have passed.
It bas been reta this Bill galng ta the committee, it la ferred ta Vie Railway Commît tee of! the
on Vie distinct understandlng that Vie corn- Senate an twa occasions, and we know the
rnlttee wli report the Bill back ta the resuif. I do nat see any abject la sending
House.
It lu a pubIt ta Vie Rallway Commitiee.
lic Bill and we ail understand Its pravieHon. Mr. FERGUSON-The ban. SecreIt b îas been Viorougbiy Vireshed out
tary of State bas nat answered my ques- Ions.
befere, and bere lu the proper place ta
tian.
deal wli if, and we mnust nat sbirk the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not hilnk the responslillty.
If bas been said Viat i
gaverament ought ta be asked ta Intervene daes nof matter haw affen if bas passtd
lu that sense. I have no daubt that Mr. the House of Communs,- that we must -uge
Lancaster and ather supporters of the Bill aur own judgnient.
Every member bas a
tu Vie oVier House wIil appear before Vie right ta bis own opinion, but we are n)t
commlttee, and caunsel may be ernplayed hoers ta thwart Vie wihl of Vie people. We
If Viey choose. 1 tblnk Viey can under- are here ta prevent basfy hegfisiation. Bi1t
stand Vie arguments an bath sides.
after the people have bad Urne ta consldýýr
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-If we had ex- the legilation, and after their representaperts from Vie Railway Commissioni, they tives ln parliament, with the consent a! tie
mlght be asked questions and rnlght f ur- goverument and Vie assistance a! ail the
nlsh Information whlch we couid flot gel legal talent there have passed this Bill on
from Mr. Lancaster or other members o: twa dIfferent occasions I contend there 19
very Ilttie leff for this Hanse ta do but ta
pariament.
a suggestioi i accepf If. It does nof seem ta bave struck
Hon. Mr. POWRR-T thlnk
Is ane
imnde by the bon. gentleman is of value 1some hon. gentlemen thaf this Bill

JANUARY 28. 1908
-of the clauses submltted ln the Rallway this propased amaudmant the very busot
Bill introduced ln this Hanse ln the first considaration we cau bestaw an it, and reSomebody told me that It wasnfot port it back ta ths Hanse. If we shauld
place,
neceasary ta have that clause at ail be- came lu collision with tic Hanse af Coinfind
-cause the Railway Commission had ample mono in thîs matter, surely we wlll
mnd I my- a way out af the dlfficulty. We want ta
power to deal wlth the question,
wlth reself movcd to strike that clause out of the get all the Information that we can
gard ta the affect of this praposed measure.
measure, and It waa struck out by thia
I arn
Hanse after it hadt beeu put ln by the othr I look upan it as a very serions one.
afrald It wlll very eerlonely affeict the runNext year It waa passed again
Hanse.
-ln the forrn at the Lancaster Bill, and I sup- ning of aur railwa ys especially transcontipartad It on the ground that the people nental lhues. Take dis case of Uic Grand
should mile. The Bill le befora us again, Trunk Railway between Detréit and Bufend 1 sec no good reason ta send it ta the falo. If the speed of trains muet be limIt ls perfactly rlgbt lted, as prapasad, they will vlrtnally add
Railway Committea.
that the rallways Interested should bo ta thlr prasent uchadule tîme an houm and
heard, but they cauid do as lo done :n one-haif i maklng that distance. Thlnk
Suppose we let It come ba- of the advautage that wlll give the United
other cases.
fore a cammittea of this 'faose tan da vs States Ulnes lu compating wltb their Canahence, the railway compaules wlll have dieu. rival. A man wauts -ta buy a ticket
time ta prepare thaîr statarnants ln printed from Detroit ta Buffalo. Ha goes Ilito the
-form, sa that avary mamber can read thein office of a Canadien carnpany and la offered
That wauld be better thon ta a ticket at a certain price. Ha goas ta, the
carpfully.
have ta listen ta the hnrly bnrly arga- office of a campetlng lIna lu the United
ments that we are accnstarned ta ln com- States and la told, TYou are golug ta traval
1 abject ta latting this Bill go a lina that le limitad ta a spaed af ten miles
rnittee.
-ta the Rallway Committee, becanse 1 knaw an hour lu every village It passes through.
what the resuit wfll ha. *It goal ta the Yau are flot golng ta travai by a slow road
of that klnd.' I ventura ta say that saine
islanghter.
Haon. Mr. McMULLEN-I have been very mn lu Sarnia or Windsor, under die cIrxnuch imprassed wlth the lucld speech made cumstances, wonld prefer ta travel batwean
OU thia question, by the han. sanatar frani Buffalo and Detroit over hunes whIch are
De Salaberry. 1 thiiuk there ls a great deal nat hampared with înch a rastriction. Now
lu what he said, and my opinion le that wa want ta knaw If diat ls tia casa. Taka
the Hause wauld be acting wlsely lu taking tha Canadian Pacifie Raiway froin Vancou-fulil tîme ta couaider tha provisions of this ver ta Mantreal. I weut avar the numbar
Bl-1, and whether after ail It le an ameud- of stations lni thair schednle that they do
ment ta the clause that they are supposed nat stop at ail. There are 220 af them.
ta deal wlth. The hon, gentleman painted Say 110 of diain are villages; if'diay hava
out very clearly that it ls nat and It le ta cnt dawn their trne in paeeing through
very qnastionable wbether It wanld be Wise thasa villages ta comphy witi dhis measura,
ta alaw the Bill as it le ta became law. It thay cannat do It shart. of a mile. They
rnigbLt praduce a very consîdarabla arnont are cut dawn ta tan miles au haur. What
-of confusion. 1 entlraly agree with th4 bdace that incan-7 Ttie 110 miles through
lion. Secretary-af State that wa shauld have the villages they will paose through wonld
a full discussion of the BIRl lu the Rallway take elevan h ours whiie tiay do It naw
-Comrnlttee, and after hearlng the dîffareni lu say four houri at dia outalde. That will
views on the measure, we can repart it tc I lcrease the Urne between Montreal and
the Hanse witii whatavar ameudments w( Vancouver seven haure. Wa suraly ara not
may think are needed. The fact of Iti going ta deatroy Uhc trade of our railway
not
tiaviug passed the House of Common s lines If that lo what it means. I do
i know wbethar It means diat ar nat, but I
three turnes is na reasan why we shouit
divest ourselves of every right ta conside r waut ta sec a full Investigation as ta how
the provisions af the present Bill. *We havi far this le gaing ta affect aur Canadian lines.
a duty ta perforin, and that duty la ta g1v< SWa do nat want ta Injure thair traite: we

SIENATE
wanit to encourage it if vve cau. If it is 1jrotected level crossiugs flot less thaIi
to have tiiat eff ect 1 waut to kuow it. thirty lives have been 1(,t.
-going
aud to give the railways au opportunity of
lon. Mr. EDWARDS-Iii citios auii
sbowiug wbetber it xvili do so or not.
towns?
Hou. Mr. KERR (Torto)-We shouîd
Hon. NIr. KERR (Toronto)-In thickiy
cousider carefully tbe important step wo poîiulated parts ln or near cities. Lt ls si
are taklng, atter hearlng the speech of the rearful thing to contemplate-that human
bon. senator from, Wellington. This Bill 1lire is to be sacrificed ln that way-alld to
la presented to us by the Commons be told that the railway companies wIl be
of Canada as a necessary provision to able to show that dollars and cents wiii be
be Iutroduced Inte the, iaw for the pre- lest in competition with other raiiway coinservation of buman lire, and, being such, punies, and 1 say for one that this Bi!l
If the question of cost or the ioss of a feiw should go flirat, ut ail events, to a commnitfares betweeu Windsor and Buffalo or tee of the whoie, where these arguments
Sarnia and Buffalo Io to be brought for- eau be presented.
If the, Committee of
ward before tbe Raiiway Commîttee andi the WbViole see any difficulty ln amending it
tbe cost of human lives to be measured to meet the technlcaities raised agaiust it.
lu that way, this Bill ought not to go to theu It ean afterwards, If good reason be
the committee. Auy fair argument can be sbown, be referred to the Railway Coinaddressed to this House ln a formai way, uiittee; but la the meautime, untîl that is,
by tbose wbose interests are to be affecte'1, show'n better than lt bas been shown liero.
and we eau suy wbetber a provisioni sucli we sbouid adiiere to our rules. Wby sbouid
And I -Io
as this ougbt to become law.
Lt be sent to the Raiiway Commlttee& it
ln the absence of many wbo eali- is a public Bill.
say that
Are we to dispense witb
flot be present lu the Seuate and express the functions of a Committee of the Whol.'?
their views, to rny mLud the argument pre- Are we to say lu future tbat whenever
sented bere la one of those sinister argu- n public Bill cornes before us, It shouki zo
iiients whicb ought not to be introduced to a standing conimittee tnstead of to a
ite the cousideratioli of a question of this Couutnittee of the Whole.
kind. If lt Is to be presented and pressel
Hon. M]ir. YOUNG-It Is flot the intenon the members of the Rallway ComrnItt,ýe
ought to be pre- tion of the House, as I understaud Lt, te
anda to Influence tbew, it
of tue Wbole stag-e.
sented before the f ull House. Tis mes- set nside the Comrnlttee
or Conilion. ',%r. KEiRR (Toroto)-I urni glad
sure was carrled In the HFouse
Lt was to bear that statement now.
Another
year aud sent here.
mous hast
contested ln the Ralhway Committee, and argument was advanced that the Bill
the arguments of its opponents were wouid be reported back fromn the Raiiway
be«ard and the rnajority of the rner- Commrittee, and the undertaklng as to what
bers of the Raiiway Committee were tue Raiiway Commîttee will do was menirnpressed by them. There arguments *tioned. 0f course the Bill eau le reported
dLd flot corne before the Senate as a biack lu the form of a preamble not proveu.
wbole, aud tbose members who were uitl No undertakilg can be given that that wiil
There la no one liere te
on the Rallway Committee dld not have not be doue.
opportunIty that the members of thit speak for the Rallway Commîttee, arnd th dt
the
conîimhttee liad of weigbiung the strengli committee eau deai witb the Bill as thev
or weakness of the arguments which lim- thinik proper. If they pass the Bill, lt
If there Is une hlm'f wiilL corne bere; If tbey rejeet tbe Bill us
pressed tbe others.
of argument which Is cahcuhated to rnal« they rejected Lt before, ail they need rethis Bill nppear more Important, it Is ju3i por t is that the preamble is not proven or
thant kind of argument illh was addressýi that the provisions of the Bill hive not
to the Railway Comrnhttee hast year wh?i heen pissed or qhould not be passed.
we decided to postPonie this Bill. Lt w1s
rejected by the Senate. aind qince thit
tline Lu the province of Outarlo ajo0ne, l'
t
thinik 1 lin safe 11u s.Irhng tha
HTo1 'mr.DAI

Hon01 Mýr. SCOTT-The House eaui superp10 hIe Coaun11itlee. TIhe Bial w olhd lbe
Hl'H1lo

i

iUe

JANUARY 28. 1908
lou. Mfr. KERR (Toronto)-It would :,e
in possession of the House wltb a handicap that the preamble lias nlot been proved
or au adverse report.
Honi. Mr. EDWÂIIDS-I do nlot agree
with the remnarks that Juive just been ad-dressed by the hon. senator from Toronto
to the House. The fair way to deai witb
thîs proposition la to let the Bill be read
the second tline, with the understanding
tbat the Senate 1e fnot cornmitted to the
principle of the Bill. 'I amn not a defender
of the raiiways, but I believe ln giving
every one in this country fair-play, and
the railways are just as much entltled to
fair-play as indivudals are. In the best
lntereats of the people of Canada, the railways sliould be beard upon this question.
It would be unfortunate if the Bill were
kiiled ln cormlIttee. It le desirabie that
It should corne back and be deait with hy
The
a Comrnittee of the Whole House.
only advantage ln referring it to a 00winîittee of the Whole House la tbat there
eau be a full debate and members eau
speak several times on it. That opporIt le plain that
tunity should be afforded.
Vtis Bill shouid, be thoroughly considered.
It starts out by nullifylng aud repealing a
part of the Raiiway Act which le very zlesirable lu the best Interests of the people
It lutroduces as an
of tbis country.
ameudanent another subject altogether,
deaiing with crossings and nlot wlth other
portions of railwaye ln villages, towns and
So far as I arn concerned, I resent
ctiles.
ln the strongest terme the Idea that members of the Senate can be cajoled bv railway companies Or any one else; and I further resent lu the strongest ternms the Iden
tVint we should pass a Bill because tbe
Comnmous bave chosen to railroad It through
that Chamber, as bas been doue ln tbe
case of this Bill for three successive sessions. We have responsibllity ln this Chamiber. We are here to do our duty. Even If
they passed It one hundred times, as we
know. the Conimons do pass Bills, without
due consîderation. It ls our duty to deal
witb them on their merits. This Bill cornes
to us repealing a section of the Act and introducing as an arneudmeait another subhstance entirel . ? Hlon. gentlemen let us give
ever7 iman and corporation ln this colnntry
This is a great qilestli iiifair plny.

volviuig the iinterests of individuals as well
as railroads. Prlrnarily we are lnterested
in the safety and welfare of the people.
The railways are a great Institution
when used ln the interests of the people;
aud on this question let us flot fear
tbe raiiways. In so far as I amn concerned, I do nlot fear thern. I do nlot desire
the assistance of any lawyer to protect me
on thils or any otlier question.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-lt wae not my Intention to make uny further renîarks on this
Bill, beyond .*.hat bave been made this
evenlng, but after the rernarks 'wblch bave
been made by sorne hon, gentlemen, I feel
It mny duty to pass back tbe Insinuations
that bave been made with reference to the
conduct of this bonourable body. My hion.
friend who bas reeurned his seat, said
that legisiation cornes fromn tbe House of
Commons that is a disgrace te that body.
I do not coueive anything of the klnd to
be the case. 1 thInhi tbe Hoeuse of Gommons do their work well. I think tbey
are *able to forai an Idea of -what Is Just
and rlght ln the interests of the Dominion,
equally as weIl as this honourable body.
While I hold this House has a r1ght: to exercise is own discretion and judgment-sud
corne to its own conclusion, I feel that tht,
House of Gommons have equal rigbts and
equal reason for coming te the conclusions
that tbey do. 1 arn not bere to throw one
single obstacle ln the way of the success
of the rallway corporations of Canadla.
'L'bey have been of vast utility te us. They
have been the pioneers in many sections
of the Dominion, and while tbat la tbe case,
would I be llkely te say anything or do
anytblng whlch would lu any way cripple
or mar their succes? But it bas been
sboîvu to-nlgbt; that the Bill which la uow
before the House bas been before the Conimous tbree tirnes. Does the. Gommons represent tbe popular expression of the colintry or does it not. How ofteu do w-e hear
the expression, 'The popular brauch of tie
Tbey are supposed te he
legislature?
more ln touch wlth Vie electorate who
can instruct tbem as to wliat is required or wbat niay be needed b7
legisiation. aud are we to ignore tbeir
opinion and to say that their lez.islatien la disgracefill ? 1 tbinkz not. ai
hiope mny lion friend xv-ll retract the wr-

SENATE
have we a RailAs I understand the rules I tliink not. And w-bat
used.
that hie
should be w-ny Commission for?2 It is to regulate
of parliameut, no uiikind remark
tiiese matters, and when. the hou. gentlemade In reference to one. or the other
we man from Toronto was speaking of the
branch of parliarnt. They say, 'Ail
Commission, that the Commission bad doue
desire la that this Bill shaîl go before the
su, I would appeal to hirn, 1Has that
Railway CommIttee of this House.' What so and
ot
of this House Commission prevented the destruction
has the Rallway Committee
life 7' Go to Toronto If you please and
tu do wlth a public Bill ? The duty of this
see the resuits of the non-protection of the
House la first to consIder a public Bill
level crosslngs there, aud the rapldlty witb
liere, aud If by a rnajorlty of the votes
whlcii trains pass fram one point to anthey say, 'We wil send It to the Private
other. The Daily 'Globe' records a case
Bllis Committtee or to the ialîway Cointhat occurred lu rny bon. frieud'a constlmittee,' they can do so. Haa not the twln
The
tueucy, Iu the couuty of Middlesex.
brother of hils Bill been before the Raildespatch read as follows :
Two sessions ago It
way Commiittee ?
Man killed; wif. hurt.
was before that cormlittee. On that occaat a railway crossing near Glenco.
sion representatîves of raiiroads sud those Accident
aud lAre. Saul Parrish were driving in a
who took au Interest lu Vie legîsiatlon, went Mr. top buggy when the train struck thern
-Ars. Parrish's recovery doubtful.
before thiat RaUlway Comrnittee; they ex(G.N.W. Press Despatch.)
plained their case fully; they argued the
Gleucoe, January 27.-lAr. and lAre. Saul
one end to the other and
point froni
Parrish were etruck by the afternoon express
carne to the conclusion to throw the Bill on the Kingscourt branch of the Grand Trunk
railways au opportunity ? Railway to-day. They were returning home in
out. Had the
distance
Are we legislating to crîpple themn lu any a top buggy, and vere only a shortkilled iniTheir horse was
opportunity to ielace froin their farmn. MAr. and lAre. Parrieh wer.
w-ay ? They had au
stantiy, and both
They
their case before us ? Last session we had taken up in au unoonscious condition. where
taken ou the train -to Alvinston,
a elmîlar experience, aud this Bill, after were hours afterwards Mr. Parrish died. lArs.
somne
passiug Vie House of Commons three times, Parrîsh ie no in a precarions condition. MAr.
we try- Parrish was a veil-kunowu and successful farcornes to Vils House. and what are
mer. Hoe vas about forty yeare of age, and
ing to do ? By sending it to Vie Railway leaves a young family of two girls -and a boy.
Committee we are virtually ignorlug our
You will Elnd such occeïrences reported
responsibllty lu regard to this legisîntion.
almost every day, aud If hou. gentlemin
We should cousider It clause by clause ln
corne with me and see the running
Cornmittee of Vie whole. What was would
of the through trains from, Chicago to BufVie course heretotore. and is likely to
through the city of St. Thomnas, tàhýy
be the course pursued now ? Hlave -we falo,
*would observe that not only in the city,
not for Vie last three years had ample
the level crosslngs lu varions parts
Illustration of Vie dangers that -have sur- *but on
country, almost any number of acthe
rounded sucb matters? And white -we of
kiud'are occurring daily,
proclaini agalnst dolng anything Viat would cidents of that
day after day
iuterests of the coun- *and we can cail to mind
cripple Vie railroad
reports w-here the destruction of 111e takes
try, are we to set Up the rallroad interestc
Then are we to set Up the interests
agalnst hurnan belugs beiag slaughtered place.
or a few rallroads as against the protecti'rn
froni one end of the Dominion to the other.
1 think we sbould fir.4
lite?
Let us look at Vie record and consider Vie of hurnan
consider human 11f e and It wIll be lime
arnount of destruction of lite due to Vie
to adopt sorne means
rapid speed of the varlous trains froin onE enough afterwards
to protect the raliroads.part of Canada to the other. My hon.
Hou. Mr. D.&VIS--TbeY can protez-t
frleud f rom Wellington says, 'Oh, It won
aur hiostility to the -railway theniselves.
do to show
companies, lest we mlght drive the peop<
Hlon. Mr. WILSON-They have protected
from Canada to the United States ?' P~ tliemselves la the past, and 1 thiuk th-y
Viat an arg-umnent ? Are we to permit liveEý
Atter we have
rwill do so lu the future.
to be slaughtered rather than injure la an: hid snich an expression by the popular
.way the interests of a railway company
Hou. Mr. WILSON.

JANUAIIY 28, 1908
June 30, 1907. It is prepared by Mr J.
branclb of the legisiature, this Bill ougtit
of railway statistics.
tee gentlera'm L. Payne, comptrolier
Consider
ta become law.
Iu reference ta accidents at level crosiugs,
wlio have expressed themselves as ta te
Two were lifire ls wvhat lie says:
necesslty for this measure?
0f non-trespassers. 70 were kiiled and 88 ingentlemen wba have acted as ministers ý-f jured. This sad sacrifice ils in large measure
ralsed oTin the story for the year of the deadly level
rallways, and tbey have not
It was aiea su*aL-crossing. 0f the 70 kiiled, 48 lost theïr lives
single paint agaiust it.
at highway intersections, and at similar
mltted ta the Minister of Justice, and are pointe 49 were injured. In one way and &nawe to suppose teat those minîsteru bave ther, whether as trespassers or non-trespaawere killed at cross69
flot as great a desire for tee Intereut of sers, and persans ail told no ireceding year hais
67 injured. In
inge
and tee welfare and prosperlty this record been reached. At stations 6 were
tee country
points
of tlie peple as those wba bave upoken killed and 4 injured, while at otherinjured.
kiiled and 12
who express regret lest te along the track 5 were cases of à kiiled and 14
bere to-day
ither causes coter the
Interests and welt are of a tew raiiways injured. The boss of co life of a non-trousbould be lnjured In some way, whfle tliey passer is attributed ta dorailment. Eight percbassified were injured by deare Indifferent In regard ta tee elaugliter soasuimilarly collisions.
railments and
we shouid conof human belngs. I telnk
I observe that not later than January 12
eider, tee weltare of tee people and protiiere was a terrible....
lu te
perty instead of legIsiating solely
Interests of ralîroads. I shall therefore
Han. Mr. LÂNDRT-I nuse to a point of
vote against tee Bil being reterred ta the order. 1 think the bon. gentleman bas no
Railway Cammlttee on teat graùnd. We rîglit ta discue the Bill now. The quessent It teere bef are, and aIl those Inter- tion le wbetber we shall go Into VCOMMitested appeared before tee Rallway Com- tee of the Whole or refer it to a speciai
mlttee. Tbey have ail given their testi- committee.
mony, and tee commlttee le as well InThe SPEAKER-The motion before te
formed ta-day as It wouid be If that Bill
This la tee proper House la ta refer the Bil ta a Committee
went there agaîn.
place for a public Bill to be considered, of the Whale Hanse.
and If we 'do flot consider It, tee country
Hon. Mr. POWER-I nuse ta tbe question
wll bave mest cause ta feel that Instead
of order. Hait a dozen speeches have been
of the Senate protecting lite and praperty
made, some ot consîderable length, on this
they are regardless of It, and mare careful
motion, and I am sorry the hon. gentleIn protecting tee property of raliroade and
tram Stadacafla sbould bave raised
commercial Interests. That belng so, I do man
my bon. tniend
refer tels BIi ta tbe question of order when
flot see wliy we sbould
Moncton rose ta say a tew wordfl. He
tee Rallway Commlttee. Anather ques. from
tee Hanse, and I think It
tion occurs ta me ? If tee goverument le Irareby troubles
ta be regretted tbat on one of tlie verY
not respansible, wltb tbe Minister of Ral.* is
f ew occasions this attempt sbanld be made
ways sud tee Minister of Justice; If te
As a ruie t1ils le mereiy
Ita put bim dawn.
do nat assume tee responsibllty, wba là
of
foi a formai motion, but it le a question
Are tbey flot responsible
responsible?
Epolicy, in a way, as ta wheteer this Bill
1
aIl the leglelation teat takes place?
ta tee committee or not.
look upon tels as a gaverument measure î;halI be reterred
le merely a formai motion
and I look upon It, wltb the expressios 1 do not tbink it
If there is strong bostility
of the leader of the House bere In tavonîr in thîs case.
ln tee Hanse, It le a perof passing this Bill, teat It lu lu ever, r ta tee reterence
fectly propet' tbing ta discuss lu MY opimenue of the word a goverament measure
inian.
and being sucli, I say test tee country wil
teel that we Ignore tbe deslre of tbe Coin
Hlon. Mr. LANDRY-The bon. gentlemons and Ignore tee responsibhiity of tb man is not dlscussIng tee question.
govermuent of the day.
SPEAKER-I liave aiiowed consiHon. ',%r. -McSWEENEY-I have lu m yTlie
n derable latitude ta the speakers. aithougli
band the raiiway statIstîce of tee Dominlo
tliey were sometiines ieaving and
of Canadn, publiied for the year endîn j I feit

SENATE
theY did verY Often leave the question under
discussion, shouid the Bill be referred to
a select committee, or to, Coniittee of the
Wheole House.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I think the lion. gentleman frorn Moncton was perfectiy ln order. I will speak now te the point of order.
The SPEAKER-There is ne point of
,order.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I rise mereiy to cite
Bourinot, ln order that ive may bave a
preper understanding, as te what wlll be
the meaning of the reference to the cernmittee. It is apprehended that It may"be
the means ot kiling the Bill. Bourinot nt
page 660 says :
Every committee on a publie Bill is bound
to report thereon, as the House alone has
power te prevent its passage or to order its
iithdrawal.
Therefore lt will be the duty ef the committee, If the Bill is referred te the Railway Cornmittee, te report the Bill back to
the Senate and the Senate may go into
Coxmlittee of the Whole on the Bill. For
my part 1 arn ln favour of the reference
te, the Ralway Committee, because I desire te hear the promoter of the Bill, and
te k-now the reasons that can be urged
In its faveur, and I think It wli be the
best means te enlighten us fuliy on the
Bill and enabie us te deal with it. I
may say, however, that I arn ln faveur et
reporting tis Bill te the House ef Cernmens, whatever may be the cenclu sion at
which I may arrive, in order te enable the
Heuse ef Cemmens te flnaiiy deal witb the
niatter.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I arn surprised at
so much feeling about this matter. Is the
Senate geed eneugh te conduct its own
affairs ? What can the Railway Committee
dlo more than tbla Heuse can de ? If it
1, inténded te side track the Bill....
H-on.' Mr. POW'ER-Ne, ne.
Hoil. Mr. DOMV\nILLE-M\y hon. friend
,says 'No, ne.' I de net knew what he
muenus by 'Ne, no.' I say it is relieving
tbis lieuse of the obligation of dealing
with this Bill by referrin1g it te the ceinmittee.
Hon. gentlemen are here te-da;-,

andl rnay net be here te-merrew, and the
Bill nay net have a free discussion In
cenimittee.
We ail know what the Railway Cornrlttee or any other cernrittee of
this House la. It cannot have the caln2
deliberate discussion of a Bill whlch takes
place in thus Chamber. I suppose my heu.
f riend trorn Moncton was out of order In
We know the old
trying te speak at ail.
Stili I
adage 'No Irishi need apply.'
tixink he had n right te lay betore the
1
House and bis constituents his views.
do net see any great question ef privilege.
I de net see why Bourinot shouid be dragged lu.
He la dead long ago.
It is a
pity he ever wrote the book te start witx.
We are flot golug back te the dark days,
because we are governed by ail sorts ut
rules and regulations. My hon. frieud savs
til should be a goverument Bill, and I
The
amn inclined te think It should 'be.
governrnent are paid for the work, aud
are the custodians of the rigilts and privileges of the people, and should take care
My mmnd is quite
of 11fte and property.
open yet. I have net seen anybody-mquite
I cau only express a commonopen yet
sense opinion,* and I arn ln faveur et sornething being doue that will put an end, If
possible, to the loss et lite which ls exIf I might be permitt-ýd
periencedl daily.
te say se, without a great breach et prIvilege, it ls a very serions question, and it
is a great pity that discussion sbould be
stifled.
I do net mean te say lt is being
stlfled.
It ls a very large question and
the country are looklng te see wbat wtll
be done, and I certainly tbink there can
be no harm in allowing this question te
be threshed eut on the floor of thîs Heuse
instead et by a committee of the House.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I beg te meve an
amiendment that this Bill be referred to a
Comrnlttee et the Whole House.
The amendment was 1051.
The main motion was carried on division.
SECOND READINGS.
Bill (3) Au Act respecting the British
,Columbia Seutheru
(Hon. Mr. Bostock.)

Railiway

Company.-

Bill (14) An Act respecting the Camnpbellford. Lakze Ontario and Western Railway.
-(ion. '.\r. Beith.)

JANIIARY 99 1908
Eill (15~) Ail Act respecting the Esquirnait and Northwestern Railway Company. in a
-and Nanaimo Raîlway Company-@Hon. southeastern direction, connecting with the
Russell brandi, about 110 miles of road.
-Mr. I»,ostock.)
Hon. Mr. DÂVIS-Is it ail ini Manitoba?
WE*ST ONTARIO PACIFIC RALLWAY
Hou. Mr. WATSON-No, principilly ixu
COMPANY BILL.
Saskatchewan.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-Yes, a new railway.
H<.n. '-%r. Mý%eMULLEN moved the sec9nd
Hon. Mr. WILSON-le it a new Bill ?
reading of Bill (24) An Act respectlng the
West Ontario Pacifie Rallway Company.
Hon. Mr. PERGUSON-It Is dealing wlth
to, and the Bill the old Manitoba and Northwestern RailThe motion was agreed
way.
was rend the second time.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-It la to obtaîn power
Hou. Mr. McMULLEN moved that the
to buhld thie line.
Bill be referred to the Committee on RailHon. Mr. DAVIS-Is Lt near Minnedosa ?
ways, Telegraphs and Harbours.
The line je
Hlon. Mr. WATSON-N'o.
-Hon. 'Mr. DAVIS-We would like sornie
for and, away west of Yorkton.
expi;ination of what we are voting
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Running Up to Rusif according to the ruies, that these BUis
ehicnhld be explained on the second readlng. sell.
Utiless tlint is done, we migbt just as well
Hon. Mr. WVATSON-It runs southeaet
wnobave auy ruies to goveru us. The moof Russell.
tion is made for the second readlng of the
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Bill. It will go to the Railway Committee,
and it will corne back to the House and wvas rend the second time.
pass the House witli the samne rapidity as
Trhe Senate iidjourued until three o'clock
it is being put through to-day. It appeirs to-morrow.
to mue to be a farce. If we have rules
they should be lived up to, and the request
haî, been made time and again that any
hon. inember moving the second readlng of
a Bill should expiain Its object. I hope
THE SENATE.
tbey will do so.
OTTAWA, Wednesday, January 29, 190.
Holi. Mr. McULNIam exceedingly
The -SPEAKER took the Chair at Th.ee
sorry iuy bon. friend did not nsk me for
an explanathon at the proper time. I would o'ciock.
have given it with great pleasure, but It
Prayers and routine proceedings.
would be out of oider for me to do s0 flow.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Thé motion was agreed to,
Bill (B) An Act respectlng the Occld-*nMANITOBA AND NORTHWESTERN
IzATLWAY COMPANY BILL.

tal

Fîre

Insurance Counpany.-(Hon.

Mr.

Watson.)

SECOND ÈEADING.
Bill (C) An Act to incorporate the StanHoni. Mr. WATSON moved the second dard Accident Insurance Cômpainy.-(Hofl.
readlng of Bill (26) An Act respectlug the M.\r. Kerr.)I
Ma nitob a and Northwestern Railway ComBill (D) An Act respecting the Grand
pany of Canada.
Trunk Rallway Companly of CanadaHe said :Thuis is a Bill aIpliell for by (Honi. '-\r. Gibson.)
Bill (E) An Act respecting a certain
the Maioaand -Northwestern Ililway
Comipany f'or the purpose of conqtriicting, ai r~atent' of Frederick B. Rheaume, Ellas
lineo0f railway lt or nlear Theodore station
at o.r near tho prest'nt lineo f the Mntb

Frink
Beitli.)

i

Iqadore

Fak-Hn

r

SENATE
Bill (F) An Act respecting the St, Claire
and Erie Ship Canal Company.-{(Hon. M~r.
Lougbeed.)
Bill (G) An Act respecting the Eastern
Trust Company.-(Hon. Mr. MacKeen.)
Bill (H) An Act to incorporite the Dominin Lunenburg Power and Development
Company.-(Hon. Mr. Béique.)
QUEREO BRIDGE COMPANY.
MOTION.
The Order of the Day being calied:
By the Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY:That hie will inquire of the government1. What amount of money bas each of the
pressent directors cf the Quebec Bridge and
Railway Company really paid into the capital stock of the said company P
2. On what date did each of these directors
make each of his paymnents P
3. Hlave any amQng these payments or in,tailmente been made by means of promissory
notes or cf inaccepted cheques P
4. By whom individually, and for what
amount, eacli one P
5. What amount of money bas eaoh of its
directors received from the Quebea Bridge
Company and frein the Qnebec Bridge and
Railway Company up te this date, directly
or indirectly, personally or otherwise P
6. For what services rendered was each of
these amounts paid P
7. How much has the present secretary. reoeived out of the fonds of the comieany sunes
he has been iu the service thereofY
8. Does the government know that subsequently te the collapse of the Quebec bridge,
within a few days immediately following the
disaster, the bridge company voted a bonus
of $3,000 te its president ?
9. Out of what funds was the amount of
this bonus raised.
10. Did the company, on the same occasion,
vote any amount whatsoever to aid the families of the victime of the disaster ?
Hon. Mr. S4JOTT-The questions Involved in No. 1 and No. 4 cannot be answered In the form in wbicb they appear.
The Information cannot be obtained Iu iny
oue departmient of the government and It
would bave te go outside, because a good
deal cf the Information is net recorded In
1
any department ef the goverument.
therefore suggest te the hon. gentleman
that lie move te get an order of the Hoi',e
se that hie con ebtain the Information In
that way.

Hon. Mr.
been dene ?

LANDRY-Or

has

notbing-

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I falled te obtain IL.
1 arn quite unable te obtain it, and, therefore, if the hon. gentleman will mast transformn the same questions into a request ?or
papers showing the facto, the Information
can lie secured.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Is it agreed that It
will be carrIed to-day ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, yes, yen can
trame ht and hond It te the clerk se tht
It wlll go In the Order Paper at once.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-That- lo, questions
No. 1 and 4 ?
Hon. M~r. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-This ls doue at the
.request of the goverament.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The hon, gentleman
moves for a return.
.Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I will change It te
a motion for an address.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I understand that
tee goverumerit will accept It If I put It lunthe form of a motion for an address.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It le true It la a new
motion snd the House would require
notice; but te please the bon. gentleman we
wll waive any technicality.
The SpEAKER-la it the pleasure et the
House that these questions b. placed I
the fom Pt an address 1
Tlie motion was agreed te.

ACCIDENTS AT RÂILWAY OROSSINGS.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE moved:
That an humble address be presented te
His Excellency the Governor General; praying that His Excellency will cause te be laid
before. the Senate a return showing :
1. The number ci persons killed at railway
crossings within the hast three ycars.
2. The number cf persons injured at snch
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose the !u- crossings, giving each year separately.
formation has been asked for In the meaiHon. Mr. SCOTT-I wou]d suggest that
trne ?
mv hon. frjend add to that,-' sbowing the
accidents occurring at cities, towns and vilHon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.

JANITARY 29, 1908
lages as compared wlth those ln rural dis- thing of that klfid when addressing the
House himef, but I suppose every memtricts.'
ber bas the rlght to exercise his own judgHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I have no objection. ment In such matters. It ls flot because I
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It will help us lu the have flot something to say on the question;
but -atter the speech we heard the other
,discussion on the BI.
day from the hon. sonator from Middlesex,
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not think this 1 think tuat titis question bas been'pretty
la a matter for au address to the Govornor thoroughly dlscussed. I was surprlsod at
Genera.. It la one for an order of thle the amount of Information hoe furnlshed.
House, becauso the Information le lu the Ho deservos the thanIks of tis Chamber for
bands of the Rallway Department
the vast amount of work hoe muet have
doue to tbrow llgbt on this subjoct. HowThe motion waa cbanged as suggested
ever, as thls le a question whlch bas been
sud agreed to..
dlscussed ln botil Houses and has been
taken up by the press of the country, every
RBFORM OF THE SF}NATE.
senator who f eels n0 lncllued bas a right to
DEBÂTE CONTINUED.
express bis opinion upou It. Whle my
vlews may flot meet wt the approval of
The Order of the Day beiug cailed:
Resuming the adjourned debate on the many membors of this House, I have a
motion of the Hon. Mr. MeMullen, that lu rigut to express my opinion as lu what
view of the, agitation regarding the services
reudered by tii. Sonate as a part of our le- should be doue lu the way of Improvlug
and in view of
tislative parliament and the press the. criticism the constitution of thus Chamber.
bth in aystem,
with respect
This question, as we ail know, as been
tappaintment ttachmer,
it
i1 discussed lu the House of Commons, the.
the opinion of ts
Hasdsrbl
queston of tue m tied ofappitnsad htti
laut two or three years. It appears to me
tbat overy. new member that cornes Into
made lu future ehondb asdrdadti
the House of Commons--and I am sorry
wol
oothe
fhlwn amedmut
T til
tgi ward
.er
&
atind the lu say some of the old mombors too-u-eems
lu tee] that ho is either obliged. lu brlng
lu an amendment lu the Rallway -Act or
Htii. Sonat DAID gaot
otiri tha aune
to take a slap at the Senate. I read the
speeches mide lu that House very careflnally upon the. numercus and various pro- fu]ly and It appeared lu me that thore was
jecta cf reform whioh have been proposed flot a very couvluclug argument ln It for
and discussed lu cannecticu with the Sonate, the abolition of tuis Ohamber. Probably 1
in view of until tiiose prajecta have on
9t tsubject and the. differences of opinion had amn lu a position to discuse the question ns
time ta mature, believes it opportune to de- lu the relative merits of this and the other
clare that it ia desirable, in order te iu- Cha.mber a littie botter than some memibers
crease the efliciency of the. Senate, that more
legialation be initiated lu this Hanse, that lu this House, and mast as good as a ceirmare ministera of the. Crown have matte tain number of the members of the other
therein, aud that au y minister may persanaliy intraduce and defend government mea- H3oua.. I thluk It rwas stated thiat there
are some thlrty-flve or forty members of
sures on the floor af bath Houses.'.
Hoe sald: My object la that as tbe thIs Chamber who forrnerly had seats ln
main motion Impies an admission on the, theu House of Commons. I hadl a seat ln
part of the hon. senators, I waut to give the Commous myseif for a number of years,
the'Bouse an opportunlty to express their au.] took an active part there; therofore 1
say tuat I arn lu a position to contrast the
vlews tihe other Way.
work that la belug doue ln tis Bouse wltb
HEon. Mr. DAVIS-In rlsing ta address the the 'work that ls Iseing doue lu the other
Sonate on this occasion, I do so wlth a good Bouse. Wbether this la a popular Chamdeal of hesitation.
ber or not, 1 have come to the conclusion
from the experlence tbat I have had since
Hon. Mr. POWER-HEear, hear.
1 came bore, that the work ls being doue
Hou. Mr. DÂVIS-1 arn quite aware that lu the Senate more thoroughly than It Is
rny hou. friend is nover troubled wlth auy- ln the other House. 1 have atteuded cornRiEVISED

EDITION

178

SENATE

mittees of this House. Outside of probabiy will be arnended next year or not, and they
some littie weakne.sses which rnight be re- d-) rot know wvhat to do; whiereas a Bill
medled, Vie committees of the Senate arc that bas passed through two chambers is
fairly good, and 1 might say Viey are much flot so likely toi require arnendment after it
superior to. Vie committees of Vie oVier becomes law. Take tbe legisiature of MaHouse for Vie reason Viat Viey appear ta nitoba as an exemple. A deal ivas put
give more time and thought ta Vie discus- through by the goverument of the province
sion of Vie monits of matters that come a few weeks before the legisiature met.
before Viom. WiVi reference to the ques- and I venture to say If there were some
tion of Vie abolition of Vie Senate, while kind 0f'second chamber In that province
Viere might be a difterenceo f opinion n>)t such a deal would flot have gone througlb
only ln Vils H1ouso but ln Vie country, as until the people had a chance to express
ta wheVier it wouid be wise ta refanin tbis an opinion upon lit. It 15 a serions propobody, I do flot thlnk Viere la any questio-i sitlon. when four or fIve men, composing
at ail hn Vie minds of anybody ln Vie coun- the cabinet of Vie province, can saddle the
try as to whoVier we sbould have a second people with a debt of three or four million
chamber or nat. I have been followig Vie dollars witbout the people themeelves bavlng
newspapor editorlals pretty closely of lie, a word to say tn regard to it. That bas
I find Vint this malter bas been a livo taken place ln Manitoba and rnay take
Issue ln Vie west and nearly every paper -place In any province where there is no
which I bave receivod from Viere contains check on Vie papular chamber. For Vint
an editorial on Vie Senato, and the conclu- reason we may canclude Viat. an upper
sion Viat Viey ail appear ta arrive atIsl, House la an absolute necessity. With refVial whilè Viore might be nmre reform erence to Vie constitution of the upper
made ln Vie Senato, a second chamber la Hlouse, that may be where we corne to
absolutoly necessary ln Vils country. I do the partlng of Vie ways. I think the fathers
not thlnkr Viere I a civtilzed country ln Vie of confederatlon were nearly as wise, perworld Vint bas nat a second chamber of haps, as the hou. gentlemen i Vie oVier
somo kind, and suroly people of aider coun- House who have been dlscusslng Senite
tries, wlth Vie expenlenceo0f centuries ln reform, aud after due consideration Viey
Vie malter of goverumont having retained came ta Vie conclusion Vint Viere Imd to be
second chambers, la sufficlent evidence ta a second chamber, and no doubt under Vie
prove Viat a second chamber la an absoluto British constitution Viey came ta Vie coî.necessity ln Vils country. If yon are going cinsion they could not very well get aiong
ta have good legisiation, it bas ta hé slfted without a nominated second chamber. HowVirough two Houses, I fancy, just the same ever, ln Vie twentieth century Vint Idea Is
The schoolmaster
as you have ta sift grain. If you run practically exploded.
grain Virough one aleve only It ls sure ta bas been abroad, and the people bave corne
corne ont with a good doal of chai!, and to the conclusion Viat It le an exploded
yoi' wilI have ta dlean it agai. Il Is the Idea Viat It la necessary men should be born
samne way with legislation. The different or appointed to legIsiate for their nelghprovinces which have only one chamber are bours for life. I do not think that any
constantly amending Vicir legislation, and, man ln Vis country, or lu any other counI subinit, If they had a second chamber try, should be calied upon to live under
where P, good deal of Viougbt would be Iaws or obey laws If he bas not a voice ln
givejii 1(i that legisiation, Viere would not Vie making of tbern, and I submit Vint Vie
be so rnuch ameadment necessary. We time la comlng when we will require to
knaw Vint frequent amendrnents ta logis- have the elective principle -appied to Vie
li tion eithor by parliarnent or by -provini- Lipper chamber, If it is* golng to be more
cial legisiature, la nol a step hi Vie right useful to Vie country.
d*.ie ticn, for the simple reason Viat you
Whlle our friends in the Hlouse of
ar3 ulnîetting the business of the country, Commons are talking about reforming
and Vie people do not know what ta exthis House, it might be weli for them
pect. A bill rnay be Introduced dealing
consider that the tirne is approachwIh scmo matter of great marnent to thie to
Ing very rapidily whcn they wiii have
pN<'î'le. and tbey do not know -whother it
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

JANTTARY 29, 1908
to reform their own Houge. The fathers
of confederation, when they laid the
foundations of the constitution of this Dominion only had In view the three small
provinces by the sea and the provinces of
Ontario and Quebec. Tbey did flot foresee.
British Columbia would be added and that
three more great provinces were golng to
be carvod out of the west. They dld flot
foroseo that the tideo0f Influence was going
to ffow repidly towerds the wost. They did
not forosee that those three or four western
provinces as time eoes on, are going to
control the destinies of the whole Dominion.
If tbey baed doue so, perhaps tbey would
bave constitutedl this Chambor lu a different mannor and would aise bave arranged differently for tbe election of ruerabers in the other House. This le a question that wili be a live Issue in a
short tirne.
There ls no doubt about
that.
Look et the Immigration coniing
Into
the
country
this
year.
If yQu go back, say *ten years, you will
Ond thet the number of Immigrants ce;ulng to this country was somethlng ILke
fifteen to twenty thousand per annurn.
Follow that year by year and yon wMl nbserve thet ln the course of ton years lt nas
risen from fifteen tbousand to over three
hundred tbousand a year.
It la flot goi-ig
to stop thore.
It le going to keep on Increaslng.
The only place whero people
can emigrato to at the present time frorn
the over-populated. countries of Europe la
to this great country of ours.
Wo have
voit agriculturel land available. We ace
giving It to people.on. easy termes, provlI*
ing every faciity for thoni to settie, and
tbey will continue to corne here in incroasIn-- numbers. .
I arn goiug to discuss for a moment the
arrangement by which the number of niembers of the popular cbamber ls ascertained.
An arrangement was made et confoderation that Quebec was for ail time to have
65 members, and If every ten years you
would divide the population of Quebec by
65, you wonld arrive et the uit of repreIt le
sentation in the other provinces.
sornething liko twenty-flve thousand peoplie to oach member of the Houseo0f Cernmous et present. We got over one hundred and fifty tbousand people into tbe
west lest year. That meaus an Increese
124

179

for the year of six niembers.
In five
years that niey Increase to 500,000 people.
I have no doubt it will, and If you tako
that sanie rate of representetion see how
inaDy members yo will bave lnx the Cernmnos?
Âdd ten years of large Immigration and tbe naturel Increase of population
te that, and unloas nme enange la made lu
ithe systemn of -reprosentetion the Ooin*
nions wlil be oercrowded. The systoni
bas te be changed.
The Urne la rapidly
comiug when every member ln the House
of <Jommons wlll have te represent et ieast
100,000 peopleThat bas te cerne, bzcause naturelly the Increase of population
la going te force It.
You mey say 'Oh,
burt the population of. Québec Increases
very rapidly.'
Netnrxilly the Increase la
great
There la ne doubt about that ;
but If you go te the western provinces.
yen wili find the naturel lncrease ha Just
as great as ln Quebec, per capita. Thore
are Just as many foroiguors comlng loto
that country witb large femiles.
Thon,
another metter; whlle there la an exod-as
from the province of Quebec-not very
large I arn prend te sey, but stili there are
people leevIng the province, yen wlll bardiy fInd eny porson leavlng the western provinces; ne thet wblle the population of
Quebec rnay Increase, It la net going te
Increase ln anythlng Hâte the ratio or increase that he going on ln the western provinces. The Uie wlll corne wben we will
bave te re-arrange this. wbole mattxr.
This question of giving 65 members te Quebec for ail Urne, wlll have te ho re-arran:ed, becanse If the representetion continu %s
on that bashs, yen will bave te bnild two
or three Houges like this 'te hold the -'epresentetives of the people.
Thon with
reference te the constitution of thîs House.
the fathors of coufederation dlvlded it .ip
in this wey; they gave Ontario 24 menibers
sud Quobec 24 ; they wero the twd eld
provinces of Canada, and bed te bave the
Boules share, and of course tbey got it
The tbroe saal provinces down by the -çon
were given 24 members.
Does any porsou suppose for one moment that after the
population ef Saskatchewan and Alberta
becomes as largo as the population of ua
bec or Ontarie, that the people of Saskatchewan aud Alberta ae going to be satiqfled with less representation than Ontar!o

SENATE
and Quebec7
Not ut ail.
The resuit
will be that you wil have an lnconvenlently large House. Take the amaller provinces by the sea, and consIder what polition they would be In under sucb circuinstances!
Every member ln the House
of Commons would have to represent one
hundred thousand people, and that time is
flot far distant, aud ta wbat position wouid
our friends la the maritime provinces be
placed ? Prince Edward Island wiil pro* bably have one member.
Nova Scotia wll
have four perhaps, and the province of New
Brunswick may have three or fuur m?ýwbeêrs.
The great bulk of the representation being west of the great lakes, what
position are our friends going to be ln la
the maritime provinces If they are going
to keep their place la confederation ? Thcy
must have a foothold some place, and must
bave representation some place, and If they
do not have that representation ln the
Honse of Gommons, I submit they will have
to have it la the Senate. They must be
That la, as 1
protected la some way.
understand it, one of the things this Houie
wns constituted for-to protect the smallnr
Every perprovinces against the larger.
son knows that Ln the course of the nect
ton, twenty, thirty or forty years-lit mlg it
take that long, but the rime le comingCanada will be governed west of the greit
lakes; that la, that the balance of power
Ail yon
will be west of the great laktes.
have to do to flnd a parallel la to cast yo ir
The sanie
eyes across the'UnIted States.
thing took place over there. History la only
repeating Itself. At one Urne those rocky
New England states along the Atlantic seaboard were the United States o! America.
To-day they do not cut any very large
figure, except from a financial standpoiat ;
but as far as wealth and Industry are coucerned the greater proportion la ln t !e
western country, and that will take place
Ia this Dominion.
If the majority of the
representatives ln parliament corne frorn
west of the great lakes, naturaIly we mnit
conciude that they will control the goverament o! the country.
There is no doubt
niajority control wilI continue to be lhe
policy of the country la the future as It is
nt present. That being the case, the
smalier provinces must look to the eenate
for protection.
Hon. M.DAVIS.

Therefore it la time that something ahouîd
be done to protect the smaller provinces,
and the only protection they can look forward to is tbis-Upper Chamber.
To a!ford that protection. the Senate must be
constituted ln a dIfferent way and have
greater power. I submit that Prince Bdward Island must have as large represxntatîon la the Senate as Quebec, Ontacto,
Alberta or Saskatchewan, If they are to
have aay chance to maintaln their poilIa the House
tion lu the confederation.
off Commons the other day, Sir Wiffrid LIAurier expressed the opinion that it would be
well to have six members from eacb province.
I cannot agree with hlm on that.
My hon. friend from Halifax may be a
wiser man than Solomon. Ho belleves ln
amail committees, but It was Solomon, I
think, who sald that ln a multitude -pf
couniseliors there la safety. If you had
a amaîl Chamber here, lt would degenerite
into amail cliques, and would obstruct the
However, as thxe change
public business.
must be made ja the Iune Indicated. by Sir
Wilfrid, I would suggest that each provflxce should have eigbt senators, -making
72 ln aIL
We have four provinces welit
w.lh
of the great lakes, and five east.
equal representatlon of the provinces la
the Senate, the Upper House would always
have a majority representation la the east.
I would aiso auggest, following out the
vîews of the hon. gentleman from. Middlesex, that we should have more Information
lu this House. To secure that, the deputy
heade of the different departinents should
hold seats la the Senate and retain them rn
long as they occupy that office; but th-iy
should not have the right to vote. In the
other Honse, the ministers o! the Crown
fiom the severai departments are always
ready to furaish Information.
Ia the Senate we have only two members of the go 7ernment, and whiie they are men of abillt7,
we cannot expeet them to supply InformaBut with
tion for ail the departments.
deputy ministers la the Senate, we could
get the Information we require. We have
hiad several opinions expressed as to how
I
thia chamber shonld be coastituted.
cannot agree wltb the bon. senator frou
Middlesex that haif shouid be appointed
Tbey should ail t'e
and haîf elected.
If you ad
either appolnted or elected.

JANUARY 29, 1908
sorne appointcd and some electe1,. tflose
chosen by the people wonld be lnclined l0
tell the nominated senators that they ld
Dot represent the people. We may at once
oliminate the election of members by provincial legisiatures.
When the fathors of
confederation were framlng the constlf-ation of this country, they profIted. by the
experlence of the United r3tates, and while
they adopted many of the features of the
United States system, they did flot approve
of a Senato elected by the provincial legislaturos. In the United States, the people
would luke to get rld of that system, and
are advocatlng the election. of their senators by popular vote.
I would suggist
that eight members from each p~rovince
shouid be elocted overy second Dominion
election by a difforent franchise from that
on whlch the members of the -Bouse of
Commons are elected, and that the senators should be elected. by the vote of the
whole province.
I 'would not cut up a
province Into electoral districts.
Âny man
who conid be eiected by a majority of votis
in the- whole province would necessarily be
a superior man.
Flveryone i this Hfouse
wIll admit that If the hon. senator from
Middlesex wero running as a candidate for
this House ln Ontario he would bo oloctod.
By that process you would get men of
standing In the communlty and who had
occupled prominent positions, for the Upper Chamber.
I would suggest that the
senators be elected by men possessod of a
certain proporty qualification.
I cannot
say that 1 favour manhood suffrage, but
we have it now, and the mombers of the
lower Houle mlght be elocted under that
system.
It la very easy, lu preparlng the
voters' liat, to separate the votors into two
classes, those who have property qualification, who alone wonld have the rlght zo
vote, for sonators, and those who have no
property qualification.
The latter clase
could vote for members of the Gommons
but not for senators, whfle the voters possessing property qualifications could vote
for members for both chambers. In thîit
way you would have a good representation
from the farmers and the property owning
element generally throughout the country.
Hon. Mfr. POWER-I understood the hon.
gentleman to say that ho wouid have senators elected ELt every second election for

181

niembers of the House of Commons.

Suppose that a dIfference arises betweon the
government who require tho support of a
majorlty I the Gemmons, and tho Oovernor General and thora Je a dissolution of
the lower Hlonse wlthin a year or two atter
the election, does the hon, gentleman propose that the Sonate should be thon dissolved as weii as the House of Gommons Il
Hon. -Mr. DAVIS-No, I do not
There
will be vacancles In the Sonate trom timo to,
time, and I -would flot put the country tu
the expense of holding an election ail ov-,r
the province for the j>urpose of flulng those
vacancles.
They shonld ho filled by a ballot taken of the members of both Houses
of pariament and the members of the 10e-fl
legislatureo0f the province concerned.
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-And the municipal
authorIties ?
Hon. Mfr. DÂVIS--That would ho golug
too far.
Hon. Mfr. PERLEY-Suppose they steai
the ballot boxes?
Hon. Mfr. DÂVIS-Some of the hon. gentleman's friends are authorities on. that
question. One of the reasons for this change.
la to avoid partisanshlp I this House. Wo
ali disclaim belng partisan, but I notice.
wlhen any political issue cornes up, you have
the two aides ln politica woll-represonted. i
the Sonate. I notice aloo when appointmonts are made la this Houhe, the gentlemen of the opposition criticise thom Just
as they do I the House of Gommons.
Hon. Mfr. POIRIER-This House doos not
make appolntments.
Tho govornmont do
that
Hon. Mr. DÂVIS-Â committee of thls:
Hlouse maires the appoitments. I do flot
know -what Influence the government may
exorcise. But when, as occurred the other
dey, an appointment la made, It ls severoly
crlticized by gentlemen opposed to the govcrament; stili the edaim la -made that
there la no partisan spirit bore. One thing
that la most complalned. of by the press Is,
that when a government has been In power
for flfteen or sixteen years the opposition
practically disappears from the Senate and
the upper House becomes a more regIsterIng machine for the party In power. To

SEN&TE
avold that, let us take the case of a va- than we do under the present system. I
cancy occurrlng la Ontario under the sys- do flot tbink the members would object,
tem I propose. Thiere are a good many because It would divide the responslbllty.
members In opposition to, the governinent lui This House, as.at present constltuted, la
both the Senate and the House o! Commons, very good. The leglalation passed bere reand a majorlty of the Ontario leglature ceives careful consideration. That is evila Conservative and we may safely assume dent fromt the tact that when the Rallway
that the vacancy would be C.flled by the Bill was before us, we had to amedld It ln
Âgaln, fitty-five places, and ail our amendments
appointment of a Conservative.
suppose an election were to take place now to that Important measure were accepted
at the end of a ten-year perlod. The pro- by the House of Gommons. I remember
vhrce o! Ontario la to-day Conservative, and one Bill from British Columbia whlcb was
would naturally send a contingent o! Con- rushed through the Commons. It was to
servatives here, andl la that way we would give certain privileges of boomlng timber
avold the charge whlcli was made agaist on certain laites In Britishi Columbia. When
us that this House la practlcally of one it was looked Into by a commlttee of this
poitical. stripe. I think we ought to House, It wsfound to be an objectionable
have an elected House. This is flot a measure, and 1 venture to say that any
twentleth century Chamber, as at pre- member of the Commons who would look
sent constltuted. One of the unfortunate Into It would agree wlth us that It should
weaknesses of this body 15, that gentlemen neyer bave passed that Chamber. It was
who are appolnted to the Senate for Rite thrown out here. Look at the amendments
lose tue energy tbey displayed when i the we had to make to the Lords' Day Bill ?
Hlouse ef Commoas, and we have flot We dld more sold work .here upon It ln a
therefore, as energetlc a body as we would day, than they did lu a month In the other
bave by a system e! popular election, The Chamber. They tell us that the senators
hon. senator fromi Middlesex, and others, do flot work; but from my knowledge of
have clalmed that the goverament should the House of Commons, and I was a membe more largely represented la this House. ber of It for years, I elaim that there Is
Wlthout any disrespect to tue leader o! tue more real work doue la this House than
Senate and his colleagues, the goverament there la la the popular brandi. If yon ellehould be more largely represented here, nilnate ail the useless talk la that Cha2nand more leglolation mlght be lnltlated lu for, for wlalch the people of Canada have
tue Senate, and many other matters mlght to pay dearly, you wlll flnd that my clsAm
be dlscused here. The question o! patro- la justlfied. Take the Budget debate in
nage came up lu tue discussion on this aub- the House of Commoas ? What benefit
jeet I tue House of Commons. It was sald do the people of Canada derive from their
tuat tue Senate bas no Influence, because It representatives stting up nlght after nlght
lia no patronage. I was a member of the tlireshing over the same old straw ? When
Commons for tan years, andi the oaly trou- the Minister of Finance makes his budget
ble I ever had la my constîtuency was over speech, and It le crIiclzed by a competent
tue patronage. I do flot thlnk patronage does man la the opposition, very little more is
a member any good; on the contrary 1 know requlred to be sald. on the subject.
it does a member harm, and o! ten people Il would not taire aay oae more than five
are appolntedl to office who should not re- minutes to express any new Idea he inlgbt
celve an appolntment. 1 would suggest bave on the subject. But what has been
that tue patronage ehould be dealt wlth by thie experience ? Night after night, mema eommlttee of senators and members o! bers debate the subject bour atter hour-I
tue House of Commons representlng a pro- know because I was one of-the sinners myvince to handie tue patronage of tuat pro- self, also the hon. senator from Wellingvince, and that it should sit from time to ton-and often to empty benches. Is that
time, and raake tue appolntments. They any benefit to the people of Canada ? When
mlght, If necessary, ballot and maire ap- we are told that this House la a useless
polntments tuat way, and by that mean expeuse to the country because we do so
we would secure a better class of officiais little work, thie people of Canada sbould
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

JANUARY 29, 1908
know tliat tbey are getting more for their out one. We ln Nova Scotia have rernoney here than tlxey get ln the Bouse of tained the second ciramber, and altirougli
Gommons. I repeat, If you elîminate ail tire are a few extreme men ln that protire useless taik and debating for political vince who once tirouglit It would be wali
capital, separate the wheat frorn the chaif, to aboll.si thre lagisîntive council, If an npyou wlll find that there la flot as rnuch pa ware made to the people to-day on
work doue ln the Gommons as is done ln tirat Issue they 'would say retain it. I arn
thre Senate every session. So there ls no not at aîl s0 sure that the province o! New
foudation for thre charge that this House Brunswick took a wise step wieu tirey
Is uselesa. It la a very usetul Chamber; abolished their legisiativa council, and 1
but I tink 'it could be made more useful. feei certain thal thre province of Ontario,
Its principal function Is to check hasty le- wltir ail their wisdom, did not do rIght
It wiren they failed to provide for a second
gisiation from the other Chamber.
bras exercIsed that function, aud exer- chanuber lu tireir constitution. Tihe day
cised It wisely, as any one wlll admit wvill corne, and It la flot far distant, whan
who studies thre subject We are here also that province will feel thre necessity of
to protcct the amnaller provinces, but flot haviug a second chamber. Âs lt la to-day,
to check thre expressed -wIll of thre people. the legislation would have a better appearI suirmit tirat in sucir a caue as we haî ance-would have been better finshedbefore us recently, thre Lancaster Bil to amn- wvould have a higier standard about It
end thre Railway Act when thre Gommons tItan It bas, by having passed through only
iras passed it and we have rejected lt, and one ciramber. Tirerefore, I start wlth my
wien after au Interval of a year tire Com- own province. We have given many lesruons, coming here from thre people, pass sons to the people of thus country. We reIt again unauimo 'usly, and appareutly with tained thre leglelatlve council. We bail simulthre approval. fot only of the goverument taneous polling for years and years before
but of tire Department of Justice, there ia It was adopted lu the Dominion. We lnnotlring left for us but to pass it aud let slsted on abollsing thea dual representation
the responsibility for tire legisiation rest which was tire stupid. condition o! things
when I carne to tire Bouse of Gommons ln
%vitlr thre House of Gommons.
1867. The leaders o! Quebec and Ontario
Bort. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-I would sym- would corne to the House of Gommons*witb
patirize with my namesake and tire bon. a covey of!supporters, and when tirey would
Minister of Trade and Commerce If they raise their band their foliowers wouid vote
,%otuld have to run au election lu tire pro- with them, no we had no show lu comparIson
viuce of Ontario under thre proposed sys- with thre Influence exercised at that trne
têrn we have just listened to. They are not by the two larger provinces. My lion.
quite as uimbie as they were forty years friand and namesake from Middlesex bas
ago. 1 kuow I amrn ot inyseif, and I would exirausted tis whole subject so far that
dread runniug an election for thre mach ha has left vary little for auj one aise to
srnnller province of Nova Scotia. The bon. sny. Lîke a fox golng round the hait, gragentlema frorn Prince Albert bas broad dualiy corning dloser and dloser whIie
ideas. He cornes frorn a broad country, alarmed to tpucir It, there is one Idea whlch
but I wvas almost surprised that ire did uot 1 tink rny hon. friend ornitted. By tire
want thre seat of government removed frorn appearance o! things, the present goveru1 ment la iikcly to exlst for a long tirne to
Ottawa luto that vast province of bis.
suppose that question will corne up by and corne-muci longer than I amn to be irere
by, when tirey accumulate a larger popula- to see It In that case, followlng the pretion. There are a few fresh men lun the sent systern our frlends on the Conservative
Bouse o! Gommons wvho thmnk that, tire benches .wil nearly disappear aitogether.
Senate should be abollsired ; but I amn [f we are to have a successful Senate, botir
harppy to; say that tire sound seuse of thre parties should be well represented, and
intelligent people of tis country from tire wirile I see tire uecessity tirat the goveruAtlantic to the Pacific favours our iraving meut should have a fair majority, I think
a Seuate. Thre goverument of this country thre opposition also sirould be well reprewvould trot ire safe for n single yenr witir- sented. If we are to have sound opinion lu

SENATE

184

-

this Bouse, we mnuet have a certain number
of men representlng the government and a
certain number representing the opposition.
How this la going to be done, I leave wltb
.-viser minds tbau my own, but I tbink
there la a necessity that both parties ln the
country should hé fairly represented ln
this House.
My hon. friend frorn Wellington bas elluded to the manner ln which the province
of Nova Scotia was brought into confederation, and how the senators at that tirne
I amrn ot going Into that
were appointed.
I
inatter, because lt la a sore question.
rnight go Into It very fuily, because ln tbose
days I was a representative of my own
That la a pie-ce
people ln the province.
of dark political history ln my province to
I have bad a
which I will flot allude.
long experience ln both Houses--eigbt
years experience lu the parliament of Nova
%cotia before con! ederation-and I find
that the experience we had lu tbe otb?-r
House bas been of considerable value to ce
here, and we would be very stupid students
indeed If we dld flot brIng with us some
I arn
of that experlence Into this House.
also pleased that my own association with
and frlendship for gentlemen here who represent the opposition bas been o! the rnost
harmonious character, and therefore 1 feel
smre sympathy for tern Ra the day wlil
corne when there will be scarcely any o!
1 tblnk smre method
tbem here at ail.
should be adopted by whieu tbey would be
The fanit of tbe framweil represented.
ers of conféderation regarding the intereste
of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick la that
they did not stipulate, that the reprementation In this Hlouse should not be leas than
It was at the tirne they carne into the
It will be found necessary to
union.
arnend the British North America Âct
rather than subject Nova Scotia and New
Brunswick to a greater reduction than tbey
I dld not InLend to speak on
bave now.
this question at aIl, but I arn utterly opposedl to elecfive senators, particularly by
provinces, and 1 arn of opinion that If the
governrnent o! each province were to select
n certain number that it would lead to
What would be mhe regreat confusion.
The goverument of Nova Scotia
suit?
and New Brunswick would senà LIberalFi.
The government of Quebec would do the
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax).

sarne.
The governrnent of 'Ontario would
moud Conservatives, and I do not think the
result would be any Improvement on the
preseut condition.
-Hon. -Mr. DÂVID-I desire to say a fewwords before rnoving the arnendrnent whIch
Two,
1 have placed before the House
y'ears ugo I addressed the Senate on this
question, and I have now on the Ordersof the Day a motion In regard to the sme
I wlll place what I have to say
Pubject.
ln the form o! a proposition before moviugrny'arendrnent. I arn of the opinion that
the question o! the abolition of the Senatecannot be considered seriously by statesmon and political men who bave at heartThe abolithe welfare of their country.
tion of the Senate wouid be contrsry to theconstitution, contrary to the views that
lied been expressedl when .unfederation wasf
It le welI known. and recogestablished.
r.ized mnd admitted by ai. t.nose who know
the political h!story of the country, that theestablishment of the Sonate was one of the
It le
conditions of the federal compact
sdmitted that without the Sonate confedération. would neyer have been estabollshed,
that ln order to, Induce the representatives of the arnall provinces and ofthe province of Quebec to, consent to apply
the principle o! representation by population ln the HIouse of Commons, equality of
representation o! the provinces lu the Seniate was stipoulated. [t was to ho a safeguard and guarantee to the ornail proIt Io true that. the annexation ofvrinces.
nmre other provinces to Canada has modified considerably the proportion o! the representation of the different provinces luý
tbe Senate, and has reduced the guarantee.
which the provinces relied upon; but 1 hoid>
that nothing can be done lu future -to !acrease that disproportion, and If more representation la to be given to the great provrinces of the Northwest, that It: wlll not
be done contrary to the federal compact
and to the conditions of the agreement
There *,a
which took place at that time.
only one way that seorna to me practical
and just, uamely, to forrn a group of the
provinces of the Northwest and :British
Columbia, as we have forrned a group #of*
the maritime provinces, and to give themn
a representation equal to that of the muafinie provinces.

JANUARY 29, 1908
for a long Urne themselves askMy second proposition Is that not onlY Senate have
ed for more work, for more leglalation, and
would the abolition of the Senate be conare stili ready to accept any work
trary to the spirit. of the constitution and they
that may be given to them. Perhaps the
to the intention of the fathers of confedefauit lay to a certain extent, wlth the faration, but It would remove the check on
of confederation In flot being able to
hasty and daxigerous leigisiation which may thers
give to the Senate the Importance wbich it
take place hi Urnes of Popular anid demaIt le Urne to do now what
gogic agitation, iu Urnes when the govern- deserves; but
should have been done then, and I tbluk It
ment and the House of Oommons wlll be,
easy >te rernove that objecperhaps, under the Influence of ternPorarY would be very
tion, by doing what the hon. gentleman
agitation and excitement The tirne la cornMiddlesex has suggested, and what
Ixig when political brakes and dykes will ho- from
has been suggested already by other eri-corne more and more necessary. Those who
nent men. It would be to initiate ln the
look to the future cmxi have no hesitation ln
Senate more legisiation, to commit to the
that, later on, the importance snd
-declarig
of the Senate a great numthe . necesslty of the Sonate wll bo more consideration
ber of measures, to be considered as they
and more evident to everybody. The Urne
be considered. There are many
ls coming when minlsters, men at the head deserve to
examples. Take the Lord's Day Bill which
of governmont, snd members of the HODum
passed at the last session of parliament,
of Commons w.il recognize that tbey havE
the Insurance Bill 'wich is now beforeln the Sonate a protection sud safeguard and
objection Is there to sncb
thi the House. What
for the public interest a Protection for
Bills being introduced lni the Senate ? Otherý
itorests of ail classes of population. Iu
couid be submltted in the saute way
ordor that the Sonate may be able te, full] Bis
*to the Senate. AU the Bis cornlng from
its mission, It mnuet be hidependont of 90v
of Justice, could be luiiernments snd electors; It must b. ln sucl the Department
*tlated ln -the Senate. But it is said that
a position that It may do Its dut>" faithbe necessary to have more
r
fully,.honestly, Impartially, wIthout foar (%, then it would Crowxi ln the Sonate. WelI,
*Ministers of the
favour. it must flot be subject to the ca.
Âre.they flot well priceo0f the electors or to the strong wil, what Io the objection-?
treated here? 1 would ask the hon. %Secreof goveruimonts. Au elective Senate wouli
State, who leade this HRouse with
be a dupllcate oif the Bouse of Gommons tary of
so much energy aud 'wisdom, If the Minissnbject to the sarne Influences snd to thi
of the Orown are not weli treated here?'
sarne Inconvenionces. Thore are vory wisi Sters
~They would be well recelved and llatened
men who contend that the Sonate, as It fi
yto wlth a good deai of attention. What is
la 'well orgsnizod snd Constitutod. 1 had ver,
Sthe objection ? Does the constitution f orgreat pleasuro In listenlig to the speeci
? Not at all, and if It la necesssry
made on this subject by the hon. gentle -bid it
*to have under secretarleis as suggested by
man frorn Middlesex, who proved by fact
Middlesex, what le,
and figures that Uuere la not an Uppe r the bon. member from.
to havIng them ln this House?
Chamber that la better constituted thaxi th e the objection add to, that the appointment
New, if you
Sonate of Canada sud that It le perhap s
of committees of the Important character,
composed than the House of Con
botter
Ssuggested by the hon. meniber from:
nions Itsoît, and that there was not ai
I think you would have the
lUpper House hi existence where ail classe s3 Middlesex,
,.. very reform that ls requlred to give the
sud ail interests were se well and *0 prc
which it deserves,
perly represented. At the sarne time, w e Senate the Importance man weuld complain
and that no reasonable
must admit that there are serious obJe<
Sof what la done ln the Senate. 1 think the
tions made to the Senate as it is,' obje<
of the Senate should agree on this
tions which deserve consideratioii. One c fmembers
have their views expressedl and
those objections la that the Senate lB flc >t poit, and
Sr adopted ln the forni of au amendment
active enough, is too long Idle, waiting fc
which I have proposed, or any other amend-.
the .good pleasure of the Honse ef Coeu 1It ment whIch may. commend lIself to the
mens. Whese fauît 1s it ? Is It the fan'
anotiier objection. It I&
of the Senate ? No, the members of tl:te House. There is

SENA.TE

186

sald that the Sènate as constituted is lhable the time that the Senate was constituted
to be aiways of the same colour, aiment to protect provincial rights. But atter ail,
entirely Liberal or Conservative. 1 admit and after having heard the objections
that there is some ground for that objec- so well enunciated by the hou. gentleman
tion, and I admit If It were possible to from Middlesex, I arn shaken ln my faith
adopt a measure which would remedy that i that system, nlot entireiy, but to a great
evil, It wonld be opportune to do It It bas extent, and If we were caiied upon to vote
been suggested to limit the termi of the I wouid vote first If It were decided we
appointaient of senatoru to ten or fifteen were bound to make a reforni, for the apyeare. It le true that this echeme wouid pointment of hait of the senators by the
bave the effeet of modifylng at certain government and hait by the electorate, In
Uies the complexion of the Senate ; but order to give the governiment and to society
there are great objections to that echeme. the protection which they require, and at
The flrut le that it 'wouid affect conuider- the saine time ini order to give public opinabiy the ludependence of the Senate, that Ion a certain amount of satisfaction. I
independence which le s0 necessary to a think that system wouid, as was go weii
second chamber In order that It may be stated by the hon. gentieman from Middlewbat It should be. We know the weakness sex, fertiize and refresh the Sexiste, and
of man, and wheu a senator wlll have been wouid bring It more In touch with public
here ten yeare, pcrhaps ln the let years of opinion. I do nlot agree with those who
his term, he wouid be disposed too much to think we muet always eater to publie
please the goverument ln order to be reno- opinion, but I admit that we muet take It
mInated, and that wouid be a great objec- into coneideration. Âfter ail, .history telle
tion. Under that eystem there le no doubt uta that where there were n0 many revotaail the senatoru who supported the goverfi- tions and no many depiorable disastere in
ment wouid be almost sure to be re-ap- the world, ht was very otten because the
pointed. But what about the membere of governments at the time offered too much
the' opposition? They would be sure of resistance to reforme, and yieided to public
being repiaced ln spite of their abiiity. Bo opinion oniy when It was too late. How
that that objection alone, ln my view, would many revolutions could have been avoided
be sufficient, perbaps, to induce me to re- If the kings and those ln authority lied at
Ject that proposition.
the proper time done what wai neceseary;
There -are many other schemes wbich If they lied sacrificed a part of their auhave been proposed to meet that objection, thority to preserve pence. My conclusion le
but ail those echemes are s0 different, and that we muet proceed eoleiy. When we are
have raised so mucb opposition that one ;a on safe ground we muet not change our
tintitied, to ask bimaeif whether It le wor'li position, uniess we are sure that what wIl
changlng our eystem, perbaps to get some- come afterwards wiil be better than we
There- are two echemes now have.
I think it la wise to proceed
tbing woree.
which, ln my view, would be lese objec- _siowiy and not to make any change that
'tionable than ail the otheru, because tbey wouid disturb our constitution, nlot to open
have been experimeuted upon and their a door which wouid not be closed very
One of flix eaeily afterwards, and I arn of the opinion
usefuiness bas been shown.
echemes would I>e this: one hait of the before makIng radical changes, befoce
members of the Senate -nominated by the touching the constitution, we ought to ado-it
goverument and the other haif appointed soine other echeme whlch would be suffiby the provincial legisiatures or provincial dient to remedy the grievances that exigt.
goverfiments. I know that there are strong I think we ought te do what 1 have sugI wouid have gested, or what bas been suggested. by
objections to that seceme.
been disposed years ago to adopt that plan, eminent men befor*e me, as 1 have said bebecause 1 tbought It was more perhaps than fore, namely, give to the Senate more Imany other lu accord w-th the spirit of our portance by giving It power to Initiate more
constitution and with the views that were measures, have more of the representatives
expressed at the timie of the establishment of the government lu this House, and Pt
of confederation, as it was understood at ine say en passant that it ls nlot just for
lion. Mr. DAVID.

JANUAIRY 30, 1908

187

this subject, and until these projoots have
to
had time to mature, believes it opportune indeclare that it is desirable ini order to
crease the efliciency of the. Sonate, thnt more
legislation ho initiated in the Houa.. that
more Ministors of the Crown have sents thorein, and that any minister personally may
introduce and defend government mensures
in both hanses.
I forgot to say that that was one of muy
proposais, tbat nlot oniy the number of miinters sitting In this House ahould be
increased, but moreover, as In done In
Fiance, that ministers baving measures to
Introduce before parliament sbould have
the power to corne before either House.
o.M.BIU
mveth
hedbe
oe httedb
o.M.BIU
be adjourned until Wednesday nert
The motion was agreed to.

the bon. Secretary of State to have se mu,!b
to do.
Hlon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, hear.

Hon. Mr. DAVID-It la flot mast to Impose on bis shouiders n0 much work. He
does the work tbat la don. in the Houae
of Commons by ten or twelve ministers,
aimost as mucb; but bie lias te deai witb
a more peaceable body, and It woifld be In
the interests nlot only cf the Secretary of
State but ef the. country to have more mliIsters of the Crown In tbe Benate. .1- a'n
inot completely convlnced that tbe lime bas
nrrived te appoint under secretaries, altbougb I inay vote for the motion of te
bon. member for Middlesex after hearlng
I did nlot mention tbat Ini iy
hlm.
motion, because it was nlot certain that the
The Senate adjourned.
Urne had arrived to appoint under secretaries, and because I think it would be
more Important to bave ministers tbemselves who would*be a greater benefit te
THE SENATE.
the Senate than ten under secretarles. The.
growtb cf the country warrants thnt, and
OTwTusaJnay3,1M
OTÂ ,ThrdyJnur30198
the lime la comlng when neither tee ho.i.
The SPEAKER toek tee Chair at Tbree
Secretary of State, nor any otber man wflo
wll take bis place, wli oe able te do «Ml 'clock.
Before taking a Jeup In tb.
the wonk.
FPrayers and routine proceedings.
dark, I teink It la prudent to do what can
lx' don. Immedlntély, without waiting for
BiLL iNTB0DUCED.
'wbat may become necessary later on. The
Bill (I) An Act to incorporate the. Manuand the. beat reforma are
best Institutions
tiiose wblch tisse bas mat ured, wbich bave facturera' Mutual Liabillty Insuralice Coin
undergone the test of experience ns well. pany.-(Hon. Mr. Jones.)
Let us commence by doing wbat may b.
done now, wbat la mont urgent snd, nfter- Ad>POINTMENT OF UNDER SECRETARIES IN CANADA.
wards, If teat la net satisfactory, and If
we are oblIged to give something more, weMOIN
.
wIll give It, and we wlll do w.bat bas beenMTI
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex) Moved:
by the hon. gentlemani
so abiy proposed
That in the. opinion of the Sonate, the. tisse
I know there are many
fromn Middlesex.
members of tee Senate who are net. dis- has arrived for supplementing the ezecutive
posed to accept tee main motion made by gC>erilfleit- of Canada, by the. appointment
of tunder secretaries te thie, more important
the bon. gentleman fromn Wellington, be- departments of the. publie service, with duties
mnay ho similar te
that there 11s and
cause It contains an admissionee mtbo etthoso priviieges as near as officere in the parof the corresponding
wrog,
someein nd tat
somehin nd tat
wrog,

he mtho

ofliament of Great Britain.

appointment cf senators requlres to be reHe said : I
ent; and, in order tînt the members of the
be able to express their vlews almest to the
8enate may
for intrudlng
by a vote, If possible, I move :
te Pro- baving taxed
That the. Sonate, while net desiring
nounce finaily upon the numerous and varions
projects of reformi whioh have been proposed
and disoussed in coflnection with the Sonate,
yet in view of the differences of opinion on

feel as If I sbould apelogize
hon. membera of this Houa.
myself upon their attention,
their patience, as I fear I

The question to wblcb I
did, s0 recently.
propose asking the attention-of hon. messbers, is a very important on. lu my judg-

188

SENATE

ment, one to which we miglit profitably, 1
think, give a few hours consideration.
It
la withlii the knowledge of this House, and
wlthln the experience of inany hon. members, that mInisters are taxed In the discharge of publie duties far beyond the
bounda of buman endurance ln many cases,
and certainiy beyond the limit which would
enable them to give to the country their
best service.
1 amrn ot complainlng of
the organisation of the government, for of
Its administration. After an experlence of
over twenty years ln the ministry of the
province of Ontario, I have, shall I say,
almost a painful recoilection of how muchi
la expected of a minister. In many
senses bis use! ulness Io impalred by the
fact that lie la oblged to give time and attention to matters of routine that under a
different organization could be relegated
either to hîs associates, If they were more
numerous, or te experts ln the pubic service.
'Mr. Carnegie bas said that he owued bis
weaith, lis vast accumulation of money
and property, not s0 much to his own knowledge of the business ln which he was engaged as to the fact that he was able to
avail hImself of the experience and kuowiedge of men perliapa better versed ln the
work to whcli lie was giving bis attention,
than le was himself; and I think It la true
of every organîzation, wliether it be mlitary, naval, or business, that Its success
largely.depends upon the distribution of the
reaponsIbIllty, and upon the ability o! the
head o! that organisation to command the
services of men of capacity and leisure. I
think It la unfortunate ln thîs country at
ieast, growing as we are so rapidly and
every day getting a wider outlook of wlat
Canada la or ought to be, that those mien
who stand, ln a certain sense, on the watch
tower o! public life, who are the leaders of
public opinion, should flot lu some way or
other lie relieved o! many of the multitudinous details that are imposed upon theni
by their position. The higler statesmanshlp
eau neyer be developed, nor bas It developed
lu any- country except wliere the leaders o!
public opinion have considerable leisure,
not ouly for ucquaiuting theniselves with
the orgunizution and constitution of other
conutries, but with the varied and proper
opportunities afforded them hy such leisure

were directing. A statesman la a certain
sense, whiie la office ut ail eventa, bas to
be on the lookout for sudh changes ln public
opinion as would warrant hlm It may lie ln
shifting has sals to meet new conditions.
There are mauy shoals and rocks which lie
has to avoid, many cross-currents whicb
bave to lie avoided and these cannot lie
considered, has cbart cannot lie closely
wutched'unlesa he lias time and opportunity to do so; and sometimes goveruments
have been wrecked from the fact that those
who guided them have been unable to keep
a proper look-out wlth regard to those mattera. But more than that; I think probably
a more Important function of leaders of
public opinion, in Canada aud everywhere,
is that they should lie lu a position to attract public opinion to those movements ani
steady public opinion lu regard to, sucb
matters as .are of vital Importance t»
the nation. It may lie, sometlmes to direct
sucli a trend of public opinion as wll
enable them to legialate ln the best Interesta o! the people. If we study the bistory of Britishi statesmen. we wil find that
ln this respect their usefuinesa was largely
augmented, and. perlapa, the fact that they
were able to do so, la the higliest tribute t>
their usefuinesa. Take the case of 8h, Robert
Peel for. lnstaitce. We know lii attitude
on the question of free trade, prior to 184.
But lie changed lis attitude on that subject
owing to difficulties of a practical character
which existed ln lis time, aud consequently
ussumed. a differeut attitude on the repeal
o! the Corn Laws. His party, the Conservative pairty, as a mile, was oppoaed to thia:
however,"tndeed. tliey did not abandon their
opposition "until twenty years afterwards.
From that time untii now Eugland !s
tboroughly lmbued or *iargely lmbued
with the Idea that Sir Robert Peel was
riglit, and that be really led his party
to the ideal o! free trade. Those who
have read Giadstone's life will know that
he was a 1Peelite,' thougli afterwards a radical, and tbat has main subacription to the
' Peelite'1 view was that Sir Robert Peel
was the upostie and leader of the free
trude movemeut. We have Gladstone's own
case as a remarkuhle one, ahowing liow a
stutesman taking a certain view of a large
question like home rule educated bis party
of meeting the people -whose views they ln the face of great opp>osition, at leust so
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

JANIJARY 30, 1908
far as the House of Commons was concerned, to accept his measures as a cure
for the Ille o! Irelmnd. Hew was this doue?
Partiaiiy because Gladstone bad large foresight ln many respects, and had the lelsure
and opportunity te corne ln contact wlth
Il Midlothian ca mpaign
public opinion.
vas one of the moat rernarkabie Instances
where a strong goverument was driven out
o! power by the personmlity o! one man.
We have recently the case of Chamberlain
on tariff reform. HIe made many converts
and fiiled the press o! England and the continent with his views en this Important question. Disraeli educated his party, C.onservative tbough it vas, to mccept a vider measure cf franchise than even the Liberais
approved of, and under his leadership and
with the cry that the Conservative party
should be dernocratic as weii as Conservative there was a wonderf ni change ln public feeling. We have similar Instances lu
Canada. Sir John Macdonald educated the
people of Canada to, the National poiicy,
and they have been rather consistent ID
adhering to the viewa that he then propounded. Geo. Brown educated the people
cf Canada on the question of representation
by population, and givIng te the provinces
that power ln the legialative halls cf their
country which their population warranted.
You remember that the agitation on this
question by Mr. Brown vus perbapa one cf
the causes which opened the door to conWe have 8fr Oliver Mowat
federation.
educating his party on the question of provincial rights. We have Jos. Howe educating his province ln hostflity to cenfederation, unfortunately; but sncb was the
case. We have Daniel Webster, Chas. Sumnner, and statesmen o! the United States educmting their people as te the solidarity o!
the American Union and the horrible evila
of slavcry. The point of these remarka la
simply this, that when you elevate a man
to a cabinet position and find hlm possessing the qualities whIch warrant hlm, ln assuming that position, we want to place
hlm under snch conditions that the country
will get the value and benefit of the educational position which he occupies, and, as
everybody knows, there are problema confronting us !rom day to, day which requIre
extensive readlng and atndy, and ail this
attention caunot be given te them under
existing- conditions.

W7hat la the position of our Canadian
ministers at the present moment? Parliament le ln session for about six montha
Tbat necessarily occupies
of the year.
their close attention under our system. It
cuta them off from the study and considerlition of other questions very largely for at
Besides that there are
ieast haif a year.
numerous Interviews, numerous deputations, the preparation of Bis for the meeting of parliament, by-elections and numeroua things which divert the attention of
our *mInistera f rom the larger questions
whlch are being forced upon us from day
to day, and from wbicb they should be, to
For that _reason
a large extent, relieved.
1 think there la a great deai cf force ln
the view I arn presenting, namely as far'as
practicable that every detail that can be
as weli attended to by a subordinate should
be divertedl from the attention cf a cabinet minIster. Wbat le the remedy for this
conditions of thing ? If Canada le to get
a larger outiook, whlch I thlnk la Important, If the electors of this country are to
rise above the consideration of minor matters, somebody with the magic power of
leadership and with the leisure required,
Is
ought to be available for the'purpose.
It not a fact that nome trlffing public want,
quite lnsignificant In itsejf, frequently influences more votes ln a constituency than
a larger question say of the French treaty
The candidate
or the Japanese treaty.
who can secure tbreugh bis Influence a
public office or littie harbour or wharf, can
make more votes out of that insignificant
act of his, thani he can by any speech or
act or any effort he may make ln promoting even auch a large scherne as the G>eorgian Bay Canal or tbe ÂIi-Red Route. This
condition of things should net exist I do
not think It existe ln England. My reading of the speeches of English statesmen
teaches me thia, that ln Engiand electoral
campaigna larger questions entirely occupy
I cannot ay how the
their attention.
rank and file may discuse public matters,
but read the speeches of Disraeli, Gladatone, Balfour or Chamberlain, and you
wlil net fid thern full of the details sucb
*as would seem te necessarily 91l the
speeches of our Canadian members of parilament or even the members o! the CanaWe are a new country,
*dîn goverument.
and it is wltb us the day of amaîl things,

190

SENATE

and it will aiways be the day of amanl
thlngs, uniess by some process we rescue
the country from this debilitated condition.
of Os.uadlan politics, frum this juvenîle
condition ln whlch we are drlftlng at the
present moment, and In which we have.
drlfted for many years back, and unless
we raise the Issues and go before the electors on a higher plane.
We have large
questions.
Now and then we have them
thrust upon us out of the condition of
things.
Now and then they are initlated
by a member of the government; but what
we want ia not that these larger things
should. corne occasionally, but that the
greater questions of national development
and character, and matters affecting the
D'omlnion, which are vital to Its existence,
should be so kept before the electors tbat
the sense of proportion, which. i. as important ln politics as it la ln art shouid be
What i. the remedy for
duiy considered.
thls ?
There may be two or three.
I
have referred to one, namely to relieve the
ministers from the consideration of details
lmposed upon them, anid their emancipaThe public
tion from public routine.
press could aid us also ln regard to thismatter, and by giving It their attention
more largely than tbey are ln the habit of
doing, I thlnk they would wlden our national outlook.
Let us atudy for a few moments the
methods of the British cabinet organIzation, and 1 thInk we wiil flud ln It someThe genera
thing useful and Instructive.
opinion, and It was my own opinion untl
I happily became better Informed-is that
the Engliali government is a emali goverument, and when any word ls said about
enlarglng our government, elther by lucreasing the cabinet or by supplementing
the cabinet as I propose to suggest It Is
said that England bas but a government
of Ifi!teen, or six:teen or twenty cabinet
ministers, and If England can get along
-wlth such a amali number, why should
Canada flot get along with fourteen ?~ That
There ls a
ls an entirely mistaken Idea.
distinction li England between a cabinet
mînister and a member of the admInistration, and white the cabinet ministers are
comparatively f ew ln number, the adminisTake for Instance Gladtration i. large.
stone's administration of 1886 heb had but
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

fifteen cabinet ininisters, buit the administration consisted of sixty persons, distributed as follows : of his cabinet ministers
six were ln the Lords, sud twenty-three ln
the House of! Commons. His cabinet of
1892 consisted of fifteen, but the adruInistration of sixty-one; tweuty-four lni
the Lords and thlrty-seveu in the (3ommons.
The Salisbury cabinet cousîsted of twentyone, larger than Mr. Gladstoue's, and the administration consisted of tnlrty-two, thirty
Lords and thirty-two Commoners. The Balfour cabinet consisted of tweuty-one also,
and the administration of alxty, twenty
Lords and forty Commoners. The Bannerman cabinet constats of nineteen members,
and the administration of fifty-nine ; ulueTwoteen Lords and forty <3ommoners.
things arise from the consideration of
these facts ; fIret that the British administration is very much larger than la generally understood, and secondly that in the
distribution of the administration o! the
goverument, there Is a fair division between the Hanse of Lords aud the House
Now I thiuk both conc
of Commous.
siderations are vital to a thorough under1 need not emstanding o! this question.
phasize, for that bas been already doue,
and very ably, by very many members of
this House, that In the better administration of the goverumeut of this country
more even distribution betweeu the Senate
and the Hlouse of Gommons ls desirable;
but the other coùsiderato±i, namely If that
the administration la to be more effective
and corne more fully lu contact with the
public opinion of this country, It should la
some form or other be enlarged. The
English system has Its peculiarity; that Its
cabinet ministers are Interchangeable whlo
it i. not limited,ý either as to the number or ln tbe aggregate, nor as to the
number or ln the aggregate, uer. as to the
distribution between the House of Lords and
the House of Gommons. Iu the Balfour admninistration the lord lieutenant of Irelaud
was a member of the cabinet. Lord Aberdeen
is only a member of the administration. In
,'le Bialfour administration, when Sir Williant %Iucck 'weipt to England to adjust
our postal arrangements, I thlnk the Duke
of Norfolk was postmaster general, a member of the Honse of Lords. The postmaster

-JA-M-,ARY 30,190-S
generai le a member of the House of Conimous now. There le a flexibility about the
Engieh Cabinet which does flot provail ln
Canada. We muet have 14, or leave some
seat vacant. In Engiand it might bo twolvo
or fiftoen, as it wae in Disraoi'e cabinet. It
may be twelve or ninetoon or twenty-live,
so far as there le anytbing ln the British
constitution ta provont it, and no with the
adminJstration. It may ho fifty-nlno as It
le noiv, or sixty-two as It wae ln the time
of Lard Salisbury. That flexibility enabies
the premier ln organizing the govornment
to look around as to the materiai at hie
disposai. He may want a certain number
of men in hie cabinet, and he le at liberty
to maire It as large as he ploasce, save and
except that be muet have smre doferonce
to the preferonce of hie predeceseor, and s0
wlth the administration. Âe 1 said bofore,
In Canada we are worklng under a system,
which will not permit us to carry ont thie
view. Thero are two principles running
through the administration of the British
govormoent One lu that ail Important departments have more than one reprouentative ln the Bouse of Commons, and socondly
that ail Important departmcnte are ae a rulo
ropreonted by somo momber of the cabinet
la bath Houee. Let me go a littie further
lnto, detaîl and conslder one or two departmonte. Take the Treasury Dcpartment firet.
That consiete of elght members, the head
belng the firet Lord of the Treaeury;
who le ueually Prime Ministor If he
le ln the Commone; thten the chancellor
of the Excbcquer, throe junior lords of the
Treaeury, the paymaster geacral, and two
genora. seccretarles, or a tota of eight; and
eubsldiary - to theso, as epending departmente, are the Post Office Dcpartmcnt, the
Board of Worke, and the Commiesionor of
Woods and Foreuts, somcwhat corresponding to aur Departmcnt of the Interlor. Thoro
you have the Treaeury Departmcnt ropresonted ln botb Bouses. There you have
the Finance Minister or the Chancellor
of the Exchequer aided and supported
ln the House o? Commons by three junior
lords, the Paymaeter Generai and two geaoral secrotiries. 0f courue they spend more
money ln Engiand than we do, and yet the
Treasurer here bas as many dotaile, and
perhaps more to coneider than the Chancellor of the Exchequer bas in England.

Th'le Chancellor of tbe Exclbequer bas to do
with amcndments ta the tariff; so has aur
Troasurer.
He bas to sec that ail the
estimatee eubmitted by the other departmenti bring the aggregato within the money
aur Treasurer.
at hie disposai. So bas
Be hae ta ses about the ostimates,
not oniy of hiu owa department but ail
the othor departmentu. Be bas sometimeu
Important leglulation, au Mfr. Fielding hau
thie session lu the matter of an Insuranco
Bill. He has to recoivo multitudinous doputationu, and particulariy la regard ~o
thc revision af the tariff. He bau ta do
with the negotiatione of the treatice, as
Mr. Fielding had ta do with the French
Treaty. Whoa you burdea anc man wlth
ail the duticu that ln England are dischargcd by olght mon, you se how Incompatible aur organization of the Treasury
Dopartmcnt lu with the highet dcgrce af
efficicncy, and that he should. abtain sucb
reasonabie relief au would enable htm to
bo free for other duties. What opportunIty
bas heunlesu hc overtaxes bis etrength, ai
meeting the peopleo0f Canada and dccidlng
Uic groundu af changes of palicy, as le the
case witb cvcry goverameat, or prescnting
to Uic people bis mature views on any large
questions, seelng bis duties arc no multiform as tbey are. I think la tiis particular department there lu a call, If anywhore,
for nome rcmedy. And If la this Bouse
wc should dore ta rua the riait of oacroacblng on thc preragative of Uic Bous of
Commons and ask any question ln regard
to expeaditure or appropriation, there lej
nobody ta anser for Uic Treauury Department Now, I do not subecribe ta Uic vlew
that Uic Sonate shouid not diseuse appropriation. We arc bound by Uic British
North Âmerica Act, and by precedeat whlcb
we are bound to foliow, not to initiate appropriations, although thc Sonate of Uie
United States may, as I eaid before, nor
can we Initiate any revenue Bill; but we
are flot prciuded from Uic diecussion of
appropriations, and If any large echeme like
Uic Transcontinental Raiiway or the Georgian Bay canai, or thc Improvement af aur
harboure, or Uic dceponing of the St. Lawronce camc before us, 1 f001 that, withln
the Constitution, we are at liberty to discuis sucb mattere as frecly as they can ln
Uic Bouee of Commons; but thon %ve may

SENATE
work, you
ask questions, and there la nobody to ans- are many of them to do the
as the representative of the can understand how perfect British legiswer us as f ully
know that there la any
Treasury Departmneft can, and then when lation le. 1 do not
House, ln finer pic-ce of legal literature than thé Bills
the estimates are befort the
aubmitted ta British parwhat position le the Finonce Minister? which are usually
then the lament; in the firat place drafted by akîliIf he la 111 or overtaxed,
aud reviewed by men of the
estimates must stand over. In the Rouse ed draftsmen
standing of the present Lord High Chancelof Commons ln England, if the Chancellor
lor and bis predceessors. How la it
of the Exchequer la absent, one of the
the I)epartment of Justice ln the
junior lords of the Treasury, or the with
la held resor one of the under sec- Canadian Parliamnent? Who
Paymaster General
ponsible by the House and by the Senate
retarles may eubmIt the estimates, and,
of every Bill.
wlth bis knowledge of the departmeflt, too for the draftlng
One
for Its accuracy ln every detaili?
dîscuss
to
perbaps, mlght be able
as the head of Minlater of Justice, asslated by the Solicithem qulte as lntelllgently
allow me ta aay hers
the departmeut. There la no sucb provi- tor (Jeneral, aud
but every that, ln many respects, the duties of the
sion as that iD our constitution,
of Justice are more varfed
thing must go on, the Finance Minlater Department
than the duties of the correspondig debearlng the burden on his own shoulders,
For
British pariament.
hie strength overtaxed, and sometimes the partmeut ln the
Instance, just ses what the Minister of
country liable to suifer from contigenThe firet note I have
dles that îsny arise. The next department Justice bas ta do.
as ta bis duties la deallng with the subequally burdened ln uanada compara.That la done I England
tlvely free ln England, la the Justice De- jeet of pardons.
by the Lord Hlgh Chancellor, very largely.
How la that manned in the
partment.
There la firet the
system ?
British
Hon. Mr. POWER-The Home Secretary
Lord High Chancellor, necessarily, the ln England.
Speaker of the House of Lords-and
I should have
Hou. Mr. ROSS-Yes.
the leader of the government. Then there
General Who sald the Home Secretary. In Canada, the
la the Judge Âdvocate
has largely to do wlth admiralty matters. 'Minlater of Justice la obliged ta read the
There la a evidence ln every important case submltThere la an Attorney General.
There la a Lord Âdva- ted ta hlm, partlcularly ln the matter .of
Solcîttor General.
cate and Solicitor General for Scotland. It life and death ; and I remember ln a conla not enough that these two other officiais, versation wlth Sir Oliver Mowat wheu be
the
the Lord Hlgh CJhancellor and the Lord was Minister of Justice and aiea with
and the Attorney General cas Hlon, David Milla, how much tbey feit the
Âdvocate
diacues matters for England, for Rngland burden of reading the evideuce ln such
la only a part of the United Klngdom, but cases, as well as the responsibility of comScotland bas Its own educational systeni lng ta a decision. I do not know, except
i the Union Act, and Scotland bas where It la a matter of Ilfe and deatb,
two representatives, the Lord Âdvocate and -but thîs duty la relegated ta another officer.
Solicitor General, and Ireland la stlll better In capital cases the Hou. David Mille
off,, and perhaps needs It ail; It bas the said ho was ln duty bound. as he hadl ta
Lord Chancellor, Attorney General and advlse the council as ta what course sbould
There are nine meD be taken, ta read every word of the eviSolicitor General.
Then there la the duty 0f examInof the wldeet experlence ln law, and of the dence.
hlghest standing, ta look after the ad- Ing every Bill, whlcb he ie supposed ta do,
There le the
ministration of justice so far as parila- by himself and bis officers.
You six months attendance durlng the session.
mentary legislation la concerned.
can see how comparatlvely easy It would There la also the furtber duty of having
be for these nine men to Initiate legisis- ta review the legislation of nine provinces.
tion, to draft Bills, ta watch Buis through The federal government havlng the rlght
the House of Lords and turough the House of dlsallowance must form an Intelligent
act should
of Commnons, and by the tact that there opinion as to whether a certain
Hon. MIr. ROSS (Middlesex).

*JANUARY 30, 1908
*be allowed or not, and if anybody wiIl take
the trouble to read a volume lu the iibrary
by Mr. Hodglns, he wlll aee how rnany
Acte have been dlsallowed since confederatien.
There can be no haphazard dectsion
In regard to these matters.
Borne of thern
have led to extensive -ligation as we
know from past experience In Ontario.
Some of theni have been before this House,
as ln the case of the Natal Act of British
Columbia. The Mlnister of Justice must
fermi a legal judgment la regard to these
inatters.
He must aiso consîder the question of pollcy, of'constitutional precedent,
and aIl that pertains to It.
go that ho le
burdened wlth that from whlch the British
Department of Justice la relleved.
Que.tions of dlfffculty arise whlch Involve applications to the Supreme Court; he han
aiso to consider such questions., He must
bo represented before the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, or must be there
hlmself ; and he must be represented before the Exchequer Court and so on. The
,feld whlch the Minister of Justice has to
,cover la a very wide one, and to ask one
man to give his personal attention, or to
hold one rnan responsible for this whole
-circle of judicial duties, la amklng a man
with human limitations tý> undertake too
znuch.
I thlnk the department ahouid be
fortified la some way, and not rnerely fortified by officiais, but fortlfied In such a
way that the Senate or Canada would
'have direct communic
lation, would meet the
Minugter of Justice or sorne representative
-of that department face to face, so that ho
xnlght give resoens for smre of the decisIons arrlved at.
Thon whon you corne
to the Departinent of State la England they
have five Secretarles of State a. againet
one officer ln the Dominion of Canada.
A Secretary of State for the colonies, sometimes la the lords, mometimes In the Cominons ; a Socretary of State for India ;
:a Socretary of State for War; a Secretary
-of State for Foreign Affairs, and a Secretary of State for Home Âffalrs, and these
are assisted by five under secretarles. 0f
these, one mnust be, undor constitutional
precedent, a member of the Houme of Lords.
Weil what have. we ln Canada ? An effcient Secretary of State. I -do nlot wlsh ta
ýexpress dlrectly or by Implication any note
,of complaint ln the remarks I arn maklng,
13
REVI5FEp

193

or wvish to make, as to the Department of
the Secretary of State. 0f course the field
Is flot so wlde here as in England. He ha.
no colonies to look after, and yet there
are aine provinces la Intimaste communication wlthi the Secretary 0f.State.
There la
much correspoadence between the Secretary
of State office and the Colonial office, aad
between the Secretary of -Btate of Canada,
and the Secretary of State of the United
States, and other foreign countries. We
are no longer lnsular, as we were years
ago; we are nlot little Englanders ln any
sense whatever, but we have a 'aider outlook that ha. been growing and wll
grow wlder still. We may make a tn-eaty
wlth France, 'wIth Gerrnany, wlth Italy,
and pomsibly wlth the United States. We
have loomlng up before our eyes large
questions 'whlch must be seWted between
thls country and the United States. Are
tbey attemptlng to encroach on aur waterways ? That must be guarded. la President Roosevelt's pollcy to drain the lakes by
a canal to the Mississippi and open up a
great waterway between the lakes and the
Gulf of Mexico to prevail ? Are tbey still
ta poach on our fIsheries ? What relations
do we occupy towards Newfoundland under
the treaty of 1818? These are largo questions which necessarlly pame tbrough the
office of the Secretar of State, for he la
the recognized officer for communication
between Canada and outBide"countries. 1.
that departmont to remain as It la? la
one man expectéd ta bear ail that responibllity? I1do not think he should. Under
existlng circumnatances, we ahonld ses that
whatever expert kaowledge la avallable,
whatever talent la within reach, mhould ho
used for the purpome of strengthenlng the
varlous departmoents of the governent. In
addition to these dep-artments whlch I have
named of the British goverament ln whlh
minlatera are burdened .wlth considerable
departmenal duties, there are rnanysie
cures. That ls, the minister ln charge of
that department has very few~ duties *o
diacharge. For Instance, Lord Salisbury,
when ho retlred, from the position of Minister of Foreign Affaira, amsurned the
charge of a department ln whicb the
duties were purely nominal. 0f these mine.
cures there are flve. They are: The Lord
Privy Seal, the Chancellor of the ExeheEDITION

194

SEN. ATE

If it were proper that I sbould read more
quer, the Junior Lords of the Treasury, the
lie ge on to
Lord Presîdent of the Council and Pay- extensiveiy from Mr. Todd,
show that la the case of Important commaster General.
by the government, one
It would be considered anomalous If by missions appointed
of those cabinet ministers, a Junior lord or
any legîsiation whicb miglit be accepted by
secretary, could serve on thls comtuis House, mînisters were appolnted to cer- under
mission or on a committee etf the House,
tain positions that carried with tbemn very
way represent the government.
Miendier duties. 1 suppose that would iset and la that
If we wanted an Important commission te
be considered wlse lu Canada, nor would I
Into any partîcular matter, ta ask
advlae it; and yet the hlghest autbority we Inqulre
a mînlater te act.lu that position would be
have on parliamentary practice, Mr. AIon Ossa, addlng unreasonably
pheus Todd, now deceased, has commented piiing Pelin
te bis burdens, and yet, perhaps, be les the
on Britishi sinecures ln these words. He
tram bis responsibilîtles and
says reterring to the five officiers 1 have men- very man who,
previous knowledge ef the subject, would
tioned :
be best fitted for the discliarge of that
This state of thinge, if objectionabie in duty. I aeed not'further tax the patience
theory is in practice a materiai advantage to
the working of parliamentary gevernment ef those gentlemen with references te the
and serves to remedy what otherwise would Britishi system. Prom niy observation two
b. a serions difficulty in that system. As a thlngs are qulte evîdent; flist, bow minisme previouB knowledge and coinPenrl from cabinet ministers, however ex. ters are relleved tram heavy parliamentary
petet
te give judicious advice on thie dutles, and second baw departinents are meperienc
aujcawhich ordinarily engage the at- presented lu the House et Gommons. Let
tention of agovernment, have no time
deliberate investigation us now, for a tew moments, give aur atte spare frthe
of nwtopîca, and when it is necessary tention te the United States system and orto instituts minute inquiriee into mat- ganlzatlon, and the meason, why I do s0 Is
ters of detail, recourue muat be had
te the services of others whose time is not that we leama by the experience of athers
whoily absorbed with their own officiai busi- how ta guide aur own courses. There are
ness. This difficulty, which has become sficiently apparent to occasion grave dis- very Important Illustrations et that la the
quietude among the weIl-wishers of our pre- hlstomy of our wrltten constitution. Everysent constitutional system, would be alto- body knaws that the constitution of Canada
gether insurmountable if every man in the
cabinet had hie time as fully occupied as is was, te a certain extent, organlzed upon
the case with ministers of the Crown.
the constitution of the United States wltb
The services, therefore of snch persans are
in vari *the powers oft the local legisiatures and the
of great importance te the ministry
f
ous ways. They assist the deliberations ao central goverament lnverted as te the consgovernment, bring in the help of the talents titution ot the United States. We copled
of party influence in aid of consultations upon
aur
legisiation ta be introduced, and they after f ram them and we copie-t, I thluk, ta
vardsa siord substantial support in carrying own advantage. It ta also known that
the same through parliament. They aise servi the constitution of Âustralla was parly
as unpaid members ofaaisfonteclc (being aied
nrcito
commissions
copied bath tram Canada and the Unit vI
investigations require knowledg States. We aught ta learn tram whatandu snch
which is of immense advantage te them a eever source or ln any field lu which
members of the gevernment. They are fre
te sit on parliamentary cemmittees an publi Owe could profitably glean Information. Now,
questions on which it is necessary that th Sthe United States bas a population ef elgbt.v
governirent sheuld be represented. They hav millions, I understand. The organizatlan
leisure te undertahe the cenduot of gavern
ment business generally in parliament and t <there la eatirely different trem ours. In
prepare themselves fer the explanatiens re Sthe United States the legîsiative, the judiquired te furtiier the samne especially *u r eclal, and the executîve departmeats are
.hey ar
gard to Bis of trade and finance.
able te investiRate numerens questions tha t entlrely separate. In the Canadlan and
f~
will arise frem time ta time whether eut oe, the Britishi systems the executive and logisparliamentary inquiries or on behalf ef secn
taries of state or the. chancelier af Exchequaî r. lative departments are comblned; that la
iiter
sitting ln the Heuse
They can undertake te represent such of tih te saadministrative duties in both hanses as ars durlng sessions et parliameut bas. at the
net directly represented therein by their r
spective chiefs: services which are essentiî saine time :te supervise the administration
to the satisfactory working of parliamentar
goerrment.
lion. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

of bis owu departmient.

In

the United

JANUARY 30, 1908

195

States of the nine cabinet ministers flot c4 >mmittees, cenuleting of frema three te
one bas a seat ln either House of Cengrees. ti wcnty-onc members eacb; and ln Uic SenThe United States cabinet minister Io a te there are fitty-five committees constatxnerely an ldealized deputy bead as we fi îg ef Uiree te fiftcen members cadi. Te
Iow Uic extensive cbaracter ef these cernweuld have it In Canada. He i. selected sÈ
by the president. Hia position Is one of n:Ilttees I may name a few. In the Sencomparative lelsure. He has no electien a te, tbere are tomrnittees on agriculture,
to run, nor by-elections to look after. He f erestry, (a committce we might weli bave
bangs up. bis evercoat and takes bis seat bere), appropriations, Canadian relationsand enters upon bis duttes without any edec-t bey de net allow International mattere te
terni care whatever. He la flot respensibled Lrft-clvll service and retrenchinent, cost
ln any direct sense te any constituency. He nd Ineular survey, coast defence, cernlins no public opinion to nurse as cabinet tierce, Cubsu relations, educatien, labour,
He bas ne seat Inance, fishierce, tereign relations-a mest
ministers have here.
ln parliament, and ne questions te answer, important committee-geolegical snrvey,
mniigratien, Indian affaira, Inter-Oceante
He may 1:
and a bappy relief it muet be.
be called upen by either Heuse te coee 'anale Inter-State commerce, Irrigation,
and give Information viva vece, but that la judlciary, mines, and surveye, manufacHe bas ne Bille te urers, naval affaire, Pacific Islands, and
very seldom donc.
He laI ?erte Rice, Uic Pbilippines, post office and
Intreduce or te watch or te study.
net required te ait in the Heuse late at Mot reade, public buildings snd grounds,
night, or te remain untfl perbaps break et publie bealth, and quarantine, ralreade,
day te preserve ies government frein going revisien et lawe et the United States, transFrein
on the rocks. Like Chas. Lamb whe wae 3ortation routes te Uic sea-board.
criticised for arriving late at lits office, hieI lie committees emanate Uic legisiatien
Frein
cau reply .that bie made up fer it by wbich la submitted te Cengress.
Tbet hese cemmittees ernanate appropriations,
leaving earlier ln tbe afternoens.
et Finance.
United States ministers bave ne responsi- and net frem Uic Minister
ministers
bility wbatever except te spend the moncy se that te that respect Uic
efthUi United States gevérnment are ai'
They may
voted fer themý by Congress.
Tben their desubmait Bille ef apprepriation, but tbey do moat entirely relieved.
lui
partinents are dlvidcd Inte, bureaus.
net need te follow theni. They have ne cernof State
mittees te attend; te us tbeir position wonld Uic Departnt efthUi Secretary
are
be the paradise ef the lotus eater, the land Uiere are ciglit, thc chie.*3 ef wbicb
Hew ho the geverfi- nomteated by the president, and approvedl
repose.
ot rest and
Dement efthei United States carried on et by the Senate. In the Treasury
executive bas ne direct con- partment there are eighteen bureaus, and
The
then ?
et the
tact witb cengrese exccpt tbrough mes- te Uiat dcpartment Uic ecrutiny
frein year te year--and leglelation ha vcry rigid tndecd, fer Uiey
sages sent dewn
Tbey
that la an easy matter--except tbreugh the examine every expenditure carefully.
messages frein bave an audit, in tact, et evcry depa!tpresident who may send
eow then ha Uhe geverfi- ment ef the treasury. We have one Âudlturne te time.
tor General wlio Ias upposed te audit
7
ment ef the United States carried on?
le .carried on entirely eutside et Is execu- the acceunts ef the whole DomInten
Threugh commIttees efthUi et Canada, amounttng this year, accordl-ag
tive part
Heuse et Representatives and Senate. The te the estimates te probauly over ene hu'riStates
Bille are prepared by Uic committees ef dred millions; but ln Uic United
Appropria- Uic Treasury Department audits by isepithe two Houea or for thein.
large ependtiens are made by these two committees aIe audit Uic aceount ofetcd
Uic Navy
or fer tbem. In every department ef stato ing deparîment. For Instance,
et the execu- Departinent, Uic War Departimeut, Post
the supervision et Uic werk
tive cernes Immedlately under Uie direc- office Departinent, Departinent of tne la~le
tien of either the Senate or Uic Heuse et terier, and se on--eghtecn bureaus
In the House et Repre- supervise the work ef the Treasury DepartRepresentatives.
sentatives tliere are ne less"than sixty-two ment, te initiate legislatiofi, make appre-

SENATE
priations and so on. Through these commîttees, thc Senate of the United States
is lnformed.thoroughly not only lu regard
to législation, but In regard to thc expenditurcs by the government, and la lu a position to devise legisiation or even to liiiIt, If neccssary, lu thc Intercst of Uic
-tiate
public service. So that Uic minister le
practlcally rellevcd there. If you go to
the Departmcnt of Justice you will flnd a
similar condition of thlngs. -In our Department of Justice I arn unable to say
how many officers arc nccessary, but !n
the United States goverumýent, lu addition to Uic head o! thc departmaent there
is one deputy and six assistant attorney
generals-- lu ail a total staff of forty-fouir
persons, and these are not mcrcly ordinary attorneys, but law-yers of high
standing who recelve, I have no doubt,
pay adequate to the services Uiey render.
Iu thc Departmcnt o! Agriculture Uicre
arc thirteen bureaus.' In the Department of Commerce twclvc bureaus, with
officiais nominated ln Uic way I have describcd as lu other dcpartmcnts. I shall
make one brief reference to Uic Department o! Agriculture to show the differentiation or division lu tbe dcpartmcnt lu Uic
For Instance lu that depublie Interest.
partinent there ls a weather bureau, s
bureau of animal Industries, a bureau of
plant Industries witb a very large staff;
a bureau of forcstry; a bureau o! chemistry; a bureau o! soli, a bureau o! statistics,
a bureau o! entomology, a bureau o! blological survey wlth experimental station, a
bureau on publication, a bureau on public
roads. Wc owc to Uic United States Uic
Initiation of a system o! public roadIs
which bas been adoptcd lu Ontario, and, 1
tUik, lu some of Uic other provinces. That
ls a list of Uic divisions iu Uic Departuient
Now, there arc commito! Agriculture.
tees representing practically these 'bureaus,
even wider lu their extent Uian Uic bureaus
Have wc not an ImI bave mcntioned.
portant lesson Uierc to icaru ? The United
States appreclates the value of agriculture.
Wc have an indefatigable Min ister ot
Agriculture and bis leglalation bas been
on the whole beneficlal to Canada; but
a division of the department under bureaus,
and a represeatative of these bureaus lu
the Senate. would be practically a minIsHon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

ter representin.g eacb one of these bureaus.
Thirteen bureaus would be practicaliv
thlirteen ministers in the Senate, each
with his staff , and each able to give
Information ,direct to the Senate. What
various subJects these bureaus represent.
There you have a perfect system of adThere you corne close td
ministration.
the ife and Industries of the country.
Taire the bureau of manufactures ; we
have no such thlng; the bureau of forestry: We bave a Dcpartment of Forestry,
My complaint
but wc do not get near It.
is--and I maire It In no fault-finding spirit,
but wlth a view to the furthcr expansion
of our administration la to bring the Senate
more in touch with the 11fe of the
country. Indeed, my dlfficulty since comIng
here ls, that baving been absent from Ottawa, and flot baving taken part In Dominion affaira for many years, 1 arn In
the dark on many subjects. I do not know
the officiais of the departments, and thougb
I have thc departmental reports which
furnlsh Information, they do flot bring me
In toucir with the men who are paid to disSome Information
charge these duties.
whlch would bring us lu touch. wlth the
Department of AÂgriculture would be of
value. There are thirteen farmers ln this
House, men of wldc experience, and that
experlence is lost. Lt ls bottled up, and we
want to uncork It We want to brlng It lu
living contact wlth thc people of Canada
engaged in agriculture. I arn qulte sure
that a commlttee on agriculture would give
us Important statistics, but that I shall
discuse later. If we go to Uic Department
of Commerce and Labour, I fInd we have
twelve bureaus--a bureau on corporations,
on manufactures, on labour, on llghthouses,
on the census, on geodetlc survey, on statlstlcs, on steamboat service, on fisheries,
on navigation, on Immigration and natuiralization, and on standards of weigbts and
measures. There you bave twelve bureaus
lu thc Departmeut of Commerce and Labour, and their names indicate bow wlde a
field tiey cover, and how Important It is
that thiier information sbould be communicated dlrectly to the House. I have pointed
out that those nine cabinet ministers are
practlcally relieved of ail officiai duties, but
tbey are in a position to suggest. Tbey cari
corne ini contact at any moment with -any

JAN-?UARY 30, 1908
one -ofthfie sixty-two cemmittees ef the
House of Representatives or anyone ef the
fitty-five cemmittees ln fixe Senate andi suqgest legisiation. Tbey can suggest Bis anti
appropriations which ne deubt they de.
Tbey are ln a position te do thst
because tlxey have ne legisiative duties.
Tbey are relieveti trom long sltthnpi
ie
ef the Heuse andth discussions whlch
pertain thereto, anti se are ln a position
te suggest, If net te initiate legisiation.
Our ministers are se hnvolviet in executive duties that their minta are 'preoccupleti. Tbey bave te uit dewn an i
discuse varions detals with Interviewers
wbe want a -bridge or a post office
or a cumtem boumoe. Tbey bave te examine
reports ef engineers, anti open tenders, anti award contracta and do a thousenti things ef that kinti. Let us ln Borne
way relieve tbern ef this burden, se tiat
tbey can bave more time for the forger
work ef Initiation andi public discussion.
But besides these bureaus te wbich 1
bave referreti, thxe Uniteti States gevernmcnt bas commissions. There is a commission on Interstate commerce, tbere
is a commission on fixe civil service, a mubject I hope te tiiscuss later; there is an
intiependent commission on the goverument
printing office; a commissien on file geegrapbic board et the United States; an Independent commission on fixe National Home
for Soldiers, end a commission on Âmericen Republics. Thot is very suggestive.
No tieubt yen will remember that, seme
tbree years ago, Elibu Roet went te a convention ef Bouth Âmerican Republican
States helti at Rie de Janeiro. I suppose
e went there witb an olive braneh, as he
usuaiiy does, but be went for more than
that. He went te see If there was net smre
way ef openlng trade witb South Âmierica
by negotiating personally with tbe presidents of the varions republica ot America.
Since tbat Urne, fixe United States Congresa bas establisheti a bureau te deal
witb fixe Âmerlcan republics. There te
a commission on the Panama Canal, a
commission on fixe Philippines, every one
of these things being calculated te relieve
the executive officer. Tbere you bave
commissions still further unloiading the
workt from the executive. A position on
the United States Executive is one which

197

Involves niuch less responsibility thoan a
cabinet munister here bas to carry. in the
Unitedi States, governments and parties may
corne anti go, but the minister bas no responuibIllit In connection wlth that except
to leave hlm office If bis party goe out ef
power. A minister bere bas te uee that.
tbe wbole Dominion ef Canada Io kept ln:
fine with hls pollcy. He bas to be watchfu]L
te see tbat lni some way or other bis appropriations are flot voted down, and that a
majerlty do flot vote want ef confidence
anti tunn hinm out ef office. Thxe Roseberry
govennment ln Englanti went eut ef office
as the resuit ef a snap vote ef want ef
Tbey had a majority lni the
confidence
popular brancb of parliament; but a vote
was calied suddenly before their supporters
could -be smrmoned, anti the majerity voted
against the government. There tg ne sucb
trouble wlth the President et the United
States. Âs long as bis party is ln poiwer
bis office lm secured. We bave semethung
te ieann from the Unitedi States along thxe
fine on wblcb I am laying the greatest emphasis. I am net findin&, isuit with our
present administration, but 1 arn endeavouring te suggest a means te relieve minIsters se that the best men in Canada for
the position can give their wbele attention
te the larger work ef administration. Yen
remember ln Gilbert and SuIllivan's play,
Her Majesty's Sbip Pinafore, tbe master of
the sbip, was net asked te pollah the banie
ef the big front deer; that was left te a subordinate. but thxe ministers bere are expected
te waste tirne In doing ordinary werk that
probably other men ceulti do better. In
thxe smre wmy, by follewing the exemple ef
the United States and Great Britain, we can
relieve our ministers te a great extent. What
la ail tis leading up te ? It Is. Ieading up
first te the relief ef the ministers; but that
ls net the only consideratien. The resolutien whicb I submit lm recomrnending fixe
appointment ef under secretaries. te represent the meaft Important departmentm ef tbe
govenient, wbich would give relief te the
minister, andi enable the departments te be
represented bere, and, equally Important, It
-would brlng into the service of the gevyoung men andi place tbem lu trainernnt
There are
Ing for goverxxment positions.
many tbings we can learu frorn the mother
county. I suppose some hou, gentlemen

SENATE
would say I amn an ol<i fashioned Con- that soine provision Is made wliereby minboth a isters are relleved and young men put ln
zervatIve. 1 amn ot ; 1 arn
Radical and a Conservative. There are posi- training for positions in the goverations for young men la whlch tbey can "ment. This was ïSir John Macdongld's
win their spurs without lmposlng upon themn vlew lU 1887. Wblle I nèver followed
too much responsibllity. For Instance Camp- Sir John Macdonald, and whlle hie dld
Winston Spencer many things from whlch I1 dlssentedI,
beil-Bannerman took
Churchill, a young man of 26, into bis gev- ana from which 1 would dissent agato,
ernment He la lni training as under secre- yet we cannot cast aside bis extary for the colonies, apparently for a gov- perience and administration. He entered
parliament ln the forties, I belleve, andl
crament position.
nt a ullwas for maay ycars premier, and when not
RRIE -Ishe
Eon.Mr.
premier hie was ln every administration.
flot a fu
1fr
fon cabnePOIRER-l
of bis successors was Ia this House
maiserOne
flcded abiet
Lt la at that time ; I refer to the hon, gentleman
Hon. Mfr. ROSS (Middicsex)-No.
mentloned la the papers now that posslbly frorn Hastings. The vie-w whlch Sir John
in some of the changes that are to take cxpressed, I have no doubt was thé vicw
place ln the goverament hie may be given of that dlstinguished colleague at that time.
Ia 1887 hie
What 1 arn gettlng and no deubt bis vlew stili.
a cabinet position.
at la this, 4liat under the Englisb systeai lntroduced a Bill te estahllsb a *DepartSome ef theai have ment of Trade and Commerce, and reduce
men are la training.
Besîdes estabnot yet seats la parliament. Lt is not an the aumber of bis cabinet.
and Ilshlng that dcpartmcnt, It was provided
uncommon thlag for sons of nobiemen
mca la good social position te look forward ln the Blil, that there should be a Co.ia
to a parliamentary carcer as the highest and troller of Customs and Excise and aise
aoblest position thcy can aspire to, and Solicitor General. Wbat Sir John Macthey are cducated at Cambridge and Ox- donald was alming nt was net a large cablI remember read- net, but a diffusion, an Increase of adford for that purpose.
lag a few years ago a resuine of the edu miaistratîve power, a diffusion of power,
the
cational Standard of members of thc Bal- and one of the objects of -lntroducing
profour parliament, In which ît was stated. Bill and maklng the changes which be
that 256 members of the House of Com- posed, was stated by hlimself la a debate
Wc are ln the.House of Commens on the 1Oth June
mens had a universlty edncation.
He said
not reached whcen the Bill wss Introduced.
a new country, and 'we have
of parlisBy
that point yct, and ît la net nccssarily s ment, this system yonng members who have
comparatively young members
qualification for a Seat la pariament that taken prominent positions in parliament, ean
a man should have a University dcgree;, obtain entrance into public Tixfe, and after
thngabe[g
but thebeng eqal - t ll anad-certain parliament, if they assert themseives
anad.before probation, they will very aaturally
butothr ting qua t
snd educatcd mien are trained ln be Promotcd and becore cabinet miaisters.
vantage
There ]s the Eaglish system. No doubt
Great Britain for a political career. But
a leisure cîassl iD e was a great admirer of cvcrythlag
above that, they have
England whlch we have not, and the mis. Enigiish In parliamcntary practice, and confortune ln that no matter what attalamelil stitutional law, as well as la procedure.
a man may have for a seat la this Heuse Whien the Bill was lu commlttee, hie said *
This is an attempt to, reduce the number of
or the Heuse of Gommons bis private reministers and House, and te enable
sponsiblities are se grelit as te preveal cabinet alent of this to bring forward the
yon
his givlag the time and attention hie migbt the. to acquire training to become cabinet
wish te give to the work o! legislation minisrs. It is of very great importance,
NrthAmerca ctwebvethe moe iportant offices o! the goverameat,
In te BitihAerla ctwe aveindeed,rthat men should not; at once step into
in he ritshNorh
it declared that we follow the prînciple of and at the samne time be members of the
That I thlnk lo cabinet and potential in goveraing the politithe British constitution.
cal destinies cf the country and the great
of the preamble. Now, questions connected with the Dominion as a
in the first clause
if we are to follow the priaciple o! the whole.
This is the opinion, shahl I say of an exBritish constitution la other respects, Iet
US follew It la this respect and let US See pert, a man whoni Canada dellghted te
Hion. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

JANUARY 30, 1908

honour, and whose memory it honours stiill
N~o better authority couid be given for the
resolution which I have proposed ; flot only
the authority of a man practicaliy i thie
administration of a government as in' the
case of Sir John Macdonald, but the experience of England extending over *many
centuhes ; and If it were practicai, If it
were considered prudent, I think our
cabinet could be reduced lu number and
its administration eniarged . There In
no virtue i the number fourteen. A pr,mier miglit find himseif ln a better position If he had five or six or eight or ten
members ln his cabinet witb a larger ad-.
ininistration than lu bis present position.
When you Ilimit him to fourteen, you limit
hlm to a fixed number. FR,: must fili eve.ry
department, for every department lias a
head; aud If, as lu England, it was a varlable quantity, he migbt have twelve, 'is
Disraei had, or fifteen as Gladstoue had,
or nineteen or twenty-one, ail depending
upon the material avallable, and then the
other departmental offices could be filled Up
He
by members of the administration.
couid bave bis council, he could have bis
There would be picked
picked members.
leaders of public opinion beside hlm, and
then lie couid choose many other members
who were not fit for cabinet rauk i the
It is iuterestingway 1 have stated.
and I bave made brief lnquiry Into lt-to
notice how many men bave attained a distinguisbed position ln Great Britain, wbo
have entered, shall 1 say by the side door.
Take Gladstone, the first ou my notes. He
was a junior I the Treasury Departmnent.
Tbat was bis entree into public ife. Then
he became Under Secretary to tbe Colonies,
then Chancellor of the Excliequer, then
He distingulshed, bimself as s
premier.
junior Lord of the Treasury Department
by the attention be paid to trade matters,
under Sir Robt. Peel, when the Corn Laws
were under consideration, aud that qualified hlm for a higber position; and so ou
from step to step he gained by experlence
and a knowledge of public affaira the distinction of belng Chancellor of the Exchequer and premier of the British empire.
Take Lord Minto, our (joveruor General,
wbose experience was somewhat more hlmPrivate secretary to Lord LanaRted.
downe, the M.Nllitary Secretary to Lord

199

Roberts, sud then Governor General of
Canada ; aud It was bis success ln Canada

as Governor General which led to the bighest position ln the glft of the government,
Governor General of India.
He couhd not
bave been appoiuted to that position were
It not that he liad sbown bis abity ln
minor positions.
This procesa of lifting
goes on Iu the case of Englisb atatesmen,
and tbey are being tested before the House
of Commona, as to thelr executive abllty
aud knowledge of public affaira.
If they
can stand this test, then, lîke the Indian
brave wbo bas stood tbe torture, they are
elected to a chlefsblp.
Take Lord Stanley, the Governor General of Canada. He
waa Finauclal Secretary at the War Office.
He was Financlal Secretary of the Treasury Department.
He was Secretary of
War, then Governor General of Canada.
Take the preseut Governor General.
He
was Commissioner for the State of Bliadesia, aud bis abilltjy In the administration
of .Rhodesia earned hlm the appolntmeut
as a wt>rtby successor of Lord Minto. Take
Lord Roseberry. He occupled the humblest
position lu the empire at first-Under Secretary of Home Aff aira at a salary of £1,500.
Then First Commîssioner of Public Works.
Then Foreign Secretary, then Premier.
Take the case of Sir Edward Grey, wbo
bas been a very succesaful Secretary of
He was Under Secrerioreigu Affairs.
tary of Foreign Affaira.
'His abIhity aud
kuowledge' lu the diacharge of bis duties,
and bis knowhedge of forelgn affalrs earned bhlm bis appolntment as a suitable Secretary of State for Foreign Affaira, aud
Take the case
that la bis position now.
He began at the
of Campbell-Bannerman.
foot of the ladder; Financial Secretary to
the War Office, a minor position, carrying
a very smsll salary.
He was Secretary
to the Admlralty.
He was Chief Secretary for Iréland.
He was Secretary of
Step by step he dllmbed to the top.
War.
Take the present Lord Chancellor. He waa
Solicitor General. aud bis experience warranted bis appolntmeut as Lord Chancellor.
Take C. F. Ritchie, wbo was Chancellor of
the Exchequer; lie began as President of
the Board of Trade; afterwards Chancelior
Mr. Josephi Chamberof the Exchequer.
lain began as presideut of the Local Goverument Board at a salary of £2,000, and

200

SENATE

Bal- lor, aithougli lie le Speaker of the House
of Lords, is content to take £10,000. 1 do
for Lord Stanley, then Chief iSecretary for flot tblnk that hie ever quarrelled with
Mr. James Lord Aberdeen because Aberdeen had
Ireland, and then premier.
Then the Chancellor
Bryce,' Ambassador at Washington, wss the double bis salary.
Under Secretary for Foreign Affaire. Then of the Exchequer, who le Premier at tlmes,
1 wonder If bie ambition
lie was President of the Board of Trade, recelves £5,000.
thon Chief Secretary for Ireland, and after- le disturbed and his feelings hurt beeauewardc Ambassador to the United States. lie, who le carrylng the burden of the
I think 1 have made lt very clear then, nattion on hie sbonîders, recelves only half
that under tee Britishi system, and 1 think the salary of the Lord Hîgli Chancellor
The
largely because o! that system, men have who site In tee House of Lords.
been first tested -ln miner offices, and hav- Secretarles o! State receive only £5,000;
lng stood that test, their ambition became the First Lord of the Admirnlty £4,51W0;
spurred, their fitness for the higlier posi- Chie! Secretary of Ireland, £4,225; PostThe Postmaster
tion was proven, and tee higlier position master General, £2,000.
they attained was groatiy te tee benefit o! General of cabinet rank wlth -only £2.000
Gladstone mîglit flot have been seeme to be a very ordinary man Indeed,
the State.
found If he had flot given evîdence of lit- or hic ambition cannot be very active, or
nees as Junior Lord 0f tee Treasnry, and lie would flot sit ln the cablnet-and lie
Now, It Is sald, je sometimes a cabinet officer-at £2,000,
s0 wite other mlnisters.
and it was one o! tee objections taken to whule beelde hlm there are men receilng
tee arrangement made by Sir John Macdon- £10,000 and others £5,000. The Attorney
aid, teat we la Canada would flot subiait General bias £7,O0O and fees which oe
to tels distribution, because there woold trnes amount to £8,000 or £12,000. The
Solcitor General recelves £6,000, and f ees
be inferlor and superior members ln te
administration, and I teink it le withln which sometimes amount to £5,000, and the
tee knowledge o! members of this mous Solicitor General for Scotland oniy £2.teat smre men were appointed to what lo 000, and there are minor offices with salThis matter
alleged to be an inferlor postion-teat la to aies from £300 to £900.
a position flot of cabinet rank, who were of salary does not aff ect the dlgnlty or
very mucli dissatistled with their position offend the feelings of English members of
and Insisted upon promotion, and accord- cabinet rank, or Englieli members o! the
Now, ii) administration. It ls one of those figments
ingly tee law was changed.
whlch should flot be consldered for a
Englafld there le no sucli idea as to te
The Duke of moment. The question le, ls the pollcy a
relative degrees of rank.
Marlboroughi wlll takre an Under Secre- good one, and le the principle a good one ?
taryship, alteough b le a member of oneO Wbat would we gain by the adoption o!
In the firet place,
Rose- T3nder Secretarles ?
of tee old familles of England.
berry took tee position of Under Secretary. we would cecure the came recuite, I
The present premier lias held a position al- have no éloubt, as they have ln England.
We want to break Young men fltted for administrative duties,
most simîlar to that.
terougli tels prejudice la regard to the perliaps, but flot for cabinet rank, could be
Here It is accnmed used. There le a great deal of talent gogradation of office.
that because a man does not get a minis- lng to wacte. 1 have no doulit there are
ter's calary, that therofore the position le ln the House of Commons many young
inferlor; but look at tee gradation of sal- men who have not had the experience nearies ln England la the various branches ceccary to be admitted to the cabinet, but
fake the Lord wbo would make excellent adminictrators
of public service?ý
Lieutenant of Ireland, who may or may of corne department ; and there may ho
flot be a member of the cabinet. HIc members of this Senate who are not able
largest .salarY to give the tirne or the attention to the
the
£-20,000,
salary is
given, oxcept to the Viceroy of India, duties of a departmient, wbo could accept
as far as I know, to any member the lese irksonie duties of administration.
of tee Britisli service.' The Lord Chancel- We would then cave a lot of materia)
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).
lie becarne Secretary of the Colonies.

four, the late premier, began as secretary

JA-NUARY 30, 1908
We .would
*wbicl isl
goiug to waste.
arouse the ambition of many of our young
men.
1 know it la the case to-day In the
House of Commons, that there are young
men of considerabie talent who say to themselves, 1There hs no use, we are flot going
into the cabinet; there la no promotion for
us ln public life, we wiIl loiter away our
tisse lu the smoking room, or perhaps -in
the library.
Opportunities are exhausted
There should
so f ar as we are concerned.2
be a spur to a man's ambition ln publie
To be
life at some point or another.
graded, to be promoted from the rank of
a Commoner to the rank of a nobleman,
bas been a spur to the ambition of maxy
a man. You know what Nelson said before the battie of Trafalgar: 'To victory
or to Westminster Abbey.' That was a
spur, and it was the cry. A position la.
It Io a
the cabinet la no doubt a spur.
spur to some men to get a seat lu this
House.
Let us widen the opportunîties
for such a stimulus, and let us flot aJlow
men for a moment to drop their hands,
thinking'they have noue of the quaities
which would make for cabinet rank. Let
us test them, sift them, try. them. la minor
positions, and If they are found to be
unfit, bring other *men forward. It la
a cruel thing to keep a minlater dnrlng
the whole of a night, perhaps, to watch estimates when an under secretary, a younger
and less experlenced but, perhaps, more
vIgorous man coutl discharge those duties
for him, and besides It would expedite public business If these officers, or officers
somewhat correspondlng to those 1 have
mentloned, were *dIstributed between thxe
two Houses.
I aee no reason la the world
why a larger amount of legisiation should
Has the
net be Initiated In this House.
administration of the day passed a vote
of want of confidence la tbe Senate, when
we are not entrusted with more legisiation,
or do they regard the Senate as an annex
to the House of Commons, to be treated
with Indifference or with somethlng worse?
That Is not the position of the Hlouse of
Lords, as 1 have sbown, because lu nearly
every case, taking the administration as a
whole, there were as many members of the
administration lu the House of Lords as ini
the Commons.
By introduclng more legislation liere and passing lt through our com-

mittees, it would pass through the House of
Commons much more rapidly than it
does now. Then again, there la a proced-ure in the British parliameut which
we might very well con sîder. At the openIng of every session ln the British partiament, the chairman of the Committee of
Ways aud Means of the House of Commouo, and the chairman of the Committee
of the House of Lords meet and divide
between them the private BUis thIt
are then on the files. The Gommons takes
s0 many, about one-half, and the House of
Lords take go rnany, the other halt, and
ln this way, by that luterchange of legisiation, private legislation la facilitated and
the work of the two Houses lightened. In
tpat respect a change could be very easfly
made here, audit would facîlitate the business of the session. Then I think it would
add to the dlgnlty of this House If more
legisiation were laitiated here.
There la
no use disguising fixe fact that ln thxe publie'
mind, or in a large section of the publie
mlad, the Senate la not regarded as a nerassary appendage to public leglalation, it tg
consldered to be exceedingly inactive-nactive because It doe so littie. We couid not
under our present organtzation begla work
until the House badl passed the addres.
We passed it ln a day, aud it took the Houseof Gommons uearly tbree weeks to pass it;,
and ail this time, under our preseut organization, which I will discuas at a future
time, the Senate hadt really uothlug la do.
Put ministers here who :wlll give us something to do, and when we have doue our
work well aud to the credit o! ourselves and
to the benefit of the country, then give us
more to do, and the result will be that public business will be dealt with more raply.,
I think it unfortunate that our sessions are
being prolonged as they'are. In my eariT
experlence lu thxe House o! Gommons shxty
and seventy days enabled us to do the work
of the whole session; and 1 think It wa&
fairly well doue. The hou. gentlemain from
Hastings will bear me out that ln those
days there were long speeches. perhaps there
were not s0 many as there are lu the Hlouse
of Gommons. I do not object to that That
Is their business, but I do thiuk It Ir unfortunate. It Interferes with the private affairs of gentlemen to be detained here for
six months, a large portion of tixe tise,

SENATE

9202)

belng unnecessary. It prevents men wlth ideas of some people, but what wouid the
capacity from entering the House of Gom- cost be ? Foliowing the English practice,
mous, seeiug the tax there ls upon their if a cabinet minister le paid at the rate
time staying ln Ottawa, and If by any means of $7,600 four or five thousand dollars
the session could be shortened, life in the wo-uld suffice for an Under 8ecretary. Io
Gommons would be less Irksome. I sympi- that a matter of consequence ? It le flot
thize with the hbon. gentleman from British a question to be thought of for one
Columbia, and the hon. gentleman froin moment. You 'will spend that upon a eu@Prince Edward Islaud, who are practlcally toms house, where perhaps It is not necesexiled from their homes three or four months sary, or a post office that could be disln the year. It is a serlous thing ta tlxem- pensed with, or a harbour, as tbey say ln
selves and their familles. If we could the House of Commons, where there la no
shorten the session by a montb or two we water or no shipplng, or in some other
would confer a public benefit and I am sure manner, good enough in Its way, but enln so doing we would not interfere with the tirely local. What I want la a littie money
efficiency of the public service. Then what to dispense for the good of the whole peodo 1 propose:- There sbould be under secre- pie of Canada. 1 have no favours to ask
taries, or if that titie does not suit, then of any goverament. 1 have no public
officers corresponding to Under SecretRries works, and neyer had any that would Intelu England, in six, seven or eight of the rest me ln regard to these matters; but I
more Important departments. 1 thlnk there have an iuterest In Canada as a whole,
should be Under Secretaries ln the Depart- and as I have sald,-and I think perhaps I
mnent of Railways and Canala, Departmeut bave said It too often to be warranted ln
of the Interlor, Department of Trade aud the course of a single speecb-any-thig
Commerce, Department of Justice, an-1 that would widen the outlook of Canadian
Agriculture, and Under Secretary of Labour, 8tatesmen, anythlng that would assist thxe
who would be attached to the Post Office Senate and the House of Gommons ln perDepartment, as it now ls, and ta the De- fectlug legisiation, la of such prlmary impartment of Marine sud Fisberies. That la portance that If It costs $100,000 aud more,
eight departments. which I thiuk would use- it need flot be thought of for a single mofully employ the time of an Under ment. The great fear at the trne of
Secretary, sud allow representation la confederation wasthat It would be costly,
the Gommons as weli as hore. 1 think and some people in Ontario balked at
we should do that to relieve ministers from confederation because they said It would
the lrksomeness of details. If I were tapro-' add to the burden of the country .Who
vide the titie, founded upon the speech I would go back to the early days of the
have made, the titie of the BihI would be- different provinces, with their narrow outAn Act to relieve ministers and for other look ? We trembled when we proposed. the
purposes therein mentioned. Ministers should construction of the -Canadian Pacifie Railbe releved in order that tbey migbt give way. Caniada could not stand the burden.
tbeir time to larger measures of public It was contended that we could flot get
policy. I tbink we would secure lu that way money at home or abroad, and wlo would
the services of many men iu public 111e who say now that we should go back to the days
are now dlsposed to retire from lt because bef ore we had It, even if it cost Canada
of Uts lrksomeness. I think it would help the sixty; odd million ? And If this House
Senate in belng more useful, and would adopted this proposition, I venture to preadd to the dignity of parliament aU round. dict-altbough it le flot wlse to predictI am a bellever ln malntaining ln Uts ut- that ln a short time It will commend itself
most vigour and Res utmost efficiency the so mucli to botb Houses aûd the public
parliament of this country. Any method by opinion of thls country, that no government
which lts value could be enhnnced, by would be prepared to recede from that powhlch lts usefulness could be Increased,
ln view of the experlence of the
xvould be feit from one end of Canada to sition
Mother Country and the unquesttonab'e
the other as a public benefaction. The cost
case.
might stand in the way according to the urgency of the
Hon. Mr. Rffl

(Middlesex).

JA'NUARY 30, 190S
Mon. Mr. SCOTT-I think I voice the sures for the betterment of their severai
feelings and views of this Chbamber when Provinces, s0 that If there is a paucity at
I say ta my hon. triend tram *Mddlesex, hieadquarters, there la an ample supply of
that it is nevei necessary for hlmn to apo- administrators in the outaide provinces.
logize lui risiag to address the 'Senate of Now, I have been myselt a member of
Canada. We are always glad ta hear the governments for seventeen years, and I
beautitul speeches lie makes. They are per- may say that at Urnes I have been in
feet geins of elocution, and tliey are replete charge at Ottawa, alone, my coileagues howith Information of one ldnd or another. lng absent from one cause or another, and
We may not agree witli them ail, but wc I did not find the difficuities of carrying on
muet admire the industry and energy whlch the goverament of Canada so numerous as
Our
lias been exhibited In the preparatlon of my hon. trlend «ias paintedl them.
speeches that are practically, on any subject system of governinent la as simple and perlie undertakes to'discuss, a mode]. He ex- tect, 1 suppose, as any ln the worid; and
hausts and more than exhausts ail viewa my own view, as otten expressed, Is that
that cau be expressed trom the standpoint unless you are lnauguratig sorne new
that lie adopta. The notice lias been on principle, as years go on new subjects
thè order paper since the llth December, must necessarily arise ; but so far as adand 1 tail to notice that it lias elilted, any rnisterIng the governinent ar Canada is
It rune very
warm approval troin the press of Canada, concerned, let It alone.
Once money
which la upposed to represent tie sentiment smoothly along li current.
people. While I agree with la voted by parliament, It does not require
at the Canadian
rnany parts of bis speech-and I arn nat naw sny Initiation. Subjeets do not arise when
prepared to analyze It al-I mnuet say that parliarnent Is not Sitting that require ta be
Great questions
I do not think that the references ta aur inltiated by minîsters.
position as being analogous at ail with that arise tram. Urne to time, and I admit as we
0f Great Britain are well placed, the cir- grow tram year to year Important questiens
cumstances and consideraUions la Canada are frequentiy arisIng connecte wltli oar
are s0 widely different tram. those In the endeavour ta culUivate trade with the United
mother country. If one reads the speech States and Enrapean countries. They are
tram the Thrane delivered by the King new subjeets whicb are comig up tram
yesterday, lie wil find references made, Uime ta Urne, but the Initation. muet
neot only ta local -and home affaire, but ta proceed tram tlie pariarnent of Canada.
affaire I Russia, Turkey, Norway and I Ministers muet subinit their vlews ta the
many other cauntries. The Britishi parlia- tWa Hauses and their appraval muet be
In reference ta the addltional
ment practically BpeakaS for the whole obtained.
warld. In the first place, there are 400,- cast tliat the sclieme of my hon. trieni
000,000 people I the British empire. Large would Invalve, aithougli it la nlot very
numbers at those, 350,000,000, are autaide large, SURI han, gentlemen know very
the kingdarn of Great BrItain and Ireland, well tliat we are exposed even as It le ta>
iany af them lu colonies gaverned practi- very severe strictures thraugh the press
as ta the cost of adminlatratian-particucally tram Downing street.
Sa tliat the conditions in that respect are îarîy the cost of tlis Senate. In same
widely different tram tliose la Canada. parts of tlie Daminion the Senate la not a
That arises prabably train
My hon. friend lias tailed, in speakig of popular. body.
the heads of the gaverninent i Canada, causes i need not go Inta extensively ; but
ta recognize the t act that part of the legis-I asybrdlth
taresfo
te
tw
litiat
aries trm nte
lative duties that are pertarmed by the Im- f ay stay brhde
perial parliament are discliarged by thetathttetapoiclpaUsreft
this chamber.
nine legIalatures autslde af tue parlament mare eveniy balanced In
All our -provinces have very Frarn Ume ta tline, "since cantederation,
of Canada.
the
wide pawers tînt are exerclsed by the in- there have been such disturbances lIn
There are, I presume, numbera occupying the Position af gaveraperl parliament.
lu those leglslatures at least farty-five mem- ment and opposition, that the dlsappainted
bers, ail actively eugaged la devising mnea- pnrty whose triends are lu the rnlnority in

il1

SENATE
this chamber naturally attack the. Senate
Durlng
and complain of its uselessuess.
tbe eighteen years that I was on the other
aide of the Hlouse, the number of those who
took the same vlew as myseif was constantly dlminlshlng, until the oppositioný
came to be Ilttie more than a corporal's
guard. Naturally, the Liberais outalde
were very much annoyed. and crlticlsed
the Senate severely, and probably ln no
other portion of the Dominion more constantly than I the province of Ontario.
If the present goverament should remain
ln power for another term, the same condition wotxld probably arise, snd the ConmervatIve party would necessarlly condemn
The only
the Senate as a uselesa body.
way you can brlng the Senate Up to represent the people of Canada Is by givlng
the people a volce In Its selection. I have
I am not goig
come to that conclusion.
now to elaborate the views I hold. There
Is a notice on the paper whlch wlll come
Up SOoS, and I cau theu more fitly express
my opinion ; but I have reached the conclusion that If we are to give thia body a
statua ln the public mmnd we must have
recognition by the people. Governmeuts tn
Canada have for many years lasted longer
than goveruments ln any other country, for
the reason that our syatem both of federai
and of provinclaf government la ou such a
simple and perfect basis that any goverument doing reasonably right, If they act
honestly. snd falrly and expend the public
funds that are eutrusted to tbem as they
shoiild, the people let them alone. That
la the explanation o! the eighteen years
of the Couservative goverument I Canada.
It la the explanation of the thlrty-two
years of the government that my hou.
friend from Middlesex was a member of
lu Ontario.
That government came Into
existence ln 1873 snd remaiued lu power
It ls wlthout a parallel
thirty-two years.
lu any part of the world that a goverument
of so large and Intelligent a population
as the people of Ontario should lat during so long a period. I say It Is due to
the sounduess of the principles upon whlch
the governmeut is establlshed, and If those
princîples are falrly and honestly carried
out, the people do not care to disturb tbem.
It is se lu the federal system, and I dare
say lu the future just as ln the past, the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

chang-es of goverument in Canada wiil he
less than the changes of geverument i
I ascribe tbat to the
auy other country.
simpliclty and perfection of our constitution.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Mlgbt not the
f ree use o! patronage have aometblng to
do wlth It ?
To some exHon. Mr. SOTT-No.
tent, I think, patronage Is a weakness.
You canuot please everybody-that bas aiIt la an emways been my experlence.
For every vacancy there
barrasameut.
are ten applicants; but as there la only
one office to be disposed of, there are nine
MIy hou. frlend. fromn
disappolntedl men.
Middlesex also brougbt Up. the experience
I should be sorry
of the Uuited States.
to copy any part 0f the United States conI do not think It is good taste
stitution.
for any member of the parîlament of Canada to. criticise the constitution of the
United States openly or publicly; but an"
one who has followed legislation ln the
nelghbouring republlc and wbo knows the
arbltrary powers exercised at times by the
Prealdent, and at times by the Senate,
must come to the conclusion that it is not
a government ln keeplng 'wlth modern
There have been occasions ln the
tlmeq.
past-lt ia a matter of blstory-wbeu tbe
two aides. Bepublicaus and Democrats, have
united and made a pluuge Into the public
treasury, both aides agreeing to vote appropriations of $70,000,000 or $80,000,000
for riversansd harbours, and that money
bas been distributed between the parties.
We have not come hi that i Canada. If
we vote mouey, oue aide excluaively ha.
the expenditure of it, and la aubject to
Il
criticism for the way It la expended.
la not a subject I care to discussa; but I
should ho extremely sorry that lu any particular whatever, the govemument of Canada- should copy from the goverument of
My flou. frieud made
the United States.
some references te the varions measures
adopted by the Department of Agriculture
in the neighbouring country. I thiuk our
Department cf Agriculture la quite ahead
of theirs, aud I think our neighbours have
la mauy Instances borrowed from us. We
They are eighty millions
are Up to date.
of people, while we are only seven millions.

ýUARY 30, 1908
JAiS
Hion. Mr. POWER-He did at one time.
Relatively to the conditions, 1 think. we are
in agriculture if
qulte as far advanced
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I do not thInk it
nlot more advanced than they are in the
vouid be considered by tee people as being
Of course I do nlot care
UJnited :States.
n touch wite popular sentiment that a
to pu.bllcly diseuse the relative nierits of ailnister i tee Senate shonld have control,
the -administration of the departments, but ' f sucb an Important brandi.
He ehould
my hon. frlend wlll find that until chang.is 0 a minister endorsed periodically by lies
>e
have taken place i the constitution of b
*He lias to be crlticlsed bY
onstituente.
making this House an electIve e
Canada,
lie representatives of tee people, and,
body, the sense of the people of Canada herefore, it le oniy reasonable that lie
wll be adverse to the une of action lie ihould occupy a position hi tee elected
Bo far as this House needing 8
proposes.
In speakig of tee constitu!bomber.
Information on mensures that corne before :loai changes that I thlnk wll have to be
It whlch originate ln the other House,-wet wvolved hi tee near fu ture-I do nlot now
We
ai read the mornlng 'Hansard.'
foreshadow them, but I have my own
know everythlng that is golng on ln the ulews and shall be glad to eubmIt them at
Measures that originate
other chamber.
e proper time-it la quite apparent If
there are pretty well threshed out before
you are going to have satisfaction and
No doubt we Improve
they corne to us.
peace and rest hi tels country la regard
maùy of them, but we are perfectly famalthat the larger portion
I do not to tee constitution,
Ilar wlth the details of them.
warbody wUli have to get ter
of ti
see that an officiai of any department
rant from, tee people. 0f course, It wil
could give us additional Information. Now,
[n no way affect gentlemen who are hereas to the measures that originate i the
Therefore teey are absolutely
already.
other chamber, we have comparatively f ew
disiterested hi discs Ing tee subject;
very Important mensures to introduce et
seate wll not be ln jeopardy. They
About every ten years their
any one session.
wIil occupy just as strong and good a posiwe mske some amendments to our Bank
tion If a few elected members were preÂct We do not In the meantlme touch It, sent in tels body as teough there were
We have now a Bill to amend
as a rule.
any changes that may take
For many years we noue, because
the Insurance Act
place can only be made gradually from
have not touched It. Our proposai to lu*No one would thInli It
tIme to time.
quIre Into It to ascertain if any Improvewlse or prudent to evolve a préposai which
mente can be made to the mensure are due
would mean a very large change at any
entlrely to causes that arose outside of one time. Whatever change dos take
Canada. Now, wlth regard to these two place mnuet be gra duai froin year to year.
acte, It le quite natural that the minIuter I express no opinion for tie government on
who lias control of those branches of tlie tels subject, because I may Bay It bas
public service should dlaim the riglit to neyer been discussed-never reaily been
present them to the other chamber. The regarded as a practIcal question.
The
Fiance MInister la the head practlcally of
press do not seeni to se regard It because
He has to do wlth
the Insurance brandi.
alteougi tels notice lias been on tee order
the hanka of the country, and therefore it paper for sme weeks, I fait to aee teat
would seem oniy proper and regular that the ieadlng papers of Canada have exlegisintion, affecting those two branches of pressed an opinion elteer for or agaInet it,
the public service ehould be orlginated ln and It does nlot strike me as being really
This.chamber, of course.
the (3ommons.
a neceseity. However, 1 am open to conhas ample opportunity to make any changes viction.
My hon. friend se eloquentiy,
or amendments or alterations It sees lit. nbly, and earneetly expressed the views lie
That lo under
Tien take the land Act.
entertaîns that one would be giad to be
the control of a minister ln the oteer captured by suci an able advocate of any
I doubt If the people would be
ciamber.
I shaîl be glad to*hear te
new prInciple.
eatlsfied If tee representative of the land
vlews of other bon. gentlemen on the subbranch of the goverunent of this country
ject.
occupiftl a se,.t in this chaniher.

SENATE
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-We are onder an sent conditions, may the goverument be
obligation to Vie bon. member from Mid- better represented in the Senate. 1 do not
dlesex, so far as Vie discussion of Vis think the difficuity wIiI be overcome by
question, and Vie suggestions be bas made the proposai be bas made. Let us assume
are concerned. I cannot however, uay that that elgbt under secretaries are appointed;
I am entlrely Ini favour of Vie proposai be have we any assurance that the governadvances. It Involves many considerations,' ment would flot continue Uts present policy
but it would appear to me from Vie anxiety towards the Senate ? The very argument
of my bon. friend to Improve Vie useful- 'whicb bas been made use of by Vie leadei
ness of Vis Chamber, that be la dlsposed of the Hlouse would be applied to the proto suggest a very radical change, and one posed reform; namely that those under
very questionable to carry out the purpose secretaries would represent popular opibe bas Ini view. We are lndebted to Vie nion, snd alleged popular opinion must be
bon, gentleman for Vie varions suggestions gratifled by placing them Ini the House of
In my judgment the business
be bas made from time to time and parti- Commons.
of Canada eau be very Weil transacted by
cularly bis able speech during Vie present
session on Vie question of Senate reform. Vie government as it ls constituted to-day.
It occurs to me although I amn not to be I regret Viat my hon. friend from Middlenow drawn Into Vie discussion on Vint sex, betore taklng Up Vis subject, did flot
question tbat the crux of Vie wbole matter proceed with the lntimated notice he la to,
îles ln Vie suggestion wibichbe Vien made give wiVi reference to reforming Vie civil
snd eiaborated to some extent namely, Viat service. The wboie trouble lIn my judgthere Is not a sufficiently large cabinet ment is Viat ministers of to-day are s0 ocrepresentation of Vie government In tVis cupied witb questions of patronage, owlng
Chamber. WiViout casting Vie s]ightest to our faulty civil. service system, Viat Vie
reflection upon my bon. friend Who bas so public business is neglected and sacriflced.
ably led Vie Senate for many years, or The first consideration is Vie promotion of
upon Vie minister 'associated wlth hlm, party interests, and Vie bestowal of patroyet there la a deep seated conviction lu nage occuples more of Vie time of ministers;
Vie country as it must be In Vie mind of Vian Vie business of Vie country does.
every member of Vils House, tbat Vie useHon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.
fuuness of Vie Senate must be lu Vie ratio
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My bon. friend's
of Vie government representation on Vie
floor of Vifs Cbamber. Âs time goes on statement a few moments ago establishes
Vils must necessariiy be more deeply im- Vis beyond question. He referred to occapressed upon Vie mmnds of members of this sions wben he was left alone In Ottawa to
Bouse. 0f course, If Vie governmnent of administer the government of Canada, and
the day persist in ignorIng the duties, Vie lie said be was equal to dotng It alone,
functions and Vie Influence which sbould wben ail of bis coileagues were absent froiii
be exercised by Vie Senate, by not glvlng the capital. If he was able to bear Vint
us a proper representation of cabinet minis- responsibility alone, and discbarge Vie duters lu Vils branch of parliament, sncb re-- ties of Vie government to Vie satisfaction
presentation as it possessed years ago, Vie of the people of Canada bhow was Vie time
Does It not
Senate must graduaily iose Vie Influence of bis colleagues occupied ?
wblcb It has exerclsed, and must appear In establisb beyond coutroversy Viat Vie time
the public mlnd as simpiy a cypher.
The of Viese gentlemen must be occupied wlth
whole matter is In Vie bauds of Vie goveru- matters foreign to the essential business ot
ment. So long as tbey persist ln pursuing statesmanship wiViin Vie Dominion ? My
Vie policy Viey bave foliowed durlng Vie bon. frlend. aiso mentioned In vindication or
last eigbt or ten years on Vis subject so Vie course Viat bas been pursued by the
long wiii there be public dissatisfaction wltb government, namely: of denying proper caVis Cbambr. This phase of Vie subject binet representation lu Vis Bouse, Viat
bas impressed itself upon my hon. friexid ail we bad Io do ln the Senate is to, rend
from Middlesex. Naturaliy growing out of Hansard, and that would give us ail the
that, the question

arises liow,

Hou. M r. SCOTT.

under pre-

iiecessar

inforination without any govera-

JANUARY 30, 190S
ment representation more than we have
at present. My hon. friend and his colleague rnight as well absent themselves froin
this Chamber and shlow us to depend altogether on the information to be obtained
frorn 1Hansard.' There la nlot a member
of this House but feels the humiliation of
asking frorn time to time for Information
wbich la essential to the proper discharge
of bis duties and of the functions of thie
Senate, witbout being able to get It from
the representatives of the goverument upon
our floor. We are perfectly satisfied that
my bon. friend exercises every burnan effort
to secure satisfactory Information, but It
is ,nanifest from dny to day that it cannet e *in
obaine.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, hear.
Hon. -Mr. LOUGHFEED-There Io scarcely a notice o! motion on the Order Paper
this session that bas been satisfactorily
answered.
My hon. friend the Seeretary
of State la placed In the humiliating posltion every day of being obliged to apologize for bis innbility to furnish Information
dernanded by this House, and yet he undertakes to justify the policy of the government ln giving such amall representation
of the cabinet In this House. .1 do nlot
maire these observations for the purpose
of being censorlous, or to minimite the
force of the views of niy hon. friend frorn
Middlesex, because they are well worthy of
consideration; but I feel satisfied that the
end he bas ln view would not be attained
b! adopting the proposai be bas so eloquently submitted to tbe House.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-I wish to express
uxy sincere gratitude and rny admiration
for the very able address deiivered by the
hon. senator from Middlesex. He bas welU
outlined the subject ho bas presented to
We know that it takes tîme and agins.
This
tation to bring about any reforrn.
is the firet tirne ln the history of Canada
that a subject o! this kind bas been
brosched by any member of either House,
and I bave no doubt that before many
years the government will corne to the conclusion that, after aIl, there is more In
the subject that our esteemed friend !rorn
Middlesex has introduced than was recogTo a large extent. I si-ree
nized nt ifirst.

wMt the bon. leader of the opposition lu
what he bas said about the civil service.
We condemned the unfortunate position of
the civil service for years while we were
ln opposition In the other House ; yet, notwitbatandlng the fact tbat the present government have been ln office for over ten
years, no legisiation bas been Introduced
to put our civil service on a soiid footing.
I may be becanse tbey are overloaded
witb other work.
Hon. Mr. POWER-There is a commisjalon. which 1a about to subrnit a report on
which, I hope, legfisîstion will be founded.
in.i.MMLENSil1a
lb
saylng that no such Bill bas bitherto
Yesr after year ln the
been introduced.
estimates we find appropriations made
.notwitbstandlng anything ln the Civil Service Act'
TýhIs happened under the
former governrnent, and It is happening
under the present goveriiment, and yet no
effort bas been made to put the civil service on a proper and substantial footing.
if vacancies were filled by promotion, or
i some other way thnn by the present system, the governrnent would not be worried
and annoyed constantly by applicants for
an kinds of positions.
I believe one-haif
Qf the Urne of each minister of the Crown
Io taken up reeiving deputatlolis and listening to urgent appeals from members
supporting the administration, for appointmenti of ail kinds.
Now, if we had a
proper Civil Service Act whereby Our civil
service would be placed la a position similar to that o! the civil service of England,
or even of the 'United States, tbere would
be a decided Improvement, and I hope the
goverament will be able to give their atIf we had
tention to that rnatter soon.
under secretaries, the probabilities are that
thie matter would bave been attended to
Sornething bas been said about
long mgo.
the expensiveness o! sucb a sYstemn If It
-were introduced, and the bon. Secretary of
State objected very poIntedly teo ur copyIng anytbing frorn the United States conI am very sorry that we have
stItution.
I arn very
copied go rnuch fromn them.
sorry that the government allowed themnselves to be driven into nppointing a coinmission to Investigate the lite liul-ance

208

SENATE

gone to see iniflisters
business of this country, simply because frequent occasions
gone Into tbe and couid not get near them. You might
the State ot New York had
wlth a row of men wait-same thing and crippled 'virtually the Bit for two hours
of that state. lng to get an Interview, and you had to
whole lte insurance business
tura came. I have gone to
Now, our govçrnment appointed a commis- walt tili your
of any rot- the Mialster of Justice, who has been reNot on account
-Sion-why ?
connection with this matter.
tenness ln the 111e Insurance business of ferred to la
com- Re Io now Ohief Justice of the Supreme
,Canada. Not a single lite insurance
I have walted for
pany ln Canada has falled to, pay Its obli- Court of this Dominion.
and- after ail, when I was admitted
gations In fifty years ; yet simply because hours,
he sald: I can only give
the State of New York had gone exten- Into his presence,
you to or three moments, I amn just golng
-sively into a criticlsm, of Its Ilfe Insurance
I have no time to talk over these
-companles, we have plunged Into the ex- tocnil,
ersnaie
mater nw.Isyta
pense of a commission which will cost tlhe
should not be subjected t0
[pole
lE have no 0f th
country probabiy $30,OOO.
They should get an
doubt the government were honest and sin- those experiencem.
to thoroughly opportunlty of presenting their vlews, and
cere, that they were auxious
proposed by my hon. and esInvestigate the lite insurance business of if the system
under secre- teemed f riend was adopted, If you could
-If we had 'had an
'Canada.
chiet you couid get the Under
tary t0 the Department of Finance who not get the
connect- Secretary before whomn you could lay your
thoroughiy understood everything
that way you would recelve
ed wlth 11fe insurance in Canada, the pro- case and ln
wouid attention. For my part, I do not profess
babilities are that that commission.
to judge as to whether the sysneyer -have been appointed, and that large to be able
temn we have heard outllned would on the
-expendIture of money would have been
I cannot say. I am
There would flot have been a ne- whole be desirable;
saved.
lmpressed with the speech 0f
favourably
-cessity for It.
the hon, gentleman. I thlnk he lias clear]y
this Under polnted out that some change 1.9necessary,
Hon. Mr. POWER-Wouid
This House cer*Secretary, who would have to cover a great and I týlnk sO' myseif.
to know more talnly should do more 'work than It le do4deal of ground, be Ilkely
the press of the counabout Insurance than the superintendexit of lng. Taiking about
try. 1 take little stock la the press--just
-Insurance?
as lîttie stock as they takre ln us. The publie
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-He mlght. The press do not appear f0 take any lnterest ln
-superintendent of Insurance le enfirely un- the Senate. Posssibly It Is because we are
der the direction, no doubt, of the Mlnlstir flot e1ected, and have not f0 appeal to our
consttuelcy and stand the test of public
,of Finance.
way, but I do not know.
Hon. Mr. POWER-So would the Under opinion ln that
The press has ceased f0 take any lnterest
-Secretary be.
la the Senate jusf because fhey thlnk the
ln.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-But the Minister Senate la not worth faklng any Interest
up wlth an enormous The better way Is to endeavour to make
-of Finance le loaded
a stand
amount of work whlch prevents hlm glvlng ourselves felt ln future by taklng
it that would be with regard to public matters that wlll draw
that personal attention to
regard
given by an Under Secretary. If he had aui the attention of the press. With
give hie per- to the proposition of the hon. Secretary of
Under Secretary, who would
elected, I
-sonal lime and attention to the consideratirn State as to this House belng
know that unquestionably if le the popular
of these thingB, hie mlght have a knowled4te
of the elec-of these matters. I say from my experleilce vlew f0 take. Certain sections
perhaps tors of this country fhlnk the Senate should
-and I tblnk my experience le
I do not
nothlng different from the experlence Of be abollshed or made elective.
know that you are going to, accompllsh nny
-others-if you go to see any Of the MIDIsif elective, aifers, you-flnd them so buslly engaged that great good If you do make
thotigh It would be the popular move to
you cannof bave fen minutes wlth fhem.
at ai]. 1 amn
Tbey are loaded up wlfh work. 1I have on1 make if any change is ni-de
Hlon. Mr. MeMULLEN.

U

JANUARY 30, 1908
au ILlb
snor tine,

IULU

the~

rn
on is queôsoa
to-ay
satisfied it wili receive the endorsenlent of seh o
the electors te eleet ail men who represent forth before many years.
theni ini pariament, and If we arc te reHlon.- Mr. POWER moved the adjourntain the Vecond chamber they would lihe
of judglng of those ment of the debate until Wedneadliy next.
to have the opportunty
No doubt
men who shall occupy ses a It.I
The motion was agreed to.
about that. It la the popular view to take;
MICHEL SIMEON DELISLE.
but whether la the Interests cf the country
I amn net persuaded. I«
INQUIRY.
It ls the best view,
belleve tliat under the systeni that bas been
The orders of the day belng called:
lu vogue ince confederqtion, If lt were
By the Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY:
properly admlnistered, a great many desiinquire of the governmentThat he
be brougbt Into this House merchm.nt, wiil
rable men couid
and, inoe 1M0, member of the
who would neyer contest a seat, who have parish of Portneuf, in the county of Portneuf,
and, ince 1_0j meier of the
net the time ner the desire nor the ambi- merchant, Gommons. at any time aiter the
Rouse of
tion te meek a constitueiidy and go through general eleotions of 1896, reoeived any sum cf
aIl thie turmoil and worry that men have money whatsoever coming from the federal
te go through la order te get a seat lu par- treasury ? when, how mucli, aud for what o2. If mo,
Ilament; and an election for a seat In thtis ject at each tume P
lieuse wlll be more arduous tir. n l the
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Thýfis question would
otlier, because the terni wihl Ia ail probaInvolve anx inquiry froni ail the departments,
bility be longer, and the constituency larger.
it is quite Impossible for me to have
The longer the terni and the larger the ,and
a thorougli searcli made In theni ail. If the
constituency the more onerous and trylng
moves for an order of the
wvli le the experience cf the man 'who seeka hon. gentleman
leuse it wiil go through the routine. and be
the position. I do not know that It woul
the departments, and in that 'way
be any better. My Impression 'is that If sent to ail
the information wiil be obtained; but It
the present systeni were.properly adminisbe Impossible otherwise to furnish
tered, this Chamber would do as ellicieni would
Il speciflc information unless the hon. gentlework under the present organizatloli as
man wouid give me smre dlue.
wili do If it la made elective.
Hion. Mfr. LÂNDRY-With the consent of
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-I rise tb a peint
ef the
befere the Flouse does the Flouse, I wiil make Wes an arder
ft order. The motion
Ilouse.
aot demi with the constitution cf tee Senate,
tns
o.M.SOT«eicab
and ail these remarks are cleariy out cf
dealing with a sub- formed lnto a motion fer a returu.
order~ because they are
ject that la not before the Houge. WVe have
REJECTION 0F BILLS BY THIE
another motion which deals' with lt.
COMMONS.
BOWELLr-TheMTON
Hon. Sir. MACKENZIE
hon. member la only foliowing the leader.
- lon. Mfr. ROSS moved.
That an order of the Senate do issue for a
replylig te
Hon. Mfr. MCMULLEN-I arn
each
MY bon. return showing: 1. Titie cf Homse Bill by years
lien. Secretary cf State.
the*
cf Commons,
the Senate te the
friend mhould bave been bore unil caIied ment by1867 to 1907 inclusive, that was (a>
from
Ëouse cf Commons, or (b)
the- Secretary cf State to order. My hon. amueaded by the
f riend' froni Middlesex has launched his rejected.
2. Titie cf each Bill by years ment up by the
bark very eloquently and abiy lu connec- Hloxse cf Commons te the Seonate, frem 1867
that was (a> amended by
tien wîtx tels matter. It la bard toe My te 1907, inclusive, rejected.
the Sonate, or (b)
the country
what reception It may get, ia Secretary of
3. The tetal number of Bis for each year
and la the press, as the hon.
afs abeve to be tabulated in four periods. (a)
inclusive; <b1)1874 te 1878, inlu.
State lias- sald; but after ah, very oftefl 1867 te 1873, te 1896, first session, inclusive
Impertant mat- sive; (c> 1879
smail things rise te become
(d) 1896 te 1907, inclusive.
ters. A cieud net larger than a man's band
Tbe motion was agreed te.
storm In a very
may bring on a terrifie
BEavisEn EDITION
14

SENATE
CIVIL SERVICE INSURANCE RETURN.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Before the orders
of. the day are called, I desire to direct the
attention of the Honse to a matter to whlch
I 'referred sorne days ago wlth regard to
the return whlch the law requires to be
laid before this Hlonse withln thirty days
atter the House meets respecting civil
service insurance. I asked my hon. frleud
a week or so ago wlth regard to It, and be
said he would call attention to IL I desire
to read the law on the subjeet, lni order
that the House may know how we are
treated. Last year thîs matter was Up and
It was found that this return had been sub)mltted to the House of Qommons and had
flot been submltted to the Senate, and after
many stroug expressions on the subject, the
return was brought down. The Civil Service Insurance Act of 1893, section 17,
rends as follows:

will lay it on the table to-morrow. I called
their attention to the fact that it was lmproper and wrong not to prepare it in the
eRrl y part of the session.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Wby la the law
dlsregarded?
SOOTT-It la very wrong.
eHon., -M.
When my hon. friend called attention to It,
I drew the attention of the departrnent to
the matter, and they prepared the copy.
I wll l ay It on the table to-morrow.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWULL-I arn
surprised that the bon, gentleman from
MarsMdeld la disappolnted that the provisions of the law should flot be carried ont,
when -we consider the conduct of the government ln the past. I remember callng attention to a flagrant vlolation of the law
wlth reference to the coastlng trade. The
answer my hou. friend gave was that they
consldered It ln the luterests of the country
to do lt, and they did not care what the law
was. I do not see why he should be surprised that whénever the opportunity presented ltgeif, or they thought theýy could
gain a little publie eclat with certain People, they treated the law wlth coiit&fpt.

The superintendent of insurance shai,
within three months after the close of each
fiscal year, prepare for the minister a statement showing the amount received for premiums during the last fiFcal year for ail in
surance contracts entered. into previous to the
said date, the amount of ail sums paid in
conneotion therewith during the said period,
aleo the number of new contracta entered into
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I can scarcely believe
since the previous statement, and the gros. I was guilty o! so gross a dlscourtesy.
amount thereof, with such further details and
particulars as are deemed advisable.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWFjLL-The
The minister shall lv thée said stateirent
bef or. parliameut within thirty days after bon. gentleman 'wlll see the reply he made
the commencement of the session thereof next ln the Debates--thnt It was ln the Interests
after the date of the saîd statement.
o! the couutry- that permission had been
On the 3Oth July it had becorne the duty given for the coasting, though It was dlof the superintendeut to prepare the state- rectly contrary to the provisions of the
ment for the mînister. I cannot imagine It law ; but because ho thought It was lu
has not been prepared. Withln tlîirty days, the luteresta o! the trade at the time, lt
after the meeting of parliament, it was the rnattered not wbRt the law was-or words
duty of the minister to lay this return be- to that eff ect.
fore parliament, and still we will have to go
Hon. M.r. SCOTT-We are revoking
on begging and pleading for It, because we orders lu councîl wbich were made durlng
bave flot got It aild we are treated with ai)- the time my hon. frlend was lu the cabinet,
solute coutempt.
and some more recent ones, givlug the prîvilege to foreigu countries to coat along
-Hon. Mr.SCOTT-My hon. friend is
our territory.

that would bave to be laid ou the table.
When rny bon. friend asked about it, I applied to the departmeut for it, and they sa id
It had not been priuted. I said, ' Surely yo
have made a copy of it,' and they said tîîey
liad. aud I said ' make me a copy,' and they
said they would, and 1 got a copy, aiîd 1
Hou. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The occasion referred to was wheu the foreign bottoms
came into Fort William and Port Arthur,
slîlppingt grain tà other Canadian ports outt hose ports.
sief
BOWELLHon.
Sir MACKENZIE
Tiiere is 110 order lu council setting aside

JAXUARY 31, 1908
is flot one vacant at the presenut ln the province of Quebec; therefore tlue propositi.,n
is flot susceptible of being carrled out.
from Washuington, There were times in this chamber during
returned
deputation
when mutil arrangements woere miade ou the period from 1874 to 1878, when 1 bad
this snbject ; but that was done by par- the satisfaction of hnving a French colLetellier de St. Just,
league, at one tie
liament and not by order lu councl.
and again Hon. Alphonse Pelletier; then 1
tlnk la the succeeding goverument for sonie
BILLS INTRODUCED.
years there were oniy two Euglish speakBill (16) An Act respecting tlue South
iug mnlsters, If my memory ls correct, Sir
Ontario Pacific Bailway Coinpany.-(Hon. Alexander Campbell and Hou. Mr. Aikeus,
Mr..McMullen.)
and changes took place froni time to time
Bill (22) An Act respecting the McLeod, durlng the eiglhteeu years. Sometimes there
was a third member bere, who was usually
Carson and Montana lluhiway Conmpanya member without portfolio. So that there
(Hon. Mr. Talbot.)
Bill (34) An Act respecting the Lindsay, is no ruie about It. I arn advIsed by some
Bobcaygeon aud Poutypool llailwa3- Coin- one who bas n better meiluory than 1 have,
that Hon. Mr. Angers was bere for two or
pauiy.-(Hon. Mr. MclHughb.)
three sessions, but during the other years
Bill (39) An Act respecting tlue Kamnloops
there w-as no Freuch minister.
and Yellowhlead Pass Railway Compny(Hon. 'Mr. Bostock.)
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hon. Mr. DesjarThe Senate adjourned nutil 3 o'clock to- dins w-as minister while lu the Senate.
the law as it existod lu the statute-book.
The law regulating the coasting, so far as
It atTected wreckiug, was cbanged after the

morrow.

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-He rau sud
defeated.

a

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Urne will corne
w-heu there wI be a Frenehli ninister here,
THE SENATE.
I cannot say the period. As varying conOTTAWA, 1URDAY, January 31, 1908. ditions occur lu political life, no doubt
there wIil be times ln the future as there
The SPEAKER took the Chair ut Three
bave been lu the past wvben there wllI be
o'clo.ck.
a French minister lu the Senate.
Prayers and routine proceediugs.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose the uneIN THE rnory of my bon. friend serves hlm better
FRENCH PREPRESENTATION
in regard to matters whicui nappeued a long
SENATE.
time ago than lu regard to recent events.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Would my hon.
Hou. Mfr. LANDRY inqulred:
frlend. say to wbat proposai he alluded lu
Is it the intention of the goverument to the early part of his remarks? I took these
work at the reform of the Senate by giving proposais to refer to sonie measure conternthat branch of parliament a completer aud
juster representation in the executive, sud piated by the governunent which is to be
to the summonoing to such representation men brougbt dowu aud under w-hich this reprebelonging to the French element of the sentation possibly migbt be given.
Dominion ?~
lion. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The distribution of
mînîsters between the House of Coxumons
Hon. Mm. LOUGHEED-To w-bat proaud the Senate depends entirely upon the posais dld my hon. friend allude?
be
existing conditions. At present it %vould
Hon. Mfr. SCOT1T-I did not make auiy
very luconveuleuit to uneet the views exAs nearly es I cau recollect,
luvolve proposais.
pressed lu this inquiry. It would
nirbers Of the goverument lu the other what 1 said was that the distribution of
House x-ho represent constituencies, resigu- members of the governmelt in the House
ing and acceptiug a senatorship, and there of Coninions aud iu the Senate depen<loid

SENATE
on the conditiôns wbjch existed at the time;
that If it became necessary to have a miniister from the province of Quebec speaking
the French language, ianfixe Senate, it would
Involve a minister Ia fixe other chamber resignlng bis seat lu the House of Commons.
I do flot thlnk that would be good, sound
pollcy. 1 said that Iu the past, conditions
had fromn time to time changed, and that
when I first had the honuur of holding a
seat la this chamber on the government
side, la 1874, and for souxe years later, that
I hiad the pleasure of a French colleague,
Hon. '.%r. Letellier de St. Just, for a year or
two. He became Lieutenant Governor, and
later on Hon. Alphonse Pelletier occupied a
seat bere. In 1878 or 187q, when the goverilment changed, and for some years after,
as far ns my memory goes, there w-ere two
English speakiag gentlemen, Sir Alexander
Campbell and Hon. Mfr. Aikens, and that it
w-as only at a mnore recent period, nnd thien
for a comparatively short time, that there
was a Frenchi gentleman w-ho represented the
Frenchi element from the province of Quebec w-ho hadl the honour of n sent ia tlils
chamber.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. f riexîd
Is not possessed of very great fertility of
resource, otherwise it might readily occur
to hlmn that the difficulty is not so formidable as lie bas endeavoured to point out.
On former occasions w-e have had hon, gentlemen occupying positions lu this chamber
representing the goverument without portfolio. 1 would refer my hon. friend to the
present Minister of Inland Revenue, w-bo
for a number of years represented the government on the floor of this House without
portfolio ; but If hon, gentlemen on the
otiier side w-ho reprEý,ent the province of
Quebec are s0 obedient as not to press their
dlaim for cabinet representation on the floor
of this House, of course I suppose the House
w-i sulimit to It. But I w-ould point out to'
my hon. friend that w-ith very great propriety and great service and acceptability to
this Senate, there are Frenchi speakiag seuators f romi the province of Quebec w-ho,
without portfolio, conld verF w-eh represent
the goverament here nnd be of great service lu the transaction of the public business in matters w-hich are not properly
transacted now.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT.

APPOINTMENTS TO THE SENATE.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. WILSON, la the absence ef
il-on. Mr. Domville, moved:
That an order of the Senate do issue for a
return showing the appointments to the
Senate fromn confederation. with date of appointment and date when they ceased toi be
senators.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I assume tbat the
lion, gentleman f romn Rothsey w-ishes thiat
retura to include those wbo.w-ere appointed
at the time of confederation also. lu order
to make their returu complete they sliould
be Included.
The SPEAKER-It
ation.

is

froin

confeder-

The motion w-as agreed to.
TITE LIEUTENANT GOVERNORSHIP
0F QUiEBEC.
INQUIRY.
lion. '.%r. LANDRY-Before the orders
of tbe day are calied, I w-ould ask the goveramient if anything lias been doue to appoint a successor to the Lieutenant Governor of the province of Quebec, w-bo'e
termi of office expires to-day? To-morrow
wiil be the first day of a third terni for th-3
present Lieutenant Governor, or the first
of a termi of a nem, Lieutenant Governor
I suppose the goverufor our province.
ment has taken some steps in the matter.
In 1903 the' prcsent Lieutenant Governor
w-as coutluued iu office by au order In council, dated the lst of February, but it w-as
only made public in July. Perlhaps there
is an order lu council passed to-day. nind
w-e sbould like to hear w-bat it is before
July or September next. I suppose tlue
goverument have doue sonietbing. and 1
think they' slould take us inito their confidence.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I aix muncli obliged for
thue information. 1 w-as not aware that the
torm of the Lieutenant Governor of QueI think the constitubec expires to-day.
tion m-111 take care of the extension of the
term, if the government neglect it.
lion. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
lion, gentleman lbas forgotten tbe contention

JANUARY 31, 1908
of the late Minister of Justice when. lu this
Hause, that tbey bad no autharity to continue any one ln the office of Lieutenant
Goveruor wlthout a new appointment. Wbat
my lion. friend from Montmagny wants to
know le, If the government propose ta gîve
the present Lieutenant Governar af the province of Quebec a third terni, or whether
that bas been consldered. Perhaps the bon.
gentleman 'will reply that the matter Is receiving serious consideratian.

first command, whicli is to be charitable.
I remember tbat wben I was young I was
taugbt to put away a cent or postage stamp ta be sent ta China for the relief af cbildren In the desalate condition
I
that these cbildren lu Toronto- are la.
think It Is a case wbicb should appeal ta
the present goverament They should corne
ta the rescue af those starvlng and dylng
people. Wau]d It nat be proper for us ta
ndd ta the list af standing committees, aiready possibly lang, that my hon. friend
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn sorry ta say that fram Middlesex proposes, a standing coingive that reply on this occasion, mittee ta look aiter the starving ones in
I cant
because It lias nat been considered-it bas the city af Taronto ?
nat been referred ta.
TIIIRD READINGS.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Perhaps the government is waltlng untîl the Repubicani
Bill (24) Ani Act respecting the West Onconvention ln the United States decides
tarla Pacific Railway Campany.-<Hon. Mr.
whetber the third terni of Roosevelt wli
McMuiIen.)
establisb a precedent.
Bill (26) An Act respectlng the Manitoba
and Nortbwestern Railway Campany af
DESTITUTION IN TORONTO.
Canada.-<Hon. Mr. Watson.)
Mon. Mr. POfIIER-Before the orders
Bill (13) An Act respecting the British
af the day are called, I wish ta draw the Columbia Sautheru Railway Compan.attention of the Hause ta the following de,4- (Hon. Mr. Bastack.)
patcb whicb appeared in yesterday"s 'EvenBill (14) An Act respecting the Campbelling Journal',
fard, Lake Ontarlô and Western Ralway
Hundred babies starved ta death.
Belth.)
Company.-(Hon. M.Nr.
A terrible taie of suffering in Toronto. Many
Bill (15) An Act respecting the Esquirnaît
mothers also are destitute and starving.
Toronto, January 30.-Over one hundred and Nanalma Railway CampanY.--(Haln.
babies have starved ta death in Toronto Mr. Bostack.)
since New Year's day.
Within the last twenty-four heurs, said
Miss Cook, -bible woman of the Nursing-at- OCCIDENTAL- FIRE INSURANCE COMHome, Taronto Mission Union, in an interPANY BILL.
view, ,'the nurses have had eight cases of
littie ones in a starving condition. In every
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
case the fathers are ont of wark.'
The reports of the nurses show that an
Han. Mr. WATSON muved the second
appalling condition of absolute want obtains. readlng af Bill (B) An Act respecting the
Ia ail lier twenty-two years of experience in
the work in Toronto, Miss Cook states, there Occidental Fire Insurance Campany.
has been nothing ta approach it. Since the
cnes have perished from starvation, or from
Han. 'Mr. LANDRY-I cail attention ta
the fact that their mothers were starving. the fact that Items six ta twelve on the
in this city of gaod works and great opportunities.
Order Paper are flot printed ln English.
This le a distresslug airain. That any
city af Canada should allow children to
starve wauld be sbocking, but ta hear of
sucb a state af things ln Toranto is appalling. Hlow daes it bappen tbat the city ai
Toronto, wbicb s0 very justiy enjoys the
reputatian ai being our banner city for religion and gaad maraie aud everything that
goes towards making a Christian city, bas
in Its decalogue forgotten to Include thE

Hon. Mr. WATSON-They are prlnted ln
French.
Han. Mr. LANDRY-But not in English.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-We are nat abjectIng.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I dlaimi the rigbt ta
bave theni prlnted. In English, as well as la
French.

SENATE
The SPEAKER-Does the bon. gentle- i lie taken into the confidence of this govman objeet to the second reading on.that erniment, and why the Senate should not
be taken into thelr confidence, and whyv
ground ?
public staternents of that nature should be
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Certainly.
given to tbe press without being given to
The SPEAKER-Is lt the pleasure of the parliament. The hon. leader of this House
House, that Items six to twelve en the or- gave us an assurance the other day that
der paper stand adjourned until Tuesdas nothlng hiad boen done; that the matter bad
not been taken up, that no one bad tbought
next ?
of ItL Really If that Is the case, thîs desItems six to twelve on the order pap-ýr patch is altogether erroneous. If not, the
were allowed to stand until Tuesday next leader of the House does not know what
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The hon. gentleman took place la council.
is mistaken, as far as thîs Bill is concerned.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I mnade a statement
I bave the Engiish copy lu my band.
the other day, ivhich I tbought the House
was bound to accept. I do not thlnk that
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday,
I ain to be held responsîble, or that any
February 4, at three o'cloclc.
member of the government ls to lie held responsible for wbnt appears in the press.
Tliey nnturally draw their own inferences.
The reporters are pretty clever men. They
THE SENATE.
have to keep the public supplled wlth news,
and, uaturally, wlll Invent, «where they have
OTTAw&4, Titesday, February 4, 1908.
not the actual facts. One cannot find
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tlirpe fault wlth them. It ls not open to criticism. No one believes the papers are the
o'clock.
Bibles of Vhis country. They are generally
Prayers and routine proceedings.
ln advance of public opinion. But I made
whicli this House
APPOINTMENT 0F LIEUTENANT GOV- a statement ln Vils House
bas accepted, and'whlch they should accept
ERNOR OF QUEBEC.
ns true. The inatter bas îlot been thouglit
INQUIRY.

of.

>

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the Orders of
WESTERN ALBERTA RAILWAY CO.1%the Day are called, I should like to cal]
'PANY BILL.
of the government to a desthe attention
FIRST READING.
patch which appeared ln the 'Toronto Globe,'
sent from the capital, and which reads as
Bill (K> An Act respectlng the Westerii
follows
Alberta Railway Company.-<HMon. Mr.
Sir Louis Jette.-Government have no inten- De Veber.)
tion of appointing new governor.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSONý%-Before Vis Bill
(Special despatch to the Globe.)
to know
Ottawa, February 2.-lt is not the inten- Is read the first time, I should Ilke
tion of the governinent to take any action, v'hEther It deals wlth a new rallway, and
in the near future at least. looking ta the if so whether lt contains the declaration
appointaient of a new lieutenant governor for that that work is for the general advantage
Quebec, to replace Sir Louis Jette, whose
second five-year terni as lieutenant governor of 4Caniada ? It le only at the first reading
has just expired. According to the statute ot a Bill Vint we cau put Vie rule juto
a lieutenant governor continues in office until
a successor is appointed. The government operation on tlmat point. and. therefore,
see no reason why Sir LUis shouid not con- wlieti a menîber introduces a Bill hie should
tinue to represent the Crown at Quebec.
It contains this deI would ask the goverrnment whetber
there is any truth ln the statemnent given
to the Liberal papers of the country, and
which was refused this House on Friday
last ? I do not sec- why the papers should
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

telI the House whether
claration or not.

The SPEAKER-This
tension of time.

Bll is foi, an e:x-

The Bill was read the first timie.

FEB1UAIR

4, 1908

1

Hon. Mr. SCOTT.1-I bave flot rend the
debate to whieh the lion. gentleman bias referred. it bas uot been called to rny attention. The matter was brought up at the
time tbe Manitoba representatives were
bere ln connection wltb the Increase of the
Indernlty. Thiere were reasons wby, at
that tirne, tbe governrnent dld flot sce their
way to Increase the boundaries; but It bad
flot been lost to vlew. Manitoba bas flot
been suffering to any extent, and will corne,
ln due time, to Its fuir sbare of tbe lands.
Tbey are trying to makze a grievauce of It
Hon. Mn. SCO'1-It 'nul corne down lu
nevertbeless.
dne season. As we ail k-now, thc House
of Commons is fully occupied just now,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED--Constitutionally
buvlug a pretty large bill of fane. Tbey this gov ernent would flot have a rlght to
really have not got through anythlng yet, Introduce a Bill extending the boundarles of
luaving been occupied iu dlscussing the Manitoba uuless negotiations bad taken
Frencb Tneaty, the Insurance Bill and other place with, and tbe consent obtained of the
linportant matters.
governrnent of tbat province on tbe subject.
'rhe Bill relating to tbe boundanies of
Manitoba wl1 corne lu due tîrne.
Hon. Mr. SCO'PT-For eigbiteen years the
government of rny bon. friend ignored tbe
Hon. Mn. FERGUSON-'Iben wby sbould
extension of the boundarles of Manitoba,
It not be Introduced lu this House ?
aud gave themn a very arnali slice. Wblle
Hon. '.nI. LOUGHIEED-'May I ask ry tbey were about It, tbey rnight as well bave
bon. frieud If any negotiationa have taken given a reasonable extension. We have not
place betiveen this goverument and thc noticed tbat Manitoba la sufferlng any segovernent of Manitoba respcctlng thc ex- nious dlsadvantftge ln the lntenlm. She wIll
tension of those oundarles 7
get bier proportion of tbe vacant lands lu
due season, I bope thîs session. I do not
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Noue very 'recently. know tbut anythîng will Interfere wlth It
Witbln a few days, a petition lias been sent thus session. Wbetber It corne a 'week, or
lu. I do not know wbetber It bias been cir- a fortnîgbt, or a imontb bence makes na
It gives the difference, and It wll be assented to, 1
culated arnong Uic senators.
neasons for the extension of the boundary
both east'ward and northward. Bcyond that
I ar n ot aware that there bas been any
Hon. Mn. BERNIER-Then wernay go on
recent correspondence.
for ail time to corne witbout an extension
of tbe boundaries.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-A few weeks
ago, iu a debate whlcb took place lu the
Hon. Mr. FERGt(SON-Ifl view of the
Manitoba legisiature, a staternent: was made staternent made by the hon. senator fnom
ou the uýesponslbiIlty of thc goverument Calgary on the autborîty of thc governthat thc Dominion goverument had abso- ment of Manitoba, ls It the Intention of the
lutely lgnored the dlaims of .Mtantoba-bad govennment to hold further conrespondence
not discussed the question wlth tbern, and, wîtb the governmient of Manitoba betore t~
lu fact, bad refused to consider the varions Bill Is'introduced ?
representations made frorn time to tirne as
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot think Sa. i
ta the extension of their boundaries. I undenstand. Inferentially, from 'wbat rny hon. do flot see any grounds or nccessity for IL.
frîend says, that a Bill la lu course of praHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Is the staterneut
paration, and will be introduced at an early
correct that the Manitoba goveranent bis
period, dealing with tbe boundaries a! the
nat been consulted ?
prxovince.

TUE BOUNDARIES 0F MANITOBA.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-Before the Orders
of the Day are caîled, I should lîke to
inquire of the leader of the governament If
we may expect at an early date the introduction of a Bill respecting the boundarles
et Manitoba ? It was fonesbadowed ln the
speech from the throne, and 1 should like
to koiv hen Uic government wIll be prel)ared ta submit the Bill.

SENATE
Hou. Mr. SCO'T-I amrn ot aware. I Dominion lands. The changes that are in
did flot piy any attention to the statement the present Bill compared with the law are
AI! I say ls that the policy of the govern- practically only verbal, and it would be
ment is to extend the boundarles of Mani- more convenient to point out any -change
toba nortb, and the matter will corne before when the Bill is ln committee. There Is
no new principle Involved. ln lt; il. Is simthe House ln due season.
ply codifylug the law and maklng it n
separate Act, spart frorn the Dominion
SURVEYS 0F PUBLIC LANDS BILL.
Lands Act.
SECU.NJJ READING.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-May I ask ny
Hon. Mr. SC OTT rnoved the second readhon. friend whether the Bill that bie Is now
Ing or Bill (9) An Act respecting the surpresenting to the House Is materlally dlfveys of the Public Lands of the Dominion,
ferent from the one which this House passe-d
and the surveyors entltled to make sucb
repealed ?
hon, gentlemen Iast yeur, nnd nfterwards
He said :As
surveys.
kcnow, the surveys of ]ands ln the NorthHon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I do not really
west have been governed by part of what think there is any difference.
is called the Dominion Lands Act. The first
Hon. .Mr. PERGUSON-It is practicahly
eighty sections of that Act are nearly ail
?
taken Up wvith directions as to the mode the sane BiII-verbatirn
or surveying and the qualifications of surHon. '.%r. SCOTT-Yes.
veyors. Last session the Interlor DepartHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I uîiderstood as a
mient decided that it would be more convenient for thern if the two subjects were reason for our repealing the Act, whichi we
separated; that Is, If a Bill were introduced did hast year after havlng passed it, was
confined entirely to the classification of the because the governrnent had laid aside for
snrveyors, their mode of exarnination, their the time being their Dominion Land Act,
tirne of service and mode of making sur- which was the handmaid of the Surveyors'
veys. A Bill dealing with the subject was Act.
introduced and went through both Houses.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-That is correct.
Ait the saine time a sister Bill regulating
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Has the governthe Dominion lands was about belng introduced, and it was supposed the two would men, up to the present tIrne, introduced
have gone throughi concurrently. After the their Dominion Lands Act ln the House
Bill had passed both Houses, the Interior of Commons or here ?
Department dhanged Its policy In referene
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn quite unable to
to the Dominion Lands Act, and so no ac- answer rny hon. friead on that point.
I
tion was 'taken. An Act was then put thInk the Department of the Interior are
through m-hich repealed the Act we had now considering it, and they have not yet
passed in the early part of the session af- corne to axiy conclusion on the subject.
fectlng the question of surveys and Dom- This Bill will be independent of that at ail
inion land surveyors. The object of the events, when it does corne down.
preseat Bill Is to lay down the prluciple on
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We may be put
which the land shahl be surveyed, the qualifications of surveyors, the length of time to ail the trouble of passing thîls, and be
that the clerks wlli be indentured, the exa- again called upon by the government at
mination to which tbey shahl be subjected, the end of the session to repeal It.
and varions questions ot that sort. I do
-Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I wlll give an
not know that there is anything controver- undertaking we shall not have to repent
sial ln the Bill. It provides tbat surveyors that folly.
from outside countries who bave passed
Hon. Mr. LOUGEMEED-May I ask, M.)
examinations where the test was equal to
tliat of the Dominion-take New Zealind hion. friend for Information with a view tô
and Australia-that surveyors fromn those heing able to discuss tliis more intelligentis
countries might obtain authoi'ity to survey m-iîeil -,%e reacli it at tuie committee stag-e?
Hon. 31r. FERGUSON.

FEBRUARY 4, 11908
He bas referred to, a provision being made
for the admission of surveyors outside
of Canada to practice witbin Canada as
Dominion land surveyors. May I ask, bas
the same consideration been given or bas
any consideration been given to the surveyors that have been duly ad.mitted by the
varlous provinces of the Dominion known
as Provincial Land Surveyors? As I look
at this BIII casually, I understand tbat tbey
are excluded from belng engaged ln the
survey of Dominion lands. Now, it would
appear to me tbat surveyors who have been
admitted ln the varions provinces of the
Dominion, 'who have complied wiith the
legisiation safeguardlng the interests of surveys ln the provinces. sbould certainly b ý
placed ln as good a position as surveyors
coming fromn the different colonies or dependencies of tbe empire.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, hear.
Hon. M~fr. LOUGHEIED-Tbere is no reason why a surveyor admitted to the practice of bis profession ln tbe province of Quebec sbould nlot be quite as qualified a man
to survey Dominion lands as a surveyor
coming from New Zealand or any of the
colonies o! the Commonwealth. There ls
another question upon wblcb 1 sbould like
some Information; and that ls to what extent have the associations made up of Dominion land Surveyors througbout the Dominion been consulted witb reference to the
passage of this Bill? There are varions provisions In it. dealing witb a very important
matter, and it seems to me very desirable
tbat upon tbe discussion of the measure we
sbould bave Information upon questions of
that nature.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In regard to the first
proposition, wbether the surveyors la the
several provinces were to be admltted under this Bill, 1 flnd no provision ls made
for their obtalning permission except after
The explanation
passing an examination.
I have ln reference to it ls tbat the standard ln some provinces is not up to the
standard in the Dominion. That at least
is the opinion of Mr. Deville, whro is the
bend of the survey brandi of the Dominion
1
lands, and lias been for many years.
am cjuite an-are that some of the provinctil
surveyors feel that they bave been rather
sliglhted la h.qving to tiadergo an examina-

tien, after baving passed one, the standard
of whicbi is said to be at least equal to the
standard provided under tbe Dominion
Lands Act. However, we can discuss tliat
more fully when kn committee. The Bill
lias been prepared by a Board who have
liad charge o! the examinations up to the
present time, and they are following on tbe
lunes of the laws wbicb have been passed,
making comparatively few 'changes.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Would my bon.
f riend bring down and place upon the table
0f the House wben this Bill is under disgussion any niemorials wbicb mny have
been received. from Vie varions associations
to whlcb I have re!erred ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
IHon. Mr. YOUNG-Section 21 deals wîtbi
tuai very complaint..
Hon. *Mr. CÂSGRIN-Tbe provincial
land surveyors o! tbe varions provinces ar-%
admitted to practice as Dominion Land Surveyors simply on passing the examination on
tbe federal law, and alse on the manual.
They do nlot bave to pass an examination
on Vie varions branches o! surveying. Tbey
slmply pass an.examination on the federal
law, whlch may be different freim Vie local
law of tbelr provinces. and aise on the systemn by which Vie tonships were laid ont
The system varies non- and then according
to tbe Instructions fromn Vie Minister of the
Interior, and aise as regulated by this Aý_t,
and a manual is prepared, and upon that
manual they have to be examined and bave
to be tiorougbly conversant witb It. Se
that there ls no doubt, If I may put Vie
bon, leader of tbe opposition right, Viat ls
not what the surveyors are complaining of,
Clatise 21 reqrires Vie surveyors to pass an
1
examination under the federal law on ?;,
but clause 22 Wswnbat Is objected to, and 1
may ssy that 1 have read the Bill careful'y
froni one end to Vie other, and there le
-absolutely no reason, go far as 1 can see,
for clause 22. It seenis to ha very loosely
dra!ted anyway; the nieaning o! it ls difficuit to understand, and it ls quite Immaterial to the Bill. Why it is Viere 1 fail to
see. in a marginal note, or a note at the
end of the section, in smail type, it le
explained tbat surve3lrs from. New Zenland and ô5ther parts 0f Ris Majesty's Dom-

SENATE

218

!inio)n would be enititled to bo adîîîitted lieue.
If a student, for Instance in New Zealand,
lad served one year in that country, wh'(n
li- came here le would only have to serve
two years more to complete his tbree years
If the surveyor had. bexut
apprentlceship.
practising in New Zealand two years, lie
could corne here and dlaim the benefit )f
that two years' service. -There are stroug
objections to that clause. If one of these
gentlemen camp. to Canada and practiced for
a wbule and then returned to his own country, it wouild be very difficuit to get posspssion of tbe field notes or books or plans.
He would probably earryr them away witb
him, or leave t-bem here In charge of sorteone who migît be difficuit to find. In thxe
province of Quebec, If a surveyor dies bis
field notes and procès-verbaux must be deposited In an office In the court bouse where
I
reference can always be had to them.
think In Onitario the plans and description
by metes and bounds made by a surveyor
during fils lifetîme, are deposited in the registry office wbere they can be found.,and durIng his Ilfetime lie makes topies of these. in
order te be able to makze fees by furnlshlng
the coples. But the greait disadvantage undier this B3111Is thiat surveyors may corne
liere from otîxer British colonies ln a rush of
work and afterwards leave the country,
and if the field notes of such a surveyor
were needed to re-establlsh seme monument or to decide biow some suuvey was
mnade, they would not be at hand. Surveyors are practlsing la certain districts
l the country, and la thnt district they
are generally .called upou, la case of lawsuits and boundary line disputes to give
evidence. These gentlemen fromn other countries would hardly be available. If t here
siîould be a rush of work for a year or two
tliey would be bere for that period, and
tien probably would go out of the country
and the contending parties would have to
get along as best they could; the plans and
field notes would not be available. There
is strong objection taken to clause 22 by
the surveyors of Ontario, I received a letter
from the Chairman of the Board of Ontario Land Surveyors, Mr. Kirkpatrick, lu
whlch hie complained of this provision, and
:îltbouigb bis complaint may net be exactly
correct, lie does not, appeau to understaud
,clearly whiat clause 22 meaus. ln my opiHon.

MUr. CASGIIAIN.

1 intend to
n'O" t1lîat clase is useless.
iniove la coniaxittee that' It be stricken out.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe hion, gentleman
lias a practical knowledge of thxe subject,
and I shioulil be very glad indeed, and lio?
would confer a favour on the House, If
lic would discuss one or two ef the contelitious points wlth Mr. Devilie. The letter I
recelved from Mr. Deville reads as follows:
This amendmient is intended to apply to a
olass of men who, although well educated
and possessed of the very best qualifications,
technicai as well as practical, are too old to
undergo an examination in school subjects.
In 1900 Âustralia and New Zealand entered
into an agreernent requiring uniform qualifications fromn surveyors, examinations being
held on the samne days everywhere and the
saine papers being given to ail candidates.
Ârticled pupils are required to, serve four
years of wh id two years must be in the
field and the standard of exaniination is
higher than in Canada. Surveyors who have
been admitted anywhere in Australia or ini
New Zealand have the right to practice
throughout these two countries.
Canada was invited to join in this arrangement, but the existence of separate land surveyors' organizatious in every province prevented united action ini the matter. Moreever, it was feît that to increase the terni
of service of articled pupils and to raise the
standard of the examination would further
restrict the number of surveyors, which
weuld be most inconvenient at this stage of
The invitation
the country's development.
had, therefore, -to be declined for the time
being.
In South Africa, land surveyors from other
parts cf the British Empire who have passed
examînations in certain subi eots equivalent
te those prescribed for South African surveyors, are dispensed fromn examination in
such subjects, provided reciprocai privileges
are granted te South African surveyors. The
nalifications required fromn surveyers in
<uth Af rica, are, however, stili higher than
in Australia and New Zealand, se, that Canadian surveyors cannot take advantage of the
privilege of exemption fromn examination.
At the Colonial Conference of 1902, the following resolution was adopted :
That in arranging for the administration
of that portion cf the empire known formerly as the South Âfrican Republic and the
Orange Free State, provision shouid be made
that duly qualified meinhers of the learned
and skilied professions now admitted, and
hereafter to be admitted te practice in the
Dominion cf Canada, the Commonwealth of
Australia and in New Zealand, le allowed
te practice within the newly acquired territories on~ condition of reciprocal treatmeat
in the colonies concerned.
Sir Wilfrid Laurier dissented, pointing out
that thc reciprecity which it was proposed to
establish between the several parts of the
empire, could net even be obtaiaed between
the severai provinces of Canada.
Tint is 1Mu. Deville's explanation cf the
I wolild be verç
necessity fer the clause.

FEBJ1VATY 4. 190S
glad if my lion. friend would take the or>portunîty of discussing it with hlm before
the up u ome
ase cmmitee.Hon.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
wvas read the second time.
SOUTH ONTARIO PACIFIO HRAILWAY
COMPANY BILL.
SECOND REÂADING.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN rnoved. the second
reading of Bill (16) An Act respectlng the
Southi Ontario Pacific Railway Company.
He sald : If mlght be well te explala
this mensure. The South Ontario Rallway
system la a sysfem Intended to give a number of the manufacfuring towns of -South
Ont ario a connection wlth the Canadilan
Pacific Itailway Une. They have had a
Grand Trunk Railway accommodation for
many years, but they have felt the want of
havlng more direct connection wlth the
Canadian Pacifie Railway so as to shlp directly from the factories to the west. Part
of thls system, 1 belleve, bas been constructed, and the prornoters desire f0 extend the time for the construction of this
When If cornes before the Railbrandli.
way ComnIlttee, I shail make every expianation tha «t may be necessary ln order ro
secure the passage of the 'Bill.
The motion was agreed f0 and the Bill
was rend the second time.

REHM AND FRA'NX PATENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Mr. BEITH moved the.second reading of Bill (E) Au Act respecting certain
patent of Prederlck C. Rehm, Elias Frank
and Isidor IFrank.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I fhiuk we should
litive sone explanation of fis Bill.
Hon. Mr. BITII-I arn given to understand that they are simply askiug for an
e.xtension of time.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Thýrlere is one portion of the second clause of this Bill
whlch I think embodies an objectionnblei
provision. If says:
If any person, other than the licensees, has,
ia the period between the expiry of six years
fron t he date of the said paf rt and fhe
twenty-eighth day of Novemer, 1907, commeuced te manufacture, use aud seli in Canada any of the patented inventions covered
by the said patent, such person may continue
to manufacture, use and seli such invention
in as full and ample a manner as if this Acf
had not been passed.
If seems to mie tint the very earliest
date when the prohibition should begin is
af the Introduction of this Bill. The parties who have; wifbin their rigifs, innocenfly maaufactured flils article, or who
began te manufacture If býetween fhe
fwenty-eighfh of November and the day this
Bill was lufrodnced, sbonld be protected.
If ls a inatter of some consequence, and
.we have dlscnssed If before. We are goingouf of our way te help people ouf of dIfficulties thaf fhey have gof into througli
their own neghigeuce, as a rule, and I do
not fhhnk thiaf other persons should be deprlved cf the righfs whhch fhey have nequlr'ed, or of the opportunity te acquire
Ithose rights up te the day thls Bill Is Introduced.

SECOND 1READINGS.
Bill (22) An Act respectlng the Macleod,
Cardston and Montiiua Railway Company.(Hon.. Mr. Talbot.)
Bill (34) An Acf respectlng the Lindsay,
Bobcaygeon and Ponfypool Railway 0Cmpany.--(Hon. Mr. McHugh.)
Bill (39) An Acf respectlng the Kamloopq
and Yellowhend Paso Rallway Comipany.(Hon. Mr. Bostock.)
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is the date menBill (B) An Acf respectlng the Occidentalý tioned by the bon. gentleman the -date of
Fire Insurance Company.-(Hon. Mr. Wat. fhe notice given ln fhe 1Canada Gazette '
son.)
Bill (C) An Act to incorporate the Stan% * Hon. -Mr. POWER-I do not know; uer
dard Accident nud Guaranfee ,Company.- -do I care 'whether If ls or not.
(Hon. Mr. Kerr.)
Hlon. 'Mr. LOUGHEED-An even more
Bill (D) An Act respectiag the Grani
*Important. prînciple ls lnvolved. Very gross
Trunk Rnllway Company ofCanada.--(Hofl
neghligence inusf have been shown by the
Mr. Gibson.)
f0 permit of the fime ln question
Bill (G) An Act respecting the Ensteri i pafantees
going by without mk-ing- an effort to proTrust Cornpaniy.-(H-on. Mr. MacKXeein.l
L. !

SENATE
teet thexaselves. Most Bis wbicli would be acquired between the lapse of the patent
regarded as precedents for tbis legisiation and the tirne of the publication iii the
In reference to the
bave been of the nature wvherein the patent ' Canada Gazette.'
expired a short time prevlously to, the ap- point raised by the bon. senator froin Calplication, througb an oversigbt or some- gary, I think lie will Eind tbat the patent
tlîing of that kind, but In tbis case a long was issued for six years and did flot expire.
time seenis to bave elapsed sInce the expi- until six years after the date of Its issue.
He will fiud, on Inquiry, that the Minister
ration'of the patent.
of Agriculture, wbo is responsible for legisHon. Mfr. YOUNG-It does not say tbat lation of this kind, bas sanctioned Bis of
tbe patent expired six years ago.
a sixallar character to, this froxa time to.
tinie.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It expired lai
1905; but even that shows a great deal of
Hon. 'Mr. KEUR-Thie proposition before
nieglIgence.
the House la tbe principle of the Bill, and
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbe latter part that prineiple bas always been laid down
of the second clause appears to be unwar- wbenever sucli applications bave been made.
It ls' bardly necessary tberefore to go Into&
ranted also.
an argument why, In any case, au extenProvided tlîat this exemption shall not ex- sion of a patent should be granted.
It 1,3
tend to any person who, without the consent
of th e holders of such patent, hias comxnenced for the committee to wbom tbe Bill may be
the construction or manufacture of the said referred to hlear the evidence, wbichi cannut
invention before the expiry of the patent.
be convenlently beard bere.
I daresay the
It would appear to me tbat If anybody reasons for tVils application are ail set fortb
liad begun the manufacture of tbe article lu the petîtion. 'Tbose are inatters wblcfl
lu question at the time of the explry or can be conveniently disposed of In theven before thc time of expiry of the pa- committee. and wbere tbose opposed to tbe
tent, and liad gone on in good faith manu- Bill and tbose whio favour It can be beard.
facturlng that article during the Interixa, After It Is reported back, tbe House caxa
there Is no reason wby the riglits thus se- determine what limitations should be made,
cured sliould flot be protected to quite as wbat we bave to, consider now Is tbe priagreat an extent as those of people who cîple of tbe Bill.
began inanufacturlng tbe article after the
expiration of the patent. They are hoU.,
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Having soîîîe knaowiedge of this subject, I niay say that in mosi
lu the saine position.
cases, if not Ia ail cases, tbe patentee asks
Hon. Mr. £\dHUGHI-Tbis Bill contains
for an extension of tinie largely from thé,
al provision whichi sbould not be allowed. fact that lie bas been unable, from wa'xt
It is retroactive, going back to a period of funds, to, put bis Invention on tbe marbefore tbe passing of the Bill, and givlng ket.
Af ter bis patent expires, some capithe parties the rigbt to, renew agnin. That tallat Nvaats to taire it up, and it is only
Inlatter bas been deait with fully by the natural that tbe patentee sbould ask, for a
House aud lias been allowed in Buis slm- renewal of bis patent. At the last moIlar to dtis. Some mnembers objccted strong- ment, probnbiy, be lias got somebody wbo Is
]y to legislation of this kind on former willing to put money into, the manufactureOccasions, and the Minister of Agriculture of the Invention.
There is no unfair adwvas Invlted to be represented before the vantage taken of anybody, because proviscommlttee when the question came up. His 1011 la made to protect anybody who bas
deputY appeared. and said that they had commenced to manufacture the patented
fnily considcred this clause, and tbat it article after tbe explry of the patent. Tbe
w-as ail that sliould lie required by the 28th of November Is mentioned, because tbat
public; that is that any person w ho iîa<l la tbe date on wbilb lie gave speciai notice
connnenced tbe manufacture hefore the to the depirtment that lie would ask for a
date of the notice la tbe ' Canada Gazette' renewal of bis patent.
It would flot be
0f the application to, revive
the patent. fair for aay third party to corne in aftbr
wouhd be protected la ail the riglits lie liad thaqt date ind manufacture the patentedl
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEÉD.

FEBRITARY 4. 190822
So there is no0 iujustice to any- Dominion Lumbering and Power Developiirticle.
body. Lt is like ai other Bis of this char- ment Company.
-icter, and there is 11o new principle inHIon. '.%r. ELLIS-I observe that this Is
'volved.
a Bill practlcally incorporating a compauy
The motion wvas agreed to, and the BIH1 consistlng of four persons and givlng theni
extensive powers, Includlng the power of exwas read a second tinie.
propriation. I can very well understand
-ST. CLAIR AND BRIE SHIP CANAL why powers of expropriation sbould be
CO'MPANY'S, BILL.
given ta a public company to construct a
ra.llway or some great work In whlcb the
SECON]> REÂ.DING.
interests of the country are couHon. Mr. LOUGHE1ED moved the seconi general
a private underrespecting the cerned, but this ls simply
iveading of Bill (F) An Act
taklng and why sbould they be allowed to
St. Clair and Erie Ship Canal Company. He
land for a private purpose ?
said :This Bill Is ta extend the time to carry take anybody's
out the operations of the company.
Hon. '.%r. BEIQUE-Froni the attention
I have been able ta give to the Bill I thlnk
Hon. Mfr. WILSON-WVe ought to bave
More explauation of this Bill. If J remem- 1 It la drafted on the lines of other Bis
ber correctly, I think it la old enougli to which have become law. It contains ail
record its own vote, and perbaps to be a the safeguards required for the grantlng of
Lt bas beea the pon-ers. However, It wlll be a matter
representative iu this iSenate.
the statute-book for years and years, for the committee to look Into.
upon
and we have no just reason to expect that
Hon. Mfr. CLORAN-Is it a private or
If the tinie is extended again the company punblic Bill ?
wl111 be la any better position lu the future
Hou. Mfr. REIQUE-A prIvate Bill.
than It bas been Ia the past to construct
If the promoter of thls Bill can
the work.
Lion. Mfr. KERR-It la a generai Bill
show us the probabilty of a remote chanca Ia Its powers. It is unlike any Bill that 1
of the canal ever belng constructed, I amn remember coming before parliament lu that
Otherwise respect. Instead of -being a power coin-wuhing to give It My support.
I do flot tblniz ne should grant this applica- pany for a stated locality, this is one with
tion whien thiere la no probability of the a rovIng commission ta go where it llke-3
I know the pro- and pick up any power la the Dominion,
work belng constructed.
tuoters of the Bill ln the House of Co!m- and lu thiat vay It can caver a large aniaunt
mons, aud I do flot wish to interfere wlli of terrltory. I do flot know that we have
them, only It is n sort of burlesque on legiq- ever passed any Bill of the kind. When a
lation to pass this Bill In- Its present shape company's operations are restrlcted to n
wltbout some reason belng given for grant- locality, we can Impose any restrictions
Ing tlie extension.
which may be applicable ta that pnrtlcular
Hon. 'Mr. LOUGHEED-I fancy that the place but whlch might not be *applicable to
want of money Is the real dlfficulty In the other places. This corporation uiay choose
way, and 1 furtlher have no doubt that the to exproprlate any property that It finds
promoters when they appear before the *necessary to carry on Its operations, and
committee will give aIl the Information ne- that seems to be a pretty large order. I
cessary to show that the work Is about ta *only mention this now for the purpose of
brlnging lt to the attention of the hon, genbe cominenced.
tleman la charge of the Bill. If there Is
The motion was agreed to, aud the Bill auy precedent for this leglalation 1 shouldJ
was read the second time.
like to know It.
DOMINION LUMBERING AND POWELl
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I ish to caîl attenr->EVELOPM\IENT COMPANY BILL.
tion to clause 9 which provîdes that the
sE-ICO-N1) READ)ING.
coiupany xuay carry on 'throughout Canada
lon. 'Mr. BEIQUE moved the second read and elsewhere' that is tbroughlout the
ing of Bill (I An Act to incorporate th( world :

222

SENATE

The business of iumibrrers, tinber inerchants aud mauufacturers of timber and
luitiber iii ail its branches, and ail other
business incident thereto or connected therew.ith; carry on, throughout Canada and elsewhere, the business in ail its branches, of
inanufacturing puipwood, puip and paper,
aud ai other business incident thereto; and
also the business of generai merchants, generai manufacturers, millers, cominon carriers,
wharfingers anad warehousemen; construct,
charter, acquire and navigate steamn and
other vesseis between any port and pl1ace lu
Canada, aud au! other port or place ini Canada or eisekhere.

seriously dangerous to the interests 0f the
people of thîs country. I look upon It as
dangerous legisiation, and, unless I get
better lilht, shahl oppose it at every stage.
Hon. -Mr. CÀSGRAIN-Is there anytbîng
in the Bill that couid flot be doue under
ordinary letters patent issued under tiîe
Companies Act ?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The Secretary

0f

State

Is heid responsibie for granting these pow-

ers, and 1 have cut theiu down on many
This Bill is evideutiy one which will at- occasions.
tract the attention of the press of the counlHlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would point jut
try. I do flot understand that wve bave
any power to grant sucb privileges to si to my hon. friend. that uuider paragraphi
9, the company seeks powers
private company to transact business in any (mn)of clause
whlch might be verydaý.gerous indeed. It
part of Canada without the sanction of tie
tramways
provincial aud municipal authorities. There -ives tbem power to censtruct
There is no
requires the company nnywhere lu the Dominion.

is one clause wbich
piaced on the powers
to, get municipal autiiorization, but 1 see limitation whatever
It wouid o»
notlîing In the Bill requiring them to get mentioned lu thiat clause.

very possible for a coînipany of this kind.
authorization from the provincial author!secure
this Bill sbould re- by flot iocaiiziug their works, to
Conqequently,
ties.
powers for carryiug out enterprises wicb
ceive due cousi<leration iu the committee

to whicb it may be referred, and that coinmnittee siîould report to the House the reasons for the de<lslon which It may corne to
ou the Bill so that the House may be able
to, understand wby It was passed or rejected.
Hon. 31r. McM.NULLEN-This legisiatioit
should receive very serlous consid eration.
If the company's operations were to be
limited to auy one province, possibiy it
might flot be so objectionable; but it asks
for uuliited powers throughout the Dominion of Canada. It asks for anything and
everytbing except the rigbt to run a pawushop. We shouid seriously consider wbether It wouid be wise to grant the powers
asked for bere. The United States bas bee'i
suffering seriousiy from nlonopolies, and
have been trying to shake off the shackles.
of those monopolies and find great difflcuity
in doing so. No Bill bas ever been introduced in thi, Chamber which bhas been more
iikeiy to preduce a huge monopoiy thau
this measure. The cempany ask to be permitted to do everyvthing-to run saw milis,
and flour mills, to control wnter-powers.
buiid railwiys-to do anything and every-

have been very strongîs o)pposed before our
I ain ut a ioss lo
committees la the past.
understand why the operations of this coinpany have not been localized, especially ln
view of the fact tbat power of expropriation Is sought under clause 15 of tbe BI11.
In the past we bave biad opponents of Bis
of this kind coming here at very great
expeuse to represent to our comuhittees that
tbey were apprebensive of their righits be~Ing invaded by companies of this character.
I rernember notable instances wbere two or
three charters were applied for fromn British>
Columbia and almost similar powers were
Iu those cases the field of tîelir
solught.
operations was llmited, yet people came here
ai the way froin Britisli Cý)lumbIa at great:
I can very weil
expense to oppose thein.
imagine a compaay of this kiad by securing«

the powers sougbt for lu this Bill exercising the very powers whîcb Nve thea re13y
fused to give to the other applicant.
the ùvasive means adopted lu this Bill, they
could secure powers whicb we bave refusýcd

in the past, and,

wlthout

notice to the

parties 'whose rights were being invaded.
It seems to me this Blill sbouid not pass un-

tii *we have furtber inf'ormnation and lîîtil

applhication is granted. tue operati0u- 0f the conipany are localizMd
If their
thing.
there is no renson w-hv they should flot se tlint if there sire anv parlties in tite
cinitv of whiere those opieratiens nre ta b',
m.1y heoie
hi
eszt.abish a moulopeiy
Tien. '%r. CLOThAN.

FI' BRAIIY 4, 190S
carried ou. wliose intcrests iniglit .be at- Tbere is a very large arnount of Canadin
fected, they shall have full notice of wh9t rnoney-forty or fifty millions-invested lu
Mexico alonie. Tramways tbere bave been
the compauy intend to do.
changed frorn mule to electric power. ElecHon. Mr. BEIQUE-I appreciate the ob- tric power bas been developed througbout
jection wblch is made ln regard to expro- M exico alrnost entirely by Canadian capipriation powefs, but as far as the otber tai.
Companles bave been Incorported
powers are concerned, they are powers wltb capital of seventeen to twenty-five milwhiich are daily granted by letters patent. lions, and have floated their bonds in thé
The hion. Secretary of State bas told us British markets, but so far as the Canadiari
that hie Sées to the curtailing of powt!.s companies are concerned I' am under con1 stant protest to limit the powers asked for.
which, in bis judginent, are excessive.
eau turn up a numuber of notices for letters No doubt they copy eachi other, one haviugp)atent wbich coutain Immense powers- ail tbe powers whic> have been granted te
powers as wlde as those wivich are men>- any other cornpony, not restricting it to al
tioned ln this Bill-the rallway and ex- particular lune of. power. It Is a constant
propriation clauses. I bave nlot notlced source of Irritation and wmorry to me te
that the place wbere tbe coipany intends bave to criticîse so many charters as 1 do.
to locate its business is nientioned ln tli*s
H-on. '-%r. GLORAN-I arn luch pleasel
As far as the Iurnbering or manu- to hear the Secretary of State take the posiBill.
facturing powers are conceinied, 1 do not tion he bas done lu regard to this Bill,
Inowv that It is necessary, but I agree with and especialîr ln regard to the insinuatioit
the suggestion that, as far as the other or innuendo that bis departrnent was preiowers are concerned, they sbould be loca- pared te grant Buis with sucb enormous
lized, and I shall be the first, wheni the mat- powers as this Bill provides for.
I kno«tx
ter Is taken up iii cormlittee, to suggest that the remnarks of this bon. Seniate ivilI
that these powers be curtailed properly.
not go before the country, owing. I suïpHon. Mr. SCOTT-As- I bave been refer- pose, to tbe reporters not being consclous
we bave had la
red to as an authority on issuing lette:ýs of their Imnportrance. But
sirnilar tbings- te
patent, I mnust assure the House tbat 1 the province of Quebec
omnibus Biscertaiuly wvould nlot authorize letters patent deni wltb-wbat we caîl
frorn a frelbt
for ail the purposes inentioned here. There Bills that carry everythiug,
car to a parler car, aud tbe province of
are constant efforts being made by parties
cursed in its legislation
to obtain extreme powers by letters patent, Quebec bas been
ln tue past ten or fifteen years witb the
and 1 amn oblged froin day to day to ct
measures that were put
There Is an order ln council number of tbese
tbem down.
1 do nlot Ilke to bave tbis Bill
tbroughi.
110w that ln the administration of the Cointhe comrnlttee without a record bépanles' Act, companies shall be limited te sent to
ing made by this Hlouse as to its attitude
one purpose only. I admit that the rule 1Q
to such legislation. 'If I arn ln
constantly broken by parties wbo say tb,-y ln regard
order, 1 arn prepared to move the six
I know that thiwy
will utilize the poiver.
înonfhs' hoist, as a protest agaiast the ludo not utilize ail the powers tbey get. Ther(
Is scarcely a power or priviiege you cai troduetion of such Bis lu an honourable
We are not authorized
narne that this Bill does nlot contain, and I body of this kind.
in any way to pass le gislation that Is
think, myseif. as I have said fifty timet
ln distinct contravention of the rigbts of
before to individuals, that it Is contrary t(
î>roviuces and the municipalîties ; and
public poIicy to charter a company to do i the these grounds, If I ami in ordpr, I will
à4n
of things. Sometimes coînpaniei
multitude
If I arn nat
the six nmonths' holst.
- iove
corne to me and say, 1we waut to do husI
order, tbere are other gentlemen w-ho ais-.
of Canada, lu South Americs ln
ness outside
a similar motion before%
fi Mexico,' or v'arious other parts of thi's prepared to make
on the question of
tbey accept Canad laiIl the second reading even
continent. where
its merits or dernerits.
chairter. Wlien such companies give me th.e
The SPEAKFER-Tbe bon, gentleman is,
assurance tha«t tbey will not do business lia
Canadai. 1 have -ranted thjeir applicatior 1.1spe.aklin.- for the secon.d tjine.

SEiNATE
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-If I amrn ot in order, the Standing Orders Conmittee--any case
that is considered to bie under the special
I cannot inove It.
jnrisdiction of the province.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I would like to sulion. Mr. BEIQUE-I would call attengest that ia accordance with Rule 115, thl,;
should lie referred -to the Comm lttee tion to the fact that the lion. gentleman is
Bill
on Standing Orders to ascertain and report late. The Bill bas been read a first time;
wvhether or flot the sald Bill cornes witlini but viithout Insisthng on that, If there
the classes of subjects assigned exclusively were any reason to refer this Bill back to
The thue Committee of Standing Orders I viouli
to the leg-Isiatures of the provinces.
But, clenrly the operaflot object at ail.
clause rends thus :
thons of this 'cornpany are Intended to eç
Auy private Bill shall, if it bie demanded
hy two senators, wheii read the first timne, tend over the whole Dominion. and it clearbie referred to the Committee on Standing ly comes within the jurisdiction of this parOrders, to ascertain and report whether or
I amn ndvIsed thint this Bill bai
not the said Bill cornes within the classes of liament.
subjects assigned exclusively to the legisia- practically been copied f rom a Bill whicli
tures of the provinces.
bas already been passeil by tlils House. anti
If ive refer back to clause 92 of the Brltisli 1 fail to see that there can be any objecNorth America Act, we find that legislation tion to thç priucîple of the mensure.
I
affectlng property and civil rights are as- couid showv lu the statutes any number of
signed exclusively to the legisiature of tIi ncts iii viicli the saine powers lad been
This Bill being for a local work granted.
pirovince.
inlght lie termed as an Invasion of the rights
lo.M.SCOTT-No question about that.
assigned to the provinces, and for that reason I ask that this Bill be referred to the
Hon. 'Mr. CLORÂN-And which have been
Commlttee on Standing- Orders before It fis deaounced by the public press and the peorend the second tirne.
pie of the country.
Hon. NMr.BEIQUE-The hou. gentiemau
Vr. BEIQUE-I appreciate hion. gentieis surely under a isapprebension. There men calling attention to the special clauses,
is lu this Bill no declaration that the workz and it wIli be the duity of the committee to
Is to be dec]ared a work for the generai deal as it should whtluh those clauses.
ndvnntage of Canada.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-There are two points
Hon. -Mr. LANDRY-The rule does not la that clause 115, and I viant themi to lie
Say go.
There is the first
settled lmmedinteiy.
point, 'Any private Bill shah, if it be d2
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Wh7lenever the operagive the naine
thons of a company are lntended to exten<l manded by two senators,e-I
of the hon. gent#lemaa from 'St. Thomas and
to more thnn one province, then it cornes
W~e are two senators, demaadiug
myself.
clearly wltiiin the jurisdiction of this parthat this Bill be referred to the 8itanding
liarnent, and there can lie no reason thereIs it n matter of riglit
Orders Committee.
fore to refer this Bill back to the Standing
or are vie to dlscuss the question here if
The Bill bas been lieOrders Committee.
we have that right or not ? Is it a matfore that committee, and the cornrittee, no
of right that any two senators havingl
doulit, took Into consideration that It was ter
asked that the Bill be referred to the
Ia order In thiat respect ; otherwise it wouldl
Standing Orders Comunittee, it mnust go
have coasidered It Its duty not to report
there ? The second point is this :' When
this Bill.
Wel there might lie
rend the first tirne.'
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I conld understand a"difference of opinion as to the Interpretýithe force of the argument laid dowrî by my tion of this portion of the clause. Does it
liou. friead, if it vins necessary to refer the men when the Bill is presented for the
Bill to the Standing Orders Cornrnttee te first readlng. or vihea il cornes up for thc
see that the Bill should coatain a clause that second reading ? WVhei1 ut cornes up for the
the work is for the generai advantage of first reading, nobody kunovs vihat Is In the
Canada ;but vie are not bound down to thlat Bill. For that reason the Bill is postponed t)
Any Bill can be referreci to a subsequent day to take the second reading,
pliraseology.
Hion. M'. ('LORAN.

FEBRUARY 4, 1908
so that everybody may becorne familiar witli
lts contents, and If aur objection be 'ralsed,
it abould be raised before 't. cornes up 'or
If It is for the first rendsecond readlng.
ing, nobody knows wbat the Bill la, and
the rule becomes an absurdity. It bas to
be printed.

225

it sent to the commlttee before the second
reading.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I do not thiiak tile
right la questioned.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Of course, if tlue hon.
gentleman Insists on bis motion, I think
hie la wlthln tls rights ln so doing; but
perhaps the hon, gentleman will see that
this la reaily not a case wvhere the power
given under rule 115 would be supposed to
ha exercised by a member of this House.
because no one contends that this Bill coules
withixï the'class of subjecta asgned excluslvely to the legislatures of the provinces. It is clearly n Dominion Bill. Lt
proposes various operatioas over tbe who]c
country, and, consequeutîr, %vbilethe hon.
gentleman has a perfect riglit to Inslst on
havlng the Bill referred to the committee,
1 do not.think It Is a riglit lie would be
dlsposed to exercise lu this Instance. There
really ls not any doubt.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Reading Rule 116, ou
the face of It the Bill shows thiat It la a
That la
Bill that applies ail over Canada.
one of the arguments against it-that It is
On the face of it, it la certoo general.
tainly a Bill that applies to the Dominion.
That la quite clear, and that is one of the
objections several hon. gentlemen bave
urged against It, that It did not localize Its
work* ln any particular province. Parliamient has often passed Blmilar Bis, glving
power to the incorporators to do business
But the obln any province they please.
jection 1 had to thîs Bill was that its powers
That is a matter whilh
were too diffuse.
That la
eau be consIdered ln comnilttee.
The SPEAKER-There are two, points
the only objection to the BiI-its diffuse
raised by the hon. gentleman from Stadapowers.
cona-the question of the riglit ou the deipand of two senators tbat a Bill be suliHon. Mr. LANDRY-RuIe 115 says:
OrAiiy private «Bill shall, if it be demanded mnitted to the Comrnittee on Standing
ders, without the Seuate haviug- any disby two senators.
the second fis
There is no dlstinction-any private Bill. cretion ln the matter, aud
the riglit to maise it at this stage. Looking
If -it be demanded by two senators when
read the first tirne, be referred to the Coin- nt Bourinot, who bas givea some explanainittee on Standing Orders to ascertain and tiens as to the workiug of this clause 115,
report whether or not the said Bill cornes I find that It had been superseded when the
within the classes of subjects assigned exchisively to the legisiatures of the, provinces. hast edition of Bourinot was printed, and
the clause which hie considers and deals
It must be sent to the committee for that with la not the one we have now before
report, and before It is sent It must bi, us, but the preceding- one. It la with some
If two sesiators stand iiii diffidence that I express the opinion that
asked for bere.
and ask that the Bill be referred, drawlng the bon. gentleman la too Iste with bis
the speclal attention of the Comrnittee cil motion. I1 would rather not pronounce on
Standing Orders to it, then the committe" the absolute riglit of the senators, wltlîout
shall report aud state whetber lt Is a Bill leaving any dîscretion to the Senate, liasthat Is withlu the jurisdiction of this parlls. mucli as the clause reads as fo]lows:
ment.
Âny private Bill shahl, if it be demanded by
be
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Is there any parti- two senators, when read the first tirne, Orreferred to the Committee on Standing
,cular section in the Bill that the hon. geii- ders.
tleinan refers to ?
Weil there wvas a second stage taken after
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No. If you take the Bill was read the firat time. It was ai
the meaning of the expression 'When rend motion to place it ou the order paper for
the first time,' to inean wben the Bill cornes the second readiag. That was carried. So
up first, then no one knows the contents of I feel now that the Bill cannot be referred
the Bill. Ignoring the contents of the to that commlttee, but the question of the
Bill, -we are by this clause entitled to have i constitutlonality of the Bill can always be
15
EVSDEDITION

SENATE
raised' at any stage, and for tliat reasoti this Bill has been copied frorn that Act.
the Bill hiay be rejected eitber lu commit- Possibly there were sorne additional powers,
tee or ln the flouse, at any subsequeut thougb I flnd la that Act, as far as I bave
been able to compare tbe first subsections
stage.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do flot want to
discuss tbe decision given by the bon.
Speaker. I accept It. The oniy way to
avail ourseives of this rule in future, is
that whenever a Bill cornes ln the provisions of which we do flot know, will be to
ask that It be referred to the Committee
on Standing Orders.
Hon. Mr. KERR-The petition shows.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We have stot the pititions bere. When ûl senator asks for thFfirst reading of a Bill, we bave not tbe petitions bere. They have been referred to the
Comrnittee on Standing Orders, and tbey
are not in our possession. Tbe oniy thing
to do is for two members to ask thiat lt be
referred to the Standing Orders Cornrittée
to ascertain wbetber or not it cornes under
That
the jurisdiction o! thîs parliarnent.
Is tbe only way to ascertain it.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The great diffiruity with ail the Bis of this kiad is that
the experience wbich promoters bave in
dealing witb this parliament, enables them
to insert clauses in the Bill, la whicb tbey
propose to do sometbing tbat would briug
It withia the jurisdiction o! this parliarnent;
that la to do somethlng outside o! one province or between the province and a foreign
country; and 1 tbink, renlly that that is ai
point tbat would be a very proper one for
the Standing Orders Committee to inquire
Into and flnd out whetber tbat was put lu
to tbrow the dust in the eyes of parliament,
or wbetber It was a bona fide Intention. That
could probably be ascertalned by a smali
committee such as tbe Committee on Standing Orders. If It was found that this provision for doing busines outside.of one province wns put ln expressly to get a charter
from parliament, that wouid clearly plnce
It beyond the powers of tbis parliament to
pass It, and It would be weIl tbat tliis
House sbould know ItL

of section 9, wbicb are the enabiing power,
tbey are exactly copied fromn that BiI.
Section 9 rends:
The company may(a) Carry on throughout Canada and elsewhere the business of lumberers, timber merchants and manufacturera of timber and
lumber in ail its branches, and ail other
business incidentai thereto or connected therewith.
<b) Carry on throuVhout Canada and elsewhere the business in ail its branches of
manufacturing pulpwood, pulp, paper, and
ail other business incidentai thereto, and also
the business of general merchants, general
manufacturers, inillers, common carriers,
wharflngers and warehousemen, and may construct. charter, acquire and navigate steamn
and other vessels between any port and place
in Canada, and nny other port or place in

Canada or elsewhere.

Hon. Mr. IOUGHEED-Are these Iacluded la the objectionable clauses whIli
bave been referred to, paragraph (mn) givLig
uniimited power to bulld tramways, ind
also the expropriation powers?
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE-I amn referring to
clause il of this Act :
The company may for the purpose o! its
undertaking. construct and operate ail such
railway sidings, tramways, switches or spur
lines, not exceeding ten miles in length, as
are necessary to connect any property o! the
company with its factories, and milîs, or with
any line of railway.

As f ar as the expropriation powers are
concerned, I do not know tiait tniey are :ncluded. ia the Bill ltself, but they mny oe
provided for by subsection 2 of section 90
of the Rnilway Act to w1flc reference 's
made. It will be a inatter for the co'nmittee to deai wltb; but sureiy there is

nothing extraordinary la this Bill, except
possly these powers which sbould be cu7tailed. As a matter of fact, I couid ref4ýr
to adozen or two dozen sirnilar Bis wbicb

have been passed by this flouse, with the
rlgbt of expropriation, or the tramway right.

Hon. Mr. PO0WER-I arn not opposiag
the second readlng, but I wnnt to make in

observation on wbnt the bon, gentleman bas
just sid.

It la true, no doubt, as lie sayg,

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I cail attention to an that ln 1908 we pnssed an Act wblcb couAct passed la 1903, entitled 'An Act to ln- tains provisions sirnilar to those embodied
corporate the Algonquin Lumber and Power
I aiu inforrned that
Company, Llrnited.'
.The SPEAKER.

ln this BillI; but we bave learned a good
dea, siace 1908, and. largely owiug to the

FEBRUARY 4, 1908

fully. 0f course I cannot say that the ruIing
of the hon. Speaker was flot perfectly right.
but we were flot ln a position to know
the nature of this Bill at the Urne it got lts
first reading.
We had no opportunity at
that time of examining the Bill. We bave
now bcd an opportunity of examining it,
and I do think It would have been better
le the interests of the Bill If It had been
sent to the committee. I, therefore, with
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Before the second my hion. friend from Wellington, shall opreading of this Bihl ls- moved. I thiek we pose this Bill at every stage of lt, If they
It persist ln proceedieg with it.
ought to consider it v'ery carefully.
contains Inordinate powers, extending fromn
one portion of the Dominion o! CaaHou. Mr. EDWARDS- 1 amn a littie sur.
WTe have been conten.1- prised to hear the remarks of the hon.
ada to the other.
Ing that ive should not encroach upon the gentleman from St. Thomas. There caii
Y!t be no question that it is perfectly within
jurlsdiction of the local legisiature.
what do we find ? We flnd one o! the most the scope of parliament to pass this Bill,
aIl embracing Bis tbat we have had before but possibly, in an amended form. I ain
us this session or previous sessions, wherein surprised that any one should question the
the Incorporators dlaim rights of jurisdiction right of parliament to incorporate a coinover the provincial legisiatures, and taking pany, and that la ail that is involved in this
to themselves the rigbit to issue bonds and Bill. There la a great deai more, of course,
franchises and expropriete land for aIl sorts but it ls qulte witihin the scope of the coinof purposes, which to me seems very un- mittee to strîke out that which lt Is flot
reasonable, and I do hope tiat the promoter proper for'a private corporation to do; but
of the Bill may consider It.I
l t a private to suggest that a- company cannot go to a
Bill or is it n public Bill ? What Is the provincial legisiature or to the Dominion
nature of the Bill ? Is It a railroad Bill ? parliament for' the purpose of obtainIf me send it to committee, which commit- ing an Act of Incorporation 18 simpiy
tee 'will we refer It to ? They have a right absurd. An Indivîdual incorporating a comto construct railroads, manage water-power.s pany can choose whether he shahl incorand telegraphs, and ail such enterprises. porate under letters patent, whether he
We adopted a mile the other day that If we shahl go to the provincial legisi-ature, or to
had any doubt as to wbether a Bill came the Dominion parliament. He cen have
under the jurisdiction of the Dominion or whatever charter he chooses, and lt would
whether It was under the jurlsdiction of the be quite improper to refuse. But ail the
provinces, we should send it to the com- powers which are asked for ln the Bill
mittee, and the committee should report t0 may not be granted. This is a inatter for
this House the reason wby this Bil was de- the Private Bis Commlttee. It should ho
ciared to be work for the generai advantage referred to them and thrashed out there,
of Canada. Wbet committee will have but it la certainly witbIn the juridiction of
Jurisdictlon In this case ? WiIl it be the this parlianient
It may be nsklng for
commlttee of wbich my hon. friend is chair- some extraordinary powers.
Suc bhave
man, the Standing Orders Committee ? been asked for before, and minimized or
Wili it be the Private Bis Commlttee, or wiped out ln committee, and the sanie can
This Bill, upon
the Railway Committee?
be done wlth this Bil; but I ami astonished
the face of it .looks lke an innocent B311,
that any one shouid suggest dealing with
but when we corne to examine .it we find
this Bill otberwise than passing the second
the Innocence disappears, and it becomes 9
niensure of very great proportions and irn- reading and referring It to the Private Bis
1 therefore thinit the promoter Committee. 1 know nothing of the promoportance.
of the Bill sbould allow the second reading ters; 1 neyer saw the Bill before. 1 have
to stand tili sorne future daty. aed we wiIl just gone over It .burriedly, and I cannot
thon have an opportunity of considering ft see any objection to it.
15ý

persistent efforts of the bon. gentleman frorn
De Salaberry himself, have sixîce become
much more careful and particular je dealing with BUis which corne before us, and
I have no doubt that wben it is proposed ln
the committee to which this Bill is referred
to excise the objectionable portions of -lie
Bill, the commlttee wiii have the able assistance of the hon. gentleman himself.

SENATE
Hon. *Mr. FERGUSON-I Just wish to
make one rcrnark on the question of order.
I think the rullng Is that the point of tirne
Is against the hon. geutlprnan from Stadacona. I do flot want to discusa that at
ail. I accept the ruling. But I do taire
the part that no matter what the contents
of the Bill are, any two senators have a
right to dernand that It be sent to the
PrIvate Bis Committee for the purpose of
inqniry. It rnay be that they are mistaken
In their view of it; but any two senators
can make the demand, and It Is not a
question of what the Bill contains, but the
righit of sending It there belongs to the
two members who make the objection. I
mereiy want to maire that point ln regard
to thls, because, probably, we rnay require
to Impiement this rifle on other occasions.
The SPEAKER-I arn lnclined. to take
that view, but inasrnuch as I arn not deciding that point now, I thought I would
leave It for future consîderation.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I do not see that
there should be so much dilscussion about
this Bill. Lt la an extraordinary Bill, but
it bas been Introduced by an extraordinary
man. Nobody will dispute rny hon. friend's
ability, or his Integrity, but I arn somewhat
surprised at my bon. friend taiking about
the innocence of thc Bill. The hon. gentleman from St. Thomas said, 'Apparent Innocence.' 1 do not sec what that hou.
gentleman has to say about apparent innocence. This la a Bill Uiat covers a greit
deal o! ground. The object could not have
been attained through lettera patent, -beIt is
cause it is divided into proportions.
beautifully rigged by thc banking communIty o! Canada. You can get nothing
Again take
under it-absolutely nothing.
paragraph 1, of part 1, and you mny under
Uiat clause start a cracker shop or anything you iike. Part 2 applies, If I remember right to companies operating abroad.
Part 3, to lban companica, &c. Under Uic
Joint Stock Companies Act, you couid not
possibly get Uiat charter. I kuow that
Act very well; I have made a study of It.
Though I amn not a Iawyer I understand it,
and I know that the Bill had to corne here.
Where could Uic cornpany get those powers
If they did flot get thern here.
Hon. Mr. EDWAIIDS.

Hion. Mr. OWENS-They cannot get theto
here.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE--How do we
I do
know 9 We have not declded yet.
uot sec anything very objectionable about
it. It la a question whether Uiat clause
about the telegraphs should corne ln, but
My hon.
there are many Bills like Uiis.
friend from De Saiaberry knows what bis
rights and powers are, and I do flot believe
that If he bad considered the Bill objectionable he wouid have brougbt it la;
therefore I find fault with rny hon. frWe'd
frorn St. Thornas for talking about the innocence o! the Bill. I should like to knoiw
how Innocent he la.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I do not when introduciag a Bill, assurnc responsibility for ai.l
that It conta.ins.
I have introduccd this
Bill subjcct to my rigbt to arncnd It If
nccessary when It cornes before the committee. It las the duty o! bon. members
to take charge of Bis entrusted to thern
but they do not loac their -independence of
action whien the Bill cornes before committee, and I propose to deal with tbis Bill as
If I had not taken charge of It.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I hope rny hon.
friend frorn De Salaberry does not think
that I arn reflecting on hlm in any way. I
was rather urging Uiec daim that it should
go to Uic cornrnttee. It rnay be an extraordinary Bill, but we arc living in an extraordinary age. 'ThIngs are changing all the
tîme, and It rnay be that our views of yesI
terday may be very different to-day.
cannot quite agree wlth rny hon. f riend Uint.
he Ia not responsible for Uic Bill, because,
every one who presents a Bill in this House
must assume thc responsibility for It. There
Is no hsrrn In sendiog the Bill to a comrnittee where it can be carefully consldered.
The hon. member from Saskatchewan (Hon.
Mr. Douglas) has very properly put a notice
on the paper, which I hope will be carried,
that Bills, however thoroughly Uiey rnny be
discussed. ln cornrIttec, rnay when reported
back to thé House be referred to n ComLt la hard]y right
mittee of the Whle.
that this Bill shouId be condemned unheard.
Lt la the right of every British subject to
carry his petition to the foot of the throii:.
This Bill la fonuded on a petition. and dlie

FEBRUARY 4, 1908
IiAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
.SECOND RIEADING.
Hon. Mr. M.%cMULLEN moved the second
reading of :
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-In clause 9 hon. gen(Bill A> an Act to amend the Railway Act
tlemen wiil find a justification for my meas respects the furnîshing of intoxicating
marks. I do not object to the Bill any liquor to railway empioyees on duty.
more than Vie hou. senator from Russell
He said.: I submit this Bill owing to
does. This lieuse can give a company ail
accidents that have occurred on several
Vie powers they equire,but what I do Inia Canada tbe resuit, as people besist upon and what every senator shonld In- hunes
of the use of intoxicating llqifors by
slst on is, Viat any power wbich ]s co-ordi- hIeve,
the officiais wbo were lu charge of thê
nate wvlth the powers of a province sbould
Now%. trains. We bad an accident iast summer
lie granted subject to restrictions.
brancb of the Toronto,
wbnt does the Bill say In regard to one of ou the Owen Sound
Vie company seeks 7 It Grey and Bruce Raiiway, at what is known
Its powers wbich
to an excursion
says that power shall be exercised subject as the borsesboe curve,
Take sub-clause th) train carrying a large number of passento municipal control.
The
gers to the exhibition at Toronto.
of clause 9. It says
engineer ran the train on tbat curve at
Pmovided that the company shall not; exthe englue jumped the
ercise the powers granted by this paragraph sucb a speed that
for> the purpýose of seiling or disposing of rails, with the resuit that five people k-illed
eiectricity for the purposes of light, heat and and a number of others were very serlously
power, or any other purposes for which eiectricity may be used, until it has first oh- lujured. There bas been a suspicion lu
tained the consent and approvai of the muni- the public mind that the englue driver
cai council of the city. town, village or was under the influence of intoxicatiug lioer local municipaiity or district within
which the powers hereby given are to be ex- quors at tbe time. At the inquest be adercised by the company,-such consent to be mlttgd tbat be had had a glass of beer,
by by-law, and ta be on such ternis and conbut notblng more. Tjnder the law, every
ditions as such by.law provides.
railway official, bas to wear a badge wben
The object of my remarks lu starting thls on duty. Therefore aay hoteikeeper, when
debate was to procure for the provincial a railway officiai calis for lîquor, must
governments Vie same rights that Vis com- know, ou* seeing the badge, that the man
pany is prepared to concede to municipahi- ls employed by a rallway company and Is
ties, and one of my reasons for asklng Vint on duty. If be bas nlot bis badge on, the
is Vis sub-clause (f) of clause 9, gives Vie employee Is lhable for ah Vihe damage the
compauy power to:
hotelkeeper may suifer for baviug violated
Acquire and operate mines and minerai the law. The employee Is supposed to pay
and mining rights, and ameit, reduce, refine, the amount of Vie fine and the damages, If
amalgamate or otherwise manufacture and
treat metals, minerais and ores, and dispose any, the boteikeeper may sustain.
thereof, and generaliy carry on the business
of maaufacturing therefroni.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Do 1 understand
of Vie Bill Is slmply to laNow, these are rlghts 'which are exercised Vint the object
crease the penalty imposed under the exunder provincial control and administration,
law ?
and Vis Bil is Viemefome a direct biow at * stiug
provincial rlghts. The Bill, In one of its
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Simly to luclauses, provides Viat municipal rigbts sbnll crease Vie penalty.
be protectpd. .I go further and say Viat Vhis
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The law already
parliament ean grant ail Viese powers but
only subject to revision snd supervision by *provides a maximum fine of $50 and a penthe provincial as wehh as Vie municipal au- *alty of one month ln prison, so we do not
need to discuss the principie of the Bill.
thoritles.

oniy matter before us is the motion for a
second reading, and I see 110 reason why
that motion shouhd be objected to.

The motion was agreed to, and the
wss rend the second tIme.

i!li

Hon. Mr. M,%cMULLEN-I want to give
nmy rensous for introdncing It. I contend

SEINATE
w.
wvould be less careful than bis employer.
and, unider sucli circumstances, it wvould lie
a beavy penalty' to impose on tbe hotelkeeper. The saine thing applies exactly to.
the Indians of the Northwest Territoriees.
Many of our Indians are simply half-breeds,
and nobody can tell the difference between
an Indian and a haif-breed-as a'matter of
fact there are half-breeds who are taking the
treaty and haif-breeds w-ho are not taking
treaty. The balf-breed w-ho takes a treaty is
not supposed to get liquor, wbile the other
man la a citizen and can, get liquor If lie
les. Very often, under a lam- of this kind,
a man miglit be flned and imprisoned for an
offence -which lie may not have intented to
That Is the w-eakness of this
commit.
legisiation. As wvc have already practically
the saine legisiation, and my hon. frieud
BELCOUT-Will the lion. genlias flot been able to show that any convicthe section in the existitng law?
tions bave been made under it, I tbink there
McMULLEN-The section Is la no necessity for this change at tlie present time.
as follow-s:

that a fine of $50 is flot sufficient. A beav~ier penalty shouid be imposed, and the
reason is that the railway employee must
w'ear a badge when on duty, and, consequently, the liotel keeper must know when
lie is selling liquor to a railway officiai.
Fifty dollars is no penalty to impose for sucli
an offence, w-hen the resuit of this conduct
may be great loss of life and destruction of
property. The penalty shouid lie larger, and
should npply to any person Nvho supplies
liquor to a railway officiai when lie is on
duty. I propose to, fix the fine at $500 or
That Is
a years' Imprisonnient ia jail.
flot at aIl excessive in view of the serions
accidents which have taken place throughi
supplying railway officiais with liquor. We
should endeavour to protect the lires of
the public.
Hon. Mr.
tienian read

more frequently it is the bartender,

Hon. Mr.
414. and la
Every person *who selîs, gives or harters
any spiritous liquors or intoxicating liquors
to or with any servant or employee of any
counpany ou duty is hiable on summary conviction to a penalty not exceeding fifte dollars, or to iinprisonment with or without
hard labour for a period not exceeding one
mionth. or hoth.

ýHon. Mr. MéMULLEN-A rallway einiployee is lhable to a fine of $20 and imprisonnient on ilon-payment of the fine if
lie does not wenr bis badge wben on dutv.
Anybody may prosecute hlm for not w-earing
In that case, of course, the
bis badge.
That is the present law. I wîsh to, ex- hoteikeeper would not lie responsible. Now,
tend It, so that tbe fine shahl le $500 or thîs Bill does not impose a penalty of $50
That is the maximum fine.
in every case.
twelve months imprisonment.
and It is opt louai for the trial judge to sa e
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-dlas the hon. gen- wvhether lie will Impose thut amount or les-s.
tlemn ny record as to how many cou- My object is to deter boteikeepers and
victions there bave been under the exlstiug others, as far as possible, from givlng liquor
law, or If thiere bave been any at al?
Some 3f
to railwny oflicals when on duty.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I quite sympathize
wlth my hon. friend In trying to ralse the
penalty for the offence mentioned: but if
nve halve not been able to stop this practice by a fine of $50 and ixnprlsonment for
a month, 1 do not think that an increase
of the penalty will have any better effect.
MNy
hon. frieud says that every railway officiai bas to, w-ear a badge wbien on duty,
and, therefore, any one selling hlm liquor
must know what lie is doing; but the railway officiai, even when on duty, inay wear
ito badge at ail or conceal it so that tIi"
that
party selling him liquor may flot kniow%
Very often it is
lie is a railway officiai.
îîot the lioteikeeper that seils tbe liquor,

Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN.

the railway compunies il the United Statei
ivili not emplo7 men who are flot total abistainers, and it wlll soon bave to corne to
that lu Canada. We bave good reason t'i
suspect that uiany of the accidents wb'h
have occurred of late have been due to thp
fact that the railway employees have be2in
under the influence of liquor at the time.
My object is to protect ]Ife as far as poýsible.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWEL-If t1iî

bon, gentleman desires to mnake bis Bill
effective, lie should make the peinalty not
less thani a certain soin and not exceediiiz
S~5O0 and the imiprisoninent liot less thax a
nor exccediiig
certain nuîniiber of nmontlî

231

FEBTARY 5. 190,Q
I have had some experience in administering one of the departmeuts of this country where latitude is left
wltb a magistrate trying cases of this kinfi,
and that experlence leads mie to niake the
1
suggestion whicbh I have just offered.
wiil give an Illustration of whatI1 men. A
man tried to enter into an agreement with
a custonis officiai for smuggllng, ln wvbirithey were to divide the profits. Under the
Audit Act, whlch is somewhat more severe
la its penalty than the Customs Ac, the offender was tried betore a magistrate. Tho
magistrate was obliged to Impose a fine,
but the ainount was left to bis discretion
under a certain maximum figure, and to
send the man to Jail, but there was no lirait
to the tirne under the maximum perlol.
What was the resuit ? Here was a flagrant
attempt to bribe a goverament officiai, whose
duty It was to sec that the revenues of the
Re was
couutry werc properly collected.
flncd twenty-five cents and sent to jail for
ten minutes. How many cases of that kl'îd
would occur If titis Bill Were enacted ln its
present shiape ? I arn fully ln accord wlti
the object of the hon, gentleman ln bis ïeRailway cmsire to protect buman Ilfe.
ployees holding responsible positions sbouid
flot be addicted to taking liquor to exces-,
but if you want.to make the law effective
you must change the wordlng of the penalty
clause la the manner I bave indicated.

twelve rnonths.

Bill (33) An Adt respecting the Calga -y
and Fernie Rallway Company.-(Hon. viNr.
Bostock.)
BUI (36) An Act respecting the Bounda:,
Kamloops- and Cariboo Central Railway
Company.--(Hon. Mr. Bostock.)
Bill (48) An Act respectlng the Niagara
Grand Island Bridge Company.--<Hon. Mfr.
Kerr.)
Bill (52) An Act respecting the Patent of
Eugene FrançVois Giraud.--(Hon. Mfr. McMullen.)
Bill (58) An Act respectiag the Asbcrof t,
Barkervilie and Fort George Railway Conipany.-4Hon. Mfr. Bostock.)
Bill (72) An Act respectlng Patent o! the
Windsor Pump and Foundry Company,
Limlted.--(Hon. Mfr. Belth.)
CONSTRUCTION

0F DESCHIAMBAULT
WHARF.
MOTION.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY mQved:
That an order of the House do issue for a
statement showing, in as many different
columas, the annual cost, since they were
begun, of the works of construction of the
Deschambault wharf in the county of Portneuf, of the road leadiag thereto, and of the
sheds or other buildings in connection with
the said wharf.
Together with a copy of ail correspondence
exchanged on the subject of the said works,
between the government, and especially the
Departracat o! Public Works, and Mfr.
Mfr. M. S. DesIisle, or any
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I have no objec- Thomnas Breen,
other person.
tion wbhatever, wben we get into commltte
The motion was agreed to.
on the Bill to act upon the suggestion the
bon, gentleman bas made.
The Senate adjourned until 3 p.m. toHon. Mr. BEIQUE-Thîs should be au morrow.
I do
aimeadmeat to the Criminal Code.
n.ot think that any provision regardiag fuiprîsoament of this kind wll be fouad in
THE SENATE.
the Railway Act.
OTTAWA, Wedaesday, February 4, 1908.

Hon. Mfr. ROSS (Middlesx)-It ls a ver.
SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
bal ameadment to the Rallway Act, simplb rThe
o'clock.,
Increasiag- the penalty.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bil
was rend the second time.

Prayers and routine proceediags.

BILLS INTRODUCED.

NAVIGATION 0F TEE RIVER ST .LAWPENCE.

Bill (8) An Act respectiug the Tobiqui
Manufacturing Company -and to change ih
naine to ' Fraser Lumber Comnpany, Lirait
ed.'---I-on. '.%r. Thonipson.)

Hon. Mr. LANDRY moved:
That an order of the Senate do issue for
a statement showing, in s0 many colurans-

MOTION.

SEiNATE
1. Thse naines of the officers actually empioyed on board of government vessels or of
vesseis hired by thse governmnent for the
season of navigation in the River St. Lawrence.
2. The amount of wages or salaries paid
xnonthly to each of them for the. period of
their annual engagement.
3. The amount of wages or salaries pai<i
nionthly to, those who are only employed for
a part of the year.
4. The amount of wages or salaries p aid
monthly to those who, over and above their
service, are paid a part of their wages or
salaries during the months in which thse
vessels are laid up for the winter.
The motion wns agreed to.
REMOVAL, 0F «.\ILITARY HOSPITAL, IN
QUEBEC.
INQUIitY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
Is there any truth in the rumour current
in the City of Quebec to the effect that the
miiitary authorities have decided to, remove
into the middle of St. Louis ward the miiitary hospital which is now situated within
the precincts of the Citadel of Quebec P'
If this change kas been decided upon, by
whom and when was this decision taken ?
Hlave any protesta against sucis change
been received by thse goveramtent, and on behaif of whom P
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tlie department advised me that it has not been deoided to remiove the military liospitai In Quebec to the
middle of St. Louis wnrd.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-My second question
is flot answere(l.
Has there 'been a protest ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Well, they did not say.

He saîd :

I tiuink it has been saîd of

L-ord Derby that at one time hie said, the
House of Lords neyer answered any Interrogations. I suppose bis basis was thse Independence of the British House of Lords. It
was not ait ail necessary that they sbouid
answer any Interrogations froma the outslde
worid. I have sometimes thought that we
snight possibly be better empioyed than ln
giving no much attention to outside reports about the work of this House;
that If we lguored themn we might flnd
time to, give more deliberate attention
to the business that comes before us
[from day te day, and have less time to
dlscuss questions of thse Senate and Senate
reform. I bave a firm conviction In my
own mInd that when thse fathers of confederation gave us tbe constitution of tise
Senate, they made no mistake. Indeed,..o
go back ii the history of my own poliic:îl
life since 196, wben at a large gathering 1
recelved thse nomination to represent the
old constituency of AssinIbola, nie questio-à
was suflmltted at thse very outset, was I lit
favour of abolishing the Senate ? I sald,
'Gentlemen, If ySu want thse Senate aboiisiîed, you must look for soute other candidate
te represent thse constituency,' that I wns
flot at ail prepared te take any action along
that ue.
Now far be it from me, In tluê
consideration of this motion that 1 submit
to you to-day, te, tnke tise position of orne
~who wouid read this honourabie body a lecture about tise rigist way of doing business.
1 have no sucis object in view ; but If we
cen, by making a siight change that whiI
Involve no declded sacrifice of principle, be
more deliberate In our methods of deaiig
with the various measuires tisat comte

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Becnuse the government may flot have decided, but they may
before us, perisaps we would- be doing
have received protests.
a good work and therefore bring titis
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I shall cati attentioni matter before you for consideretion. Since
te the o>mission.
I became a member ef this House, I
AMENDMENT 0F RULES 0F THE
SENATE.
MOTION.
Hlon. Mr. DOUGLAS rnoved:
That section 128 of the ruies and orders
shall rend fhus tThat ail Bis reported by thse standing or
select committees, -shahl, after their secondi
reading, be piaced on the orders of the da3,
following the reception of thse report, fol:
reference to a Cornmittee of the Whoie
House.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

have tise conviction that we have used wotuderf ai despatch In the management of our
affalrs, sometimes et thse sacrifice of thaý
I have aiwavs
quality of thse work done.
regretted that I had flot as full Information
ns I ought.te, have had In connection with
thse business that came before the verions
committees of thse House, nnd frequently 1
amn cnlled upon te, formn a judgment hastlly.
when, perisaps, my Judgment was net based
on the Information I should have possessed.
Now, the only suggestion made in answer te

FEBIITJARY 5, 1908
this proposai is that -%e ail bave the privi- like if hion. geutlemnen think it -Wise and
lege of attending any cornmittee of this expedient, to do this deference to the rnemhonourable House and iistening to the dis- liership of the House by giving hon. gencussions that may take place, and in that tienien every possible Information within
wny acquire the information to enabie us their power, so to change the practice that
to proper]y exercise our judgrnent when a the Standing Committee shail subrnit their
mensure cornes before tbe Hlouse as a whole. reports to a Comrnittee of the Whole House.
That le true; but 1 wisb te point out that Instead of mnking it a matter for dal!y
whiic on the face of It it meets my com- arrangement, let it be au estabiished rule.
plaint to a certain extent, we have ten corn- 1 cannot sec wbcre there should be any
mittees in this House, and a proposition to great diffnity ln the way. The oniy
bave others, and I fail to see bow It is argument agalnst the Senate making it
physicaiiy possible for nny one member an established rule, would be this :
to attend aIl these committees and get the where a private Bill cornes before a cominformation that Is dcsired. We .may at- mlttee and Is discussed and the cerntend some of them where Bis in whlch we mittce bas dbne It justice and adopts
are especially intcrcsted rnay be coming Up tlie prîncipie of the Bill without arnendfor discussion. But we must aiiow others ment, and so reports as the united judgto go, and certninly, it is not for any one ment of the committee, la such a case it
of us to corne to the conclusion that we can would seem te be a waste of Urne ror tais
gather ail the Information we nced by at- honourabie body to detain that Bill another
tending the committec itself. My desire to day, whicb wouid resuit la putting Jt
obtain increased Information le partly in on the order paper to be comrnltted te
confllct with Rule No. 128. It seems te a Coinmittee of the Whioic House. That
be la coafilct for this very reason: ' Unlesa ls the oniy objection 1 can sce to this prothe Senate otberwise orders, a private Bill posa], but It can do nobody aay injury to
reported from a standing special cornmittee aliew n Bil to stand for another day. It
Is net cornmitted to n Comamittee of thc can be disposed of la the sarne way that
tais, as it the bouse of Commrons disposes of sucb
Wholc.' I mny be told tat
stands now, Is thec practice of the British Bis. 1 argue*therefore for more delibebouse of Lords. 1 do not dèny the fact; ration; 1 argue for fuiler Information witb
but our Senate Is differeatly constitutcd la reference to the detailed business of the
this respect. These committees of *the House, and 1 think that bon, gentlemen wiiI
bouse of Lords la Great Britain have sece tat It Is only right taat we sbouid bave
nmoag them judgcs of the Supreme every possible Information upon snch mcacourt of tbe country, mca of hlgh iegs.i sures as corne before us. As yon wiii ohattainment, rnen of cstabiished abiiity ; serve frorn tac wording of ruie 128, if ls
and wbca fhey corne f0 a decision on within our power to make tae change If
the matter of a private Bill, it gen- wc feel se disposcd. There are maay talags
eraliy carrnes conviction la the House. to be said. ln Its faveur. Ia tac firsf place,
Our honourable body le sorncwhat different- tacre Is abundance cf time af our disposai
ly consfituted, and we couid conceive, under f0 canrefuily consider aIl the business tat
mile 128, the possibiiity of Intcrested Par- cornes before us, and we would nof have
tics brnaging down a report la their owis occasion so frequcatly t0 dîscuss la tale
faveur, and If tae Senafe has not an oppor- Chamber thc prudence pf seasoas of retiretuaity to coasider tac maffer they eouid ment We geaeral]y get one long adjoumnslip if througb ensiiy wlthouf objection ment eacb session; It la these little nagging
frorn any hon. member, Inasmuich as lit adjouraments that we do net like, and 1
dees not' corne before tae Cornrnttce of for one would put n good mftay of taern
ftie Whole. This Is really tac whole dlIii- ouf of business altogether, and we 'would
culty. I would wish n change f0 this e-x- be better ernployed. Probably if rnny be
tent aad the Senate bas tac power te (Io> snld that I speak on sclfisb Unes, because
sO if if cormnmcds Itself to ifs judgment, hon, gentlemen living nf a great distance
because tae mile snys 'unless Uic Senate frorn tac capital have to remain bere whc-_
othcrwisc orders.' Tbe Senafe bas tbe ther the House Is la session or nof. These
power to order it otlierwise, and I shoul short adjourameafs may be a benefit te

SEINATE
those living vwithia a reasonable distanc'i
fromn the city; they cau go home and attend
tu private business and return for the meetHowever, we cannot
ing of the House.
plead iack of tirne, and the convenlence of

the Whoie House. If the motion of mv
bion. frieud is carried, we wlll have a bet-

ter grasp of the legislation; it wili be doiug
justice to every member of the Sonate and
will have a beneficial effect on our logissome meinher sbould not stand in our way. lation.
Then it milht do mucli for the Senate by
Hon. Mr. CLOIIAN-I arn one of those
being ln perfect lune wltb the House of who like to have ail the light I can get
Gommons lu this respect. 1 think it would on a question. Others may not like so
prev-ent a good deal of the rush of -bus!- much liglit, but 1 require ail that I can
ness at the close of each session wben get, directly if possible, but if I cannot
there is a temptation on the part of design- get it directly I like to get it indirectly.
ing men wvho live by their wits more than Mauy bon. senators are ulot members of
l)y their muscle, to bave their business the Important comnmittees, and have n)o
corne before ns in due time to be dlsposed way of obtaining information tbey require
of before the close of the session. We ail before comlug to a decision on certain queskncdw frorn experience bere and elsewhiere tions whlcb interest tbe nation and involve
tbat Bis are rushed through at the close great Issues. For many a year-I amn only
of the session; tbat often they are very 111 five years bere now-I bave found myseif
,considered. Tbey are bastlly put througb, very often lacking information which 1
recelvlng the magie word of our bonourabie sbould bave and couid only get by golng
and esteemed Speaker, and pass on to wait around to tbe committees, and to do so 1
the royal assent. What we want then is would have been obliged to cancel other
to substitute this motion for rule 128.
obligations. I belleve that ia every deili-on. '-%r. DAVIS-My hon. frlend bas berative assernbly where popular rights are
gone over the grVound pretty fairly, and 1 at stake, everything tbat is doue in coinarn of the opinion tbat as we have consi- rnlttee should be reported to the bouse.
detrable time on our bands, this change so tbat members, la passiug judgment,
Nvculd enabie us to have a better grasp of may bave ail necessary -information on
thec legisiation that Ls golng tbrougb the whlch to base judgment. I have been
CornHouse. Some of our hon. frlends thlnk the chairman of the Private .Bis
committees too small; others that they are rnittee for the past four years, and
too large. Be that ns It may, many meni- la that position I bave insisted timo and
bers are Dot on the important commîttees again that the work of the committee
and bave no opportunity to get acquainted should be made known fairly to the blouse.
wîth a great deal of the legisiation that goes Everythlng cannot be supplied of course,
before committees. They do flot hear the but everytblng essential. to formiug a judgdiscussions on private Bis ia the com- ment eau be furnished. I contend that
mittees, aud when a Bill Is reported by the motion before the House is one that
the chairman of a cormlittee to the House, wvill relleve the situation to a large extent.
It Is generaily concurred ln wltbout discus- Lt Is not a revoiutlonary proposition; my
sion thoiigh many hon. senators know littie lion. frieud sirnpiy asks that ho and bis color nothiug about It. We have been toid longues wbo are not on some of the Importhat. every senator bas a righit to attend tant committees should ho made acquainted
cornrittee rneetingÉ and take part in dis- witb tbe substantial facts la e-icb case
eussions, without the righit to vote, but brougbt before a committee. A motion to
hou, gentlemen cannot attend ail the comn- that effect was voted down last week, to
mittee meetings. TIhere mrny be three or the discredIt of the Senate ln the estimafour committees meeting at the same tiiue, tion of the people of this country. It would
and, of course, a member can attend oniy have been simple justice to those senatorq
one of these at a time. Thon If every who do not attend the meetings of the
senator was to attend the meetings of the rtailway Cornîittee to have adopted thý
Bailway Com'mittee thore 15 not roomi motion of my hon. friend from Digby,% iast
-enough for ail of them. Therefore nil these weelz. My hon. friend iimited bis demnand
Buis shouid go through a Conmittee of to one fact, that w-bon a Bill w-as dcclared
DOUGLAS.
1-ion. M.%r.

FEBITATRY 5. 1908
to be to the general advantnge of Canada,
the House should know on what grounds a
conittee of ten or twenty members so
decided. Thtis honourable House by a vote
of 29 to 22 voted down that motion with
thte resuit titat Vie Senate Is held up to
public. opprobrium by the press of the
country. I hold ln my hand an article ln
the 'Ottawa Eveniug Journal' on the subject, whlch, I submit, las mat and fair.
Hon. GENTLEMEN-Rend, rend.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It Is weli worthi
putting on record as an expression of public
opinion on thte action of a rnnjority of titis
House on tint occasion. I put ln my protest, but unfortunately had to leave before
a division was taken, whicit explains why
my name ls not in thte division list. However, before leavlng Vie House, I paired wlth
an hon. member who would otherwise have
-voted wvitit the majority. Tite hon. member from Saskntchewan aks Vint ail Bill.4
reported frorn committees should be subnîitted to n Committee of the Whole House.
What does the 'Journal' say with regard
to thé action of titis House ?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I rise to n point
of order. My bon. friend Is referring to n
past debate, which 1s clearly out of order.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I amn not referring
to a past debate. I arn referring to an
article wii appeared ln an Ottawa newspaper as sustaining rny opinion on the,
question no-w before the House.

Hon. Mr. CLORA N-Thte bon. gentiei î'
What Is the opinionl of the
voted for It.
people of titis country ln regard to )ur
actions aiong the uine which 1 arn debating
here to-night ? One of the organs of public opinion in titis country states tiisHon.
I raise
cannût
debate

Mr. LOUGHEED-I object again.
the ame question tbat titis article
be read, because it refera to the
ln question.

Tite SPEAKER-I would ask the hon.
gentleman to simply discuss the question
at Issue, which is the motion of the hou.
gentleman f rom Saskatchewan. The article
'which the hon. gentleman refers to Is a
crIticism of thte debate of last week.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-Ali philosophers derive their light fromn past events. There
ia no question about that. You will neyer
have any Ilght if you stand ln your own
iight. I arn iookîng foi àignt from the
aets of last weiek. N;ow I arn toid that I
ar.ni out of order. It is another illustration
of where the Senate stanas before the peop'le of Canada. Wle are told-we are getting old-and we are not nliowed to derive
any light f rom. thte facts -of the pnst. I
bow most humbly to the decision of the
honourable chair; but I venture to say titat
the hon, leader of the opposition in titis
House will not receive the approbation of
the people of Vils country by endenvouri-îg
to stifie discussion of titis kind.
Hon. Mr.,POIRIER-Order, order.

The iSPEAKER-I must deciare Vint tb#ý Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I have bowed to the
decision of the chair. Public opinion Is now
point of order Is well taken.
discusalng our value and our position ln
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-In regard to whnt? the politicai life of the country.
Hon. Mr. DOM.NVILLEF-The Senate ltself
Tite SPEAKER-The discussion of a
1Is dolng lt.
previons debate which took place here.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I shall fot discus
Vie question of the debate of at week, but
I shall discuss Vie point that the people of
titis country want the Senate to do its busiThere are a
ness fairly and inteiligently.
certain number of members here who desire to do so ; there ls a majority again it
us. who do not wish to let in the light as It
appears la the committee.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Oh, no.

No.

HMon. -Mr. OCORA.N-X es, but we are
more subject, nnd we shouid be more subjeet to tite Influence of outside opinion Vian
that which exists withln our rnnks, as to
our existence, because I do not believe ia
suicide. If otiter people want to kili us,
and If titey are powerful enougit to do it,
tion I submit; but I arn not going to endorse a policy of suicide. The motion before titis itonourable House is one that wili
appeal to ail classes of cîtizens titrougit-

SENATE
out the country, and -ihy ? Because th'ýY
feel, much more sa than the rninority o!
this House; they feel that the Senate
should render more service ta the counci-y
than It has done; but we are prepared
ta limit aur ways and means of acquiring
information, whereon ta base honest, fair.
Impartial legislation. Haw can I vote an
the Lancaster Bill, for Instance, which the
committee cauld nat decide this mornlng,
and whieh lias gone over for further consideratian? How amn I ta decide that questlon?
Hon. Mr. POIRIER--Order, order.
Hon. Mr. OLORÂN-Take any Bill before this honaurable body, liow arn I gaing
ta decide intelligentiy, Impartially and judiclously, If I have nat the Information which
bas been given by the experts, by the
lawyere, by the members of parliament aad
by the senators before that committee?
Han. Mr. CASGRAIN-I rise ta a point
of order. There le a reference being made
ta what took place In the committee this
morning. The report of that cammittee le
not before the Hanse at ail.
-Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I amn nat restricting
myseif ta tIse cammlttee of which the hon.
gentleman la chairinan, nor do I exclud,ý
My own committee.
The SPEAKER-I do not think the point
The hon. gentl,!
of order le well taken.
man ls speaking generally.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Well, that isý one decisian la my favour. The hon. senator from
De Lanaudière, who la chairman o! the
Railway Commlttee, did perfectly riglit lu
rising and stating that I had no riglit ta
discues what hnppened la bis committee
thie morning. I bow ta hie opinion in that
matter; hie ls perfectly riglit, but I hald
that as a rule othier members who do not
belong ta special committees, have other
business ta attend ta la thie hionourable
flouse and are not able ta attend ahl tbiV
committees. The result le that tbey aré
called and asked in the Senate to vote
on measures a! whicb they know nothing.
I proteet agalnst that ia conjunction with
the lion. gentleman from Saskatchewan,
wbo bas had thse courage ta corne before
tis House, notwithstanding bis recent niemiHon. Mr. CLORAN.

bership, to ask for a change lu its rnethods.
I etated the other day, in answer to the
lion, gentleman from Marshfield, that it
-was no reason why we should act in tùx'
present as we bave hitherta done, because,
in the past, certain rules were adopted.
The
Times change. Conditions change.
country grows, and the Senate, If it 'wants
to live, must grow with the country. There
le the position; and I hold that the hon, gentleman from Saskatchewan In piaclng this
motion on the order paper and askiag théHouse to endarse it le domng iinply what
the country wants ta be done, arnd If it were
flot for the fact that I amn blocked and
stifled In my discussion In regard to the
paet debate, I 'would say that the press of
the couatry lias held the Senate up ta
ridicule and opprobrium for Its act of laet
week. I am debarred f rom discussing this
inatter. Ail I have a right ta state le the
fact. I hold that, under the circumstances,
it would be prejudicial to the beet Interests
of this Senate ta reiterate ite action of last
week. It would be prejudicial to the best
Intereets af parliameat ta have this honourable House repeat Its mistake of last week.
It would be prejudiclal ta the latereste of
Canada that the Senate, in thc discussion
of public affaire, should be closed ta the
liglit, and on theee grounds I would aek
bon. members who have at beart the Intereets not only of the Senate, but who
have at heart the interests of the people,
ta endorse the motion of the bon, gentleman from Saskatchewan.
The SPEAKER-As the bon. gentleman
seeme ta have doubts as ta the propriety
of restrlcting the debate to the motion, 1
*wlll cite BourInot, at page 479, where he
saye:
Neither may a member read from a printed
newspaper or book, commente an any speech
made in parliament during the current session.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-I have bowed. ta the
decielon of the Chair.
Hon. -Mr. POIRIER-I fail ta find a parallel between this motion and the anc o!
my hon. friead fram Digby relating ta
-works for the general advantage of Canada. The first motion which -was rejected,
and which I wili not diecuss on Its mernte,
referred ta particular cases, precedents for

FEBIRUARY .5, 190S
Unless the Senate otherwise orders, a priwhicli exist ln our mules, as, for exampie,
ate Bill reported frorn a standing or speciai
to a Cornmittee of
rnmnittee
when Vie prearnbhe of a Bill is not provefiv Lie Wihole. is oommitted
to his Hlouse, tise t
and it is son reported
Tiat is the general rule; but tis rule
reasons rnny be gîven why It is s0 reported,
whIch was Vie one Innovation proposed by enacts that tie Senate couid otherwise oruiy lion. friend frorn Digby; but his la aÈ 1er, axîd wbenever a Bill cornes frorn a apelai coumnttee the 'Senate may order by lts
new question aitogether. It ls a compiex
operation o! wbich 1 ,wu autiiority that the Bill be re-commItted
one. [t is one the
arn afrald wiii bie difficuit lu this House. o a Conirnittee of the Whoie. That is tise
First It wiil practicaily create two corn- aw as it stands to-day. Now ruie 130 goes
mittees rtunnlng over the saine ground. )ii to say
Second it wli cornie lu conlict la a serious
No imiportant amendment may be proposed
oany private Bill in Committee of the
manner with mule 130 whicis says :
N'isole if the Senate has ordered the Bill to
at
No important arnadment rnay lie proposed ,o babk to a Committee of the Whole, or the
the
toayprivate Bill in a Comrnîttee of Bill, t ;he second reading, unless a notice of
of the
previous
ýWoie, or at the third reading
saine shall have been given on a
unless notice of the sarne shahl have been iay.
on a previons day.
given
'bat is the practîce that bas been foiSo Vie isonourabie House sees in wbat owed liere every day. Wisen a Bill cornus
po sition we 'wiil stand if we bave two con-1 frorn the standing cornrIttee and Is piaced
current committees running over tbe sanme
en the Orders for the tbird reading, no Imground. Tise Comrnittee o! Vie Wisoie wli
uniess notice
Bill ex- portant arndment Is made
be unabie to alter rnaterlalhy thse
bas been given on a previous day. That
cept upon notice being previousiy gîven.
le wbat rule 130 means, and nothlng else.
It wMh unnecessariiy complcate matters.
If aomething couid lie Inferred from tihe
Tisen again, wisich o! Vie two committees contentions of rny bon. friend It ls this,
wll lie parmroutt ? Naturaliy the latter that mule 130, instead of being In conflict
one sbouid be, as It is a Commlttee O! Vie witb the proposai of rny hon. friend, cornes
Wbohe House; but bere again Viere are un- ln aid of that proposai, and thse motion of
necessary confllcts o! jurlsdictofl. If tbe
rny bon. friend, If carried, wouid f ail uider
Bis are to be taken to Commlttee of the thse operation o! rule 130 and not confilet
Wbole House, I wouid sirnphy move to abo- with that mule at ail. I do not see any
lias ail standing commîttees. In tisat case
conflict at ail In those two miles. The qu3.3tisere wouid lie no conflict, and that iigsi tion is. shahl we adopt this new procedurA~
after wbich rny hon. frlend ls aspiting, Sball every Bill that cornes bere frorn «i
whicli lie thinks, and we ail believe, an standing cornmittee be referred to a Cornnecessary In ail our acta, and In bis parti- mIttee of the Wbohe? Reasons rnay be
cularhy, torrents of Vint liglit wlil lie shied
given against, and reasons may 'be glv"n
upon it. This motion as proposed, If It In favour of tbat procedure. For rny pa t,
becomes a standing orderf wllh I appre- I would be lnciined to adopt tise motion e!
bend, and I repent it, lie a source o! per- rny bon. friend.
plexlty for Vie Senate. Tt wili lie very
Hon. Mm. DOMVILLE-I do not thinis
difficuit o! application 'and la taklng Into
consideratioxi the rule 130, it 'wlli practl- tisere need be a very great deai of discally lie usehess, because Vint cornrnttee cussion en thîs question. -My hon. frlend
I
Victoria quoted f rom a paper.
wi fot lie able to taise bold of the Bill frm
it lu any way or nianner, ex- think he was wrong because the ruling cf
and change
cept ilpon aucli notice as la given for thse tihe bon. Speaker was that according to
third readlng of Vie Bihl.
Bourinot-wbo bas gone to tise HIappy
Hunting Ground-not too eaiy perhap'jHon. Mr. LANDRY-Just a word or two lie was not entIthed to refer to the artl,!Ie
rny bon.
la answer to Vie contentions o!
In the newspaper. If lie bad stated la
friend 'wbo lias just resurned bis seat. I this House that a newspaper had said so
do flot see any conflilt nt ail between mule and so, he wouid have been Ia order. If
130 and. ruhe 128 or 129. Tisere is n con- he said a newspftper had attacked this
filet nt ail ln fact. Rule 128 snys:

SEINATE
House on its action, lie would bave becn
perfeetly in order. Hie wanted to show
that it was unfortunate that any action by
this flouse sbould be ca±cuiated to bring
down upon us the censorsbip of the pre ;s
or of a private Individual, and bow
damaglng It would be to us. 1 think tho
motion sbould be carrled, because wben a
Bill Is sent to a private committee, 1 *may be
there or I may ha away, or some other bon.
gentleman who wisbed to say sornething-.
or wbo bad formed sorne opinion on the
matter, may not be present and rnay not
bave the chance of saying anything. I do
not want to be ruhed ont of order, [f "I say

that I was on a committee over and over
again, and 1 bad no chance of getting a
word In edge-ways. I shai] not refer to a
committee of to-day or to a cornmittee 3f
yesterday.
There are Ilglits there that
govern us. There are greater ligbts and
lesser lgbts, and the lesser lights have .io
riglit to tilt swords with the greater iights,
and the lesser lights think- thliar, being ha
the Senate. tbey know quite as mucb as
the others dg. and can decide with an unblassed mind.
An Hon. GENTLEM-NAN-An open miné.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-It la open first
CommIttees are
and unbiassed afterwards.
There Is a way to
like the wblrlwind.
get round them, but I would not mention
In the flouse of Gommons
the word now.
.And what
a Bill goes to a committee.
for ? To get at the details.
The detals
are looked Into very tboroughly.
Some
members agree and some disagree, and tixun
the Bill goes back to a Cornrnttee of the
Wbole. One bon, gentleman says: II could
not get In a word edgeways In a certain
committee, but 1 can say a word just now ;
1 amn godng Into every one of the sections,
I arn golng to probe It tbrough, and I arn
not golng to have that Bill carried en bloc,
as some members would wisb.' What can
ha the barm of baving the Bill sent to the
Cýommittee of tbe Whole ? We are not
overworked.
Some of us are overtalked à
We have Io.%
littie. but flot overworked.
The country la cornplaining tbat
0f tirne.
Ta there any ob.
we have nothiug to do.
jectIon to relieving the mind if you like to
coul it the mind of the public, or the mind oif
this flIouse, or the mind 0f every body ais \.
on the fact that there shalh ha free discusHon.

M-Nr.
DOM\VILLE.

sion in the Chamber of everytbing goig
through the House.
lion. Mr. CLORAN-Fuli discussion.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILL-Full discussion.
MNy lion. friend may -say to me ' You have
a regular way of reaching the same result.
You can give notice.' Wel, I give notice
that ou the third 1 wlll move so-and-so,
and some bon. gentleman says: 'Spoken;
you can only speak once.' Perbaps the
points I have taken would not cover tbe
objectionable feature of the Bill in detail,
and therefore, to use a term wbichi 1 hope
înay be consldered parliamentary, that Bill
goes tbrough here witbout belng thoroughly
digested and tbreshed out by some bon.
gentlemen wbo wLshed to tbresb It out. Ail
we ask-I say we, as I arn only a humble
member of some thirty years' experience,
wblch counts for nothlng, Is that the ruit
should be changed, that a Bill, ftfter bein-,
reported from the special cormlittee, shahl
be re$erred to the Comm ittee of the Wbole,
whvere we can go into every section and
discuss It to our beart's content. Is there
any harm In tbat ? la It treading on anybody's corns ? If 1 were to say it dld, 1
should ha called to order. You wouid say
that I was suggestlng that in those cornmittees there were bon. gentlemen who
could govern those committees, and then I
would be out of order. You wilI rernember
that Mark Anthony said at Caesar's funeraI, 'We did inot corne here to praise Cnesar; we came here to bury hlm.' We are
In that position bere. I amn joining with
those who tblnk It Is witbin the dignity
of the House, I~tIs not cutting away from
the public and the press. Every citizen bas
the rIght to corne bere. and any man bas
the riglit to, ask bis friends to corne andi
say, 'Gan you do us a good turn?' Tbat
Is ail riglit. There Is no harrn In It; but
if the publie were to get the Impression,
that the working details of that cornmittee
were sncb as ensured to corporations and
others their hegishation. it would be
body
unfortunate In an Independent
cornposed of men of hlgh standing Ilice
thue Senate. Wbo can object to the resohution of the hon, 'gentleman from Assinihola ? 1 tbink It ls useless, even to dis.cuqs
it. T desire that In this flouse there shalH
he free discussion of everything-, and that

FF1M1TTAT~Y 5. 190S

239

the opinion sball fot exist eitber iii this question bas neyer been raised. The, e
Chamber or outside of It, that Buis are is another fact. Althougb it is true that
put tlirough whicli sliould. not go througli. i n the House of Commons tbey have a
practice of referring private Bis to a
Hou. Mr. POWER-I think that the Jommittee of the Wbole, that practice does
tbanks of the House are due to the lion. mot prevail lu auy case lu England. The
gentleman f rom. Saskatchewan for bring- procedure of the Senate is supposed to foling this matter before us. It is a desi- [0w that of the House of Lords, but in the
rable thing that we shouid discnss even House of Lords in England and lu the
the fundamental rules -of the House once House of Commons also, privaté Bills are
lu a while, and it is desirable furtiier that mot referred to a Comnîittee of the Wblole
lion, gentlemen who have been a compa- Rouse. Wbat Is the fact ? Some hon.
ratively short tîme lu this Hlousé sbould gentlemen made reference to what
the 'Olearn why It ls tbat our rules are lu the tawa Journal' said about the reent action
shape lu which tbey are nt present.
of this Senate. Well, if I arn fot out of
the hion. order Iu speaking, 1 read the article, and 1
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Wiil
what lie
gentleman permit me to iuterrupt hlm ? thouglit that If the editor knew
was writlng about, he woukd flot bave
Tliat is a very sarcastic remark about tbe
niew members. frhere are hon. gentlemnu written as lie did.
lu this Cliamber wlio bave carrled election
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Order, order.
after election lu thie country, wlc'n tliey
Hon. mn. POWER-So tliat this talk
api)eared before the people; whlule there
are other bon. gentlemen lu this flouse about public opinion outside should flot Inwho bave neyer cnrried an election. 1 fluence us, wlien that opinion is not an endo mot know whether the bon, gentleman llglitened public opinion. 'Wben a man
talks about somethuig bie does not undermeant the remark to apply to me.
bis opinion ls of little value. Wliat
gentleman stand,
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tlie lion.
is the position witli respect to private Bis?
from Itothesay is too ready, 1 tbiak, to
First there is a*notice to the public Iu the
put on a cap not Iuteuded for hlmi nt all. 'Canada Gazette' wbIch gives tue rub1 was not thinking of tlie bon, gentleman. stance of the thing asked for. That notice
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Tlieu 1 dld mot is open to everybody, and ls kept on file
lu the clerk's office. Then cornes the peticatcli wn-at tbe lion, gentleman sald.
tion, whicli usually sets forth more fuily
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbe lion. mnember
thie legisiation whicli Is
if lie did flot the character of
sbould not bave lnterrupted,
souglit. Then the Bill cornes into thie
catch wliat I said.
House and is printed, and every bon. rnemHou. Mr. DOMVILLE-1Initerrupted lie- ber bas ample opportunity to rend the Bill
fore the lion, gentleman sald ItL
and see wliether or not there is auything
At one time we were
just wisli to put objectionable it. l.
Hon. Mr. POWEll-I
private Bis
tlie case as it strikes me. This practîce not so particular. We aliowed
for to be rend witli only one day's notice; now
of ours lias prevailed lu the House
days notice, so that
forty years; and witli respect to the parti- tbere must lie two
before the every member lias ample opportunity, If
cular matter wbich ls now
lie chposes to avail himself of It, to fiud
Senate, until last session, I1 do mot thiink
about ut. out 'what the cliaracter of the Bill Is. ruVen
any question was ever rnised
there ls
Now, liowever higbly we rnay esteern the It Is read the second time, aud
tlhe ample opportunity for discussion at the secgentlemen who have recently come to
remernbered
House, and who consider that our rules are ond readlng: and it rnust be
witli respect to these Bills, that la mine
defective, I think the forty years' expehave already passed
rience should count for something. There cases out of ten tliey
through aIl their stages ln the House of
were brave men before Agamnemnn, and
corne up to us lu a comparathere were able and hold men before the Commons and
tively perfect form. Then the Bill Is rebon. gentleman from Victoria. and bis
Cormilttee. 'wlere it Is
friends :stili durin.- forty years this ferred to a Standing

SENATE
considered with a great deal of care. Gen- There is one thing xliich probably the hon.
tlemen who are membters of tue other gentleman from Saskatchewan did not reaHouse and legal gentlemen who appear be- lize, that in ail legislative bodies mucli of
fore tbe committees of botb flouses, unite the work is referred to committees. Otherlni bearlng testlmony to the fact that mucli wise tbe public business could not go on.
greater care Is bestowed upon Private Bis This House could not do its business withlni the committees of this flouse. than iu out committeesý 1 remember when in dithe committees'0f the other Bouse. I amn vorce cases the witnesses were examined at
flot aware that It bas been shown that any the bar of the flouse as to the service of the
Üranding committee of this flouse as acted petition and thlngs of that sort, the meninegligently in that respect. itou. geut1le- bers of tbe Senate feit that was an exmen talk about having ail these Bils corne ceedlngly Inconvénient practice and they
before a Committee of the Wboie House. delegated the whole business to the ComiTbat would be an excellent inconvenient mittee on Divorce, where the work
practice, and further, would be an inef- is done much more satisfactorily anci
fective practice. The fact tha*t Bis came just as thoroughly as It was done in
before a Commnittee of the Whole flouse old times when a great part of It came
would not 4iug about the resuit that the dlrectiy before the flouse. The hon.
hon. senator from Saskatchewan and hon. gentleman's proposed amendment makes it
gentlemen who agree with hlm desire; be- obligatory that every Bill reported from a
cause If a Bill Is committed to a Commit- Standing Committee shall be referred to a
tee of the Whole flouse you cannot bring Commlttee of the Whole flouse . If a
the evIdence there: you cannot brlng 'wtt- committee-say the Railway Committee-nesses, and you eannnt hear the counsel reports a dozen Bis, none of them perwho have spoken pro and con before the' haps contentious, and the flouse had to go
Standing Comm ittee. You cannot refer to Into committee on every one of these Buis.
what ocdurred ln the Standing (jouxmittee, fancy what a loss of time It would Involve,
and how much better off would you be ln and not only the loss of time on the day
a Comniittee of the Wbole ilouse than you itself, but the postponement of the time
are now? Mbat Information that could for the disposai of the -Bill for, as a rule,
be brought before a Committee or the at least two, days. There is nothing to be
Whole flouse could not be brought before galaed by. IL Nobody con tends that we
the flouse ltseif? The only advantage do not gîve sufficlent attention to Bills, andi
that could be gained in gurng Into a Com- It has not been shown that there has been
mittee of the Whole would be that there any abuse. There 1s this that the hon.
ewan did not bear
would be no limitation to the number of gentleman from Saskatch*
speeches made in connection wlth tue dif- ln mInd, that these committees are part of
ferent clauses of a Bill. Whether that would the machinery of the flouse. The Railway
be an advantage or not 1 am not prepared Commlttee, whlch Is the one that, as I
to say. And there is that about it, that If understand, appears to have attracted most
there was an insuperafile difficulty lu the attention and the most unfavourable attenway of the hon. senator from *&iskatche- tion, Is composed of two-thirds of the memwan which would prevent hlm from getting bers of this flouse. You can take any body,
what he desires, I could understand lt; but anythlng from a town council up, and it Is
this very rule which be proposes to amend found absoiutely necessary that a large
shows that 1I#was the Intention of this amount of the detail work at any rate sbaîl
flouse, *when the rule was framed, that in 'be referred to commIttees; and whien a
certain exceptional cases a private BiIU committee bas consldered a question and
mlght be referred to, a Committee of the made a unanimous or neariy unanimous reWhole flouse. I do flot think I have known port, tbe parent bady, as a matter of course.
more than one or two cases where a Bill assumes, and very properly, that the comhas been so referred, and I do flot remem- mnittee have done their duty. If there is a
ber any case where an application to refer marked division ln the committee, a large
a Bill to a Committee of the Whole fl-ouse mninority who are hostile to the flnding of
bas been refused; so there is no grievance. the committee. that minority have the right,
Hon. Mr. POWER.

FEBRUARY 5. 190S
and they exereise the rigiat of brInging the
question up before the mnother body. The
rules provide for that. If there le one
portion of the work of tbis Flouse iwhich I
think le doue lu a creditable way, it le the
work ln counection with prîvate Bills,
and that fact Is recognized by the membere
of the other House, by the press and by the
légal profession who practice before -both
Flouses and by the membere of the government; and why we should undertake to
alter a eystem which lias worked so satisfactorily Is somethiug whicb I really canflot uuderstand.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWVEL-I was
about to ask a question which bas been
covered by the hon. senator from Halifax
wheu hie spoke of witneeees being exa.mined
before the bar of the Flouse in connection
wlth divorce cases. Flas the hou, gentleman from Saskatchewau coutemplated for a
moment the necesgity for referring t0 a
Committee of the Whole Flouse the evidence takea before the Divorce Committee,
because If I read this motion correctly It
would be Imperative the' moment a report
wae made by the Divorce Committee t0 refer that report wlth the whole of the evidence taken ln conuection with the case
to a Committee of the Whole Houee. Surely the Senate le not desirous of entering
Into the reasous whlcb are given that Justify a divorce? Surely the House doce not
wish to consider the evideuce lu Commlttee
of the Wbole affer If bas been coneidered
seriouiy aud solemnly by a ernall standing
committee? There le f0 my miud a very
greaf objection to auythiug of the kiud.
Tbe appropriate way. as hae -been pointed
out by the bion. senator froîn Stadacona,
to proceed If th'ere le nny objection f0 a
private Bill wb-eu report ed from a special
committee, le to take action under the existiag mIle whicb gives the rIglit f0 the
Senate to take any action It may please la
the matter. As bas been very strongly
polnted out lu this debate-aud ([ bave frequentîr called attention to the samne point
myself-wbat we require le a full explanation on the motion for the second reading
of ail Bille, of what the Incorporators desire to obtaîn. sud the principle lnvo]-ed lu
each Bill. It seems f0 me if would be a
great mistake t0 change the ruie as It
stands, but If the majority think it neces-,
10

sary f0 niake a cbange, I could suggest a
much eaeler way to get at what the hon.
gentleman desires. If the bon. gentleman
wiil moi-e t0 strike out the worde 'Is not'
and Insert the words "shall be' hie wll
attain hie object.
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-i accept that
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIELL-If the
rule were amended lu that way every Bill
reported fromn a standing commIttee would
go to a -Committee of the Whole Flouse
unlees the Senate could otherwlee declare.
However, I 'sec no necessity even for that
change. Tbe ride itself gives ample power
to the Senate to refer any Bill to a tjommittee of thé Whole Flouse or to another
special committee.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-There bas been
ample discussion, and I suppose everyone
underetande the object of this resolution.
My hou. friend who had charge of the
framiug of the mules a couple of years ago
knowe that I then lnelsted upon Bille meported from the standing commîttees belng
sirbmitted to a Committee of the Wboie
Flouse. It bas been sald that la dolng s0
we might have a conifiet betw"en the
Standing Commnittee aud the Flouse; 1 see
no danger of that The hou, gentleman
from Halifax tells us that this mule bias
been lu existence for forty yeams. Thaf
does not make it any the better. Wlth
age 'se do not always get wisdom.
Hon. Mr. POWER-HEear, hear.'
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Our legislation should
be carefully consldered, sud that le why I
approve of changlng the rule. 'I caiinot
see how It would lead f0 any difficulty.
lu the Flouse of Gommons ail private Bills
reported from the standing commîttees are
submitted to a Committee of the Whoie
Flouse.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-But you could not
change anything substantially witbout gilng notice thereof.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Yuti eau ameud a
Bill la Committee of the Whole mest as well
as yeu can amend if lu the HFouse. Doce
my hon. fmlend pmetend to tell me that *ln
the Flouse of Comnions they must aiways
gi-e notice of an amendaient? We bav-e

242

SENATE

to give two days notice bere of auy sub- fromu Hastings and tbe bon. senator from
stantial ameudment at the third readlng Halifax, I thiuk the object ln view cani
of a Bill. A public Bill lntroduced in the be reacbed witbout referrlng ail Bis to
Senate here goes to a Commlttee of the a Committec of tbe Whele. That belng tbe
Whole House. Are we flot ln a position case, I cannot see wbat advantage can be
to dlscuss that Bill and If necessary amrend galncd by adoptlng tbe suggcsted resoluTowards tbe close of the session
It just as well as If it had gone to one of tien.
tbe standing committees? I have no fault it Is often necessary to rush Bis through,
to find with the Private Bis Clommittee. and we migbt .flnd tbls proposed rule very
I belleve tbey do their work well and are inconvenient wben business la pressing. Tt
wortby of ail due respect; but, as bas been sbeuld be, If adopted, optional wltb the
poluted out very fercly, we cannot be on House to, enforce it or not. Under tbe exail the committees. Wben, therefore, a Istlng rules any one may move an arnendstanding commlttee cousiders a- Bill and re- ment to a Blill reported from a standing
ports It back to the House, It should be commlttee by glvIng: notice of bis Intensubmitted to, a Gemrnittee of the Wbole tion to do so. That wili enable hlm te bring
House 'where every lndividual member bis views before tbe House and rnove to
would bave an opportunIty of understand- amend at tbe tbird rcading. I eutircly agre
lng and expressing bis views upon It We wltb the bon. senator frorn Hastings that
bave plenty of time bere te fuily consider It would be cxcecdingly awkward If we
ail -measures lntroduced In tbe House. I bad to consider ail divorce Bis lu a Cernsee no reason wby a private Bill sbeuld mittee of the Wbole House. I hope the
flot be subjected to a tberougb discussion ln bon, gentleman from Saskatchewan will ailu the 10w bis motion to drop, because bis object
a Com.mIttee of tbe Wboie House
same way tbat publie Bis and gevernment can be attained as weil by following the
mensures are considered. 1 do not tbink course tbat bas been suggcsted by tbe bon.
It la any argument at ail to say that tbe senater frorn Hastings.
ezlatlng mile bas been in operation for
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-I bave listened
maay years. Tbat la no reason wby It witb a great deai of attention hi the diversbould be contlnued unless It can be sbowu sity ef opinion' expressed In this debate.
that It Io of some advantage. Now, has The dIfficulties tbat have been binted ut
any bon, gentleman polnted to a single ad- have not been new discoverles to me. 1
vantage nriaing from sending private Bis bave given enougb attention te the euhto standing committees only? No doubt ject hi undcrstand tbem, al4 sud I would
that la the proper place for tbern to go i hesitate very much to ask til bonourable
the first Instance, but tbey sbeuld after- bedy te do anytblng wbicb I tbeugbt would
wards be tboroughly slfted by a Cornmittee iead to conflict. The bon. senator from
of the Whoie House. Tbe leader of tbe Halifax dld net give us a single reasen
governent la responsible for tbc legisia- tbat was tangible or wortliy.of censideration that passes bere and sbo'uld bave an tien fer a moment as te wby this mule
opportunity, like every other mernber of sb&uld net be cbangcd.
We walve our
the Senate, to consider every Bill that mules every day. Tbey lie on tbe table
cornes before us, In a <Jormlttee of the just Ilke flips, and nothing la sald about
Wbole House. We want tbe assistance of tbem. If a rule la I the way of anything
the members of tbe geverninent ln declding going tbrougb wltb baste, wc turn over the
wbether we are rigbt or wreng In passIng rules lke flips, a cbild's game. If tbis
those Bils. 1 arn tboroughly I sympatby Ho<use sbould at any tirne feci tbat there la
witb the motion ef tbe bonourable senator anytbing lu the way they are at liberty tô
from Saskatcbewan and approve of thé move tbat rule so-and-so, be suspended for
proposai te change tbe ruie.
the tîme being. Tben again tbe bon. gen'non. Mr. McMULLEN-I was strongly tleman speaks ef the long tîme tbe rule
inclined ln tbe first place, te support tbe bas been ln existence. . This mules be sa ç's
resolution; but after listening te the dis- are forty years old. I dlaim te be seventy
cussion wbicb bas taken place, and the~ years old, tbat Is tblrty years eider than
explanations given by the bon. senator tbe rules; I ought te bave seme wlt and
Hon. Mr. WILSON.

FEBRTTARLY 5, 1908
'wisdern by this tirne. Furthermere, I hnd< luestion should corne ln here as a reason
ten years experlence la the Heuse ef Cern- wvhy this motion should flot pass. 1 amn
mono, but that le only a briet part et my satlsfled on that point The hon. gentleman
experlence. I have been accustoméd ta deal frorn HastIngs, whorn 1 respect very highly.
with the public and public questions since says that he would suggest a better way.
1 was twenty-seven years ef age, 50 thatJ Iarn qulte satistled to leave It to the House
my education ln these particalars le net to carry out the details. If it simply says
uimply since I came Inte this venerable as- Shail be cormltted to a Comrnittee of
sernbly. The houl. gentleman says It wouldi the Whole,' It would cover the whole case,
be Inconvenlent te disturb the muie, and yet and I thonght ef that before I drafted this
he tale te say how there wonld be incon- motion. I1 cannot see that any reason has
venlence or disturbance. I amrn ot agalnst been yet given to stand ln tbe way of the
He maya House endorslng this motion. Ruies rnust
the committees et this Hcvnse.
why net abollsh the cemmittees of the change and principles of order 'will change
Hanse altagether ? The committees et the ln the experience af the Hanse. go that
Hanse do grand work. They hear bIte- It Is no new thlng ta suggest slight changes
rested parties, examine 'wltnessee, take of this kind. But sorne hon. gentlemen are
charge of #11 evIdence and can mature exceedingly sensitive when touching *mattheir uwn judgment on a question at Issue ters wlth which tbey have been eoncerned,
betore it cernes to us. By going Into a and I notice this particularly with regard
CJommittee of the Wbole House, we de to the hon, gentleman frorn Halifax. The
net expect wltnesses to be called betore adoption ef this resolution wiil strengthen
us, but we do expeet. that the hon. gentle- the Senate lnstead of hinderlng It. I bemen who may be members of the parti- leve it wlll go a long way to Increase the
cular committee te whlch the Bill may have confidence of the public lni the Senate, luibeen referred, shall be ln a position ta stead of. daing otherwise. There are other
give us the result ef their consideratien, matters that I might speak of, and perbaps
and the reasons why they arrived at their may speak ef ln the near future, that reconclusions. If they have made amend- flect an this very question. The danger
ments we should knaw the reasons why the at the present'moment te the Senate Io flot
ameadmeuts were made. We want ta hear s0 mach t rom the opposition, tram the public
tee bon. gentlemen of that committee ex- press or tram the remarks of fresh younq
press tbemselves, and If they do flot brlng men in the Hanse ef Commens-not at all;
the exact dalngs et tee committee betore the danger te one that has threatened the
the Oornmittee et the Whele Hoase, It ls Senate of the United States, and threatens
flot what we look for. We look fer the this Senate, wlth being infienced and
resait of their delîberations in erder that ruled by outoide parties who are lnterested
we may have further llght te enable ns to ln the legisiation that goes throngh. BeTher tare long we rnay Eind ourselves ln the podlscbarge our duty ta tee public.
carry the responsibility If they car-y sition et the Senate of the United States,
tee duty llkewiee. The only objection where corporations and large campantes
that has been urged against this mo- own the whole thlng, body and soul. I
tion Is the question et divorce. I theught throw eut this hint, net that we have got
ef that carefully before I drew up the mo- s0 far, but we are on the way, and this
tion. There le no need that thls divorce motion, If adopted, wll do a great deal +o
work should stand la tee way at eil. The weakèn the efforts made by the men ln
special cemmittee ta examine tee wltnes 'es the lobby. Tbey will have ta consider not
collect ail tee evidence, arrive at their the Individual member, ln the cornrittee,
conclusions and report ta tee Heuse las but the whole Hanse, when they seek to
a whele. Very well, what about tee evi- carry their point and get the legisiatiou
dence ? In these cases tee evîdence is
tbrough for any purpose ln which they are
neyer submItted ta ne ln the Hanuse; te
Interested. Therefore 1 say that
evîdence Is sent ta ns thraugh tee post specia]ly
and we get It ln printed form, se this proposed rule would have rnany,.adoffice
that there Is no reason wby the divorce vantages. It wlll give us more work per164

SENATE
iiaps, and perhaps fewer holidays, but t-bat
wjhl be ail the better.
thbe
Hou. Mr. POIRIER-Supposing
standing commit-tee shouid pass a Bil
*in a certain way, aud the Committee of
the Wbole House sliould alter t-bat Bill,
Iiow would we proceed ?
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-The House would
,decide the question.

NON-CONTENTS
The Honourable Messieurs
Lougheed,
Baker,
Lovitt,
Béique,
Maokay <Aima),
Belcourt,
MacKeen,
flostock,
McGregor,
Bowell
McKay <Truro),
(Sir Mackenzie),
MoMillan,
Campbell,
Merner,
Cartwright
Mitchell,
(Sir Richard>,
Owens,
Casgrain,
Ponley,
Choquette,
Poirier,
David,
Power,
Derby'shire,
Riley,
Dessaulles,
Robertson,
DeVeber,

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The bushel le big'ger t-han the peck. The Commit-tee of t-he
'Ross (Moosejaw),
Ellis,
Wlhole House Is master.
Scott,
Fiset,
Shehyn,
Forget,
Hou. Mr. DOUGLAS--You will observe Frost,
Sullivan,
that upon the report of the special com- Godbout,
Watson,
Wood,
nittee being given to t-be House, t-heu on Joues,
Yeo,
the motion of the House it shahl go on t-he Kerr,
Young.-45.
Kirohhoffer,
ýorder paper and corne up lu due form for Legris,
adoption or otberwise, and the Committee
MANUFACTURERS' MUTUAL LIAJIIL,of t-he Whohe House must set-tie t-he whole
ITY INSURANCE COMPANY BILL.
business of that report before It rises. That
SECOND READING.
the rules at present
le lu accordauce with
Hon. Mr. JONES moved the second readlu vogue. 1 cannot yet believe, sud no one
has gis-en reasous t-bat would make me ing of Bill (1) An Act to Incorporate the
belle've, that t-bis motion is iu conflict with Manufacturers Mutual Liabillty Insurance
any rule lu existence lu the Senate. We Company.
He sald: This le a Bill to Incorporate
leave It to t-he dIscretion of the House to,
deal with it as they would any other rule the Manufacturers %MutualLiability InsurI think that Is an Indicaof t-he House. If circumetances arose t-bat auce Company.
As I
requlred a suspension of t-he rule, they tion of the powers of the company.
It at-their discretion. Iu the undetotand [t the powers are contaned In
could suspend
management of a Divorce Commîttee, there the fourthi clause, wbich reads as follows :
The company may, on the mutual prinwould be notlng lu thîs mile that would
cipie. ineure and indemniey its members
conflict wlth tbeir dolng their work lu the against dlaims by or on behalf of any other
usual way. We are flot complaInlug of t-he person for loss or damage by pereonal. inWe have pleuty of It, juries or death.
evIdence we got.
The business powers of the company are
God- knows. It le glven to us Iu a certain
form, and we make up our minds as t-o practlcaliy contaiued lu tbat clause. The
'what our duty Is under thbe circumetances. other clauses are substantialiy the usual
Therefore I leave t-he mattem t-o t-be Judg- clauses. I have not studied the Bill carement sud good sense of the House . and 1 fully, and 1 amn not aware that there are
auy other thau the regular clauses outeide
shall ba sntisfied wlth their dacision.
of the one I bave read, wbich probably
The House divlded on the motion which differs froin the usual powers of a coinwas iost ou the folowing division': Con- pany.
tents 16, non-contents 45.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bui
CONTENTS
wns read thbe second t-une.
The Honourabie Messieurs
APPOINTMENT OF UNDER SECGREDouglas,
Boit-b,
Landry,
Bernier,
TARIES.
Maclaren,
Boucherville de,
DEBATE RESIJMED.
Mont-plaisir,
Cioran,
Ross (Halifax),
Coffey,
The Order of the Day being called:
Ross (Middlesex),
Comeau,
Resuming thbe adjourned debate on 'the
ROY,
Davis,
motion of the Hon. Mr. Ross (Middlesex),
Wilson. 16.
Domviiie,
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS.

FEBIRITARY 5, 190824
other circumstance to which the bon, genI think goes to
tleman referred, which
show that the scheme whiceh lie proposes
is flot perhaps of great practical value. lu
the yea r 1887, the late Sir John Macdonald
had a measure Iutroduced and passed
througli pariament providing for the apMr. POW DIR Lt is very well to say pointaient of three officers who would
Hon.
lie the same as the Under
Resuming the adjourned debate' ; but practlcally
was Secretaries of whoin tbe bon. gentlepian
really it Is so long since the discussion
Middlesex speaks- There was a
adjourned that il does not enligliten any from
comptroller of customns and one of land
one very mucli. There la enougli Irish In
a solicitor general. Now
me to make me prefer to have some- revenue, and
the tact that an astute sud experlenced
body to oppose. With refereuce to thls
matter, wliether we see eye to eye with politician like the late Sir John Macdonald
a measure of that kind
the lion. gentleman from 'Middlesex or not, bad lntroduced
oue*s dlspositio-i
we must lie grateful to hlm, because lie bas would naturally strengtben
to vlew It favourably. It is a niatter
brouglit up a subject of very cousiderable
rnay
interest, and it is a little ont of the ordi- of n0 consequence, of course ; but I
say that wben that, measure was Intronary every-day routine of our business. In
thouglit it was
fact, hike the question of the constitutionj duced 1 supported It. 1
a step li the rlght direction ; but here ;s,
of the Senate, it is a subject whldh calîs,
fact, that the -Riglit
to acertain extentfor statesmausbip rather the one remarkable
Hon. Sir John Macdonald, aithougi lie had
than political or ordlnary business capaclty.
it Into
I may say that I arn afraid while I express bis Act passed In 1887, neyer put
operation. The Act was brouglit Into
my admiration for the speech whiclithe bon.
gentleman made, and recognize the fact that operation after the death of Sir John Macr
correcthe subject Is an interestlng and soinewliat donald. 1 arn speaking now under
I feel that there is really tIon, because the hon. gentleman from
Important one,
and
not very mucli public opinion behind tbe Hastings was the Minister of Trade
Lu other Commercef and lie had tbe two comptrolmotion of the hon. gentleman.
but the Imwords, looking at it f rom the point of vlew lers actlng as bis assistants;
thc pression whilh bas -been made on my mind
of the practical man, the scheme whicli
comptrollers
b on, gentleman proposes'does uot fill a long- is that, on tbe whole. the
did flot give the utmost- satisfaction.
feit want lu public life. Now, in ordez
under the
to show that 1 may caîl attention to thE 'However, It may have been
adixIstratlon of the bon. gentleman fromn
fact that tliere bas, so far as I amn aware,
neyer been any serlous discussion of this Hastings; when bis government ceased
tbe lI power. and the Liberal party came
question In the public journals or perIodicalý
That point 1 thluk liaç Into power, this system was almost imof the country.
the two compalready been made by the hon. Secretari mediately aboiished, and
He, however, confined bis state *trollers, the gentlemen who lad been apof State.
pointed comptrollers. were made ministers
meut to the last few days during whl
this notice of the hou. gentleman fron: of the same rank as the other minîsters.
doubt
Middlesex bad been on thie paper; but, a! As to the solicitor genera]. I have no
a matter of fact as far as 1 remember, thie that that oifficer discliarges valuable duties;
wbicb lie
question lias neyer been seriously con -but 1 do not think tha-t the duties
sidered by the press of the country, ani '~disdliarges and the services whlch lie rento whicli the
whlle 1 do uot tlnk that they are alwayi ders are the kind of service
Middlesex refers. 1
the best authorities on coustîtutional ques - on, gentleman frorn
portions, stili If a question Is of auything liki do not thlk lie tak'es up a very large
vital Importance Iu a political way, thi tion of the burden 'wbich rests upon the
newspapers are pretty sure to talk abou t 'Minister of Justice. I do not mean to say
it. no matter whetlier they talk about It lie does not do valuable -work, but 1 do not
the
wisely or the other way. There is an - think it is the kind of work to which

that in the opinion of the Senate, the time
lias arrived for supplementing the executive
government of Canada, by the apn)ointinent
of Under Secretaries to t he more important
departmnenta of the publie service, with duties
and privileges as near as may lie sirnilar to
those of the corresponding officers in the
arliament of Great Britain.-(Hon. Mr.
p1ower.)

SENATE
hon. member referred to lu bis speech. So
that I 'do not thlnk our experience le calculated to make us feel that there is any
demand just now for officers of thîs kind.
As I have just stated, I was ln favour of
the Act of 1887, and its operation has been
rather. a disappointment.
Hon Sir INIACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
not deslre to interrupt the hon. gentleman,
but 'I do not think there Is a quorum of
the House. It ls not only disrespectful to
the hon. gentleman who la speaking, but
It la disrespectful to the Senate itself to
show so littie luterest lu a question of sucb
grave Importance.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIDED-May I suggest
that owlng to a certan social- function
which is going on withln the Senate walls,
we should call it six o'ciock.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Wlth the permission
of the House, I move the adjourumnent of
the debate.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems to me
thiat the motion cannot bie put If thiere be
no quorum.
Hon. Mr. POWER-We can see that
there are fifteen heme.
The SPEAKER-There la a quorum.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLr-I hope
the hon. gentleman will persist lu moving
the adjourument of the debate, because -1
purpose saying- something on the subject
myself and do not wish to speak to empty
chairs.
The motion wns agreed to, and the debate was adjourned..
BILLS INTRODUCED.

Hon. Mr. POWER (lu the absence of
lion. Mr. Young) moved that the BUi
read the second time on Friday next.
Hon. Sir MACOKENZIE BOWEILL-Is It
flot well that we should know the contents
of the Bill ?
Hon. Mr. POWEL-lt provides for the
construction of a Une of raiiway from a
point at or near Killam or some other point
ln township 44, to a point at or near
Strathcona, Alberta.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That
withIn. Alberta.

is

entirely

Hon. Mr. POWER-Yes, but it la a
branch of the Canadian Pacifie Railway.
The motion was agreed to.
CUIMBERLAND RAILWAY AND
COMPANY BILL.

COAL

INTRODUCED.
A message wns received from the House
of Commons witi -Bill (46) An Act respectlng the Cumberland Railway and Coul Coinpany.
The Bill was read the first time.
Hon. Mr. POWERl moved that the Bill
be rend the second lime on Friday next.
lie said : This Is practlcally a Bill to authorize the present Cumberland RLailway and
Coni Company to acquire a short lune of
us from Sprlng Hill to
railway which
Parrsboro. It is only about six mlles, and
lies.lu the county of Cumberland. -It aiso
authorlzes them, ln addition to the coal
mines which tbey now own, to buy or
lease other coul mines ln the provinces
of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick and to
construct wharfs lu connection with thelr
business, lu that particular respect it contrasts favourably wlth other BuIls of a
similar character, because it asks only for
power to construct these works lu a connection with Its Ilne of rallway.

Bill (88) Au Act respecting Vie Edmonton, Dunvegan and British Columbia Railway Company.--(Hon. Mr. Roy.)
Bill (44) An Act to incorporate Vie Alberta
Northern Railway Company.--(Hou. Mr.
Young.)
Hon. Mr. LJANDRY-Is' that a tederal
ACIFC RALWAY ACT
CANAIAN
Bl ralclBl
AM.ENDMENT BILL.
INTROI)UCED.
A message was received fromu the House
of Commons with Bill (45) An Act respectlug Vie Canadian Pacific Rahlway Company.
Hon. Mr. POWER.

Hon. Mr. POWER-It is amending n federal Act.
Hon. Mr. LAlNDRY-Amending
ln.

by add-

FEBIRUARY 6. 1908
Hon. Mr. POWER-It is to acquire this issued lu Frenchi for sale on the French
of it be
short railway of six miles and other mines market, or 'will the equivalent
English ?
than those which they now own and to
buihd wharfs and vessels ln connection
Hion. Mfr. SCOTT-The amounts wlll bie
with their mines.
lu French. The amounts will be equivalent
as nearly as possible to £20. You cannot
The motion agreed to.
make it exactly, but flot less the 500 franco
The Senate adjourned untll to-morrow at or 400 marks, to bring It up as nearly as
possible to the equivalent of twenty pounds.
three o'clock.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Supposiflg sme
of the saine Issue were placed on the Eng.
THE SENATE.
lish market, what then ?
Thursday, February 6, 1908.

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT--'Twenty pounds ln
and 400
Chair at Three English, 500 francs lu French
The SPEAKER took the
marks ln German.
o'clock.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Will both apPrayers and routine proceedings.
pear on the face of the bond ?
BILL.
COMPÂNIES' ACT AMENDMENT
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-No.
OTTAWA,

FIRST READING.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT introduced Bill (L) Au
Act to amend the Companies' Act. He
said: The amendments are not very Important The principal one la authorizing
bonds to be issued ln francs and marks.
Some of the coxupanies are now getting
money in France and Germany, and they
find that where the bonds are expresse1
ln marks and francs the marks are made
to correspond to our $100 only ln franco
and marks.
She Bill was read the first time.

Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Let us assume
an Issue of bonds, part of whlch may be
sold on the London market and part lu the
French market; what form would the bond
then take ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The bonds ln thc
Engllsh market.would be twenty pounds
sterling; the bonds lu the French market
would be lu sums of not lees than 500
francs each, and ln the German mnarket flot
less than 400 marks each.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Of the samne Issue ?
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-May 1 ask my
Hon. Mr. SCOTT~-Of the saine Issue.
hon. friend If the equivahent of the franc
That la as near as you can get themn in
appear lu English lu the bond ?
will
round numbers without going Into fracHon. Mfr. SCOTT-Ob, no.
tions.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEFID-Bonds prepared
BILL INTRODUCED.
especially for the French market.
Bill M1 An Act respectlug the TrafleHon. 1fr. SCOTT-Not lesm than 500
Canada Ratlway Company.--Hon. Mfr. Choefrancs. Clause 69 ia the one under which
quette.)
the bonds are to be authorized. Clause 69
of the Companies' Act, belng chapter 79
TE GEORGIAN BAY CANAL.
of the Revised Statutes of Canada. is reThe notice of motion being called:
pealed, and a clause substituted* provIdiné
to be nlot les
for the Issule of these bonds,
By the Hon. Mfr. (3asgrain
than twenty pounds sterling, 500 francs
Will caU the attention of the Sonate to the
or 400 marks.
importance to Canada of the early construc.
tion of the Georgian Bay Canal.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-I do nlot quite
Hon. Mfr. CASGRAIN said: 1 have been
understand it yet. Do I understand the
ls the bond asked to cali the attention of the Senate
issue will be lia Frencbi-tbft

248

SENATE

to the importance of the early construction
of the Georgian Bay canal. I accept cheerfully the tas]. of addressing the Hanse on
that question, because I know of no body
better qualified to appreciate the merits
I belleve this is the kind
of this work.
of question to which the Senate should devote some of Its valuable uie, and I know
that Éon. gentlemen wlll give ail the attention which the magnitude of the enterIn this flouse, better I
prise deserves.
lielieve than la the flouse of Comnnons, we
are Ia a position to, study the great questions which lnterest the whole of Canada.
In the other flouse, menibers, through local
Influence, may be obiiged to attend more
to, local ivants ; but la this flouse we are
free ta attend to measures whichi interest
Hon, gentlemen
the country as a whole.
who compos e tbis flouse have nenrîs al
had long training la public affairs and are
weii qualified to deal with sncbi important
It is au incentive toinxost of
questions.
us to work, ln studylng ont these larger
problems, liecause we know that the liermanency of aur tenure of office la this
House lasts as long as our natural lite,
and gives us a chance to see some of the
measuires and reforms -we advocate carried
ont betore we pass from the political arena.
0f the Commons the samne cannot be said.
Some able man wbo might have been capable of rendering great service to tbis countiry may see bis political career nil)ped la
the bud, because the partîcular constituency which bic represents may flot like the
party with which lie ta affiliated, or mas
preter a party who lias the good fortune
to have for leader a man wlio enjoss the
esteem and confidence of almost the entire
electorate of the country. A very good and
able man may be driven out of publie lite
and faîl almost into obli-ioa, flot througli
an . fault of bis own. but simpîs because
the parts to wbich hie Is opposed bias at lts
head an abler man than the party with
I believe that tîjis
whlcli lie Is affillated.
House, because of. Its Independent position,
is capable of judging of the vers best
scheme by whicli ta carry out this laiWe are flot tied either
portant project.
to the St. Tinwrence or the Ottawa routes.
We are perfectîs tree ta look at both si<les
flouse shonl1
of the question. and if tis
conclude. after mature study, that thle
Hlon. Mr. CASGRAIN.

enormnious amount wvhich would hbe required
to construct the proposed canal sliould lie
spent la improving the St. Lawrence wvaterway. then It is for thie Senate ta, express
appraval. or disapproval of elther one or
the other. 1 wish ta put before the Hanse
sonie of the tacts 1 have collected atter
considerable research durlng the last two
montlîs, because there has been so, much
sald about this question 'which bas been
liefore the public of Canada for more than
fifts years that it is vers- difficuit ta adI
vance anythlng new an the subject.
shall try to nvold following the beaten
track and ta flnd something new whlch
This
wiil lie Interesting ta this flouse.
question miglit lie divlded Into tour great
sections, there are so, many coasiderations
First, there Is the engiinvolved la It.
neering fensîbility second. the commercial
potentialitles of the enterprise ;third. the
water powers and their utilization ;and,
tonrth, the transportation problem. Allow
me first to refer ta, the engineering probleni,
becanse 1 have had more occasion to study
that particular brandi of -the sublject. The
most Important point, to commence with,
is the selection of the route.
On this the 300th anniversary of the
foulnding of old Queliec, when we are coinmemorating the toundation of tliat city,
could anything lie more appropriate than
ta recall at the vers outset that the flrst
man who explored the Ottawa route and
made It known ta civîlization. was the
distlnguished traveller who, fonnded the
city of Queliec--Samuel de Champlain.
Three hundred years ago, la 1613, this bald
and brave man, accompanied lis four
Prenchmen and one Indian, went tfram
Quebec ta, Montreal and thence penetrated
up the Ottawa river as far as the counts
now known as Rentrew. Tiiere lie had ta
winter, flot being able ta praceed turtlier.
i mas relate a small Incident which lispThe anis astronapened at that point.
mical Instrument lie had n-as an astrolable,
an instrument ta tell the elevatlan of the
sua, and therelis appraximatels flnd the
This Instrument n-as lost, and.
latitude.
strange ta relate, It w-as fannd liy an Ontario ]and surveyar. lu June, 1867, just at
It is non-. 1
the tune of confederatian.
iinderstand, depoqited i the Department
In 1615.
of Cran-n Liiids it Toronto.

FEBRITARY 6. 1908
1rcs-uuiel Iii., e~xploration. deterClianipi
mined thîs timie to push as far as he could
westward, as we ail know in those days
the Idea, was to fiud a way across this
On bis second
continent to the China ses.
trip lie was aceompanied by ten Indiaus,
It
one interpreter, and oue man-servant
was a 'very sm-al party to penetrate tlirough
the wllderness at that, trne, and wltli
whlch to contend against hostile tribes ;
but nevertlieless lis voyage, as we know,
He asceuded the Ottawa,
ïwas successful.
as far as the Mattawa river aud seelug that
the Ottawa branclied nortli and that the
Mattawa lay more directly lu bis course,
At.er ascending tbe
lie took that brandi.
Mattawa river, he eutered lake Talon, and
from lake Talon luto Turtie lake and from
Turtle ake into Trout lake, aud tbere lie
crossed the summit dividlng the waters
whlch flow east towards the St. Lawrence
from the waters that flow west, towards
Georgiau bay. I rnay say bere that the
only elevation between the level of Trout
laite separating the waters flowing est
from the waters flowiug west le a amal
one .of four feet, necessitatlng a very smail
portage in order that a cauoe muay proceed
westward.
After havlug asceuded to that
altitude, Champlain crossed lake Nlplssing,
made a careful survey of soine parts of it,
desceuded the Frenchi river, and entered
Georgian boy. There be saw for the fIrst
time the Huron Iudions who .inhabited the
shores of Georgian bay, aud wlio were lu a
fan more advauced state of civilîzation than
the other tribes inhablting the North -Amenican continent. Hou, gentlemen will see
that before any Europeau liad even heard
the roar o! Niagara Falls, the Ottawa aud
Frenchi river route sud waterway was aIneady known. These eaniy explorers wene
Lest year, lu
centainly wonderful men.
this House, I spoke o! these adventurens
leavlug Montreal on suoNshoes sud goiug
to Hudson bay. The La Venendnye brothers
not only followed the route that Champlain
Pxploreà iu 1613, but penetrated lake
Huron aud ssceuded the rapids of Sali
Ste. Marie, crossed lake Superior. contlnued
up Rainy river, aud Lake of the Woods,
and finally pushed thein way across the
Rocky Mountains. Those two brothens naccompanied.' crossed the Rocky M-Nountainq soniewhere, as far as we can ascer-

249

tain, about the route the C4luadian Pacific
Rallway lias followed, descending ou the
western cost o! the Rockies, sud taklug
possession o! ail that immense terrltory lu
the name o! the King o! U3rance. These
brothers made a map o! their jouruey.
Mauy years ago 1 bad occasion to see that
map, and It la wonderful to observe the
accunacy wltli whicli tliey have lndlcated
the vanlous routes tlirough his continent.
The places where tbey Iudicated. that poste
sliould be establlslied are Vie places rwhere
posts were subsequently located, eltlier by
the Company o! tlie Hundned Assoclates,
or by Vie Hudson Bay Company, or the
Nortbwest Compauy, sud are uow the sites
Chiamo! towns and prosperons cities.
plain returued to 4Quebec lu the year 1615.
I may say lie liad also explored mauy other
parts or the country ; lu Nova Scotia, lu
Cape Breton sud lu Prince Edward Island.
For 240 years Vie Ottawa River route saw
procession o! missionanles,
a pitrsu
trappers, aud ail Vie Hudson Bay CJompany employees wlio carried furs down to
Montreal, sud the sliores of that river
eclioed wltli many a boat song sng by the
Freuchi Osuadiau trapppns sud voyageurs.
Fully one-bal! o! Vie supplies that passed
scross thîs continent were fonwarded by
These ploneera were really
Viat route.
wonderful men. The knowledge that Viey
lad of the country; the knowledge that
they liad of the varions routes wss centaluly greaten than the kuowledge o! many
people Iu oun own day, notwithstandlng ail
Tliey
Vie modern faclîties we possess.
recogulzed tbat there were tlnee principal
routes along Vie great water slieds lu tlis
great waten
northeru contlneut-tinee
The
slieds est o! the Rocky Mountains.
first water shed, startlug at the foot of tlie
Rocky Mountains, sud extendiug to s point
about 100 mlles est of Winnipeg, sud
reacbing to the south as far as Vie Missouri
plateau, ahl dralued, as lion, gentlemen
know, into the Hudson Bay by the varions
This route
large rivens flowing into ItL
I
was !ollowed. untîl not very long ago.
was anticled mysel! to a gentleman who
came out to t-..s conntry by Hudson Bay,
He came wltb
laudiug at York Factory.
tlie intention o! beiug a misslonary. but he
afterwards gave up that ides to becouie a
He came froin Hudson Boy to
snrveyor.

250

SENATE

the settied parts o! Canada by foliowing Trade had a report on the Ottawa and
French River navigation problem. You see,
these waterways.
The second water shed, and one o! equal bon. gentlemen now the boards of trade,
Importance, and one whicb was travelled even ln that remote period, took an interest
over and over agalu lu the olden days, was hn this question. The report of Mr. Shantbe 'water shed to the south extending again ley, as was the later report of Mr. Clarke,
from the Missouri plateau down by the was unfavourable ln one respect. Between
Mississippi to the Gulf o! Mexico, lastly, Georgian bay and the iummit there
the third route comprises ail that vast ex- is a diff erence in level of some 99
tent of territory draining into the great feet to be overcome; and, naturally, from
Iakes. L.akes Superior, Huron, Michigan, thîs summit ail the water necessary for
Brie and Ontario, that Immense plateau the operation of the canal must be obtained
drained by the St. Law.ence, tbe route from the very highest point . .Mr. Shanley
wltb which we are most familiar. These reported that, ln bis opinion, the water
tbree great plateaus were well defined, and, shed falling from Trout lake and Talon
If we reffect, we must admit that It la lake was nlot sufficient to supply a canal
aimost absolutely necessary there should of ten feet or o! eight feet and that
be on the nortbern part of the continent even by unitlng these lakes, enough rwater
these terraces, and that there must neces- could not be got. In 1858, Mr. T. M.
sarily be breaks In tbe water flow, ln order Clarke, anotber engineer, aiso employed by
to'keep the water from flowing too fast the government of United Canada, made a
frein the centre o! the continent to tbe report, very much on the same Ilnes as
ocean. Were It not for Niagara and other that of Mr. Walter, and a large book o!
great fails; If there were one steady grade some three or four hnndred pages, as large
without these obstacles to navigation, the as our Debates, was then pnbllshed on the
whole Interlor o! the country would be a subject. 1 bave had possession of that
barren desert. But tbe Divine architect book for tbe last few weeks. '.%r. Clarke,
of the universe conptructed, these dams ln like Mr. Walter Shanley, advised that the
order to conserve moisture throughout the aupply ut the summit was Insufficient but
Iength and breadth o! the varions plateaus. Mr. Clarke proposed to raise the level of
Now after these 240 years of! pioneer Lake Nipissing by some 15 feet, and lower
work, we come, with the advance of civIli- the level of those tbree lakes I bave menzation. to the year 1856, when for the first tioned, -lu order to make one long water
time, fifty-two years ago, actuai snrveys stretch. 1 may say that that acheme wouid
were made o! the Ottawa River route. have been the best If It were practicable;
The first survey made by the then Depart- but the expense would have been enormous
ment of Public Works was under the super- on account of the rock-cutting through the
vision o! Mr. Walter Sbanley, a distin- summit necessary to make the level. And
gulshed engineer who passed over to bis re- now that the town of North Bay.has been
ward not many years ago, and who for huilt on tbe shore of Lake Nipissing, and
many years, was member for the county of the town o! North Bay and the Canadian
Grenville. Mr. Sbanley then thought, as Pacific Railway are at sucb low level-I
most people did In tbose days, that a chan- tbink some fourteen feet, If my memory
nel with a draft o! ten feet was ambly serves me rigbt, above the level o! the
sufficient for al] the trade that would be lake--it would be almost impossible to
offered. His estimate o! the cost for a ten raise the level of the lake without flooding
foot channel. was some $24,000,000. Later *the town of Nortb Bay, and the Canadian
on he was asked If an eigbt-foot drafi Paciflc Railway works. Tbat project: has
would not be sufficient. Other calculations, iconsequently te be to be abandoned. But,
were made which reduced the cost by elghl I may be able Iater on to show that even
million, leaving an estimate 0f sixteen mil. *this obstacle bas been overcome by the
lion for the total cost o! the canal froni i able engineers whom the goverumelit bas
Georgian Bay to Montreal. It may be ln. h ad for the last few years making a study
teresting to members froni Montreal tc of tbe surveys and plans o! this great
Tt may be of lnterest to this
know that lu 18S8 the Montreai Board ol scherne.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN.

FEBRUMY 6. 1908
-House to know Viat at the present moment, and for the last three or four years,
-somne $600,000 bas been expended by the
governrnent In surveys, plans aind explora-tiens. It shows that this question has becorne a practîcai Issue, and, I may be par-doned If I go Into It, sornewhat at length.
The surveys made fifty years ago were
brought to a sudden stop. Ten yeara ago
a committee of this honourabie Hlouse was
-formed, composed of eighteen niembers,
,eleven of whom are stili living and are
active members of tbis House. They, after
going into this "question very thoroughly
-and hearing evidence of surveyors, and reviewlng the engineering aspect the comnmercial aspect, even the milltary aspect of
the question, strongly recommended to the
governrnent *the advisabllty of proceeding
witb the construction of this work. That
was ten years ago. No further move was
made for six years; and four years ago
surveys were again started, and now it bas
been proposed to construct a canal witb
twenty-two feet of water to accommodate
vessels drawlng nineteen and twenty feet,
ieaving enough water under the keel of
Vie keel of Vie vessel for steerage iway.
Here cornes the question, whether It las
wise to undertake the project at enormous
cost, for although the final estirnates are
not yet completed, It la welI known that
the work wiii cost about a hundred milIton dollars. Ia It vise to undertake a
,canal tventy-tvo feet deep, or vould it be
better to make It fourteen feet the saine
draft as Vie canaIs on Vie St -Lawrence
at an expenditure of about $30,000,000.
Hlon. gentlemen rnay be amazed at the
extraordlnary difference ln cost between a
canal twenty-two feet deep and one fourteen deep aud that elght feet more in
depth shouid makê the liuge difference of
$70,000,000; but you must remember Viat
ln lucreasing Vie depth Vie quantities are
lncreased in Vie cubical ratio. It la not the
length or breadth merely, but the cube of
the contents, and s0 the quantities are
multiplied three Urnes over, thus account-'
Ing for this Immense differeuce. Soxue hon.
gentlemen may ssy that If Vie one hundred
millions were spent on the St. Lawrence
route, perbaps lt could be deepened to
twenty-two feet draft. 1 was at first luclined to belleve that fourteen feet would

25

be sufficient, but fourteen-foot eanals do
not seem to be able to compete wlth
modern raiIwaVa, as Vie arnaller boats do
neot carry frelght very much cheaper Vian
do the rallways, and are not able to materially dlvert commerce frorn rallway
uines.
It appears frorn ail that bas been
wrltten lately on the aubject, that Vie only
canal Viat vili successfully attract Vie
traffic is one of twenty-two feet and Viat
if we 'were to build only a fourteen foot
canal, it would be better for Canada to
save the rnoney as ve already have a canal,
drawlng fourteen feet. Canais of Viat depth
have proved a fallure ln dlvertlng tramfe
frorn United States ports. They have not
succeeded. lu brlnglng freight: to Moutreal,
and It may be astonishlng to hon, gentlemen to hear that no fleet of vessels with
fourteen feet draft has ever been built.
When Vie St. Lawrence canais vere to be
deepened to fourteen feet that was cousidered Vie maximum draft of vessels on
the great lakes; but before our canals were
opened Vie tonnage of Viese vessels had lncreased over and over again, and to-day ve
have on the great lakes shipa 600 feet ln
lengtb, with 60 feet bearn and drawiug
from twenty te twenty-one feet of water.
Moreover, If lt wqere possible or feasible to
deepen Vie St. Lawrence canals, It would
cost, according to the best Information 1
can get, but for which 1 arn not to be considered reaponsible, tvo buudred million
dollars. The length o! Vie St Lawrence
canais belng s0 much longer Vian on Vie
Ottawa route accounts for the greater cost.
A barge canal, as you know, la rnuch more
econornîcal. Two barges to be used as
consorts, and a srnall barge run by stearn
is a very cheap vay of carrying freight;
but It necessitates transhlprnent at Vie enfrance o! the* canal . That la why ships
corning to Port (Joiborne bave' to diacharge
their cargo. Ail Vie craf t o! fourteen feet
draft have disappeared frum the lakes. The
ore trade, the grain trade, and ail Vie other
heavy cargoes are carried ln vessels wiVi
a draft o! tweuty feet and consequently
there vould be no advautage lu having a
canal of only fourteen feet. OVier hion.
members of Vils House rnay entertaîn a
different opinion, and, If there la to be a
discussion on Vis question, I hope they
may be able to prove that a fourteen-foot

SEN ATE
canal wvill lie just as good as one of twenty- wvaterways have no (ifficulty whatever in
two feet, for if that can be established, It securing the traffic. The people of the
-vill save the country an expenditure of Unit ed States have now corne to realize
seventy million dollars. Now, coming to that It would lie to, their advantage to shlp,
the Ottawa waterway, we find that the tleir products by Canadian routes to tide
level of Lake Huron and Lake Michigan is water at Montreal or Quebec. Mr. Glard580 feet above the sen, and the flu froin ner S. Williams, of Corneil University,
Chicago by way of the Mississippi to the strongly advocates a twenty-two-fant draft
Glf of Mexico Is equally 580 feet. Our for the Georgian Bay canal to M.%ontreal.
nelghbours are a very wide-a'wake people Hle says that starting from either Chicago,
and are serlonsly thinking of constructing Duluth or Fort William the distance to,
a canal from Lake Michigan by way of the Montreal by the Ottawa rout, would lie
Mississippi river to the Gulf of Mexico a &nly one day more than via Buffalo. Anfact whlcb should spur us on to, immediate other Immense advantage of the twentyexertion. Slip canais save the transferring two-foot draft Is that thc great fleets of
of cargo, and that Is equal to a thousand vessels drawing twenty feet whlcli are
miles distance, because a ship can go a loeked up Idie in the lakes durlng the
thousRnd mlles further with less expense wlnter season, would be enabled to get to,
than It can tranship lis cargo fromi a tide water aud though tbey could not cross
twelity foot vesse] to a fourteen foot ves- the Atlantic with safety. they could be
sel and1 time and cost are.saved. because employed lu thc consting trede along the
you do not bave to break bulk. M'bat Is Atlantic const during the winter imonths.
Comiing back to the Ottawa route. I may
wanted Is a niform draft throughout the
route equal to that la the Sault Ste~. Marie say that the entrance to French river -will
canal. Immense slips are able to carry a require very littie improvement to make It
ton of cargo twenty mlles for one cent, or a very satisfactory harhour indeed. Some
one-twentieth of a cent per ton per mile slight excavation will lie required, but wheit
and no smnll boat and no railway. can com- It has becu properly buoyed. and lighted,
pete wltl that. The Canadian fourteen- and furnished with proper *facilities for unfoot canais have proved that such competi- loading and rcloading, ships drawing twenty
tion is Impossible. Mr. George Y. Wesner, feet of w'ater wilI lie able to ascend -wlth
a member of the American Society of Civil perfect safety to the first lock. The conEngineers. says that no great commercial struction of thc French river section of the
importance can be attached to any route canal is the very crux of the question. It
unless the largest vessels can utilize It. is not building a canal, properly speaking;
That Is the experlence of the Erie which at It is simply improvîng tlie navigation of
one time was the only water route between French river. There are three great lakes,
the great lakes and sen level. and w'hieh as it w'ere, divided by tlree falîs, and these
gave the start to tînt great and wonderful lakes are jolned together by narrow gorges
city of New York. ln tbe early days the from 200 to 400 feet ln w'idth, across w-hicl
Erie canal carried a large proportion of the dams could be built and the watcr backed
freight from -Buffalo to New York, but up. Tliere w'ill lie three ascents, one startn-ith flic improvemeat of railways the canal ing from Georgian bay. w-hich lias a lift of
gradually 10sf the traffic 'until, from carry- 22 feet. Then ascending the river for someé,
ing ncarly ail the trade. if diminlsbed. last twenty miles or so, the next deffle is reacliThe cd and there another dam w-il] lie construetyear to about one-tenth of the total.
decrease of the business on the Erie canal cd. The third dam would bring vessels f0
The total
led railway men to believe that railway,* thc level 0f Lake - NIpissing.
could compete successfully with water- ascent from Georgian liay to Lake Nipisways. Tînt is a question that lias been sing is sîxty-eight feet. Then the route
agltated over and over again. but without crosses Lake Nipissing cigliteen miles, f0
entcring Into a discussion of if now. there a point a mile snd one-hall east of' North
is no doubt that srnall canais with small Bay. At North Bay there are no facilities
barges cannot comp>ete advarntagemsIy wlth for landing goods froin ships of lienv
railw-ays, w-hile large v-essels on1 large draft, but by raising its level sone six feet
11on. 1%r. CASGIItIN.

FEBRIUARY 6, 1908

~we

wvould have good deep water. almost
close to the shore. At North Bay two plans
have been proposed, one of wbicb to build
a large pier into tbe lake in order that an
elevator might be constructed on that pier
for the transhipment of freiglbt to be carried
fromn North Bay to Montreal, the grade
being downward almost the entire distance.
The other plan proposed is to excavate part
of the canal which would be used as a
continuation of the project and one side
Of the canal would be lined %vith cribwork
forming a very good wharf and giving
ample railway facilities alo ng the bank of
the canal. I may say that these works at
North Bay would cost about a million and
a half, but ail that work wlll be useful
when the canal la continued further on.
From 'Lake Nlpissîng there la a rise of 28
feet to the sunirnit. Tbis aummit la the
difficuit part of the project, and tbe part
whlch baffled former engineers, but the
difficulty seems to have been solvedl by the
engineers employed on tbe present survey
by allowing the water on that water shed
to flow tbrongh Trout lake, Turtie lake and
Lake Talon. Tbey have also fourni soutb
of these lakes another water shed wlth an
extent of 305 miles, and by diverting only
one river and maklng It flow Into these
lakes and unltlng them together, we bave a
water shed of over 600 miles la ares, w:blcb
It Is claimed Is amply sufficient to give al!
the necessary water for the operation of
the canal. Then, after baving crossed*tbese
lakes. we descend by the Mattawa river,
the great problemn of sufficlent water' at
the summit havlng apparently been solved,
notwitbstanding tbe adverse reports made
by such emînent mnen as Mr. Walter Shaneand Mr. Clarke. The diversion of the
river seems. like the discovery of America.
simple enough now, but nobody discovered
America before Columbus. Another systemn
bas been advocated. Supposing this water
shed had flot been found, It was proposed
to supply water by electrical pumps. Remember, there la only a llft of eigbteen
feet. and wlth electrIcal pumps operated by
the water-powers In the vlcInlty a sufficient
quantity of water could be pumped to sîipPIS ans deficieacy, and we are further Informed tbat bydro-electric power for the
purpose wonld not be expensive. This systein I do not recorniend. as I think if

wouid be, perhaps, a littie too lunch to ask
any One to go on the hustings to advocate
puflpiiig water into a twenty-two-foot canal
to maire it navigable. Now we corne to the
descent to Montreal, a total fali of 646 feet
from the summit 'w Montreal. barbour. The
Mattawa river la very like French river'la
forming deep ravines with wide expanses
intervening, but the construction of a few
loeks wlll give the necessary facilities for
navigation. There Is a drop In the Matta1wa river, before it entera the Ottawa, of
177 feet. The distance fromf the junction
of the Mattawa to the capital is 195 miles.
and the fail la 360 feet, leavlng the descent
from Ottawa to 'Montreai 122 feet. Now,
It may be a wonderful thing to realize that
the long distance of 440 miles from the
mouth of French river to the foot of Monttreuil Island requires less than 30 miles of
canal. The rest would be open navigation
and In tbat open navigation there would be
.only fifty-seven miles of improved channel
where dredging mlght be requlred. Apart
froîn that elghty-seven mlles of canal and
Iinproved channel, the rest Ia absolutely
open navigation, so that vessels could traverse It at the same speed as on the great
lakes or the ocean. Now, here Io a point
wblch I underatand la absolutely new, aithough bon, gentlemen wJI be ready to assert that there can be very littie new on
this question wbich bas been before the~
people for flftyv years. However, after bait
a century there la thîs new consideration ;
we are ail aware of the great fluctuation lIn
the water levels of the Ottawa river, nay
of ail our rivera In Canada, owing to the
rapid meltiug of the snow lu the sprlng of
the year. We caîl It the spring freshet.
The St Lawrence Is not affected to the
same extent as other rivers, and the volume
of Its waters Is scarcely more than double
ut hlgh water what It is at low water,
whlch means that the flow at 10w water Is
not qulte doubled la the spring. But the
Ottawa river In flood time. la fourteen times
greater thaun t low water, and consequently. another problem was before the engineers, for If that Immense quantity of water
was allowed to rush down the river there
would be such currents that it would be lmpossible to navigate the river durlng the
months of May and June. Moreover, the
whole of the works would be flooded, locks

54

SENATE

and ail, -îitb a rise of twenty feet or so. water-power of the Beauharnois canal.
Therefore it became absolutely necessary, There is no doubt as to the federal power
to have some control over the river, and it over these canais, but wbether the new
has been proposed to store the waters tu: canal could be dealt wltb in the sarne way,
the upper lakes. This la where, I think, or -whetber the water-power developed along
a nice point arises for the consideration o! the new canal could be disposed of by the
hôn, gentlemen of this House who are province, le sometblng that I leave to, be disstrong on constitutional law. At the heafi cussed by other members of this House. I
waters of the-Ottawa river we have the may say that the storage of water le carrled
great Lake Victoria and other laites, and it on to-day ln many countries, Russia, Gerla proposed erect dams at the outlets of many, France and even in the province of
these laites lu order to store the water, and Quebec. Some are lnclined to think that
It la aiso proposed to Impound the water of Quebec la sornewhat backward, yet ln the
Lake Timiscaming. Now, how far can this Lake St. John district the provincial govgovernent encroach -on provincial terri- erument Ie Impoundlng water for the use
tory for sncb a purpose, and how far would of the water-powers at Chicoutimi, a dista province allow them to interfere with ance of 100 to 150 miles above the rnoutb
their terrItory ? It Is fortunate that there la of the river.
no settlement wbere these lakes are sîtuatHon. Mr. CLORÂN-The waters of the
ed, and no0 damages can be claimed; but River Nile are retained In the same way.
there le a point whetber the federal goverunent can .dmpound water In Ontario or
Hon. Mr. OASGRAIN-Yes, and our
Quebec without tbe sanction of the provlw)- neiglibours In the United States have no
clal authorîties. This question I leave to less than forty-one reservoirs proposed t(>
the lawyers of this House who wIll be able impound the surplus waters of the Misof tbese are situated In Minno doubt to, elucîdate It.
sissippi. -Most
nesota and Wisconsin, and tliey so regulate
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-EHas the hon.
flow of the Mississippi river, that the
gentleman considered tbat tbe Ottawa river, the
gauge at St. . Paul, whicb during dry
of whlch Timiscaming lake forme a part,
weather In former years was at zero, le
bas been deciared a navigable river, and
110w kept at a height of three feet, imas such le under tbe control of the federal
proving irnmensely the navigation of the
power ?
and preventlng floods, *which at one Urne
HEon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Tbe lmpounding they were threatened with along the Misof the water ln the Gatineau river would sissel5pi; but by means of these dams they
a.lso be necessary, and I do not know that have retained over sixteen billion cubie feet
of water thereby preventing immense disthe Gatineau river la a navigable stream.
truction of property and perhaps o! lUfe.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I arn speaking of
Returning to the Georgian Bay route;
the Ottawa.
the high bauks on both sides of the OttaHon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Tbe Imponnding wa affords a ready means of ralslng the
of the waters of ail the large trîbutaries level of the varions water stretches. Then
of the Ottawa would also be necessary, and the excavation for locks will be made
we ail know that the province bas the dis- nearly ail in solid'rock, and that means a
posai of the water-powers. Now the Im- great savlng in coet, it being only necesmense water-power which wllI be developed sary to cernent the sidea of tJhese locks ta
In that drop of 790 feet between Georgian make them smootb. We ail 'know that the
bay and Montreal, amounting altogether to immense expenditure involved In constructa million borse-power, wll bave to be con- ing locks is the rnasonry. The rock muet
sldered; will the provinces aliow the cen- be cnt to dimensions to fit closely together
trai government to dispose of this larze and made absolutely water tlght. Every
amount of power whlcb wilI be of great stone In a canal lock must be cut so, true
value 7 We know at Lachine canai. and that no water will leak tbrougb between
we beard the other day at Montrea] abolit the courses. Therefore there Is an Immense
tbe federal government farming out tii. advantage ln havlng nearly ail the twentyHon. Mr. CASGRAIN.

FEBRUARY 6, 1908

2M,

be a fait of thlrty-five feet, creating an
effective water-power of slxty thousand
horse-power at that point. It was aiso
propoaed to have another lock at Bout de
l'Iie, whlch would be the end of this Ottawa water-way and where there would be
a lift of twenty-four feet, glvlng aiso a
water-power of smre 40,000 horse-power.
This wouid mean 100,000 horse-power avaitable wlthin almost a mile of the clty of
Montreal. This 100,000 horse-power could
be framed out, and people wouid gladly
pay $10 a year, horse-power runnlng for
twenty-four hours a day, whlch would
make no less a revenue than $1,000,000
yearly from the power generated at these
two dama. These figures may appear exaggerated; they may aeem like the calculations cf a dreamer, but what is the fact?
The president of the Shawinigan Falls
Power Company la an hon. member of this
Bouse-I amn sorry he ls not ln his seat
Just now-but he wlll vouch for the fact
that at present from Shawinigan Falls 16,000 horse-power are brought to Montreal,
a distance of elghty miles, and the prices
pald, and cheerfuily pald by the Montreal
Ligbt, Heat and Power Company, la $15
Hon. Mr. -CLORAN-WIIl the present per horse-power, or $240,000 a year to that
canai at Grenville be utilized?
one company. I may say that the ShawHon. Mfr. CÂSGRIN-The present Gren- lnigan Power Company also sel power to
ville canal weuld be abselutely ef ne use. such an extent, that their annual statement
The route ln front of the clty cf Montreal of revenue Iast year was very nearly $650,atarta near the Victoria 'bridge, at what la 000 and for the current year It wHIi be over
called the Mackay pler, along the guard $700,000. The Ottawa and Georgian Bay
pler, and by the embankment The water canal construction wonld develope 100,000
would be brought to the same level as the horse-power wlthln one mile cf the present
water at St. Ann's. The embankment limita of the clty of Montreai, and even If
would proceed ln the streamn as far as the Georgian Bay canal were never bult,
-Nnn's Island, and thence coutIung on ti0 I would strongly advocate the development
outBide of the shore, would cut the La- of these powers. It would be a revelation
chine canai somewaere near the centre, and to people living ail their ives ln Montreai,
then foliow the shore up te St. Ânn'a. to see that a dam across the Back river,
Then another lock would be uecesaary, (near the church and the couvent of the
maklng three locks on the route la front Sacred Heart), would develope at that point
of the clty of Montreal. The other route 60,000 horse-power. That la about one-fourth
.or 25 per cent of the horse-power required
whlch would be by the Rivière des Prairies,
or what we cai the Back river, whlch ls for ail the llghtlng, heating and atreet car
a branch of the Ottawa, wouid, lu mý, traction power lu the metiopolls of Canada.
opinion, be a much preferable route. It
Hon. Mr. DeBOUOHFERVILLE-How
lo proposed te brlng It to the level of the mucb floodlng of land wouid there be?
Lake of Two Mountains, and maintain that
Hon. Mr. OASGRAIN-There would be
level te a point about a thousand yards
east ef where St. Dents street strikes the no floodlng, because the level of the Lake
shore ef the Back river. There there would of Two Mountains la net very much hlgher

seven locks needed on this route hewn out
of the molud rock, so that the werk to be
performed will constat prmncipaiiy ln the
construction of the gates at both suds.
These locks wiil be of very great length.
It Is preposed to make them 650 feet long,
ln order te accommodate the ahlps I bave
spoken of, 600 feet Iu length. At Ottawa,
the canal wouldl psss on the north aide of
Hull lncreaslng conslderably - the waterpowers used by the ludustrial establishments thers. Prom Ottawa to Montreal,
there would be considerabie flooding, because the banks are Iow. There wlll be
ne less than 15,000 acres cf land fiooded,
but It wlll be cheaper te expropriats that
area, of land than te excavate, because rock
excavation under water lo very expensive,
almost as expensive as rock excavation la
a tunnel, costlng from $8 te $3.50 a year.
Therefore It la desirable, as far as possiffle,
te avoid excavation and to bulld up the
aides lu order te secure the necessary depth
of water. At Montrsal lt Is proposed that
there should be two routes, oue passlng
la front of the city, and the other via. the
Back river.

SEINATE
than the baiks of the river. and the level
of the canal would flot be more than seven
or elght feet hlgher, and jetties wiIl be
bulit on eacb aide to prevent the water
apreading and ln such a way as flot to, lnterfere wlth the drainage of the farmers.
Hon. 2%r. DeBOUCHERVILLE-If they
built retaining walls on both sides, they
wlll flot permit the water to overfiow and
drown these villages . This is an Immense
water power.
Hon. 'Mr. CASG RAI N-Preclsely. Even
If no canal is built, it would be a great
advantage to have those two magnificent
sheets of w-ater. The water back of the
Island of Mlontreal would be dammed at
Bout de l'Ile and there would be a Ilft of
twenty-four feet there. I may say that
the Intention la t0 make It thirty feet on
the mitre sili of the entrance of that lock,
In order that ocean vessels mlght corne up
to the second dam, and for ail that distance
of twelve miles ln lengtb you would have a
depth of thlrty feet. Therefore flot only
would Montreal have its present harbour,
but you would have at the back of the city
of Montreal an Immense dockage space,
whilh would gîve splendid shipping facîlities. The otber basin would be above the
dam and you would have a stretch of water
of 3j miles Intervenlng. The worklng
classes could leave Montreal and Ia twenty
or twenty-five minutes be on the shores of
those two magnificent sheets of water for
a live-cent tare. Thlnk of the mangîflcent
park that would be erected where people
could go to breathe the fresh air. Thlnk
of the countiesa yachts, boats and skiffs
that would ply on the lakes; and what an
Ideal residential city If would make of
Montreal. Even If the Georgian Bay canal
projet should be abandoned, if It were
possible to bulld this dam If 'would be a
great boom f0 the Island of Montreal generally and partlcularly t0 the worklng
classes of that clty. Wby, Montreal wouId
have a million population ln a short time.
Now, as to the commercial potentialties
of this work; evýýry owner of a steamer la a
corporation In bîmself aud can regulate bis
own freight rates. It la not like a railway compafir. A railway company may
be a system of one, two or three roads
and they may pool their Interests, but the
Hon. Mr. CASGRATN.

experlence la that vessel-owners -wIll flot
and do flot pool their Interests. Therefore,
every vessel-owner bas a personal Interest
in regulating the rates, and the producers
and the shippers get the advantage.
A ship canal cau transport freight for
lower rates than cau a barge canal, as bas
been shown in the case of tlie Erie canal.
whicli %vas flot built so as to compete advantageously wvith the rallways froîn Buffalo to Nemw York. By no other route than
the Ottawa i-ater-i-ay can the prodiicts
front the great lake ports be taken f0 tide
water %vithoutbreak-iug bulk. The Omahia
Grain Exchange says lu Its hast report flint
If grain could be carrled. from lake ports
to the sea-board without breaklng bulk,
If would be worth ten million dollars f0
Nebraska fariners. I do not know f0 what
extent this la true, but If It la worth that
much to the farniers of one state of t1u(American union, bow much more will If he
wvorth to that Illimitable xvheat producing
ontry that wP have ln the Canadian
Northiwest ? Would It not prove a very
profitable investment lndeed ? Ail we have
f0 do la f0 divide the wheat ares of the
Northwest by the wheat ares of Newbraska
f0 see how many tens of millions would bê
coming to, us If the statement made by the
Omaha Exchange la correct. Then again,
by this Ottawa' waterwvay, the meat product of Chicago (the very centre of the
United States) could be shlpped la refrigerators. and taken f0 anyl port la the world.
The frade 0f the great lakes is greater than
the coastlng trade of England, of France and
of Germnany together. The annual coastlng
frade of these three countries does not aggregate 70,000.000 tons. a-hile the annual
trade of the great lakes was 75.000.000 tons
according f0 the immenslty of the steamers
wbich are now plying on these great lakes.
let me state that the steamer 'E. H. Garrick.' passed through the Sault Ste. '.%arie
canal with 12.3M6 net tons of cargo. These
big shîps are called big hakes. a new and a1
vepry appropriate name. and they require f0
earn f0 meet maintenance of the crew. coat
of coal. sînali repairs. and for interest ou1
cost of vessel. $400 per day of fwenty-four
hours. Nowv from Fort WTllliam-and when
1 say Fort William I rnigbit say.froîn Duluth, or from Chicago. because there is very
littie difference la the mlleage--froii Fort

FEBRUKARY 6. 1908
William to Montreal it would take one of
those big lakers some ten days for the round
trip, and ailowlng five days for detention,
you have a total of fitteen days at $M0 a
day or $6,000. Now wbat would the earnIngs be ? Assuming for comparison Viey
would carry 10,000 tons at $1 a ton which
Is a very hlgh rate, It would leave a net
profit each trip of $4,000, even If the shl)>
went back absoiutely empty. If it carrled
any cargo at ail on the returu trip, the
freigbt it would get would command the
regular prîce of $3 a ton, and If they only
bad one-thîrd of a cargo, they would make
$10,000 on the western trip, $14,000 for the
round voyage. These figures indicate the
possibilities and the potentialities of these
great ships. If you have shlps of the Welland canal type, 250 feet ln length, 42 feet
iîde and 14 feet draft, the cost of operalion wouid be $125 a day. By the unimproved St. Lawrence this ahip would take
seven days' detention, maklng ln ail 20 days.
which at $125 a day would amount to
$2,5W0, and what wouid she carry ? Thp
carrying capacity 'would be 2,000 tons ; the
expense would be $2.500 and she could not
get any hlgher frelght rate than the big
lakers got which being one dollar a ton
would amount to $2,000 earnig capacity
and the-expense of the round trip would be
12,500, leaving a deficit of $500.
Hon. Mr. MacKEEN-What la the draft
of the large lakers ?
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Twenty feet.
Hon. Mn. SULLIVÂN-Why do vou have
six days' detention ?
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN-There la the loading and unloading, aud there ls a day more
dention for the amail ships, because they
can better afford to remain 1dle at $125 a
day than the large ships can at $400 a day.
Every provision le made that the large ship
coasting $40 a day must find means of
being unloaded lmmediately upon Its arrival. The tîme of arrivai is noted, and the
necessary appliances are there, and every!
thing .la ln order to faciltate her retura.
WVhen it la a matter of $125 a day, she may
be used for storage room for a day or two,
and you can see Vie difference is not s0
great ln the cost. Therefore It la absoluteiy necessary that these fourteen foot

draft vessels should get a cargo to returu.
If tbey have one-third of a returu cargo at
Vie same rate as the large steamer geta
It amounts to $2,100, and that would leave
a surplus on the round trip of some $1,6W0.
Assuming that Fort William, Duluth aud
Chicago are about equally distant from Buffalo, and that the same ports are aiso equidistant from Montreal, and that a vessel
from any one of these large porta wlll carry
grain at a cent and a haif a bushel to Buffalo; let us say that a lange. Iaker will
carry wheat to Montreal from any one of
these three ports for two cents a buahel,
which la 25 per cent more, and you will
have a rate to Montreal of 2 cents, and to
Buffalo 14 cents. But from Buffalo to New
York the rate la 4 cents a bushel; so that
a'cent and a haif and four cents will makre
five cents and a haif from Duluth to New
York by the Erie canai, to which must be
added the transferring charges at Buffalo
and New York, which at a verv 10w estimate wll cost one and a balf cents. Consequently you have from these upper lakte
ports to New York a rate of seven cents
before you reach the ocean steamers.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Are you calculatlng by the new.canal or the oid one
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Kindly allow me
to pnoceed. If Vie same grain were routed
via Montreal, there would bea freight rate
of two cents to Montreal, haif a cent for
the ocean voyage from Montreal to Liverpool, making 6* cents. Consequently by
Vie Georgian Bay and -Ottawa route you
wouid land wheat la Liverpool cheaper by
half a cent Vian you can land It ln New
York. I muat say, ln ai fainness, that when
the grain gets to New York you wiil get
lower rates to Liverpool Vian you will from
Montreal, Vie New York ocean rate being
2j cents as against 4 cents for Montreal ;
but there la stlll a difference ln favour of
Montreal, because'addlng 2* cents to Vie 7
cents. you have 9j cents via New York.
whllst by Vie Geongian Bay ship canai
route you wHI have 6* cents to Liverpool,
mak-ing it 50 per cent cheaper Vian Vie
United States route. There you see the
immense potentiallty that Vis route wll
have. The Liverpool market, as hon, gentlemen know, governs absolutely Vie pnice
of wheat. It does not matter whether the

17.
:EVISED

25

EDITION

258

SENATE

Then there is the bandîing of the coal aud
the work In connection with It, which easily
represents $10 addltlonal, making It $30 per
horse-power. How long would Vie ralhway
companies take to electrify ail theIr works
provided Viey couîd purchase electricity at
ten dollars per horse-power, when Viey are
paying tiirty dollars to-day ? Take an enterprlsiug compauy lîke Vie Canadlan Pacific Rallway, wlth Vie able men at Vie head
of it, do you think Viey would hesitate very
long If Vie government saîd to them, 'Prepare for Vie electrification of your road,'
we wIIl give you Vie power at one-thîrd of
what you are paying ; Vie electrîfication of
raihways would not be a dream of the
future. We ail know Viat for a radius of
fifteen miles from New York, every train
la brought Into that clty by electric motors.
Iu the first place ehectricity would be utilized for lighting the river for Vie 440 miles,
maklng a beautiful avenue as bright by
night as by day, renderlng navigation Just
as easy at night as by sunshlne, and illuminatlng Vie harbour of Montreal. Then
there would be many industries and manufactories at North Bay, Ottawa and Monttreal, and ail Viese towns 'would want electrie power. I am told-but of this I have
no personal knowledge-tiat immense Iron
deposits exist also ail along Viat route, and
If that is so, 'we have Vie white coal with
which to smelt Vint ore. It can be smelted,
as It la smelted ln France successfullY today, by an electrIcal proceas, and 1 think
Vie hion. Speaker can tell us It has been
done also at Sanît Ste. Marie. 1 do not
know whether It has been successfully used
there or not, or whether It bas been f ulhy
trled, but I know Vie govern.'nent la haviug
ore smelted by electrlcitY at Sault Ste.
Marie. It ls sald Vint a French metaliurgist
who has been looklng Into Vie possibilities
of the Ottawa valley as a mauufacturing
ceutre has declared Viat we would see Vier'
within ten years Vie largest electrlc ore
smehting lndustry in Vie world. I forget
the name of the gentleman at the moment,
but he Is a very eminent scientist who la
engaged intViselectricai smelting in France.
In that country they have to gather power
from here and there, perbaps 100 horse-power
generate one horse-powver per year. and bas- here, and perhaps a thousand horse-power
ing the cost of coal at $3 per ton per year. there; butiln the Ottawa vahley Vie supply
Vint makes $20 per horse-power per annuii. Ný%ou1d be unliinited. 'Then there are other
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN.

wheat crop has been grown in India, in the
Argentine Republie, in Russia or In the
United States, or in the Dominion of Canada,
the price la fixed in Liverpool, nnd every
bushel of wheat on the face of the earth represents the Liverpool price minus the
transportation. The position of our people
la that lu Fort William we would have the
Liverpool price, less 6j cents, for every
bushel of wheat our three great rallways
will brlng tiiere. You kuow what Immense
grain emporiums Port Arthur and Fort
William wlll be. You know the Canadiaiî
Pacific Railway are doubllng their track between Port Arthur and Winnipeg, that the
Canadian Northern have huge elevators
there, and that the Grand Trunk Railway
are building a mighty grain chute from the
Transcontinental liue at Superlor Junction,
for a-.distance of 240 miles, on 10w grades,
aimlug for Fort William. Ail that Immense
wheat supply which wll be stored there,
could be carrled across the ocean to Liverpool at the smali charge of 6j cents per
bushel.
The last point that I have to make ls lIn
regard to the water-power that wlI be generated-the white coal of Canada lu which
this country abouuds. We shahl neyer be
under necesslty of uslug as much coal as
they do In the United States, or In European
countries for our natural water-powers wil
generate Immense energy to operate our
Industries aud public utilities. It Is safe to
assume Viat the Ottawa, the Mattawa and
the French river could easily develop one
million horse-power. I am reasonably sure
that those three rivera would certaily develop one million horese-power at least.
Now, supposing one dam-and there are to
be 27 of them-would devehop 60,000 horsepower, and bring a revenue of $600,000, as
would be Vie case at Back river, Vie drop
or fail at Vie head of Viat river Is only onetwentieth of the total head. Thus we would
have over a million horse-power wç%hich could
be sohd et Vie small price of ten dollars
per horse-power. There wIll be Industries.
to use aIl Vils water-powpr just as soon as
it is available, and that wlll mean no less
than $10,000.000 revenue from Vis source.
What does It cost? It takes 7 tons of coal to

FEBTTARY 6. 1908
industries. Thei'e is the manufacture of w,%ould necessitate excavating rock under
aluminum which the bon. gentleman from water. and, as I have said, that is very
Rothesay bas been advocating, and there In expensive, costing $3 to $3.50 per cubic
also the manufacture of carbide of calcium yard. Then again it would have to be
for a acetylene gas. We ail know that lu excavated berbaps for the whole length.
the last few years the United States have That Is why I say a good deal of land
attained supremacy in the manufacture of mnust necessarily be flooded, and it would
Iron. To-day the United States of Âmerica be cheaper to expropriate 15,000 acres of
manufacture more iron and steel than Great inundated land than to excavate a Channel.
Britain does altogether. - For a long time Ont of the whole distance of 4430 miles
Britain ruled the world In that manufac- onIy 57 miles requires dredglng, the reture. Let Canada In the next few years mainder being open navigation. I do not
heip to recover that supremacy. Let as know exactly how mucb of this is in the
manufacture iron and steel, and Iii a few section between Ottawa and Montreal.
yetirs belp to make up the srnail deficiency
Hou. 'Mr. DeBOUOHIERVILLE-I underwhich now prevents Britishi iron aud steel stand It Is almost Impossible to dredge the
products froîn occupying the first place.
river, and that you will have to alIow the
1 wish to deal briefly with the transporta- water to flood thxe banks and build emtion question. We ail know that the great- bank-ments; but according to Mr. iShanley's
ness of a nation depends ou its agriculture, report the cost o! a fourteen-foot canal
its mines, its forests and its manufactures. froni MNontreal to, Georgian bay was estiThe lowest eost at which you cau transport mated1 ft $20,0W0,000. 'Mr. Clark's estimate
these products to the markets of the world iras onîr $12.000.000. Did '.%r. Stanley take
with the greatest of advantage you can into consideration the deepeung of the
give the producers of those articles, to that Ottawra river no as to give a depth of fourextent you Increase bis purchasing power. teen or fifteen feet?
It ls unnecessary to repeat the long discussion about competition between rail and
Hnou. Mr. CASGRAIN-I see the hou.
water transportation. Suffice it to say that gentleman is very familiar îvith Mr. ShanIt would seem as If the railways of to-day ly's report Mr. Shanly says that betireen
had reached the maximum size for their Ottawa nnd Grenville there would not
locomotives and freight cars. The locomo- necessarily be very much excavation, betives are more than twice, even three times cause there would be enough irater; but
aýi heavy as they were twenty or fifteen beloir Grenville and through the Lake of
Tiro Mountains considerable excavation
years ago.
ten or an
-Can the would be necessary, even for a
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCH)R VILLE
eleven-foot canal as then advocated by Mr.
hon, gentleman tell us what will be the
Shanly. But it Is now proposed to, raise
cost of deepening the Ottawa river? The
of the Lake of Two Mountains to,
whole river cannot give an average depth the level
the spring level, and when raised to that
of twenty-two feet. How much would have
extent, very little excavation In required to
to be excavated to give that depth, and
give a depth of twenty-two feet.
what would be the cost.
I iras about to show that locomotives are
Hon. Mi'r. CASGRAIN-I have already noir as large as they can advantageously
stated it.
be made. They cannot be Increased lu
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-I amn widtlt, because they would not pass througb
speaking now of deepening the river. If tunnels or bridges. The increase can only
Instead, of allowing the water to flood the be In helght. The locomotives have been
land you were to deepen the Ottawa lu raised. higher and higher above the rail,
order to, provIde a twenty-two-foot Chan- and those monsters which you see pulling
nel, what lengtb of river would require to forty or fifty -cars are noir so hlgh that the
be excavated and at what cost.
centre of gravity Is twice as hlgh as It iras
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-it would be abso- ;vhen locomotives were originally designed
lutely Impossible to carry out the lion. gen- to rest upon a basis o! four feet eight and
tleman's suggestion, for this reason, that It one-half luches; consequently the top174

260

SENATE

heavlaess has lncreased two fold. These that It is 200 feet wide and the deptli of
very heavy cars when loaded wlth materlal water is twenty feet. It bas a lengtb of
whlcli Is more bulky than heavy, and these forty miles, and at the soutliwest end there
higli locomotives, make the trains so, top Is a fali of forty feet developing to-day
heavy that the outer rail belng elevated, 40,000 horse-power. That power la sold by
the train, If brouglit to a stand, on the the promoters of the canal to the Industries
curve would be lhable to topple over. In In the vlcinlty, and tliey are deriving from
thîs country we have no tracks made It a fair proportion of the necessary return
speclally for freiglit and others specially on the cost of tbe canal. Congress voted
It was cut
for passenger trafie. In the United States, $31,000,000 for the canal.
Cen- through solld rock, but the elevation was
the Pennsylvania and the New York
tral have four tracks. The two Inside flot very great. The Chicago canal empties
tracks are for freiglit only, and there the into the Des Plaines river, whlcli, in Its
elevatlon of the outer rail on curves Is not turn, empties Into a trlbutary of the MisYou see the Idea of maklng a
so h!gh, because the speed of the freiglit sissîppi.
Is not s0 great; but on the passenger canal to connect the great lakes wlth the
trains
tracks the outer rails are very much more Mississippi bas already been put lu practcee
elevated on curves so as to resist the cen- by the enllghtened people of Illinois. The
trifuga] force In roundlng the curve at hlgh Ottawa water-way, tbe great lakes, the Chispeed. No less an authority than Mir. J. cago canal aud tlue Mississippi, form an
J. Hill-and lie was the pioneer of large lnland water route sucb as does not exlst
locomotives and cars, 10w grades and easy la any other part of the world. If Chiamcurvü';-admlts that the business of the plain. who came dreaming of finding a
Incrensiag to such an extent route to the Cbina Seas, were to come back
country ls 1
that rallways cannot pretend to cope wltli to-day, he would rejolce that at the begînthe necessities of trade. and that none of nlng of the twentleth century a project la
the rallways can do it. That Is why lie wlthln reasonable distance of accompllshadvocates the maklng of a canal from Chii- ment by whlch the products of the Orient
be
cago to New Orleans, a projet whlcli has %vould carried tbrougli the Panama canal,
met wlth the approval also of President thence Up the lmproved Missîssippl and the
Roosevelt. Rallway facilities have iu- Chicago canal to the great lakes, across
creased about one per cent per year. Lake Huron, up the French river, through
w hile the business of the country durlng Lake Nlplsslag, down the Mattawa, down
the last ten or eleven years lias ln- the Ottawa sud down the St. Lawrence to
Tliere ls the old cîtadel city of Quebec, tlie tercencreased about ten per ceat.
no chance for the railw'ay catchlag up tel4ary of wvhose foundation I trust ail
wlth the ever lncreaslng demands on them, patriotlc Canadians wlll join ln elebrating
so It Is absolutely necessary to rely on the this vear.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT moved the adjournwater courses'sud natural hlghways wlth
-which Providence lias endowed this coun- ment of the debate.
try. The first route of travel, three liundred
Thmoinwsare
.
Temoin asaeeto
years ago, bet'ween Quebec aud New Orleans was by the route I am advocatlag, BRITISH EMBARGO ON CANADIAN
CATTLE.
and dow-n thue M.âississippi. so it will not be
the first time that the Ottawa and the
o.MrPOE
rset
oet
o.M.PO E
Frenchi river route lias been llnked .wltb
the following the 3rd
Call attention
the Mississippi. Our neiglibours ire a wlde- which appeared intothe newspapers of despatch
awake people, and are alive to the Impor- instant:London, February I.-The Earl of CarriugNotwlthstanding
tance of this project.
t<n, president of the Board of Agricultuire,
ourgovrnmnt heyspeaking to-niglit at Lincoln, referred to the
someproestfro
have constructed the Chicago canal under agitation of Protectionists against supplying
American
the pretext of disposing of the seweage army. He aad other imported beef to the
strongly dissented from fhe dlaimas
of Chicago wltli Its two millions of Inhabi- cf the Protectionists and -declared that the
tauts. But it Is somethlng more than a feeding of the army ou home-bred meat would
nean an annual increase of $750,000 in the
sewage canal when you corne to c9nsider ni-riy budget.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN.

FEBRTTAUY 6, 1908
The Ear1 of Carrington aiea said that ho
nover would consent ta any aiteration in the
law oxcluding Canadian cattie from the country. The cattie intoroste of this country, ho
deolarod, were so phenomenally large that it
would bo a crime ta run the riait of again infooting British herda with dlisouse.
And will ask whothor tho gavornmout propose ta tako any further stops ta vindicato tho
oharacter of our Canadian cattie?
He sald: Unleas I amn mlslnùformed, the
government of Canada have on various ccasions furnlshed evîdence ta the goverument of the Uuited Klngdom that there
was no cattie disease ln Canada. I amn
flot aware-and tliat la wliat my question
meana--whether or flot this Information has
been supplled ta the EnrI of Carrlngton,
wbo le now preaident of the Board of Âgrlculture. I muet assume tbst lt lbas not, because If the Earl of Carrlngton'had been
satisfied tbat there was no dIsease amongit
Canadian cattle, then lie could liardly have
made the statement whlci lie la represented
as maklng.
If lie bad been satlsfied tliat
tliere was no disease arnongat Canadian
cattle, tlien when lie made these two statements lie contradlcted limself lu tlie rost
empliatlc way. He laya down the doctrine
of free trade lu the broadest sonse lu tlie
first paragrapli, and In the second paragrapi lie laya down the doctrine of protectIon ln Its moat unmltlgated form. If lie
knew that there was fia disease amongst
aur cattie, thon lie added lusuit ta lnjury
by bypacrltically pretendlng tliat there was
dIsease, and that thero was rlak. I mat'
add tliat 1 aee that the foot and moutb
dîsease lias braken out lu Scotland.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The lion, gentleman
lias hlrnsolf practlcally givon the answer to
bis Inqulry. Remonatrances have, durlng
tbe last four or five yeara, been made ta
the Board of Agriculture ln England agaînat
the exclusion of Canadien cattle. A portion
of tho ropresentatlves thero are In favour
of Canadian cattle bolng admltted, rnalnly
tbose from thenforth of Scatland. The opposition cames chlly from tlie Mldland
countios of England and from Ireland. It
lias been explalned, and evîdence lias been
furnisbed over and aver again, that thore
la no disease In Canadien berds, but tbey
put It on that ground.
The United Kingdom la a free trade country, nnd they do
not -want ta put the exclusion on the graund

af protection, becauso that is contrary ta
their priaciples.
They give an excuse
wbicb tbey recognize themselves, 1 tblnk,
la flot a legitîmate one; but It saves tbom
from statlng tliat tbey wish ta glve protection ta the farmers.
I do not tink: webave any cause ta camplain so far as tbatgoea, because we bave ourselves a prettyhigi turtiff on cattle comlng Into Canada,
and sithougli thie Britishi government take
a way of protectlng their farmera tbat la
not qulte trutbful or fair, atlil tlie sarne end
la attalned by tlie means tlioy adopt. I
preaume that our farmors can live wltliout
selling live cattie In the Britishi -market.
The meat trade.la year by year lncreaalng,
and witb thie cald atorage' we bave, we
get a pretty large markiet tliero as It la.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I regret very
mucli tbat my bon. friend In rnaklng ref orence ta wliat thie gaverument lias done lu
pratestlng agaluat the -exclusion of Canadian cattle, dld not state wbat the government Jias done lu protesting aguinat the
alandorous miarepresentations and misatatemente wblcli from tirne ta Urne bave been
lndustrloualy and wllfully made by differeut members of tee Imperlul govorument
respecting aur 'cattie. It la a well known
fact that tee Canadian cattie bave bad a
dlean bill of liealtb for years past. Tbat
was demonatrated In the moat practical
manner years ago wben Cdr Chiarles Tupper
wus Hîgli Commlsslaner for Canada, wlien
lie teck off bis coat and dlsaectod an animal
and proved beyond ail question, thut te
animal wblcb was aaid ta be dlaeasod was
absalutely free frorn disease, and cballenged
tee Imperl authorities ta establiali te
alanderous statement whicli teey bad made
reapectlng aur cattle. 1 do flot knaw teat
tels governmont can very well protest
againat tee exclusion of Canadien cattle,
but what Io hIfinltely mare Important la thut
thls goverunent aliould proteat against those
mstatements wbicb are made from Urne
ta time, Injuring tee reputation of Canadian
cuttle. It seema ta me If tee government
wauld take tels question up witb tee imperil authorîties and proteat agaînat tels
poicy of saundor wic b las been pursued
for yeurs, mucli botter results would corne
from it, than slmply and oniy protestlng
againat tee policy of exclusion.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That bas been doue
over and over again. Repeatediy the government of Canada have satlsfied the Board
of Agriculture that there is no disease
The ground on
among Canadian cattle.
which the exclusion Is Justified is whoily
indefensible. It la ridiculous and has becorne a perfect farce.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOlWELL-It Is
somewhat singular that the hon. Secretary
of State should have used the expression
he did with reference to the policy of the
United Klngdom on this subject. I understood him to say that we bad no cause to
compiain, for the reason that we Impose a
very high duty upon antinals comlng Into
this country, and, therefore, we shouid flot
compiain because the f ree traders ln the
mother country adopt the same mode of
protecting their cattie. There Is just this
difference between us: ln Canada we have
an avowed protectionlst policy. If through
tke poiicy adopted by Vie free traders
of England, they are practlclng protection
under faise pretenses. Some years ago,
when I was ln London, I had a conversation with a gentleman Vien occupying the
position whlch Earl Carrington fils to-day,
and I pointed out that fact to him. He, of
course, took exception to the word 'protection,' at once. 1 said you can cail il
what you please, but If you exclude Canadian cattie by faise pretenses, you are
adoptlng protection, and If Canadiau cattle
bave no disease, as bas been proved over
and over agamn by the dissecting of Vie
cattie which have been pronounced diseased, you are certainly adopting protecI cannot
tion under false pretenses.
say that he particuiarly liked Vie way
I put ItL My hon. f riend bas justified tint
course on Vie ground that we Impose a
heavy duty on cattie, and Vierefore, the
British goverument should, under faise pretenses, excînde ours.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I did not defend the'
lune taken by Great Britain. I said over anjd
over again it had been shown that Vie
ground on which our cattie were exciuded
was not Vie real one on which they were
acting-It was simpiy an excuse. What 1
said w-as that se, far as the protection question is concerned we. ourseives, had adopted protection for our cattie.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Wlien I was in
London last spring, I had occasion to discuss this very question with some politiclans and newspaper mnen there. They ail
know and reaiiy admit that there Is no
disease ln our cattie.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-But when 1
asked them why they did flot raise the
embargo, they just said that tbey wlshed
When I toid
to proteet their farmers.
them that they were adopting a protective
poley under false pretenses, they admitted
that It was quite true. but they dld not
have tbe courage to admit openly that they
were protectlng their people. I had occasion to meet a newspaper man representIng
the 'Pail Mail Gazette,' I gave hlm an
interview and told hlm that they were
adopting protection under false pretenses.
Re sald that Is so, but we cannot say It
publiciyas they have not the courage to,
say that they bave &dopted protection for
their cattie trade, but they do it by sianderIng our cattie. I thlnk they ought to have
the courage to state the fact.
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-These people evidentiy begin té appreciate the value of a
protective poiicy.,
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (N) An Act respecting the Windsor,
Chatham and London Raiiway Company.(Hon. Mr. Coffey.)
BANK 0F CANADA, LONDON AND
PARIS BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. DeVEBER moved the second
reading of Bill (J) An Act to incorporate
the Bank of Canada, London and Paris.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHFDED-Without directly
opposing this Bill, it seems to me froin
giancing at the titie that Its pretentIons
are suffIcient to destroy it. Tbat a new
ban], shouid- arrogate to itseif the name
of the Bank of Canada, London and Paris,
naturaliy reflects, to some extent, to say
the ieast of It, upon the promoters of the
measure. I do not know of any precedent
for such a ltie. We know that severai

FEBRTTARY 6. 1908
applications will corne before us durlng the
present session for the incorporation of
banks. Owing to the financlal depression
or strlngency, or more correctly perhaps
the criais whicii bas recently bappened nlot
oniy within Canada, but ail over the continent of America and elsewhere, the question ef Incorporatlng banks has rather attracted to ltaelf public attention, and mnasmuch as the present charters are expirlng
at an eariy day, the goveriiment sbould take
Up this question as to the pollcy cf Incorporatlug more banks, partlculariy of the
class that this BihI represents. I de net
tbink It wili be seriousiy questiened tbat
the banking facilities cf Canada are equal
to the public requirementa. 4jertainly those
requirements wiil scarcely be met by thp
Incorporation of numerous small banks, as
seema te be the tendency of recent legislatien, notice of the Incorporation of threc
or four small banks havlng been given
this session. We know bow disastrous
the Incorporation of some of those younger
Institutions has been of late years; and
It Impresses Itself deeply on my mImd
that the government should make Intelligent Inquiry Into this matter, and If It la
found that the Incorporation of banks such
as we bave been almeat recklessiy Incorporatlng durlng the iast elgbt or ten years
la provlng Injurious te the financili Interesta of tbe small shareholders. we should
net grant any further charters, particularly wlth sucb provisions as bave been
contalned ln the baklng measures we have
enacted ln the past few years.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELLMlght 1 ask the bon. Secretary cf State
whether the subject bas been censldered by
the goverument; that ls the contlnued Incorporation cf these banks? Or whether
the question bas been considered of se amnendlng the Banklng Act .a~ to necessitate
the furnlahing of Information to the gevernmet-I won't say se much te parliament-ef the ablhlty ftnsnclallY of those
who are promotlng these banks? It suggeats ltself te me, and I thlnk: It advisable,
that the Bax4king Act should. be amended
so that before a icense Is lssued te any
new bank, the goverument sbouid bave ln
Its possession a knowledge sufliclent te
justlfy the lssulng et the Ilcense te cdmmence business. 1 de net know whether

263

that question bas been conaidered or net
If nlot It Is one, te my mmnd, of very great
Importance and should be consldered ln the
amendment cf the Banklng Act, wblch wiil
be amended. I bave ne doubt, lu a very
shert time, because the perlod at 'whlcb the
question ef banklng wlll have te be deait
wlth wiil woon arrive.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The government bave
net been conslderlng the question. Mr.
Fielding attended the meeting of the .Banklng Commlttee In the other 4jbamber, and
he made some remarks la reference te an
application for a charter, calllng attention
to severai pointa ln the proposai, but net
aotually opposing the charter; I thlnk he
did net oppose It, provided It conforxned
to the General Bankiug Act.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEFLL-I
happened te be present on that occasion.
The Finance Minister went much further
tixan the Secretary cf State lndicated inx the
opinions be expressed lnx reference te the
incorporation of new banks. *That i., lnx
the lune of havlng the assurance of the
financlal stabillty and means at the disposai ef those who were organlzlng the Institution.
Hon. Mr. KEIRR-The Banklng Act
makes provision fer that. Before the
license Issues. on the application, for a
license, tbey are requlred te show that tbey
have a certain arnount e! money, subscrlbed, a large sum, and a very large OUM
actnally pald up on It, and tbey requIre to
show subscribers for the stock, and. If the
government desire It Information -as- te the
ability of the subacribers te maire- goed
their subscriptiena. ge that -there,- h ne
dlfficulty about gettig the Information, and
lu that way baving.ail the protection whlch
the public requIre, lnx ail eventa se far as
the law gees, and It goes very far ln
enabllng themn te get the Information te
ascertain whether the license wlll Issue or
net
Hoen. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELjL-Theoreticaliy the hon. gentleman ls quite correct I think; but I bave ne deubt be has
seen the discussions whlch have taken
place and facts which bave transpired.
whicx show that ln the establishment of

SENATE
some of the banks certain notes bave been
glven and a sufficient subscription list has
been presented to the government, and it
was ascertained afterwards that subscriplions were paid by promisory notes of other
banks, and when the new bank -was incorporated they discounted the notes again,
so that the man who had ostensibly stock
enough ln it was himseif owlng the bank
for the money that was firet subscribed,
and whlch was supposed te have constituted a part of tbe capital of the bank.
There are many ways of evading the law
ln that respect as 1 arn quite sure my bon.
friend from his experlence as a iawyer
must What I think Mr. Fielding has ln
bis eye Is, to, so amend the Banking Act
as to maire It a bona fide subscription, so
that it cannot be evaded In the manner
which I have Indicated.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thlnk It wouid be
only fair te, the promoters to, Intimate to
them that In the judgment of hon. rnembers, the titie is entireiy too pretentious. 1
thlnk there Is great objection to such a
title.
Hon. Mr.. SULLIVÂN-It is agalnst the
dignity of the House.
*Hon. Mr. SCOTT-And therefore I hope
they are prepared to submit a titie with a
more cosmopolitan name than the one they
bave adopted.
Hon. Mfr. DE VEBER-Having no persenal interest in the matter myseif, 1 ar n ot
aware why the titIe was adopted. I was
slmply asked to formally introduce the BihI
and 2nade the motions for the differeat
stages, ml±h the understanding that the
gentlemen -who are Interested in the measure wUI f ully explain wby these things
are dene and will be present at the committee to give their expianations.

a position now to say that this Bill shail ho
rejected.
The motion was agreed to, and the Rill
was read the second time.
WESTERN ALBERTA RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. DeVEBER moved the second
readlng of Bill (K) An Act respecting the
Western Alberta Raiiway Company.
He said :This is ssking mierely for an
extension of tîme.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLr-HOW
long bas the company been incorporated ?
Hon. Mr. WILSON-«We sbould have some
turther explanation in regard to this Bill.
It is ail very weli to niove the second readlng, but we should have some explanatien of
what it contains. Here Is a company ashIng for an extension of time before commenclng operations. I should lke to knnw
why the promoters are unabie te, proceeri
with the work after these two years. The
time Is explrtag : they knew such was the
case, and unless they can show that owing
to financial stringency or some other legItimate cause they were unable te proceed,
they certainly shouid not have a renewal
I suppose there is someof the charter.
It looks te,
thing else at the back of It.
me as If for a number of years those who
are at the back of it bave been before the
parliament, and we should be told why
they are here again knockIng at the door
asking for a renewal.

Hon. Mr. DeVEBER-I thlnk explanations of that klnd are generally given ln
committee, when d'e people that are behlnd the Bill and have the knowledge that
le necessary te explaîn It fully, will be present to, give d'e explanation. This House
Hon. Mr. POWER-The Cornmittee on ln glving the BIII Its second reading does
Banklng and Commerce is composed of gen- not ssy that d'e Bill shal! pass, and go up
tlemen wbe understand the hanking busi- for third reading. It Is simply referred te,
ness, I think, fairly weii. It is a pretty d'e committee to be considered, as 1 underconservative committee, and I bave no doubt stand it.
that wben this measure gets before themu
Hon. Mr. WILSON-We understand that
they wiil see that it is put in proper shape,
the principle of d'e Bill Is endorsed here on
and- they will see that this wild tItie is
of
altered ;but meanwhlle the Bill is ln the its second reading, and If we approve
te
usual form, and I do not think we are ln the Bill, it passes this House and goes
H-on. Sir MACIKENZIE BOWELL.

FEBRITARY 6. 1908
the committee; that being the case, those
who are flot on the Railway Comxnittee will
bave no opportunity of knowlng the nature
of the Bill.
This le one of the reasons
why I should like to have an explanation
now, as I ar n ot on the cornnittee and
have uo opportunity to attend, and unless I
go there (unsolicited and perhaps imprudently), I will flot know anythlng ln reference to lue Bill.
Mon. Mr. LAUGHEED-I amn certal nly
at a loss to understand, and moreover to
appreciate, the continuai exceptions taklng
by the bon, gentleman from Elgin -with reference to the extension of these charters.
HMon. Mr. WILSON-I rise to a point of
order.
I do flot object to the extension.
I do flot dlesire fhe leader of the opposition
to put words lu rny xnoutb that I do flot
use.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I understand the
hon, gentleman does object.
If my hon.
-friend's continued expression upon this subject le not an objection, or an exception to
this class of legisiation, I find It difficult to
place any construction upon ItL
It certalnly Ia not an approval. Do I understand
my hon. frlend to approve ? If he doo-a
not approve, hie muet object.
. Hon. Mr. WILSON-I amn not ln a position to approve or disapprove.
I arn not
one o! those people who are proue to approve or disapprove a tbing that they do
not know anytblng about.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I was about to
say that, upon the general principle o! the
renewal o! those charters, I doubt If any
hon, gentleman present, familier though he
may be with those charters ln the Northwest, can point to any particular charter
the'conditions o! which have been carried
out, either within two years or four years
or double that time, respecting those western roads.
We very well know that ln
the first place It le necessary to get leglélation before the financial organîzation o!
the cornpany can take place.
It then'requires, ln al] cases, I might say, witbout
exception, at least four or five years to
finance those undertakings.
My hon.
friend may corne from a wealtby part of

Ontario, where it is a very easy matter to
finance undertakinga of this nature ; but
this undertaking I know to be o! a most
commeadable kind, and If my hon. friend
will look at the personnel o! lue promoters.
whose narnes appear in the statute-book,
lie will find. they are cornposed of very representative men financially speaking. I
further know-and I say It for the Information o! my hon. friend who bas Introduced
lue BIl-that considerable money bas been
expended ln rnaking surveys Incident to lue
construction o! the road, so luat my hon.
!rlend frorn Elgin need not have lue slightest apprehiension upon lue ground that this
le not a bona fide application. I eau. assure
hirn of luat fact
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read lue second time.
Hon. Mfr. DeVEBELI moved luat the Bill
be referred to lue Commlttee on Railways<.
Telegraphs'-and Harboure.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-It la not xny Intention, nor was it my Intention, as bas been
represented by lue hon, leader o! the opposition, to oppose luis Bill.
I had, perhape a suspicion he was at the back 0f
lue Bill, but that was not what I lnquired
lu reference to. My hon. friend. knew perfectly well luat I made no reference lu
the inabllity o! those who were at lue back
of lue Bill lu construct lue road, but 1 asked
luat I might be given information, not being
a member of the cornmittee, to enable me
to give an Intelligent vote.
I thought I
was entitled lu thiat. I luink the hon, leader o! lue opposition certainly would flot
deprive me of lue opportunity asked for ;
as far as luis Bill Is concerned. I do not
desire to oppose it and I want lue hou.
leader o! lue opposition to understand luat
he le not going to represent me as being
opposed to this Bill, when I arn not.
I
luerefore, raise rny objection on account o!
lue manner la wbich hie referred to mv
action.
He says that I do it as a member
of the House from Ontario ; he bas no
right to insinuate anyluing of lue klnd. I
arn willing to de!end tls Bilh, or the parties
who are building lue road, If luey 'wll give
me sorne Information, and tell me why they
delayed two or tbree yeare lu the commencement, or lue construction o! the rond

SENATE
to leave Ottawva, aud asked mie if 1 wvould
be ivilliug to adjourn this debate tili Tuesday next, and of course, I gladly agreed. I
The motion was agreed to, and Vie Bill inove tbat the order of the day be diswas read the second time.
charged, and that It be placed on the orders
MANUFAOTURING. COMPANY of the day for Tuesday next, to be the
TOBIQUE
first order of Vie day.
BILL.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No; I thlnk debates
SECOND READING.
of his kind shouid corne after the orders
Hon. Mr. THOMPSON moved Vie second of Vie day.
reading of Bill (8) An Act respectiiig the
Hon. Mr. POWER-There are two or
Tobique Manufacturlflg Company, and to three of Viese adjourned. debates, and, I
change Its namne to 'Fraeer Lumber Comn- understand, this debate wlill be concluded
pany, Limlted.
ln an bour, probably. I do not propose to
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not cee Vie speak at any lengti, and I do not know
mover,
chaîrman of the committee here, but I that any bon. suember, except Vie
not to
wli direct the attention of Vie membere of proposes to speak, and it lo better
keep lu on our Order Prper.
that commnittee to Vie fact that the tItle
oft Vie Bull le raVier deceptive. The Bill
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not see thiat
le nohing. It conslets of one clause. which Vie bion, gentleman gives us any reason to
proposes to change the naine of Vie coin- make It Vie firet order of Vie day after
pany and the titie ls calculated to mis- Vie third readinge. There je no reason why
lead. You would thlnk It was dolng a we sbould obstruct Vie whole business of
good deal more Vian Viat.
the House.
The motion was agreed to, and Vie Bill
Hon. Mr. POWER-I withdraw the part
was read Vie second Urne.
of my motion maklng Vis Vie first order
of the day, and simply move that It be
SECOND REÂDINGS.
piaced on Vie ordere of Vie day for TuesBIR (33) An Act respectlng Vie Calgary day.
and Fernle Rallway Company.-(Hou. Mr.
The motion was agreed to.
Boetock.)
Bil (36) An Act respectlng Vie Boundary,
The Senate adjourned until tiree o'.clock
Kamloops and Carlboo Central Rallway to-morrow.
Company.-(Hfon. Mfr. Boetock.)
Bill (48) Au Act respecting the Niagara
Grand Island Bridge Company.-(Hon. Mfr.
THE SEITATE.
Kerr.)
OTTAwA, Frlday, February 7, 1908.
ÂPPOINTMENT 0F UNDER SECREfor m-hich they reeived a charter years
ago to bulld.

TARIEM.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree
o'clock.
DEBATE ADJOUIRNED.
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
The order of Vie day being called:
Besuming the adjourned debate on the moBILLS
tion of the Hon. Mfr. Ross (Middlesex), that REJECTION 0F GOVERNMENT
BY THE SENATE.
fit the opinion of the Senate, the time hacs
arrived for eupplementing the executive goverriment of Canada, by the appointment of
INQUIRY.
Under Secretaries to the more important departments of the publie service, with duties
Hon. Mr. PERLEY lnquired of the govand privileges as near as may lie similar to ernment :,
officers in the parthose of the corresponding
liament of Great Britain.
110w many government Bis have been deHon. 'Mr. POWER-Tlie lion. gentleman
front 'Middlesex told me lie was, obiig-ed
Ilon. Mr. WILSON.

What were the Bis and the date of their
defeat P

FEBRTATY 17. 1908
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In answer to the inquiry, the goverament Bis rejected by
the Senate during the period of time extending from 19th August, 1896, to 27th
April, 1907, are as follows -ment
1896, Drummond County Railway Act
1%98, Canadian Yukon Railway Act.
1898, Manitoba Schooi Fund.
1899, Representation ln House of Cornmous Âmendment Act.
1900, Judges Provincial Courts kmend-

267

who gave assurances that the number
I have forgotten the
would be limited.
It is sometbing less than 400
number.
Relying on that, the governannually.
did flot care to raise the question because It was at that Urne feit that Japan
wouid flot acquiesce If we made any conditions.
Hon. Mîr. F'FRGUSON-May I ask my
hon. friend whetber these assurances he
paso
ashvn
be
ge
yte

Japaneme consul to this goverament at that
ebl
awiigo
1900, Representation ln House of Com- trewr
Hon. Mr. 8COTT-In writing. .There la
mons Ameadment Act
Any of
1904, Respecting Allens Act amendrnent. a great deai of correspondence.
It that was not confidentiai bas been
brought down ln the other House.
IMMIGRATION FROIM JAPÂN.
.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I wish to draw the
t
Ifs,1bv
Ho.M.EGUO
of the Flouse to a telegram from
attention
seen it ; but I suppose it is accessible.
London, pubiished yesterday In the MontHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEIIL-The
reai 'Star' wbich reada as fo110w5 :
British House-Canada's letter frorn -Mr. Nosse was brought down
Japanese Question ia
toteFueadwlibfuninhero
answer to Iruperial Goverament was
Ilb on ntepo
n
os
t h
subjeet of question.
cable by our own correspondent.) ceedings ; but that was merely a requesi
<By special.
the
London, February .- Mr. J. W. Rille, M.P. to the Canadian goverument to rely on
for Durham City, who bas business associa- Intentions of the Japanese governrnent.
snrcodsofrathdetc frathdbts
tions ia Canada, raised the question of Je.-Ter
erIsnrcods
British
in
p anese immigration la CanadaHle the
referred la disclose the facto, of any promise havine
House of Commons to-day.
Canada's convention with Japan, and wanted been made or any negotiations entered int(
to know whether before that convention went
thai
inla eliect the stipulations respecting immi- with the Japanese goverurent other
gration inla Canada, made in the Japanese the staternent made by the Consul Genera
tfreaty were pointed out la the Canadian gov-ofaannCnda
aaa
ernment by the Imperial goverament, and o aa
Hou. Mr, -LOUGHEED-My hon. friend
if so. he asked what Canada's answer was.
Mfr. Winston Churchill repiied as foilows:
r
* In 1905, when the Cana dian goverameat the Secretajy, of State, Io entirely ln errol
for ap
raised the question of their adherence la la saying fthat there was ground
t
the treaty with Japan, the former Secretary
Canada tha
the part
of State inquired whether they vere pre- prebiension onnot consent of the Canadiai
to
parad la adhere la the whoie treaty with- Japau wouid
out a reservation, or wished la - adhere government adherlng to the treaty wIti
subject to limitations respecting immigraIf iny hon
tion and other matters to which stipulations the qualifications referred to.
e
were made when Queensland adliered la it. friend had iooked at the correspondenc
replied that they between the Imperial goverument and thi
The Canadian goverament
were prepared la adhere absoiuteiy, and withe
governent hie would have ascertained th
out reserve.'
WINDEMEREK.
fact, and wonld flot bave made the stateI should like to know fromn the hon, ment to whIch we have iistened, that It
that
Secretary of State If this answer, purport- was communlcated to this goveranent
that
ing to be given by Mr. Wlnston Churchill the Japanese governinent were willing
statés Canada should enter into the treaty reln the British House of Commons,
serving the rlght of this government to
the facts ?
enforce Its laws as to Immigration and
1 have before me a copy of the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think It does-in labour.
hc
okpae
It rnay not be exactly crepnec
spirit at ail ei-ents.
okpae
hc
The goverilment were at crepnec
word for word.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-1 arn familiar witb
that time relying on the confirmation made
by the representatives of .Tapan ln Ottawa, IL. I have gone over It a dozen tirnes.
1900, PAt

Ofc

mamn

c

SENATE
Hon. INir. LOUGHEED-The Japanese
Tbere Is no understanding that I arn ignorgovernment were pressing for an adherant of.
ance to that treaty under the conditions
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The hon. gentle- inentioned ?
man diuplays the same confidence in this
matter that he has shown so frequentiy In
Hlon. Mfr. SCOTT-I arn quite riglit.
other matters with which he lias not been Tliat matter was discussed over and over
Permit me to rend part again in council.
entlrely famillar.
My hon. friend le flot
Here la a letter throwing new lIght on the subject. With
of the correspondence.
dated F'ebruary 7, 1896, which saya :
the knowledge we had from other sources
His Excellency <that je the Japanese foreigu we came to the conclusion that lit was perminieter> produced a written memorandum. fectly futile to niake any conditions. The
the terme of whîch were te, the purpose that
the Jalpanese governmeat were willing to late government, In 1896, had been ln treaty
agree thiat Canada, in signifying hier ad- with Japan, but broke off on this point.
hesion te the treaty, might do so with a They wanted to excînde flot only al
proviso that the stipulations of the treaty
shail not in any way affect the laws of either labourera, but artisans as well, and Japn
country in reiard te the immigration of lhad objected to that, and that la the way
labourera, and urther, that the treaty should
The arcease te, be six moaths after notice te ter- It stood for the next ten years.
rangement with Queensland was made
minate it lad been given by either aide.
Wne have had that over
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-What Is the date of niany rears ago.
and over ngain In council, and 1 knew it
?
that letter
by heart-framed a number of orders on
7, It.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-February
The opinion of Mfr. Fisher, who had
1896.
been recently lu Japan, was that the JapHon. Mr. SCOTI'-That Is ten years be anese government wouid flot consent. After the war Nlth Rusais, Japan had asfore the time I amn speakiag of.
sumed a different position In the world,
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The hon. gen- and was not willing to eoncede what we
tleman wjli lind another letter dated July wanted.
It was mlot at the jaistance of
14, 1905, pointing out thls :
Japan that the treaty was entered into,
London, Juiy 14, 1905. Referring te your but at the Instance of Canada, because we'
confidential despatch of 7th June, should
Japanese governrnent be informed that your wanted to develop trade on the PacIfic.
government wishes te, adhere to treaty of We had this labour question before us,
1894, and eupplementary convention of 1895, and discussed it, nnd were satisfied with
under saine terme and conditions as Queensland in 1897 which Japanese government the assurance glivn-by the Consul General
then agreed te extend te any ce~er colonies of Japan, who professed to speak for the
adhering within prescribed périod, namely
<1) thnt stipulations contained In first and Japanese government, that, In the event of
third articles of treaty shall not in any wny our enterlng into, the treaty, an Act wouid
affect laws, ordinances and regulations with be passed by the Japanese pariiament,
regard to trade, immigration of labourers,
artisans, police nnd pblic ecurity, which li.miting the number to be aliowed to, imare in force or herafter may be enncted in migrate from each province, and instrucJapan or in coloay; (2) thnt treaty shaîl tions would be glvea to restrict the number
cease to, be binding as between Japan and
Every Japanese Immigratcolony at expiration of twelve months after going nbroad.
notice hias been given on either aide of de- Ing would be required to hold a passport
sire to terminate samne.
Or are yonr goverameat prepared to, ndhere for the country to which he was emigratabsolutely and without reserve as would ap. ing, and it was Ru offence for any Jappear to be the case from speech on Minister nese, having obtained a passport, to go to
of Agriculture in Canadian parliament, lune
any other couutry than the one for which
22 P Please telegraph reply.
LYTTLETON.
Thiat was
the passport authorized hlm.
My hon. friend would ask, us to believe mnade perfectly plain, and ls plain to, tliis
test the Colonial Minister, on July 14, day. 1 have read over the law of Japan a
inber of times.
1905, cabled tels goverament without knowling whnt tee attitude of tee Japanese goverament would ho on that question.
Hon. 3%fr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT.

Hon. Mfr. LOUGHII'D-Can the hon.
gentleman iaformi the House what the object of the Colonial Secretary's letter of

FEBRT.ARY 7. 190829
July, 1905, weuid lie, if tbere were net au
express understanding between the Imperl gevernment and the geverument ef
Japan that the latter was quite willlng te
-enter into the treaty under tbe supplementary termis referred to, and, furthermore, perhaps my bon. friend 'would bie
-able te give this Information te the House :
why Is it that this geverument bas net
been able te show by one jet or tittle any
.correspondence or any expression ef dissent from Vie government ef Japan as te,
entering Into that treaty ? The wbole matter Is one ot presumption, baseless, witheut anything te found it upen, and we
simply have te take thîe ipse dixit of ministers of Vils goverument that such was the
attitude of the-government of Japan, with-ont anything to warrant It.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Iin 1894, 1895, 1896yrou know the hilstory of Vils matter-there
was a great dent cf correspendence between
Japan and the foreign office of Great BniIa that correspondence stipulations
tain.
were made pro and con efthVe termis upion
wbich Vie Japanese sbould lie admitted
Into Queenslanid, and other Britishi colonies.
Canada, after the change ef government,
simply~ declined, because we dld not see
that we could make any arrangement Viat
Our predecessors
would bie satisfactory.
Japan
bad failed te mnake arrangements.
was holding eut that artisans sbould net
be excluded. They were willlng we should
,excînde labeurers, but net te exclude artiIn
sans, and so It steed fer ten years.
Vie meantime, fniendly arrangements were
Japan's conditions
arrived at In Japan.
ln 1896 were very very different from
Japan's conditions ln 1905, and whcn.the
fereign office sent the cable that my hion.
triend bas rend, they were referring back
te cenditiens as they were, perbaps, on the
We knew from other
former occasions.
sources that Japan was net willlng. The
overtures dld net ceme fremn Japan. Tbey
came- frem the geverumeat of Canada, and
we dIscussed. fully the chances that we
We
wonld have If we made stipulations.
were quite aware et the difficulties that
would arise ; but we had Vie assurances ef
the representative of Japan that they had
then passed a law, as 1 explained befere,
by which Japanese were net aliewed te go
te Viese ceuntries wtthoint a passpert. and

269

the emigration to Canada was to be limited
to a fixed number ; I think that it was flot
to be in excess of four hundred, and, witb
regard to the recent arrangements, I have
already explained and do flot propose to
go Into that matter further, Japan declined,
as an Independent nation, to put on record
any proposa! to retract in any way f rom
the treaties entered lnto. They have given
us an assurance, however, lu reference te
this'question of Immigration, that supports
the promises made by the representatives
of Japan before we entered lnto the trenty.
Hon. lfr. CLORAN-I 'Jo flot wfsh te
proleng the discussion of this matter, but
fromn the drift' of it so far, I assume the
hion, leader of the opposition wants te maire
the country believe tbat Vie present goverament ls responsible for the situation tn
regard te Japanese Immigration. 1 would
ask the hon. leader ef the opposition te
look at -page M62 cf the Commons ' Hansard,' and hie. wili find therein correspondence between the goverument of Japan and
the governmeat of Canada sufficlent te convince blin thnt lie Is net justified ln main-,
taining is ldea la regard te that matter.
The government did everytbing Iu their
power te meet the dlaims of the people of
this country, especially of British Columbia,
and I nsk Vie hon, leader of the opposition
te rend the letter written by Mr. Nosse,
Consul General ef Japan, dated March 30,
1903, In whichi lie says:
1 have received the cable instructions from
My goverament te the eliect that 1 have te
give your government the renewed assurance
that the Japanese government are not derirons of forcing their people into British
Columbia against the wish of the province,
and that they were willing to enter into any
agreement with your government by which
they may biad themnseives, if their present
rolicy of rigîd restriction is net deemed satisfactory or sufficient.
And later on, durlng the next two years,
the saine representative of the Japanese
goverument gîves tie same assurance te
the Canadlan goverument that such a position shall bie held by them ln regard te this
Se that I do net feel that the
matter.
lion. leader of the opposition Is Justified on
this occasion lni trying to leave the Impression on tie Honse that the present government was derelict Ia its dutv in regard te
this matter.

-

SENATE
Hlou.
?%1r.
XMAODONAID
(B.C)-I
nian fot going to enter into a discussion of this very important matter. It
Is a burnlag question ln British Columbia
at the present time.
It would be entlrely
out of order for me to discuss It ; I thlnk
that there bas been a very happy solution
found of this mnost difficuit problem, If we
eau believe the newspaper reports. I saw
It mentioned the other day that Japan, belng consclous of the state of feeling In"the
United States and ln Canada againat Orientai Immigration, are now directlng the
attention of Japanese emigrants to Peru,
Mexico and other parts of South America.
I hope that wl! be carrled out, and thaf
we shall have few sncb Immigrants coiniug Into British Columbia.
I could say a
good deal more on this question, but I
à3ball not do so.
I hope the report of the
diversion of emigration which we have recelved wlll prove correct.
-Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I desire to cal! attention to the statement made
by the bon. Secretary of State la reference
to the position taken by the late goverament af the turne f0 which be refera, that
the objections taken to the treaty wlfh
Japan were on accouni. of restrictions
whlch would be placed upon this goverament la dealing with the question of Imm[gration.
That was the point and the objection was taken la 1895 to thaf clause
of the treaty ; but If the hon, gentleman
will look at the correspondence and study
it correctly lie wllI find that the colonial
office had had negotiatlons with the represeatatives of Japan, and they had acceded
to flie request made by the late government
thât that clause of the treaty should be
sfruck out.
Just at that finie, while the
negotlafions were proceeding, the Prime
Minister had resIgned, and Sir Charles
*Tupper had become Prime Minister.
Hle
went to, the elections and was defeated.
Hence the negotiaflons, so far as the lafe
government was conc'erned, ceased, and the
present government allowed the matter to
remain la abeyance, unfil they agreed f0
accept the treaty In Its entlrety.

SECOND READINGS.
Bill »38 An Acf respecting the Edmonton, Dunvegtin and British Columbia Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Roy.)
Bill (45) An Act respecting the Canadian
Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Railway
Pacifie
Young.)
CUMBERLAND RAILWAY AND COAL
COMPANY BI.TjL.
SECOND READING.
Hlon. Mr. POWER moved the becond
reading of Bill (46) An Act respect ing the
Cumberland Railway and Coal Company.
He said : This Bill proposes te make
cerf lin changes la the Acf, chapter 77 of
the statutes of 1883.
It proposes to substitute the Intercolonlal Rallway for the
Great Short Line Rallway.
Ia 1883 there
was a proposaI to build wliat was called
the Great Short Line Railway between Oxford nnd Pugwash.
That company dld not
go on wlth the undertaklng, and the Dominion government have bult the lune as
The
part of the Iut ercolonial Railway.
first clause of the Bill proposes to, allow
these companles to make arrangements
with the Intercolonlal Railway lnstead of
wlth the Great Short Line Rallway.
If
proposes f0 give to, the company what wns
aot giren by the original Act, the power
to generate elecfricity, and to supply llght,
heat and power produced tbereby for the
purpôses of ifs present undertaklng. They :
May acquire and hold stock, shares or
bonds in companies other than raîiway companies; may seil any mines or other real
or personal property if lias acquired; and
may buy, hire, charter, operafe and seli vessels, steamers, ships and other suitable craft,
for the transportation of coa! and other
minerais to ports in Canada or elsewhere.

Subelause 2 reads as follows :
2. No purchase of coal lands, coal mines or
timber limits in the provinces of Nova Scotia
or New Brunswick, heretofore made by the
compauy, shall be declared invalid by reason
of any want of power in the company to acquire the saine.
There seems to, have been some doubt
as to the rlght of the company to acquire
coa! mines. Then. section 7 of the Act is
repealed and a new section la substltuted,
BILL INTRODUCED.
which limita the rate of lnferesf f0 6 per
The old Acf provided for any rate
Bill (O) An Act f0 incorporate the Sas- cent.
katchewan
Power Company, Llmited.- of iaferest whlch was lega], and if makes
the coimpany subject f0 the paymeaf of
(Hon. Mr. Davis.)
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

FEBRIARY 11. 1908
auy penalty for non-conlipliance with the
The old
provisions of the Ralway Act.
Act provided that the whole amount ot the
bonds should not exceed tbree-fourths et
This new
the stock of the company.
clause 7, provides that the wbole amount
ot the bonds shall not exceed tbree million
dollars. The capital la now fixed at tbree
Then there is a provision
million dollars.
autborizing the directors to make by-laws,
and perbapa the principal portion of the
Bill la the vaiidating of a niortgage made
on the 13tb November, 1907, mortgaging the
property of the cempany for the amount
of $1,500.000.
*The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read tbe second time.
ORDERS OOMMITTEE REPORT.
SIXTH REPORT ADOPTED.
Hon. '-%r. YOUNG moved the adoption ot
the sixth report of the Standing Coinmittee
This
He said:
on Standing Orders.
report appears at page 161 of the
It la with reference to a notice
minutes.
gîven to the public, by the Quebec and
We
New Brunswick Railway Company.
out la our report that whiie considering
set
tbe objecta of this petition are practically
identical wlth those of a certain other
petition froni the same parties already reported upon by the committee, and as to
whlch ahl notices were regularly given, the
committee conaiders that the notice upon
tbis petition, whilst not complete, yet to.gether with those given of the formei
petition, conistîtute suffIcient grounds for
the committee to recommend the suspension of rule 107, section QJ la Bo far as It
Since yesterday,
relates to the petition.
however, the clerk of the cornxittee luforma me that be bas been placed In possession et the notices, whicb were lacking
yesterday betore the committee, copies of
notices in different papers, and atter giving
a statement of the papers ln1 wbich tbeae
notices have appenred, be states that the
In other words, he
notices are complete.
certifies that If tbese notices bad been ln
possession et the committee yesterday the
petition would bave bee"i passed ln the
usual way, as baving complied with the
ruhes et tbe House.
The motion was agreed te.

STANIDING

STANDING

COIMITTEE ON
ING ORDERS.

STAND-

SEVENTH REPORT ÂDOPTED.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG moveai the adoption of
the seventb report of the Committee on
He said: This refera
Standing Orders.
to a petition ln wbich the notice does flot
More powers
go so far as the petition.
are asked for ln the petition than ln the
notice, altbougb the powers asked for are
not contrary to the good and weifare of
Petitioners ask to carry on
the district.
It la a eumpany
the business of millers.
that proposes to develop power on thel
Souti .Saskatchewan by darnming the river.
In the notice they give the objeet of their
Incorporation as a power company, but ln
the petition they go further and ask for
power to go Into the miiling business. The
committee tbought it better to bring these
tacts to the attention ef the -House In the
form of a report, so that when the Bill
goes before the proper committee tliefr
attention will be apecially directed to lt,
and, ln the meantime, let the petition go
througb as baving conformed to the rules
of the Senate.
The motion was s9greed to.
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday next
at Tbree p.m.

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA,

Tuesday, February 11, 1908.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'ciock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
THE KING'S REGULÂTIONS.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
Is it the intention of the goverament to
cause te be published in the 'Canada Gazette' everything in the Ârrny Act, the
King'a regulations, and in the other imperial
laws governinq Ris Majesty's troops, which
does not confiit with our own laws and our
owa regulations, and has force of Iaw in our
own country, and consequently goveras our
Canadian militia P
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn advised by the
Departmeflt of Militia that it la not the

SENATE
Intention of the government to publlsb ln
the Canada 'Gazette' the Army Act and
the other papers referred to.

This anotnt of $97,771.52 was pald by
the Finance Department cheque, August
3rd, 1907.

RAIL-

QUEBEC AND NEW BRUNSWICK RAILWAY COMPANY'S BI.LL.

THE

KETTLE

RIVER VALLEY
WAY.
INQUIRY.

Bill -(P) An Act respecting the Quebec
and New Brunswick Railway Company was
introdxxced and read the first tume.

Hon. Mr. Li.ULGHEED Inquired:
What reason, if any, has been given
1.
Hon. Mfr. COSTIGAN moved that thbe
by the Kettie River Valley Railway Company
for not furnishing statistics respecting its Bill be read the second time on Thursday
operations, &c., to the Department of Railways and Canais for the year ended June 30, next.
1907 P
Hon. '.%r. I-ANDRY-ls this n Bill for
What steps, if any, have been taken to'
an extension of ie ?
compel the Kettie River Valley Railway Com
pany to complv with the statntory requireHou. Mr. COSTIGAN-It ls for jýn exinents respecting the furnishing of statistics
annually ?
What contract or contracta, if anx, have tension of tinie. aniong other things.
been entered into between the government
COMMAND 0F- 16th INFANTRY
and the Kettie River Valley Railway cornpany for the construction of aay portion of,,BIAE
the company's line, giving the dates and.BRGAE
terme of such contract or contracte, and
INQUIRY.
what subsidies, if any, are to be or have been
Hou. '-\r. LANDRY lnquired:
paid under snch contracte, with amounts and
dates ?
1. Who is in comnmand of the lOth (Toronto)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The following ls the' I4lfantry _Brigade ?
sign his position of brigadie .r i.n Command of
reply:
1. No reasont -liatever bas been asslgned ithat brigade .
3. Why did he resiga
by the Kettie River Valley Rallway Co.'
Party for their fallure to send ln the statis- 1Hon. Mr. SCOTT :
1. There le no cominnndlng officer of the
tical returna, required for the year endlng.
16lth (Toronto) Infantry Brigade it.the pre30tb June, 1!907.
2. Demands have recently been made' sent tume.
upon the officers 0f the company for the'
2. October 12, 190î.
fuifilment of the statutory requirements In
3. No reason assignled.
this regard ; if these requests are not coniIM\PORTS 0F ALUMINUMl\.
plled witb, the case wlli be submltted to
the Department of Justice.
MOTION.
6th June, 1907, t<, construct a Une of railway from Grand Forks, to a point fift
miles up the North Fork and West Fork

Ho.r.ELSiiteabncofo.
Douiville) moved
1Mr.
That an humble address be presented to
1 His Excellenc the Governor General; prayis ïxceiiency wilcause to be laid
of the North Fork of KettIe River, in lieu ing tat
57, or 1903, before the Senate a return of importe of oxide
of subsidy granted by chapter
'f aluminum for the years 1903, 1904, 1905,
section 2, Item 67.
aus
.dt,10,wt
u
Act, 1906, Item 89 snb- 10
- (b) Under Subsidy
',%r. SCOTT-I presumne it is aval]sidy paid as follows :--40 per cent of snb- iHon.
sldy due on 43.40 miles of raîîway, froin! able. Tiiere le nmoobjection to the motion
Grand Forks towards North Forlc of Kettle going.
The motion was agreed to.
River, ordinary subsidy $3,200 per mile for,
48.40 mles-equals $138,880 ; addittonal
EXPORTS 0F ALUMINUM.
subsidy of 60 per cent of $3,200 per mile,
equals $1,000 per mile for 43.40 miles, or iOIN
$83,328 ; ordinary snbsldy. $13S.880 ; plus
Hon. 'Mr. ELLIS (in absence of Hon.
additionai snbsidy, equais $222,208 ; 40 per
mr. Donivilli& inoved
cent of $222,208, equals-$97,77159.
HTon. Mr. SCOTT.

FEBRUARY 11. 1908
That an humble address be presented to
His Excellency the Governor General; praythat His Excellency will cause to be exinbeoe the Senate a return of aluminum laid
ported fol' the years 1903, 1904, 1905, 1906 and
to date, 1907, with values.
The motion was agreed to.
PUBLICATION

0F KING'S
TIONS.

BEGULA-

273

the i)eueflt of the city of Quebec, but, on

the contrary, would be against the iuterests of Vie city.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It was lu answer
to Viat protest Vie government declded ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know. I presume It had its Influence. I amn not aware.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But Vie decision of
the governmeut must be nothlng at ail.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY Inquired:
1. Is the revision of the 'King's Regulations and Orders for the Militia of Canada'
now finished P
2. When will it be distributed to persons
interested P
3. Is the French edition of the said regulations ready P
4. When will it be given to the officers of
French origin serving in the militia of Canada P

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have really forgotten Vie answer I gave my hon. frlend. He
Is famîllar wlth it and I arn not. I thlnk
hie nsked If there was ta be a removal of
the hospital to a certain part of Vie city,
and another inqulry was as to whether
Viere were any protesta against ItL I auswered Vie firat, Vint the government bail
flot decided to remove, and Vien my hon.
Hon. Mr. SCO'Jh
friend asked If Viere were auy protesta.
1. Thie revision is now nbout hall fln- Tbey had not then furnished me with any
,shed.
protesta, but they have now. I presume
2. It is hoped the book wlll be ready for two and two make four. No doubt the
distribution lu tîme for camps of Instruc- protesta had their Influence.
tion, 1908.
3. No--but translation will be proceeded
11AILWAY ACCIDENTS AT LEVEL
wlth.
CROSSINGS.
4- At the earliest practicable date.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT laid on Vie table a
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It Is golng behlnd ?
returu sbowing Vie number of accidents
Last year It was nearly ready--only the at railway crossings for Vie years 1905,
Index to be mnade. We are retrogradlng. 1906 and 1907.
He said : When my hou. f riend moved for
REMOVAL 0F MILITARY HOSPITAL IN Vis returu, I suggested that Viey should
QUEBEC.
distingulsh between Vie rural portions of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The bon. gentleman Vie country and Vie thlckly populated porfrom Stadacona inquired the other day lu tions, nnd define the number at each. The
regard to- the removal of the mllltary hos- resuit was juat as I autlcipated. This repîtal Into Vie mlddle of St. Louis ward In turn wlll probably be contrary to public
the city of Quebec, and asked If any pro- opinion, and coutrary ta what would be
tests had been received by the goveru- expected, and I merely cail attention to it.
ment. I had not an answer at that Urne. In Vie lat three years Viere were kiiled
I arn advlsed that lt has not been declded at Viickly populated crossings lu citiez and,
to remove Vie milltary hospital, at Que- I suppose, villages, Viirty-four persous
while on rural district crosaings there were
bec, from Vie old hospîtai building.
A petition againist such a change bas ninety killed. There were Vires times as
been recelved from Vie mayor of Quebec. mauy persous kifled at crossings tbat woul
It Is slgned by Mr. Harcourt Smli and one not be affected by Vie Bill now before parhundred and elght others, and dlaims Vint Ilament, compared with crossings for which
the placing of the hospital In Vie centre provision la made In this measure. The Bill
of the resîdential part of St. Louis ward was aaid to be predicated on Vie assumpwould be a source of danger, and detrimen- tion that the danger at crossings was In
tai to Vie proprietors and resldents of the cities, towns and tbick.ly popuiated villages,
city, and In no wise lu the interest, or for whereas it is just the reverse. There were
BEVISED EDITION

SENATE
tbree tilues the number killed in the rural
lion. Mr. FEILGUSON-The lion. gentlep)arts of the country that there were-kil]ed mnu id nlot cali order a minute or two
in the thickly populated portions.
ugo.
I arn directing atteuîii9 to tbe fact
thiat a ineasure «%vhichi wns warmly aplion. Mr. SULLIVAN-Is that for thue proved of by the Miinîster of Railways, and
whole period of three years ?
passed with the sanction and under the authority of the government, sbouid be opHon. M2%r.
SCOTT-Yes.
posed Iu this way by the non. Secretary of
lion. Mr. SULLI VAN-Are the ages State.
giveil, or any further data furnishied ?
lion. Mr. SCuTT-Mýy hon. frîend la not
justified In saying that I was mak-ing a
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-No.
ILi 1905 there
L thioug..t it was lu the iuterest
wiere killed lu the thickly populated por- speecu.
of the Senate that 1 should point out the
tions eleven, and la the rural districts
thirty.
lu 19)06l lu thickly populated sec- sigunificance of the figures tlîat L have subtiens nine, lut tle rural districts thirty- mitted to the Huse.
tbree--nearly four times the number. The
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We understanci
resuit Is just the opposite of '%vbat every- tbe bon. gentleman perfectir.
body supposed, and it was for tliat purHon. Mr. 1,ýCoTT-There are a number
pose 1 suggested that we sbiould hiave this
of other incidents lu this returu to which
Information f urnisbed.
L hanve not called attention, but a good deal
Hlon. Mr. FERGIJSON-It ls very un- of discussion arose ou that one point and I
usual ln subrnitting the returns of the thougblt It advisable to gilve the figures.
House for the 3Li.nlster to malie a speech; However, I shall be more careful again.
but since the hon. gentleman lias underDfflINION LANDS SURVEYS BILL.
taken to do so, 1 tbink he had better give
us more detalled Information.
Lt would
IN COMMITTEE.
be interestin.g to know the number of rural
The House resolved itself into a Conicrosslngs as compared wlth the number of
crossings lu thickly populated places.
If mittee of the Whole on Bill (9) An Act
the number of rural crossings should bie respecting the surveys of the public lands
many Urnes more than the niumber of of the Dominion and the surveyors entltled
crossiugs lu thlckly settled places, there to make such surveys.
wonld be another explanation than the oue
(lu the Committee.)
given to the House.
It would be aise important that we should kbLow what proporHon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbie clauses relatilig to
lion 0f the rural crosslngs, as compared surveys and surveyors ut present are te
with town crossings, are protected under bie fouud in the Dominion Lands .Act. Lt
the orders of the board.
These are facts bias been thought desirable that. an Act
niso that it wlll be necessnry for us to should be placed on the statutes, referring
know before any value whatever could be exclusively to surveys and surveyors, deattached to the figures which the hon, gen- fining the character- of the snrveys and
tleman bas submltted. to the House.
Lt the qualifications of the surve3-ors employed
is nlot usual, as I have said, for the minis- to makie surveys of-Dominioiî lands. Necester submitting a report to make a speech. sarily, nine-tentuîs of the Bill is a reprint
1 shall be
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-L aid not make a of the law as It now stands,
glad ln going over it to cali attention to
speech.
any clause wlhere original matter bas heen
Hon. Mr. FL',ý4USON-My hon. frlend substituted for the exlsting law.
lias taken this way to show bis opposition
Ou clause 4,
to what Is really a government Bill.
Lt is
4. The Governor in Council inaya very peculiar way thls government bias
(a) Make such orders as are deeined liecesof dolng thing-s.
sary te carry out the prov isions of this Act,
according to their true intent, or to meet
axiy cases which arise, aud for which no proHon. Mr. MMLE-deorder.
Hon. '.r. 'SCOTT.

FEBRUARY 11. 1908S75
with snob:
vision is made in this Act; and further te they are conducted in accordance
regulations, and are subsequenty.
make and declare any regulations which are ruies and by the board.
considered necessary to give the provisions approved
in this section full elleet.
Hon. Mr. POWER-There la sometbing
my heu. to be said In favour of having more thau
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEBD-Oiin
frieud say If it is custemary te delegatp one examiner. Those examinations, I preand I have
sncb pewers te the Govemner Generai ? I sume, are beid periodlcally,
cannet recali an Instance wbere it lias beeu grave doubto as to the wladom of havlng
ouiy one examiner.
doue.
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN-Tbe object la te
Hon. -Mr. SCOT.T-Tbey are te be found
save tbe expense of bringing these surIn the eld Act wbicbi wýas passed long beveyors to Ottawa, when tbey live at some
fore tlis govemument came Into office.
lu sucb Indistance from the capital.
stances, an examiner la detaled to go aud
adopted.
The clause was
examine them. Tbe Board is compesed of
tbree members, and one of them conducts
Ou clause -Î,
the examination.
7. The minister shail have the administration, direction aud contrai of the surveys of
ilHon. Mr. POWER-If he bas' to submlt
Dominion lands.
tbe answers te the full Board, then there
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED- To what extent is ne objection; but If the 'examiner wbo
does that vest the administration of the goes down say to Quebec or New Brunslands lu the M-Ninlater of tbe Interier ? Dees wick, la to be the final Judge ef the resuits
it take it eut of the banda of the Governor of the examination, I do net tbink It its
lu Ceuncil ? It may be interpreted that satisf actory.
way; it certainly bas net been the intenHon. Mr. SCOTT-In ail examinatiofle
tion lu former statutes dealing wlth Domsbouid there are printed questions, and the single
inion lands that tbeir administration
an examînatlin
be entirely taken ont of the banda ef the person who is conducting
the answers to theBoard, and the
That la te say, submits
Governer In Council.
orders in ceuncil may be submitted by the Board passes on tbem fInaily.
minîster te Uic Governor lu Councîl.
Hon. Mr. SUJLLIVÂNI%-AiI he has te do
is te pick up the papers, sud see that
non. Mm. SCOTT-This la a genemal
notbing Improper la done. one examiner ki
power. The mode ef proceediug la thîs:
ail that la required.
where nny regulationa are made, tbey are
subumitted. by the minister te councll, sud
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The schedule ef questhe minute of council lo passed approving tions at each examinatien is prepared by
of them. The general administratiou ef the Board.
the department, hewever, la left te the
Hon. M4r. POWER-Tbat inay be the
minister. There la notbing new Iu the
practice; but, If it la, clause 2 does net set
clause.
forth the practice correctly. It dees net
provide that the papers shall be submitted
The clause was adopted.
te the Board, and I thlnk It should.
On clause 12.
Hon. Mr. SCO>TT-In a much larger mat-12. The minister may cause examinations ter, the civil service examinations, wbereof candidates for admission as articied pupils there are 500 te 1,000 examined every
or for commissions as Dominion land surveyors to be heid at such times and places- year, we appoint eue examiner.
as he directs, and by one of the members
Hon. Mr. KERR-Subclause three pro-of the board or by a special examiner who
is a Dominion land surveyor, and is ap- vides tbat the examinations shall be sub-pointed thereto by the Governor in Council. ject te the miles and regulations made by
2. Notice ef auy exaininatioxis shahl be given
for four consecutive weeks in the 'Canada the Board, and must subsequently be apGazette.'
preved by the Board.
3. Sncb examinations shall be subject ta
any raies and regniations made by the board
The clause was adopted.
ini that behalf, and shall have no effect unleas
18j

SENATE
On clause 13,
13. The Governor in Council may appoint
one or more Dominion tapographical surveyors for the purpose cf filling the place of
any member or members cf the board who
may, through iilness or other cause, be unable
ta attend any meeting cf the board.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wbat le a DomBy wbat
Inion topographical surveyor ?
process le he admltted ?
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Hle is a Dominion lands surveyor wbo voiuntarily submite to a higher examInatin, and then
gets the designation of topographical land
surveyor. He le generally entrusted with
more difficuit work than the ordinary surveyor, such as running base lines, esfab4ishIng paraliels of latitude, &c.
Hon. Mr. LOUGH.EED-IS there any reguiation by whichi lie muet lie a Dominion
land surveyor ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He has to be first.
virtue of
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-By
what ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He must lie to begin
w-itlb.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHED-Not necessariiy,
if lie can be made a topographical surveyor by the department. I want ta know
If there Is any statutory obligation that lie
shail lie first a Dominion land surveyor ?
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The man who Je
fitted te pass both examinations, must firet
becomie a Dominion lands surveyor. Afterwards lie may or may net take the other
exaination; it le voluntary. The man
who wants the higlier degree ean take It
If lie chooses. If lie bas the abiity te
pase it, lie becomes a topographicai land
surveyor.
Mon. '.%r. LOUGHEED-Where do you
find thnt there muet be some legal sanction, for It ? It seeme te me that If a
Dominion topographical surveyor le te have
a legal statue, there muet be some legal
sanction ; and, se far as that Act le concerned. I amn net aware of any provision In
It le clearit deaiing with sncb an officer.
]y an omission. it seeme te me.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-There are ne

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I
covers tiiot point.

tbink

clause

lion. Mr. LOUGHEED--Ciause
vides for It.

27

28 pro-

On clause 21.

21. Every person who upon or after the
fourteenth day of April, 1872, became, or
hereafter becomes, by certificate, diploma or
commission, qualified to survey lands in any
roice of Canada and who is still so qualiLd, and who, ini order ta become so qualified, hia&(a) Served a termn under articles to a surveyor, similar to the terni prescribed by thjs
Act, and
(b) Passed examinations before the Board
cf Examiners of the province for which hie
is so qualified, in the subjects prescribed by
this Âct for the examination of candidates
for admission as articled pupile and for commissions as Dominion land surveyors,
Shail be entitled to obtain a commission as
a Dominion land surveyor without further
service and without being snbjected ta any
examination other than with respect ta the
systemn of survey of Dominion lands.
2. If, in the opinion of the board,(a> The service cf any person se qualified
who applies for a commission is not equivalent to that required by this Act for pupils
of Dominion land mnrveyors, or(b) The subjeots cf the examination passed
by him for certificate, diploma or commission as a surveyor, in the province for which
he is qualified. are not snfficiently similar
ta those by this Act prescribed for qualification as a Dominion land surveyorThe board may, in its discretion, require
the candidate ta complete snch further termi
cf service or practice in surveying and may
examine him in such cf the subjects prescribed by this Act as appear necessary.
Hon. Mr. SKJOTT-Tbere seems to be
some misconception as to the meaning of
As 1 rend It.
the firet part of section 21.
snrveyors wbo bold dipiomas from provinces where the standard Is as bigli as it
Is at Ottawa, are entitled, without further
examInation, except on the particular mode
of surveys In the new provinces, to; a diIf, however, the standard cf explorna.
arnînation In the particular province froin
whiclî the surveyor may corne Is not up to
the standard liere, then hie bas to undergo
I think hon. gentlemen
an examination.
will agree witb me that It would be impossible to allow In the surveyors from ail the
provinces unlese the Dominion board was
first satiefied that tbe standard ln ail the
provinces was at least equlvalent to the
like a
standard nt Ottawn.

It is eimply
speclal privileges.
A man mîglit lie a
K.C. for a lawyer.
King's Counsel. but It gîtes lilm ne speclal

privileg-es In law.
Hon. Mr. KERR (Toronto).

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Whio Is the judge
of that ?

FEBRUARY 11. 1908
Hon.

Mr.

SCOTT-Tlhe

board.

It

Is

pretty well kuown among the surveyors.
Hon. Mr. CASGR.11N-I want to rectify
w-bat 1 sald before on tbis very saine euhject. .I was under the impression that the
law, and the practice aiso, was as stated
by the hon. -Secretary of State; but
to rny great surprise I find that ln the
opinion of the Dominion uoard there Is no
province ln tbe Dominion where thie qualifications are sufficientiy bigli for snrveyors
to corne bere and dlaim a diploma withont undergoing à further exarninatiozi. The
invariable practice for the hast fIlfteen years
lias been to subjet men who have served
as surveyors lu their provinces for ten,
fifteen or twenty years, to again pass an
examination. before the board at Ottawa.
'You wili readly understand how difficult
It wouid be for a man forty-five years of
age to pass on ail the sn.at details wbIch
may be very familiar to a young man just
out of the university ; but subjects change
and the art advances, and so on, and It
When I
would bé a difficult matter ?
was admittedl as a Dominion Land Surveyor, If I may be allowed to refer to
myseif, we were oniy required to pass an
examination. just as stated by the hon.
Secretary of State ; tbat Is an examination
on the manual and also on the federai law;
but 1 amn Informed tbat for the lest fifteen
years every surveyor wbo cornes from the
provinces for a diplorna under the DominIon board muet pass an exarnînation. The
province of Ontario has a very bigli standard, and the chairman of the Ontario
Board of Surveyore, Mr. Klrkpatrlck,
dlaims the standard le mest as higli as the
Dominion Board requires. Wben I spoke
the otber day. I referred to clause 22, which
follows this clause, If 1 may ba allowed to
refer to It, because they go together. It Is
proposed to aliow surveyors frorn New Zealand and from Australa--

9,77

Dominion Land Surveyor, provlded hie le
conversant witb the miles of surveye as
carried on by the Department of the Int rnay
terior, and also the feJferal iaw.
be said that there miglit be an objectionwhich I arn ready to admit-that If a man
wants to become a Dominion surveyorseeing that In certain provinces the examinatIons are easier than ln Ottawa, lie
would proceed to that province, pass bis
examinations and then corne here and
get his diploma ; but It seeme to me
that would be overcome by the fact that a
surveyor would have had to practice for a
certain number of years in bis province,
say ten years, before being entitled to dlaim
commission. and after lie bad practiced as
a quaified land surveyor for that number
of years, surely hie could be able to corne
here and get bis diploma as a Dominion
Land Surveyor.
Hon. Mr. SULLI VAN-If the medical
Inw was framed ln the way the hon, gentleman argues, you would have to allow
every quack to corne ln and practice under
it, because hie had been practing medicine
This
in sorne place where lie bail lved.
le a proper clause, 4ind one of the best ln
There is a great Geai of difthe BUi.
terence between the severity of the examînations in the provinces ; but as far as
that goes I would not cali tbem severe.
This provides that ouly so far as the provinicial exarnInation le sulliclent, that le ail
Examiners
hae shall be exarnined upon.
are flot sucli cruel monsters as the bon.
They are
gentleman seems to shppose.
men wlth a kreat deal of huinanity, and
tbey wlill uot put any techulcai or difficuit
questions to a man to prevent him from
passlng ; but If they do not make up for
any defect In tue provincial exarnlnation,
then what good are tbey ?

Hon. Mr. LOUGHFIED-I cannot understand wby the provincial board of examinHon. Mr. SCOTT-That wIll be struck ers should assume to Issue commissions
out
for Dominion Land Surveyors.
Hon. Mr. CASGRIN-Thefl witb regard
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbey do not.
to clause 21, 1 thlnk. we sbould perbaps meHon. Mr. LOUGHEFED-If you wlll look
vert to the practice of examination on the
federal eystemi onîr. If a survayor bas been at paragrapli (b) of thisedause you will obpractising lu Ontario for fifteen or twenty serve that provision Ie nmade for provincial
yenrs, surely hae would be qualified to corne exarninations, ln whicb a commission for
to Ottawa and dlaim a commission as. a Domninion land surveyors is conternplated.

SENATIE
if it is contemplnted that a provincial
board shall examine wlth the view if
issuing a commission for a Dominion
laud Surveyor, wby sbould there nlot
be uniformity throughout the whole of
the provinces of Canada as to what that
standard shall be, and why should that
standard not be determined by the DominIon board, se as not to be subi ect to the
review provided for in puragrupha (a) and (b)
of subsection 2 ?~ The modus operandi now,
apparently, is tbaàt a pupil muy be admitted, and, upon the service of bis time, he
muy be examiued and apply for a commission of.a Dominion Land Surveyor to
tbe provincial board. Then, bavlng passed
that examination, tee Dominion bourd review, apparently under puragrapli a of subsection 2, the service-that is the length
of time be bas served-8.nd, under parugraph (b), the subjecta under which be bas
pasacd bis examination, and if, ln their
discretion, that'service and those subjects
are not sufficieut, then they may exercise
their discretion and require the candidate
to pass a suppleineutury examination. This
Why shouid
seems to me to be absurd.
the Dominion board of examiners
not
coguizance of
Issue a general order,
ebould be observed by al the
which
provinces, provlding thut If the Provincial
Bourd ot Examinera examine upon certain
isubjecta and exact the service provided
for ln this Act, tee commission siall .be
My bon. friend opposite
,duly issued ?
knows more about the subject ten I do,
but It seema to me that this is a very lut
.convenieut system, and there does not seem
te me to be teut uniformlty about it wbich
ls destrable, both lu the matter of convenience sind lu the matter of qualification.

I wIll
it lead to very serious difficulty.
read an extract from a letter f rom the
head of the board lu Ottawa to the head
of a board ln one of the provinces, who
bad complained that it was very unfair
to a provincial surveyor to submait hlm to
It reads as f oian examination bere.
lows :
The other point brought up in your letter
has reference to the omission of the examination iu the case of the land surveyors from
the provinces of Canada who seek admission
as Dominion land surveyors. The proposition is not new to us; the system was in force
in January, 1879, when 1 was firàt appointed
a member of the Board of Examiners for
Dominion land surveyors and was continued
for a number of years until candidates nearly
ceased coming before our board for examination. It has become a practice to first obtain
a commission as provincial land surveyors
and then to apply here for a commission as
Dominion land surveyors. Naturally candidates would procure the first commission f rom
the board having the lowest standard of examination. The consequencea were deplorable, and there came to be such glaring cases
of incompetency that the system was discoatiuued. However, the harm had been
doue, and there are stili to be found in the
ranks of Dominion land surveyors men who
are utterly unfit to be surveyors. To my
mind, no greater mistake could be made than
te revert te the old system; should the proposition ever be made, I shall consider it te
be my duty te advise against it.
if reciprocity is te be adopted between te
several bodies of Canada surveyors, it seems
to me that it can only come through the organization of a central board of examiners
upon which ail such bodies shaîl be represeuted, and which shail issue a uniform set
of papera for ail the candidates. It is upon
that basis that the surveyora of Australia
and New Zeeland have united, and if I am
not mistaken, the sane principle is advocated byý those who are endeavoring *to secure reciprocity in the medical profession in
Canada.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-ThýVat does not
I wish to get inanswer the question.
formation lu regard to paragrapli (b) of
hon. friend wlill observe
M1%y
clause 21.
upon looking- at that clause that it makes
provision that the student or the applicant
may pass un examinution before n provincial board for a commission as n Dominion
Land Surveyor.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think it ls very
A surveyor holding a
simple and plain.
diploma from a proviuce. appiles to the
They may or muy not pasç
board here.
lu any case, tbey examine hlm ono
blm.
particular subjecta, but it resta entirely
Necessnrily, tbYe
wltb their discretion.
Hou. Mr. ISCOTT-Ob, no, nothing of the
standard lu the different provinces muai kind.
There is no doubt about thut.
be differeut.
Honi. M.\r. LOUGHEED-Perrnit me to
The experience of boards substantuteE
fact. and lt reats entirely with th( read it.
tbat
Dominion board to say

they shail examine.

on what subject,

At one time the3

ivere rathpr loose about it. and
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

they s.ai

Hon.

Mr. SCOTT-Read 21, an1d

take lu (b).

thenT

FEBRUAIIY Il.

.Hon. Mr. LOUG'HFED-Tbe clause states
that every person wbo becomes qualified. to
survey lands la aur province lu Canada,
and wbo is still so qualifled, and wlio, lu
order to become so qualified, bias passed
an examlnation before the board of examiners of the province for which lie la
quaified ln the subjecta prescribed by this
Act for the exainination of candidates for
admission as articled pupila and for commissions as Domin ion Land Surveyors.
And It provides that lie shall be eutîtled
to obtaln a commission as Dominion Land
Surveyor wlthout furtber uotioe aud without being subjeted to any examination
other Vian withi respect to the system of
Then thie Dosurvey of Dominion lands.
miluion board interi-enes. and may revlew
the examination whiclh that applicant lad
passed for a position as a Dominion Land
Surveyor. Whýry sbould that be doue ? It
The
seems to me a cumb "ersome systeni.
wenkness lu it la, tînt after passlng an examination wbich la conteinplated to le
equivalent to that provided by the goverutuent as provided Iu this Act-they may
set nt nauglit the fanding ot the provincial
board ; but wliy ahould the Dominion board
not say to .tlie provincial board, 'Yoii shahl
examine your pupila lu sucli-and-sucb a
ivay, and yonr certIficate sball authorIze
the Provincial Land Surveyor to aurvey
Dominion lands.
Hou. Mr. KERR-Tley lave no authorlty to do It, and you cannot compel theem
to do 1t.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEE'D-We
gate It to them.

can dele-

Hou. Mr. EERR-No, we caunot. Tlie province sall aay what la to be the qualification. The next point talzen is about tli-Interference with the provincial land surveyiors' statua. 1 tliink it la a great reflection upon those wlio passed Into the
profession and carried It on for a nu.mber
of years, lu a way whicli lias been so creditable, lu ail tlie years passed, that there
sliouid new be nu effort made appareutly
by a central body to take unto themselves
the coutrol and to practlcally abohiali the
provincial bo*ard altogether. I tbink that
la wliat la leing attempted liere. and tInt
it is an entire mistake. The result would
be, tînt the board can be. not only not

1908

sntisfled withi the examnination, altliongl it
may have beeu on the saine subject, and on
a higlier standard than their own, and althougli it may liave leen pnssed moat satisfactorily by the men wlo stood hîgli lu tlie
examination, yet Vie Dominion board may
not be satisfied, and may under tlie subsection to his Act require Viem to pasa througli
n new exainination. It seemas to me Viat
la putting a man wlho, occupies a promitient lioition le the profession lu au lnvidious position, and Viat. It la entirely contrary, s0 far as our own province la concertied, to the spirit which prevais lu tlie
province of acceptlng lu one province Vie
standard of examination preacribed lu anoVier. 1 p>ropose, following up Vie observations of the hion, gentleman froni De Lanaudière, to imove an ameudment to Vis
section.
A man who lias gone Virougli a reguiar
service as n articied pupîl, shall have
served a terni under articles to a surveyor,
shall have î,assed examinations by the
board of the province for whlch he la 80
quallfied, saln have practiced Viere for a
terni of years, upon Viat beiug doue shall
be eutitled to obtain commission witliout
auy further examination at ail, except ou
Vie speciai lnw which appiies with respect
to Vie systeni of Dominion survey to le
adopted. That wouid lie as to Vie manual
and the iaw of Vie Dominion wlidl regiulates Vie survey.
Hou. Mr. SULLIVAN-That kills the
whoie Bill. You miglit as well Virow It ont
altogether.
Hon. Mr. KERR-Not at ail.
Hon. Mr. SULLI VAN-No -matter liow
Ignorant a man mlglit be, If lie le passed
by a Board lu anoVier province.
Hon. MEMBERS-Order, order, order.
Hlou. Mr. KERR-I may ha ail wrong
lu the eyea of the lion. senator, but 1 do
not propose for Vint reason to refrain froi
making a few remarks Vint I wlsli to offer.
I aay Viat we lave, as a matter of fact,
a board lu Vie province of Ontario and I
believe lu Vie province of Quebec and other
provinces as wneU, wlth a higher standard
of examination ian Vie Dominion lias bee;i
hiaviug lu the past. Where Vint Is so. it is

ý280

SENATE

an indignity to a man to say that after leý Department, that a good deal of trouble
bas beeii practicing for years, baving passed bas been experienced ia the past witb sursucb an examnination, baving attained to veyors baving inferior qualifications wbio got
sucb a standing In bis profession, that he in a good inany years ago, I suppose beshould be obliged to corne down bere and fore 1872, and the objeet of the arnendgo tbrougb sucb supplementary examina- meut is, apparently, to, bring back that old
tions as tbis Board rnay prescribe, or other- condition of tblngs and let in more Inferior
ivise be practically shut off from bis ern- mnen. 1 do flot think that that affould be
ployrnent as a surveyor of Dominion lands. the pollcy of this House. The bon. leader
1 move to strike ont o! subsection (a), the of the opposition appears to dread
words 'similar to the terias prescribed by that men flot quallfied may get In. I
tbis Act,' and strîke out ail after the word thln], that Is- amply guarded against by
quallfied' and lnsert the following: 'And the second subsection of the clause, whblb
las practiced ns sncb surveyor for more provides that If, In the opinion of the
than ten years.' I wonld also strîke out Board, the service of anyone applylng for
the otlher discretion that is left wlth the a commission is flot equivalent to, that reBoard. I would strike out ail after Doin- quired by this Bill; and if the qualifications
4called for Ia the provincial examination are
inion lands in subsection 2.
niot sufficlently similar to those prescribed
Hon. Mr. POWER-1 have listened witb by this Bill, the Board may require a cana good deal of pleasure to the discussion didate to complete a furtber terni of seras far as it bas progressed, and I find my- vice, &c. Tbat Is a reasonable proposition.
self uuable to agree with the bon. gentleman It covers the ground, and Inasmucli as tbe
from Torontto. As 1 take It, the important question of provincial land surveyors bas
thing is that tbe officers engaged lu tbe been considered by the officers o! the desurvey of Dominion lands sball be men partment very carefully, the House should
thoroughly well qualified for their work-. not -wlthout very great consideration alter
We are to protect tbe lnterests of the peo- this clause.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I arn afraid I
bu
ar-e oprt-lrycncr
so n
the arevncia atiurleyonrne aou did not make myseif quite clear In the
of tbis clause. 1 quite appreclate
the lad suveyrs.criticism
rovncia
Now the bon. gentleman's ameudment the principle laid down by the bon. senaproposes to strike out aIl the words after tor from Toronto, as to non-interference
'surveyor,' in paragrapb (a), so tbat If the witb provincial land surveyors and tbe preprovincial law required only two years, sumed cornpetency o! those men to survey
service, that surveyor could corne In and Dominion lunds; but the explanation I asIc
get a license under this clause If It be- for ls this :this provision contemplates that
came law. That seems to me objection- a provincial board of examiners isball reable. At least three years sbould be ceive and examine pupils for land surrequired of all candidates. Tben the veyors--at least that tbey shahl require a
hon. gentlernan's ameadment proposes tbat service sncb as is prescrlbed by this Bill
tbe surveyor bas only to pass an examina- and an examination on aI1 sfiibjects as prestion before the Board of Examiners for the cribed by this Bill. Having placed that
provnwe for whicli hie is so qualified. He confidence in the provincial board, and deleleaves out aIl tbat portion of that para- gated to, tbem autbority sncb as is presgrapli wbicb siys 'lun the subjects prescribed cribed here, autbority is then given to tbe
by this Act for the examination of candi- Dominion Board to, again inquire whetber
dates for admisision as articled pupls anîd tbe provincial board bas required the serfor commissions as Dominion land sur- vice and the examination In subjects se
veyors. So you can see tbat wbile lu sorne prescribed. After tbis provincial board
of the provinces the requirementd for lantl Issues tbe commission, the Dominion Board
surveyors are not nearly as rig-ourons as of Examiners rnay revlew the commission
in others, 3-et you let aIl these rnen iu. We issued by the provincial board. Wby sbould
bave had from the bon. Secretary of State tbat be done? if yon give autbority to a
tbe etatement of the bead of the Survey provincial board to issue sncb a commisHlon. Mr. KRRLI.

FEBRUAIIY 11. 1908

281

going further examination, get a diploin
for the Dominion. This clause, as Inteligently as possible, mnakes provision for that
change. It attaches some weigbt t<>,.thie
provincial diploma, but not weight enough
to authorize that board to issue a DomWaon dipioma.. _It la just a step towards
advancement to a Dominion land surveyor
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEE D-My bon. friend that is provided for.,
wiii find that thls Bill empowers a provinHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The review by
cial board to Issue a commission as a Domtnion land surveyor. They cesse to be a the Dominion Board is limited. They canprovincial board, queo ad this examination- net exercise their discretion except witbiu
tbey become practically a subsidiary board given bounds. Tbey can review the term
This parliament of service under paragrapil (a); tbey canof Dominion examiners.
can delegate to a provincial board of axa- neot exercise any f urtber discretion. Their
irerr authority to act as their Instru- discretion under -paragraph (b), la limited
ment, to examine candidates and Issue com- to the number of subjects prescribed by the
mi'akenu. for land surveyors. They are not Act. Consequentiy, *bat advantage le te
acting jin their capacity as a provincial be gained by this subsequent inquiry by
the Dominion Board wbich bas no power
board.
except to inquire into these two matters ?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Ron. Mr. SCOTT-They can say you
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-That îs the
muet study further.
of tlxat section.
meaning
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-No.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The hon. gentleman 1s
ta bie
antireiy wrong In bis premises, and
Hon. Mfr. SOOTT-Subclause 2 provides,
deductions.
that the Board niay In Its discretion require
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHIDED-I submit tbat a candidate to.complete a furtiler term of
any lion, gentleman looking over clause 21 service, and may examine him iii sucb
subjects as are prescrIbed by the Act as
'wili place til construction on IL.
may be necessary.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-There are two classea
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Tbe further term
of surveyors ta Canada: provincial and
Dominion. If a young man wants to ba- of rservice is three years, as provided iu
come a surveyor, be bas the choica o! one clause 16; so the provincial board would
or the other. The Act fIrst provides for not Issue a commission to anyone wbo had'
thosa who want to become Dominion land nlot served three years.
surveyorn but it would be dafective If It
Hon. Mfr. ROSS (Middlesex)-My- bou.
did nlot create some channel tbrougb wbich
friand from Toronto le going rather far In
a provincial land surveyor migbt get out
I think it Is rather too,
amendmanta diploma for the Dominion. Clause 21 bis
sweeping. There is an intermediate course
that channel. A provincial land
provides
which tris House migbt fairly take In
surveyor may pass a certain further exsattiing thls matter. .There are two exaget a commission as a Domamination and
minations bere to be conhidered. First the
inion land surveyor.
examination by tbe provinces, and second,
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Tbe Board of tbe subsequent examination which may be
Commissioners is referred to lu paragrapli conducted by the Dominion Board. If the
(b), of clause 21.
exarmination. by the provincial board le nlot
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-It quite piainly states satisfactory, the Dominion Board mnay rethe board o! tha province may Issue a di- view that examination both as to the term
ploma, but tbere ia no obligation at ail. of service and the subjects prescribed. lu
The Act wouid be defective If it did not order to present my view clearly, let me
make provision tbat If a man holds a submit a case soinewbat similar In regard
diploma for a province lie may. by under- to the Educational Department of Ontario.

sion, sureiy you can repose sufficient confidence in tbem to say that that commission has been properly Issued, 'when you
specify the terms on whicb it shall be
granted.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The provincial board
can only grant a provincial license.

SENATE
Under the ruie of that department, by inion lands lie shiould be qualified to i)as
whicbi teachers for bigli schools were qua- aay standard they may require. Now we
Iified, the Educational Departmient exacted corne to tbe second subsection, which says
no examination as to, the qualification of that if lu the opinion of the Board the sergraduates of any nniverslty la Ontario, pro- vice is flot equivalent to that required for
vided the candidate for qualification as a1 Dominion land surveyors, or the subjects
blgh school teacher was examined ln hkt of the examiuation are flot sufficiently
,own nniversity on the subjects prescrlbed similar to, those prescribed by the Act as~
by tbe departmient. He accepted the re- qualification of n Dominion land snrveyor,
to
-ports of nny examiners of n nniverslty the Board may require the candidate.
was a certificate fromn the complete suncb terni of service. anl iay
provided there
unlversity that 'Mr. A. B. had passed ia examine hlmi on sncbi of the subjects presthe subjects requîred by the departmnent, cribed by the Act as 'appear necessary.
as qualifying hlmn for a position in a blgh These ternis are so wvide that -%'e moy
school. NVe extended that provision to gra- simply say, here is Brown wbo lias passed
duates of universities la other provinces bis examination, wvho lias served the tîme
and graduates of universities in the United and bas passed on the subjects we pres1Ulngdom. We did not say we wlll takze crlbed; but ln our opinion lie is not qua_Tonr certificate pr~o tanto; we did not say lified. The latitude given in this second
whetlier you attended a university one, two. subelause, enables the Dominion Board to
tbree or four years, or If you pnssed ail reject anybody. There is no test provided;
the snbjects reqnired by the university; but they simply say that in their opinion the
isimply required n certificate fromn the au- candidate is not qualified, thougli lie bas
thorities of the university that the candi- passed the prescribed examination before
dates bad passed la ail the subjects pres- the provincial board. 1 think it is a recribed by the Department of Education. Is fiection uponi the provincial board of exanot sometbing of the kind practîcable W miners. Supposing we of the Eudcational
is case ? I would nccept the flrst pro- Department of Toronto took the candidates
vision of the clause, where we say a man frorn the Toronto University, and said tic
T
must bave served a certain terni of years, McGill graduates, ' M e do not think your
under articles, w-jtit n surveyor. 1 would examination standards are as 1iigl as they
flot accept one year or two years service. ought to be,* we mnight reject candidates
Secondly, 1 would accept paragraph (di. from McGill and la that wvay refiect ou
ivbich requires a candidate to bave passed the bonafides of NMcGjll. We would not do
examinations before the provincial board so, and neyer have done so. Wliy should
of examîners la the subjects prescrlbed by the Dominion Board of Surveyors extend
the Act for the examination of candidatesý eqnal confidence to, candidates fromu the
for admission as artlcled pupils and for varions provinces, unless in the past it lias
commission as Dominion land snrveyore. been sbown that the examinations bave flot
Notice the power the Dominion Board bas. been sufficient? 1 object to subsection 2.
t bias the power to, prescribe the subjects
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-lt is obligatory
of examination. AIl that is necessary now tbat the standard shall be the saine under
Is to have a certificate that Mr. A. B. bas paragraplis (a) and (b).
passed on these snhjects, and yon havip
Hon. Mr. ROSS (M-\iddlesex)-It would
confidence that the examiners have done.
their duty. T[len I say if you have servedl seem to be so, but in subclause 2 yon open
the three years. ý%vithout being snbjected the door and permit tbiern to say that they
to aay other examination than that pres- are flot sufficieatly similar. The Dominion
cribed under the Act, yon should get your board may throw ont the standards of the
A provincial board lias no different provinces, even thongli tbey are
commission.
riglit or power to prescribe a course of exa- higlier than the Dominion standard. They
mination. No matter wbat examination may sit down and, by a finical application
a man inight pass before a provincial board, of a certain principle, dismiss the wliole
I bave Iîad a long- experithe central board here wonld have the exainination.
riglit to say that if hoe w-as to survcy Doni- ence of examiners and know lîow finical
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

FEBIRUARY 11. 1908
they are-I was lu tact going to .applY
That
the term cranks-as examinera.
might be applied to a great rnajority of
This House might repose sufficlent
thein.
confidence Iu the provincial board of examiners under the restrictions proposed la
subciause 1, sud accept their exarninations.
1 would nlot object to the proposai made
by the hon. senator from Toronto, and say
that they should serve a term of five or ten
years, provided they give proof that they
have renlly served tbe terra, and nlot merely held their certificates In their pockets,
and let the Urne expire and then apply
If there was evidence of thieir serhere.
vice, and if It was bona, fide, I would go
se far as to accept the certificates of the
It ls a
varlous provinces la this regard.
You have slmply
matter of confidence.
to say whetber you bave more confidence
lu s board o! examiners directly iinder the
control of the Dominion governeat than
you have In tbe boards o! the provinces,
after you have prescribed your conditions.
They may prescribe a higher standard ln
the provinces, and the provincial exaininers will be obliged to conform to the stanThey may Impose
dards under this Act
conditions whlch would not be unreasonable, but whicb wouid so guard against the
admission o! Incompetent men that we
miglit safely assume that a candidate froni
one e! the provinces 'who had passed the
provincial examination was just as good, as
one who bad passed thé Dominion examination. In the issuing o! certificates to
teachers In Ontario, we accepted the certificates o! New Brunswick and Nova
Scotia for certain grades, knowing the
'We might
standards In those provinces.
not do that wlth grad-uates from Alberta
or Saskatchewan, nlot knowiag their stanIt le a matter o! Inter-provincial
dards.
reciprocity, and I thiak the Senate sbould
show confidence ln thîs matter under due
menlts and bounds, and let us show that
we are one Dominion and not cut Up into
sections la this respect as we are la the
Let us
matter o! physiclans and lawyers.
accept the exarninations o! these provincial
examinera under the restrictions we provide, just as we açcept the Acts of provincial legisiatures so long as they conduct
their legisiation withln the bounds o! the
We could very well afford
constitution.
te arnend subclause 1, by fixing a longer

283

terrn o! service and drop subclause 2 altogether.
Hon. Mr. POWER-My hion. friend's
arnetdment would put the provincial land
surveyors in a worse position than at
present.
Hon. Mr. ROSS--The committee knows
my Idea.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The law bas been
fouud to work pretty weli for years, and
It seems idle to attempt to maire a change
8orne hion.
whicb would only cloud it.
1 find
gentlemen talk about reciprocity.
that i the oid Act of 1886, reciprocity was
provlded for ; but I arn advised by a gentleman who knows the fact, that the provinces declined to reciprocate and that a
Dominion land surveyor bas no standing
The Revised
whatever lnan province.
Statutes of 188 provided practicaliy the
same as this, but it provlded that If it
should be shown that any province granted
the privilege, it would be reciprocated.
Tuat le section 109 o! the Revised Statutes
Now. the provinces deciined to
of 1886.
do that, and s0 thait part of the section
Under the circuatances,
was strnck out.
we bad better leave It alone.
-Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-It does not seern
to be a matter of qualification. Is it because provincial land surveyors do not
want te reciprocate that we propose to
punish them by -net taklng tbem la?
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Yes we do, a!ter examiiiatioa.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-After examinaIt le very difficuit for a man
tien only.
of forty or fi! ty to paso an examination.
if
I think the arndment is only f air.
after a period of ten years service a provincial land surveyor applies, he should be
aliowed to corne np bere and become a
Dominion land surveyor.
Hon. Mr. BERNIBR-We are losing
It is an
siglit of the object of the Bill.
Act respectiiig surveys of the public lands
It seeme oaly proper
of the Dominion.
that the Dominion should have a say about
the surveyiag o! Its lands. iReferring to
the amendment, It. seemas te me it -would
mena this-to place the control Ia the
hands 0f the provincial governments and

SENATIE
Hon. Mr. KERR-There is a littie nusunderstanding: as to what my amenaient
is. 1 propose to amead paragraph (a), by
Hon. M.ýr. LANDBY-As tie law stands adding to it these words, 'And bas practo-day, mnany of our provincial surveyors ticed as sucb surveyor for ten years.'
bave no chance at ail to corne here.
Hon. Mr. BOSS-I Viink that would lie
Hon. Mr. SOIOTT-They have ail the, a very fatal objection to the amendment.
chances they wish.
Look at subsection (b). My hbon. friend
LANDRY- No, no chance nt wili notice what I was going to say. Suli
Hon. Mfr.
ail.
You taire a surveyor in the pro- clause reada: ' Passed examinations before
vince of Quebec, lie Is nlot permitted to the board or examiners o! Vie province for,
1 do flot think
corne liere as the Board le now consti- which hie le so.quallfied.'
this House should takre Vie certificate of a
tuted, to answer the questions ln French.
If lie tries hie will be biocked.
I ain province without prescribing Vie subjecta
speaking of faets that I know. Under on wiicb candidates shahl be examined. I
the law as It stands, a provincial surveyor' thlnk we sbould insist upon tbat. That
ln order to become a Dominion land sur- must remaîn In. Let us maintain a higli
it sliould not
veyor, must comply with certain condi- standard of examination.
lie lowered one Iota, and I would lnsist
tions, one of which is that lie has been exammcnd by the provincial board. It provides that Vint clause stand precisply as It Is,
%vliat klnd of examination-an examination and clause (a) also; but Viero miglit bie
which ,nay serve tie purposes of this law. added a subsection to rend as foilows :
surveyor in
And has practised
It Is only the face of the examtnation that his province or any as a land
other province, for a
is changed; the qualifications are the sme. period of feu years.
Then it would satis! y me, and I think It
Hou. M~r. BEBNIER-Seeing that the
object of the Bill Is to provîde for Ihe sur- would aise satIsfy other hon, gentlemen.
Hon. Mr. KERBR-If you leave ln the
veylng of Dominion lands, does not tbe
bon, gentleman tiiink tliat Vie Dominion Bill Vie provision therein respecting exgovernmeat miglit preclude eatirely the ad- aminations it wiii not meet Vie existing
state of affaira to make It rend, 'who
mission of provincial land surveyors ?
have practiced for ten years,' because
Hon. Mfr. POWER-I have expressed none of Viose suiveyors have passed
myseif as satisfied witb Vie clause as It lu; the précise examination Vint is uow presbut If it is to be amended, In my opinion, cribed. Tliey have passod a higlier and
the change suggested by Vie hion. senator better one. The Ontario surveyors assert
froui Middlesex, is very mucli botter Vian tliat very strongly, and, Vierefore, If they
the hon, gentleman froru have passed that examination, and had
Vie amendînent -%f
Toronto.
been admltted to practice there, i ou have
Hon. Mfr. ROSS--I did nlot put It in the their certilicate that tbey have piassed a
formi of an amenament; but my proposi- superlor examination to that of the' Domntion Is to strike out subclause 2 altogether iniion Board, and you do not reqîlire to hiavaand lenve the'other as it Is, but adding to the subsequent words In Vint section that
These
It another paragrapli (c), requiring a period It je to lie on Vie samne subjeets.
of service for say about ten years. I do words would nullify any idea of gîving
the privilege to provincial land surveyors
not Viinl. ten years 15 unreasonable.
'wlth bigli standards wiViout reqniring Viem
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-But Viat woul<1 te go through Vie examination mentioned
be more difficult to carry ont Vian the pro- In subsection 2. You are proposIng to
posai as it stands, because now Vie sur- strike ont subsection 2, and If you are not
veyor does not require to serve more Vian provldlng mnchinery by which tbey eau
tiîree years to qualify for Vie Dominion.
get ln, no provincial land surveyor would
Hon. «M\r. ROSS-Ho 'would bave the op- bo admitted to practice.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-If my lion. fi-iead
tion of servlng tbroe years. or slïowing that
fromn Middlesex, would eliminate the last
ho bad ten years practîco.
Hlon. Mfr BERNIER.
leave the Dominion board subject to the
directions of the provincial board.

FIEBIRIJARY 11, 1908
proposition lie made, and simply provide
that a certificate should be made by the
provincial board as to the provincial surveyor having complied with paragrapli (a)
and (b), It would meet the requirements
of the case. The lion. gentleman from
Toronto mlsapprebends wliat the section Is.
Another substantive section miglit lie lnserted, provlding for the admission of provincial land surveyors wltliout examination;
but it muet flot be forgotten that the fundamental principle of the section is that
the surveyors sÉall ha qualifled ln al the
studies pertainlng to the survey of Dominion lands. Wliat I cannot understand,
and 'wlat 1 amn endeavouring to criticise

285

tion required by the Dominion Board is ail
that be is examined upon.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tlie committae
muet not overlook this fact: that the provincial, board can oaiy lie set ia motion by
examnnng the pupl 'upon ail the subjects
prescrlbed by this Act, and upon their ascertalnlng that lie lias put ln the service
requlred by this Act. The provincial board
la Ilmited to tilat extant. Tbey caunot conaider the application of a man for a comnmission as a Dominion land surveyor, unless tliat term lias been served, and unless
au exaînînation bas been passed upon ail
the subjects.

livn ealedtecnddtVa
oi
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think if the lion.
servicgea pesred
thnidatea
ct
bis gentleman looks at the beginning of clause
tortieesasjectseof examinationAcr, crdbes 21 te will see the point which apparently
by theisubÂct and bain
lssu
to hlm bis
d
li as not seen yet. I -refer to subclauses
comisn
tht,
ail
hat shud agaîn bes (a) and (b). He simply gets bis provincial
oevissidon, the Dominion Board. Thais
license as a land surveyor by passlng axreviwedby
te Dminin-Bard.Tha eaininations similar to tbose whlch this Act
what 1 object to. Wbat 1 say is that prescribes for Dominion land snrveyors.
upon tbe" provincial board liaving lssued Tben he is antitlad to obtain a commission
their cartificate that the strident lias servedas
oiinlad4]eo.
ht
h
the necessary time, tbree yeara, and paased la as
Doino
stand
surveoyr That ther
an axamination ln the subjacts prescrlbed, of Lasd standsnowvne tha it t BoxI
that therefore lie sliould go on and prac- fander
Surefors bave th srice aonex
tice bis profession wlthout firat being jo
ainte subrect fl aintion Therie aon.
c
pardlzed through the action of the Dominion gntletman fubat Torft
exmnati.e
ion.ro
Boad. hatwil te rquiemets.vide tbat an Ontario land surveyor who
met
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I thlk the hon. bas complled wlth the provisions contalned
gentleman Is la error in tbat respect. The lan thîs Bill, shall also serve ten yeara la
The hou.
Dominion Board ahlows him for everything the province as a land surveyor.
lie bas alraady passed ou, that le ln their gentleman's ameudment adds that to the
course. Ail that lie lias to pass the axa- present clause, and It means that the Onmînation upon are tbe very few or aliglit tario land survayor la shut ont'from going
additions whlch tbey requlra for their own to practice la the Nortliwest for ten years.
The object ls that
purposes ragardlng Dominion lands, and If That le flot our object.
thara la anythlng Improper about that, I If the Ontario land survayor passes Sîdcl
cannot see it. Tliese motions, It appearq examInations as show lie la quallfied, and
to me, would lead to allowing in a lot of serves the three years apprantlceshlp,
I can see
men who are flot capable, or who are afrald lie shahl le allowed to practice.
to pasa the examination. No man who the point of the ameadmeut proposed by
desirea to do wbat la riglit and juat wouild the lion. gentleman from Middlesex, to
hesîtata a moment. Wliat the Dominion strike out tbe aubsection, because that la,
Board would require from a provincial sur- apparenthy, a work of supererogation. Tlie
vayor would be a trifling matter aud un Dominion boaral can exercisa thair diacreone should hesitate. I tbink the bon. gentle- tion under paragrapli b of the first subsacman from Calgary is ln error lu asserting, tion, and the same way wlth the anhjects
that the man who bas been extimined by of the examination. Paragrapli (b) of the
the provincial board doas not lose one jot firat subsectioD says that the subjects of
of wbiat lie lias been examlnad tupon. He examination shah1 lie the same as those for
recelvas that pro tanto, and thien the nddl- the Dominion board; and the other one.

SENATE
flot held provincial certificates for ten years,
and I think wîth this explanation of the
iatter, my hou. frlend from Middlesex wll
a9gree with me that sfrlklng ouf subsection
2 and amendîng subsection i In the way 1
have polnted ouf wlll meet the case precisely, and those who differ have no reason
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This is a inatter af- f0 find fault twith those who fhink that proIt Is entlrely a vincial surveyors of ten years' standing
fecfing Dominion lands.
concession f0 nllow provincial land survey- should be protected.
ors to come ina nd< make those surveys.
Hon. 3.fr. SCOTT-Whaf does the hion.
Tbey ought oilly to corne in surely under
reof the gentleman say f0 the province which
such regulations as the Departrnent
fuses te nccept the best educated and mosf
Interior thlnk are reasonable and proper.
proficient surveyors In any province ?
Thiq_ élause bas been drawn with very
It is the law, as it stood for
great care.
Hon. Sir RICHARD (CARTWRIGHTthe last twenty years, and it bas been pre- You are golag f0 Impose them on the Dopnred by the Departrnent of Justice. It Is minion.
If seems monstrous.
the proposai of the Inferior Department
Hon. Mr. KERR-I say my argument
of the terms on whlch they will allow
provinciail land surveyors to corne la. The bas fen Urnes the force If bad before the
departrnent wonld rather strike that out lion. gentleman made the stafement, bethan have any change made In the law, cause bis explanation would indicate that
for the reason that the board liad been those who have control of this matter, the
acting under the law for a great many Dominion land surveyors, desire to put a
They feel that any change made pressure upon these menyears.
In n bansty manner, such as might be made
Hon. 3Mr. SCQTT-Nofhing of the klnd.
at this table, will only lead f0 confusion.
1 bope the flouse will allow it to go as It
KERR-What other construcHon. «MNr.
Is.
tion can be put upon If ?
(b> of sublsectioil 2, sirnply repeats
the gif t of this power to the -Dominion
board. AlthoUg-ý 1 should leave the clause
as it is, I should flot have any strong Objection to the amendment suggested by the
bon. gentleman from .Middlesex.

1 ,aragzraph

Hon. '-%r. KERR-It seemis to me that it
Is puffing If n littie strongly f0 speak of
We know -%hat the dethe departmnent.
It must be the Dopartment must be.
minion Board of Land Surveyôrs, and fhey
propose to get into their own hands and confr01 the right f0 say who are f0 be Dominion
1 say that with ail reland survey ors.
spect to the gentlemen who comprise that
body, but I say it is a reflection upon the
members of the profession who hold provincil certificates that fhey should be
barred unless they subject thernselves to
an examination. because, forsooth, fhey
may have passed a better examînation, one
of a higher standard. although one book in
thaf course may be different frorn the
course prescrlbed for Dominion land surNotwithstanding this fact, if the
veyors.
Bill chooses f0 require if, they have f0 corne
down and pass an examination affer fhey
have been practicing their profession for
1 propose f0 move
fen or fifteen years.
te arnend that, by providlng that if shall
only be applied f0 cases of men who have
Flon. Mr. POWERl.

Hon. 3fr. SC(OTT-They have refused aireaidy..

non. 'Mr. KERR-And now fhey refuse
t ecorne in unless tupon terrns.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I suggesf that
wve allow this motion f0 stand.
lion. Mr. SCOTT-I wilI nof allow If tO
stand.
The amendinent was declared 10sf on a
division.
The clause was adopfed.
Hou. 'fr. CASGItAIN-I understood the
Secretary of Staf e te say the governmenf
-wvould agree f0 drop clause 22.
Hon. MNr. SCOTT--Oh, yes.
Hon. 3fNr. ELLIS from the cormîftee reprted that they had rnade some progress
,with the Bill, and asked leave f0 sit again
to-io rro w.

FEBRITARY 11. 1908

SUPPLY BIii,.
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD REA4DINGS.
A message was received from the House
of Commons with Bill (94) An Act for
granting to His Majesty certain anms of
money for the public service for the financial year ending 3lst «,Narch, 1908.

287

takes some little time to make the purchases.
As far as the seed wheat la concerned, the Proposai la to buy as much as
possible In the Northwest. 1 am advised
that the eeed oas cannot be obtained up
there, and It wll have to be purchased In
Ontario and outalde.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wihl

the hbon.

lon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill gentleman say what Is requlred as to the
be rend the first time.
distribution among the homesteaders of the
He said :This Bill ls to authorize the grain that may be purchased, and also,
granting of a sum of nioney to be dIvided whethem the advances made~ to the provinces

as follows :$585,000 to be dlstrlbuted
to a class of settlers in the provinces
of Alberta and Saskatchewan who loat
their crops lat year, and who have no
seed grain ; to authorize those on homestend lands to receive a proportion of the
seed grain tbat la Intended to appiy ; the
suni of $440.000 to be advanced to the goverument of Alberta by way of Joan for the
purchase of seed grain for settlers I that
province and a sum of $1,825,000 to beé
advanced to the government of.Saskatchewan by way of loan for the same purpose.
The Dominion government assume the responslbllty of the advance to the homesteaders, because their patents have not yet
lssued and the amount of the ndvance will
*be a firat charge upon thue land before the
patent can be obtalned. The moneys advanced to the provinces are a loan to the
provinces' to be repald by them, and thev
take the security from the settiers withln
their respective districts.
It ls Important,
as the season Is advanclng, that no time
should be lost in maklng the purchase of
the several grais, chlefly wheat.
It Includes also oats and a proportion of barley
It is Important the Bill shoubd go through
at once, and 1 hope the House wili have
no objection to suspend the mIles.
Hon. '.%I. DeBROUCHERVILL-I understand the hon, gentleman to say It la Important It should go thmough lmmediately.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mr. DeBOUCHERVILLE-What Is
the urgency of it ?
Hon. Mm. SCOTT-The grain cannot be
purchased till the money is voted ;not
even options can be taken. and the spring
Is rapidly approaching, and, of course, It

are subject to fixed regulations as to distribution ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The regulations
pminted and are laid upon the table.

are

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It ha
flot been circulated.
Holi. Mr. SCOTT-No.
lionk. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It has
beeti based upon tbie resolutions which have'
beeu passed by the House of Commons.

lon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It isallowlng the provinces 0f Saskatchewan
and Alberta to become meaponsible for the
amount advanced or loaned to them ?
Hou.
Yes.

Sir

RICHARD

CARTWRIGHT-

Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
interest do tbey pay ?
Hon. Sir RICHARD
Five per cent.

CARTWRIGHT-

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-And
the governmient assumes the responsibllity
of the distribution of the seed grain to,
thLe homesteaders who have flot yet secuured their patent. At what rate is that
Joan to them, and at what perlod la it to
be pald back ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The rate will be five
per cent.
lon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-For
l)oth, for the homesteaders as well as the
provinces ?

SENATE
Hion. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, I uaderstand it
is five per cent.
Hon. '.%r. YOUNG-It is five Per cent.

LOUGHEED-When does the
lion. 7.%W.
hon. gentleman propose to go into coinmittee ?

Hon. Mr. SCOT~T-The feeling among the
meînbers. and those who are nnxious te
facilitate matters, la that we should put
the Bill through to-day, and perbaps toHon. Mr. SCOTT-It is made by the
morrew Hi Excellency will corne down
chairman of the the Seeds Commission.
and assent te it.
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I understand the
I may sny that the grain wiil be purchased
hon, gentleman te say that the 'wheat caui
by Mr. Cassels, grain commissioner.
be procured la the Northwest ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-How
Hon. Mfr. SCOTI-Yes.
long It is to be leaned to the bomesteaders?
Io fi only one year?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-And the onts are
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-It is believed that the to be ebtained la Ontario.
money can be repaid witbin a year, asHon. Sir RICH1ARD CARTWRIGHT-suming tbat crops are as good ns they
Net necessarly; but 1 may remark that It
were iast year. In regard to the home- is considered a matter of great importance
steader, it ndds se much to the cost of bis by those concerned that the oats sbould be
land.
obtaîaed la as dlean a condition as posHon. Mr. MeMILLAN-W>o makes the
purchases ?

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Can
the lion. gentleman tell me whether the
moneys whichi were advanced some years
ago for a similar purpose have ail been
refunded ?
*Hon. Mr. SCO.TT-I tbink about $20,000
of it stili remains unpaid. 1 amn spenking
fromn memery. The hiet time I iooked over
lt, 1 thought tiiere was about $20,000.

sible, and free frem noxious weeds, and se
forth. It may be necessary or rnay be considered desirabie te purchase a quantity of
these enta la England for that very Teaeon.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-In that connectien I wanted te point eut te the members
of the gevernment la this House that I
think seed oats ceubd be procured la Prince
Edward Island.

Hon. 3fr. LOUGHEED-My bon. friend
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTwas about to mnake an expianation as to We considered that, but we considered the
the manner of distribution. I should like description of oats grown there, although
to get an expianation on that point.
of excellent quabity, are net the same as
Yours
these required in the Northwest.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- are dark.
It will be done chieffy through the Detheir
partment of the Interior, througli
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-No, whiteýoats are
office as 1 uuderstand. The Departmnent of grown quite ns largely as black oats are
the Interior will take charge of the matter, la Prince Edward Island.
I have been
as' far as may be nt the request, 1 belleve. making some inquiries recently, and I know
of the goveraments of Alberta and Saskcat- there was an excellent qualty ef onts last
cbewan, who, aevertheless, are re-,ponsible year, and ents are selling comparativeby
for the loan.
cheap, and I do net think there Is any
continent ef America where
Hon. 'Mr. YOUNG-The method of distri- place on the
enta are grown se piump, and of so good a
bution is to be found in the correspondence
quabity.
brou.-ht down to the House.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-,Coubd von quote us
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What dees my
hon. f riend ask for this afternoon ? The the price7
second reading.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The market price
is 38S cents a busiiel at present ;but oats
Hon. M-Nr.
SCOTT-Yes.
Hlon. Sir IACKEN-,ZIE BOWELL.

FEBRUARY 11, 1908
s teader wbo has not yet 'obtained bis
The provincial government wiil
ratent ?
u)
ee tMat the bomesteader' who bas obtained
s
Tliey are borrowhis patent is secured.
ng mnaey to give to, that ciass of people.
~othat in one case the Dominion goveralion. Mr. YOUNG-Does muy bon. friend neat wiii take care where the patent la
iot lssued, that tbey wIIi be secured on
speak of irbite oats ?r
lie bomestead, and the provincial governHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes, pienty of neat wll provide the necessary machinery
thein.
ind legisiation to protect theinselves.
Hon. Sir RICHIARD CARTWRIG.HTiHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-1 perfectly u1 wili cail Vie attention of Vie Departmnelt
derstand that: but it seems to me that this
of the Interior, wbo are specialiy charged goveriient sbouid bave reserved to itseif
with tis matter, to Vie suggestion of the sonie autbority to intervene or to superI should say tbat if we
bon. gentleman.
vise the application of tbat money lu the
could obtain tbemn of a proper quality and purchase îand distribution of seed grain,
description in Prince Edward Island ire instead of biaading it over absoiuteiy tu
sbouid. be very glad to du so.
the provinces and permitting thei to exerThe Bill was read the first turne.
cise their own discretion.

such as wouid be required
pose would bave to be ireil
clean, muc.h more so than for
merce, and I do not imagine
got at tbat figure.

for this purselected, and
ordinary coinViey could be

Hon. M.\r. SCOTT moved the suspension
of the miles ln so far as tuey relate to timis
Bill.
The motion wvas agreed to, and the Bill1
was read Vie second time.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRGHTThe purcliase of the grain is to be mnade'.
by and througbi an officer of Vis goverament, Mr. Casseis, the grain commissioDer.
The distribution is another matter.

Hion. Mr. SCOTT-The distribution is tu
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I niove Viat the Bill
be by agents of the Interior Department.
be read at iength at the table.
The provinces bave consented to Viat-ixi
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEEDD-C5fl ry lion. fact prefer it because It would cost Viem a
*friend tell me irbat correspondelice bas considerabie amount to make Vie distributaken place betireen the provinces and the tion. They send an officiai wiVi Vie officiais of the Interior Departinent to select
Dominion on this question ?
la to be
pub- Vie persons to whom. the grain
Hon. Mr. SCIJIT-It bas ail been
advanced, and they, at the saine time, take
Ilshed.
security. The security qutside of the bomneHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The regulations steaders wbo have not yet secured their
oniy appiy to Vie distribution of the grain patents Is taken by Vie province, but Vie
There are Viree distribution la under tbe officiais of tbe
to the homesteaders.
surns belng voted, one to iornesteaders. Department of tbe Interior.
one to Alberta and another to Saskatchielon. M r. McDONÂLD (Victoria)-The
Wbat arrangement Is Viere, if any,
wan.
man deallng witb Vis fund should be under
between the provinces and this goveru- bonds. We are now la an age wben men
ment, as to Vie application o! tbat money ? handling large amounts of money In any
I bave been iooking tbrough Vie papers, part of the world cannot be trusted. Those
and I find nothing upon that point at ail, men baving !unds lu their bands, and bavexcept that it mas a bald loan. 0f course, Ing to supply grain bere and there, migbt
we nnderstand it is for tbat purpose, but
be infiuenced, and great care sbould be
the manner In mbicb the legisiature should taken to select proper men and bave tben
make the application of the rnoney shouid under bonds to do Vie right tbing.
be distinctly .understood._
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-On a previous
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-As I understood, the
occasion, w-hen money was advanced to Vie
arrangement made is Vhils: that tbe Do- Northwest settiers under similar conditions,
minion governinent wmli secure tbemselves
the systein adopted iras this: a bomesteader
for the grain wib thie give to Vie homeREVISED

EDITION

SENATE
grain and had to pay bis own and ultimately ta pay that of bis neiglibour. Surely
the security of a quarter section of land
or more ought ta be ample for ail the seed
grain required for one season. The -man
who bas been there but a single year is
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It was found unwork- not In a position to apply for seed at aI],
able.
because be could not bave Iost anything
a the year before. I amn sure that the House
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Mfterwards,
Bill was lntroduced to relieve the securlty i disposed to carry this Bill through wltIîlu cases 'where it was found that the cove- out delay. Tfhe tentb of April, Is the very
nant with the governent bad 'been car- letest to begin to sow grain lu that counîried out. Iu this case it appears that no try. I have badl an experlence of twenty-six
securlty la to be taken. The homesteader years In the Northwest, and s*bould know al
merely makes application for seed and bis about It. It la time the machluery shouid
application is granted. Supposing he bas be p>ut in operation, If the provincial gova very poor bomestead or Is dlsposed to eram eut la to arrange the whole matter,
take advantage of the offer the goverument and the assistance is to be of use to thc
lis maklng, and secures an aniount of aiee<l settiers for tbe present year. The loss of
that lis to be registered against bis home- last season rnay be considered a severe
stead, and supposing he neyer sows the blow to the whole country, but I do not
seeçl, but allows the lien to be registered feel at aIl discouraged In the matter. We
agalnst bis land, and then abandons It, and had a peculiar season last year not ouIy
buys government land, what do yoil do Ini lu Canada but aIl over the world. 111 Saskatchewan, I find from the records of the
that case ?
sowilngs upon our own land that we were
Hon. Mr. WATSON-He cannot buy goi- five weeks and two days later than the
erumeut land.
average owing to the pecuilarities of the
MeMULLEN-There Is rail- spring season--owiug to the fact that warrn
Hon. Mr.
weather did not corne, sud that the frost
road land to be purcbased.
did not corne out of the soil early enough
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-I bave bad a to enable the farmers to begin to sow at
great deal to do with distributing seed the usual date. The consequence wvas that
grain myselt. Wben a member of the they were a nxonth later than usuai, and
House of Commons, I bad thousauds of much later than the season bad ever been
cases, and the sarne thing was doue In flie before lu a quarter of a century. This may
southeru part of east Assinibola, and sucbi neyer occur again la that country. The
a case as the hon, gentleman suggests can- dlfficulty was, we had not sufficlent warmth
not really occur. If a party' le untrue to to mature the harvest. Speakiug from my
bis obligation, and does not use the see<l, own experience, we had, on a large porbut nllows the season to pass aud aban- tion of the land, a yield of about 40 bushdons bis land and gets other government els to the acre, and the whole difflculty
land, the llability foilows hlm year atter was that the grain was not sufficieutly mayear. No matter what property he may tured te giVe the quality to bring the prict,
own still the obligation goes ou the land that we were accustomed to get for our
and lie cannot possibly get rid of It lu grain. The difficulty le largely wlth onts,
any sncb way as the hon, gentleman frorn and I fear they will not be able to find a
Wellington suggests. In scbedule (a), you supply In the Northwest or procure It In
find the form of the lien, and It ought to the eastern provinces. It Is urgent that this
satisfy any reasonable person tlîat the se- legislation should pase without delay te
curity Is perfect. I kuow that In the other enable the provincial goverument to taki,
case where the party applying required tlii steps to procure the seed grain even thoughi
endorsation of a nelghbour, that gave riso they sbould have te look for it abroad. It
to n great deal of trouble. Sometîmes t1w is a well known fact that If oats Ie toucbed
person had certified on behaif of bis nelgh- by freet nt al. se as te leave the sligbtest
bour who bcd an application for sucb seed mark in It that mark
us through the
Hon01.
MIr. McMfULLEN.
seeking to get seed bad flot oniy to sign
a bond himself, xnaking it a lien upon bis
bomestead, but be had to get a neighbour
to go security along with hlm that be woulH
faithfully carry out the covenant be made.

291

FEBRUARY 11, 1908
gerni of the grain and germination is Impossible, so0 that plenty of people ln that
country, though they have abundance of
oats for feed, have giain that wvIll flot germinate. Hence It la not poverty they suifer
from, but the peculiar condition la whlcb
they are placed. I have read over the
Bill carefully, and the Instructions andI
miles under which the seed grain ls to be
dlstrlbuted, and I thlnk It ought to be satisfactory lu every sense.

400, and francs 500, aud It Mak-es provisIon for by-laws to Increase or decrease the
number of directors sud 10 change the
place of business.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What 18 the
number of direclors now ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Anywhere
thee and fifteen.

The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.

The Bill was read the thid time at
TRANS-CANADA
length at the table and passed.
PATENT 0F EUGENE FRANCOIS
GIRAUD BILL.
SECOND READING.

between

RAILWÂY COMPANY
BILL.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN (lu the absence of
Hon. Mr. Choquette) moved the second
readlng of Bill (IM)An Act respecting the
He
Trans-Canada Railway Company.
sald: The Trans-Canada Rallway project
It is supposed to
la very well knowu.
start from the Lake St. John district lu
the province of Quebec and exîeud ln a
westerly direction, and 10 mun a wlde distance from ail exlsting moads.

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN moved the second
resdlng of Bill (52) An Act respectlng a
He
patent of Eugene François Giraud.
sald : The object of Ibis Bill la to renew
a patent that was held by this party. The
money for the renewal of the patent was
pald into the patent office a few bours late,
and the department declined to accept It.
The patent ls for the manufacture of chains
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-So does the
The whole explanation will
out of wire.
Grand Trunk Pacifie.
be given la commlîtee.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-It la to pass north
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
of the narrows of Lake Winnipeg, and It
second time.
was read the
wlll be la a position 10 construct a bmanch
to Hudson Bay.
SECOND REÂDINGS.
Bill (58) An Act respectlng the Ashcroft,
BarkervIlle and Fort George Railway
Cornpany.-(ýHon. '.NI. Bostock.)
Bill (72) Au Act respecting patents of the
Windsor Pump and Foundry Company,
Llmited.--(.Hon. Mr. Beltb.)
Bill (N) An Act respectlng the Windsor,
Chatham and London Rallway Company.(Hon. Mr. Coifey.)

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I memember
when my hou. 'frlend the leader of the
House presented 10, us a map of the TransCanada Railway, and polnted out tbat that
was 10 be the route adopîed by the Grand
Truak Pacific, that the goverument had
practically committed itself 10 Ihat particu1 would ask my bon. frlend
lar route.
who bas charge of the Bill la Ibis to be
made a goverument work?

COMPANIES1 ACT AMENDMENT BILL.

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-No, It la a privale compRhiy.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readiug of Bill (L) Au Act to amead the Cornpanles' Ad.e. He sald: This Bill consista
The first Is to remove
of two clauses.
auy doubî as to the application of tbdi
The next ls to aiCompanies' Act, 1902.
10w bonds to be lssued for sums equivalent
That is sterling £20, marks
to $100.
191

Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEEFD-I see It la proposed to extend Vie time eight yeams ; this
la unusual.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The bon. gentleif
man in charge of tbe Bill is absent.
there la to be a long discussion upon It, I
think we had better let It stand.

SIý"S"ATE

Hon. Mr. M-%cMUrLEN-I see that this
Bill lias had a long existence.
flou. Mr. WATSON-It Is a long road.
Hon. Mr. ]McMULLEN-I should like to
know what work, If any, bas been doue
on this lune ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOMrELLý-Has
any stock been subscribed, and have any
.surveys been made ?

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
tim quite ln order; I arn speaking on the
motion to refer the BBi to the Railway
If my memory had carried
'ommittee.
ne back, as it usually does on matters of
tbis kind, I would be able to discuss it
I shall have somethlng
mxore inteliigently.
to, say on the subjeet, but I shall reserve
.t for another time.
The motion was agreed to.

THE GEORGIAN BAY CANAL.
THon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The promoter of
this projeet was Mr. J. G. Scott of Quebec,
DEBATE POSTPONED.
the gentleman who managed to, carry
through the Lake St. John Railway, a sysThe order of the day baving been
Mr. Scott has given a called:
tem of 250 miles.
great deal of time and study to thîs work,
Resuming the adjourned debate on the
and quite extensive eurveys have been motion of the Hon. Mr. Casgrain, that hie
1 know also, that will caîl the attention of the Senate to the
made, to my knowledge.
of
a start wns made, and I regret that Sena- importance to Canada Bay the early construcCanal.-(Hoin. Mr.
tion of the Georgian
tor Tessier is not ln the House to cor- Belcourt.)
seeing il
I remember
roborate this fact
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the order
phiotograph of the inauguration of this
figure of the day be dlscharged, and that It be
road. where 1 recognlzed the portly
placed on the orders for this day week.
of iny bon. friend.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I thlnk It is only
Hon. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL-Is
subsldy granted to this pro- right to direct the attention ef the lion.
there a large
gentleman from De Lanaudiêre to the fnct
jeet ?
that this notice, is really not lu order. The
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I do not think hon. gentleman could call attention to a
nny subsidy has been granted until now. matter and then nsk a question, or move
A company -was formed, and, I understand, for papers, but h&e cannot slmply askz a
arrangements had been made to finance lt. question and have It the subjeet of n deThe papers were full of accounts of the bate.
trip Mr. Scott had taken to Europe, where
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I should lke to
lie had arranged with some people to finThen the Trans- supplement the notice of motion 1 gave,
this undertaking.
ance
continental and the Grand Trunk Pacifie and add the foliowlng: 'And wvill inquire
came on the tapis and prevented the Trans- of the government if the report of the
Canada Company goîng on wîth its enter- survey of that waterway will be laid before
It lay ln abeyance for a number the Iluse duriug the present session.'
prise.
of years.
The motion was agreed to.
The motion was ngreed to, and the Bil]
was read the second time.
ACCIDENTS AT RAILWAY CROSSINGS.
moved that the
Hon. '.%r. CA.SGRAIN
Bill be referred to the Comnmittee ou Railthe
FERGUSON-Before
Mr.
Hon.
ways, Telegraphs and Harbours.
adjourns, I wish to ,cail thex attenHouse
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOW%ýEIL--g tion of hon, gentlemen to an error whicb
think It is a great pity that w-e have not was made, originally, I think, by the hon.
lad more Information on this Bill before gentleman from De Salaberry, but into
which the whole House feil, including the
referring it to the conimittee.
of State when hie laid this
The SPEAKER-I w-ould reniind the hon. lion. Secretary
to-day.
read the return upon the table of the House
gentleman that the Bill lias beeu
The motion refers to railway crossings and
second Lime.
CASGRAIN.
Hoii. M.Nr.

FEBRIJARY 12. 11908

flot to higbway crosslngs ; and tbe Information that my bon. friend the Secretary of
State bas supplied bas no reference to
hlgbway crossing, but mereiy to raiiway
crossings where one lune of rallway crosses
another rallway.
BILL INTRODUCED.

Then the Honourabie the Speaker of the

house o! Counimons addressed Ris Honour
the Deputy of Ris Excellency the Governor
General. as follows:May it please Your Honour:
The Comnions of Canada have voted certain
supplies required to enable the government ta
defray the expenses of the public service.
In the name of the Commons, 1 present t«
Your Honour a Bill jntituled: 'Au Act for

Bill (Q) An Act to Incorporate the Lon- granting, to Ris Majesty certain sums of
service of the financial
money for
don and Lancashire Guarantee and Acci- year endingthe publie
3lst March, 1908, to which Bill 1
Mr. humbiy request TYour Houour's assaut.
dent Company of Canada.--ýHon.
Ross, Middlesex.)
Then after the Clerk of the Crown lu
The Senate adjourned until to-znorrow at Chancery had rend the Title of the Bill.
The Cierk of the Senate, by His Honour's
Three o'clock.
command, did thereupon say:

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA,

Wednesday, February 12, 190.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
BILLS ASSENTED

TO.

The Hon. Sir Charles Fitzpatrlck, acting
as deputy to His Exceiiency the Governor

,General, being seated ln front of the
tbrone.
The Honourable the Speaker commanded
the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod to
proceed to the House of Comnions and acquaint that -House: " It ls the .Deputy Governor's desire that tbey attend him lmmediately ln this inuuse."
Who being corne with their -Speaker,
The Cierk of the Crown ln Cbancery read
the Tities of the Bis to, le passed, as.

In Ris Majesty's name. Ris Honour the
(ieputy of Ris Exeellency the Governor General thauks his loyal subjects, accepts their
benovelence, aud assents te this Bill.
The Deputy Governor was pleased to retire, and
The House of Commons wltbdrew.
CONCURRENCE IN REPORTS 0F COMITTEES.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-l think we sbould
settie the question noir as to the concurrence of the House in the report of the
Standing Conimittee. There is nothing hi
our miles that asks for a concurrence lu a
report irben the report does flot ask soietbiug special. aud if ire consult Bourinot
ire find nt page 5M .
It is the practice to move concurrence in
the reports o! 'coxumittees in certain cases.
For instance, the reports on printing are
invariably agreed ta, as thley contain recaimandations for the printing ande distribution
of documents, which must be duly anthorized
by the House. Also reports concerning certain Opinions or resolutions are frequently
the reconcurred in on nmotion. But wheu or other
port does not coutain any resolution
propositions for the considaration o! the

Hou,", it does not appear that any further

folloW13
proceedings vith reference to it, as a report,
West Ontario Pacific *are necessary.
An Act respecting the
Raiiway Company.
I think ire sbould do away wItb the conAn Act respecting, the Manitoba and North- currence.
western Rai1wayCompany of Canada.
Au Act respecting the British Columbia * Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-For the last four
Southern RailwaY Company.
years, to my kuowledge, ire have always
An Act lespecting the Campbeilford, Lake
iu the report, especially

Ontario and Western Railway Company.
To these Bis the Royal Assent was pro
e
nounced by the Cierk of the Senate hn thi
following words:
In Ris Majesty's name, Ris Honour th,
Deputy Goveruor doth assent to these Bis.

nioved concurrence
in view of the fact that many lion.
bers

tbey
the
aur

neui-

that
of this House bave cornplaîned
did not get an opportunity to discuss
Bill. on the motion for concurrence
bon. niember irbo bad not been prii-

SENATE
sent in the comrnittee could bave then discussed the Bill. It is an additionnl safeguard for those who inight flot bave beeu
on the cornrittee, and it daes flot take rnuch
time. 1 do flot see any reason why we canflot do ItL It cannot do any barrn ta proceed In that way.

cornrittee to offer opposition or remark-3
on a Bill as it le passing througb, that
upon a formal motion for concurrence lu
the repart, it does nat give one more stage
la wbicb a Bill may be attacked or remarks may be made upon It as the bon.
gentleman sees lit.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is that a stage ?
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (Britisb Colmmbia)-It is flot necessary, tbougb it znay
Han. Mr. YOUNG-It rnay be a_ stage.
flot do any barrn.
We often refer Bille to a committee wlth
Han. Mr. CASGRAIN-And It will gîve a clear underetandlng tbat tbe House le
members an appartunity of furtber dis- not cornrntted ta tbe principies of It, for
cusslng the Bill. A complaint bas been the purpose af further exarnînation and
made that the reports of committees were possibiy for arnendrnent. We will suppose
put througb without ban. gentlemen having then that tbis Bill, contrary to the expectatian of the Houee, does corne back ln Its
an opportunlty ta discuss them ?
shape and le not altered ln any way, it may
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-If tbere was sorne be possible that that report, ln the case I
particular suggestion, that might be the have rnentioned, mlgbt be a report whîch
case; but 'when the Bill cornes up without many ban. members, poselbly a majorlty,
any arnendment at ail in tbe same form would flot consent ta, and It surely gives
as It was sent to the cormlittee, it does the House an opportunlty on an occasion
flot take a stage more. The Bill cannot be af tliat kind, at ieast ta say to the comrend a thîrd Urne that day. It must corne mittee wbo bas coasdered tbe Bill, 'We
up the followlng day for thîrd readlng. It do not approve af your report eendlng back
cannat praceed a furtber stage an the day thîs Bill without any arndment,' and the
on whlcb It wae reported. If tbe House matter could be thon furtber dlscussed,
thînks we sbauld do it, bowever, ail rIght. when tbe second readlng posbly was allawed ta pase witli an understandlng that
Han. Mr. POWER-I tbink the bon. genthe prac- fia one wauid be comrnltted ta the prîntleman frarn Stadacona states
it bad recelved the lîght whicb
tîce whicb prevalled ln this Hause In the ciple untîl
the comrlt7tee mlgbt glean frarn it. And,
past correctiy, and I find lu our Forme of
after ai, le there any bardsblp an the
Proceedlng the foliowing: S6tb paragrapli
Hanuse ta say yes or no, we are satlsfied
In tbe Manual:
wltb the cammlttee'à work. I rather thInk
If the Bill i reported without any amend- It gives the Haouse a botter opportunity af
that it be
ment, the senator in charge moves
placed on the order paper ta be read a third cbecklng tbe wark of the conittee If
trne on a future day. When the Bill la re- tbe declelan that the cammlttee bas arported with amendrnents, the Speaker having
annoned the fact as above, adds: 'le it your rlved at bas ta be accepted or rejected hy
pleasure, han. gentlemen, to receive the re- a-vote af the Hanuse.
(Pause.) ' clerk he says: 'Read the
~rt ?'addressiniz theWhen P' (Ânswer) 'Now.' Hon. Mr. LÂNPRY--Suppose there le a
1n
Tho
arndments.' The amendrnents being read, if motian of concurrence In the report, and
they are formai or unimportant or if paragraph (d) or (h) of rule 24 ls suspended, he 1 rnove an ameadment that tbe report be
says: «It is your pleasure, hon, gentlemen, to nat cancurred la, but that If be referred
conour in the amendments.' Carried.
back ta the camrnlttee wltb Instructions ?
As tbe bon. gentlernan says, tbere la
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Quite a praper
reaiiy uotblng to do. The House has se'nt
motion.
cornmittee, and tbey returu
the BiII ta the
Hon. Mr. LANIYRY-Some one mlgbt
It wlthout any change.
raise tbe question, Wbat rlgbt bave you to
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It may be sald that a make an arndment on a formai motion?
complaint le made tbat opportunities are
Hon. Mr. YOUN'G-I understand that the
flot wlde enough or frequent enough ta
tbose wbo are flot mernbere of any special 1objection ta the procedure le not tbat the
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN.

FEP4IUA1Y 12, 1908
motion is out of order, but that It is unecessary.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It it is unnecessarY,
some one might take a point of order
against my amendmuent and say, you have
no right to send the report back to the
committee at this stage; you may send it
back st the tlilrd reading when It comes
regularly before the tHouse, but not on
concurrence.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do not thlnk that
the bon. gentleman from Killarney (Hon.
Mr. Young) bas put the thing just as It: Is.
The only case where an opportunlty for
further discussion is offered is when some
bon. gentleman objects to thse motion to,
concur in a report; because we have a rule
whlch says, a report cannot be discussed.
If an bon. gentleman
when presented.
objects to concurrence ln a report, It la
possible that It may be put off to another
day, but that bas not been our practice.

2. The number of conviets from the age of
nationalities, in
twenty upwards, and theirunder the Domin.e.ch of the penitentiaries
ion control. for the years 1903, 1904, 1905,
1906 and 1907.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have no objection
to the motion, on.ly I sbould like to know
why the age of twenty la selected ? Would
thbe hon, gentleman name an earlier ageWhy was twenty selectsay seventeen ?
ed?
Hon. Mr. COMEÂU-I just wanted to
get the information.
The motion was agreed to.
THE QUEBEC BRIDGE DISASTFZR.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LAND.RY lnquired:
When is the government %roing to place on
the table of this House the report of the
commission appointed to inquire into the
causes of the faliing of the Quebec bridge P
If the report is not yet ready. does the
government know when it will be ready, and
has the government takea any steps to hasten
its completion ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The government bas
no Information on the subject any more
It bas been
than the general publie have.
promised repeatedly, but it bas not been
sent in.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose that applies to the second question as well 7
Hon. Mr. S*JOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want to know If
the goverument bas done anything In that
wny ?
-Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We have made Inquiries, and it was expected that It would
be presented before this ; but, for some
cause or other, It bas not been submitted
-1 do not know wbY.

Hon. '.%r. YOUNG-We seem to presume
that there bas to be a motion by our rule
24 b, 'For the adoption of a report, not
laIts character, fromn any
merely formaIn
One day's notice
standing committee.'
We assume
must be given lu that case.
when It la formai that no0 notice Is required.
My hon. friend ls making a motion now,
without any notice, because bis report is
merely formai. as there la no amendment
to thse Bill.
Hon. '.%r. LANDRY-I suppose thse bon.
gentleman will not take thse manual as an
authority.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I will take the rules
iffrst.
The SPEAKER-I have a dim recollection that a similar discussion took place
on a former occasion since I have been In SALE 0F LIQUO-R TO RAILWAY EMthe chair. I would ask that thse practîce
PLOYEES BILL.
continue for this day, and I will look Up
IN COMMITTEE.
In
thse debate nnd see what justlfied us
continuing our practice.
The House resumed in Commlttee of
the Wbý7ole, consideration of Bill (A) An Act
CONVIOTS UNDER THE ÂGE 0F
to amend the Railway Act as respects the
TWENTY.
furnishing of intoxlcating ilquor to railway
MOTION.
employees on dut.
Hon. Mr. COMEAU moved:
(In the Commlttee.)
That an order of the Senate do issue for a
Hon. Mr. Me.MULLEN-YOUl will rememreturn showing:1. The numlber of convicts under the age ber that wben this Bill was up for the
of twenty, and their respective nationalities.

SEINATE
second readhug. some changes in the wording of section 414 of the Act were sugThie lion. senator froim Hastings
gested.
thouglit thnt n minimumii fine and a minimum terni of Imprisoriment sliould lie
I therefore move to amend the
fixed.
clause so as to provide for a penalty of
flot less than $100 and flot exceedlng $500,
or witliout bard
wltli
or imprisorimeut
labour for a terni of not less than tbree
mouths and flot exceedlng one year, or
lioth.
Hon. ',%r. PDRLEY-If a person buys tbe
liquor liefore going on duty, wliat tlien?
'Hon. '.%r. MCKeAY
uiot lie on duty t'ben.

(Truro)i-He

would

Hon. 'Mr. P0MVER-I did flot speak at
the second reading-, lut my remembrance
is that there w-as an understandiag thnt the
House dld not comrýIt Itself to tlie mensure
by permltting the second reading. I canflot see my way to supportlng this mneasure.
The latw as It stands is sufficienthy severe.
It provides a penalty flot exceeding $50,
and Imprlsonmient at liard labour flot exTliat penalty
ceeding one month or botli.
is qulte severe enougli for tlie offence. 0f
course If the off eace were cominltted la this
way-if a train were running tlirough a
town and "the engineer got off and went
into .9 bar wliile the train stopped and got a
big drink, of intoxicating liquor, the penalty
of $50 perliaps wonld not lie excessive;
but take a case of a servant wJio on a
cold day Is on. duty and ivears un overcoat, and the liartender does not necessnrily know that lie is a railway employee,
to mak-e tliat liartender liable to lie lmprlsoned for any terni not less than tbree
montlis and flot longer tliau a year, and to,
pay a fine of not less tanu $100 nor more
than $500 is. I think, unreasouable. 4One
effect of passing legislation of this cliaracter, whidh is looked upon as beiag unreasonalile. is that the law is niot carried
out.
Tlie niagistrate, if lie is n renso nalle
man. will try and fiad some way of acquit;
ting the accnsed. and public sympntliy wil
The trutli is, if one
lie Nvlth the accused.
looks ln the niewspapers. lie will find that
persons wlio are guîlty of very serions
offeaces, la some cases forgery, are let off
more easily than the offender lu this case
Lt is a sort
is proposed to lie dealt witli.
of sumptuary legislation wbIiech I thill is
Non. Mr. McMULLEN.

bligtily objectionable. and 1 hope the House
wviIl flot pass the Bill.
Hon. 'Mr. McMe.NUILEN-I miglit lie permitted to say iu reply to iiy liou. friend,
thiat the present law is. tun my humble opinion, very defective. in that It Imposes a.
penalty flot exceeding flfty dollars. There
Is no penalty that inst be the minimum
imposed. Now, some lion, gentlemen stated
but a few days ago, lu connection wltli .
mnatter of this kind. that the trial judge
or mnagistrate lad lu one case Imposed a
penalty of twenty.-five cents and ten minThat m-ould complyý
utes' Imprisonnment.
xvith the provision of tlie law m-lien there
is no provision that the penalty shah amonut
to flot less than a fixed sum. Tliat is one
reason %-hly I considered it necessary to,
introduce this Bill. In the next place, ny
lion. friend says tîmat an officer of a railwa, Company may conle in witb an overIf
coat on and thus conceal bis badge.
lie does so, lie is violatlng an existing law
that imposes tw-enty dollars of a fine and
imaprisoumuent for such ueglect of duty, and
flot onily that. lie Is hiable to the botelkeeper. if lie Is wortli auything, for every
dollar of damages thiat lie is put to by
the rallway einployee so concealing bis
badge. Hie is obllged to wear It so tbnt
the botel-keeper wlll see It, and thus understand what his position Is; If lie conceal.s,
lis badge lie makes bîmself responsible t.>
the liotel-keeper, if the liotel-keeper Is vietimuized, and leaves hlm siubjê.ct to a peuaity 0f twenity dollars, lesides Imprisonmaent.
Hon. MNr.FERGUSON-Is
the ltailway Act ?

thiat

now in

Hou. '.%r. MNcM\ULLEN-Yes.
Hou.

',\r. FERGUSON-Wliat

section?

flot the
Ilon. 'Mr. McULNIhave
section, but I rend it very carefully.
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-I nir
incliiued. to agree %vith the bon. gentlemnan
fromn Halifax lu the view lie takes of tliaz
If you umake tbe penalty too seclauise.
vere, there will lie every means possible
adopted iu order to evade it, aud yon -%vill
find difficulties where cases of tliat kind are
bronglit before a magistrate, in imfposiug
a penalty. I îvould miie rather see the
fine and imprisonument less: but I wouild

FEBRUARY 12, 1908

make thein both iniperative. The bon. ge>tlemnan's ainendinent does flot go so far
as I suggested the other day. My experieuce bas taught nie that there are many
cases of the character to whlch the bon.
gentleman lias alluded. If It Is left optional
wlh many magh3trates to Impose flot more
than a certain flue, nor Imprisonnment longer
than a certain perlod, they ivili, If their
prejudices and opinions do not agree wltb
the provisions of the Act, make the penalty as saal as possible and the imprisoniment as short as possible. If bie would
decrease the penalty which bie proposes,
nnd substltute the word 'and' for 'or' It
would meet my vlews. If the mniamunm
penalty for an offence of that kind wvere
twenty or twenty-flve dollars, wlth a maximuni of fit ty dollars, and hnprisonmient for

necessary, to protect the lives of those who,
are entrusted to tbem. 1 was very rnucb
pleased to see the action taken some time
ago la tbe United States upon thîs quesý
tion; wbere the railway authorities made
It a mIle tbat auy man who drank Ilqor
when hie was-ou duty sbould be dismlssed.
When we reflect for a moment upon the
results which bave followed from a free
Indulgence ln Intoxicants ln the operation
of railways, 1 do not think we should
make the law of sncb a character that thé»
magistrates cannot entorce it:
1 liad a n
amendment dratted, and I propose to inove
to amend tbe clause by loweriug the penalties, and change the word 'or' to 'aud.'
1 would move that the last tbree lines 5(e
struck out and the following Inserted:

Penalty not less than-<put it what vnu
please, $25 or $50. I think $25 would be
lation of the law. it would bc mucb more large enough-), nor exceeding the suni of
effective. There is too much truth lu wbat $100, and imprisonnment with or without hard
labour, for a period not less than one month
the bon, gentleman fromn Halifax bas sald. nor exceeding one year.

a nîonth or two, or three months for a vio-

We are constantly readlng of cases where

That would leave it optional wvitb the
magîstrate who was trylng the case to
deal wlth questions as tbey came betore
hlmi wlth regard to the serlousness of the
charge.
A man mlght innocently take
a glass of liquor, and another man mlgbt
bie a habituai drunkard.
Now, take the
habituai drunkard, who would Ilkely be
drunk upon dnty, and thereby endanger
the lives of those under bis charge, I
would pnsh hlm more severely; but lu
the ordinary case, wbere it Is the mere
taking of a glass of liquor by a man wbo
bas neyer been known to take too mnch
a somnewbat severe action and send theni or become intoxlcated, I would not deal
to jail. we find a very benevolent and ten- out the saine punishment to hlm as I
der hearted government letting tbemn ont would to tbe otmers.
of jail before their Urne expires. I would
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-This is onlY ansuggest to xny hon. friend to make bis penother Illustration of the difficulty of havlng
alties less, but to make them Imperative. laws applled atter they are
passed by this
i could cite evidence of the results of >House or any other legîsiative
body, ln
bringing. cases of violation of the revenue our criminal courts.
It Is very easy tor
law before inaistrates, wbere the law bas pass laws here accordmng to our ownl
not been effective ln any way.
That Ig conception of wbat tbey ouglit to be ; but
the view I take of It. I arn fully in sym- it is very difficult for anybody wbo bas
pathy w-ltb the object of the Bill.
Con- bad experience of the muatter, to aPPlY
ductors,.engineers and brakesmen, wbo are these laws when It cornes down to mndirunng the trains, bave tbe lives. of huin- vidual and practical cases.
M-Ny
experience
dreds of people under their control, and bas been very extended and extensivethere can be no law. to ini mnd. sufficlently severe. provided it can be carried out, if
Some bon. MERMBERS-Hear, hîeur.

perjurv bias been commltted, aud otber
offences that we look upon as hielnous and
serions, where the magistrates bave luiposed very Inadequate penalties. We find
otlher cases where magistrates take a ditferent view of tbe question, and have liposed very heavy penalties for very llht
off ences. We read about themn every day,
and more particularly when we consIder the
decîsious of judges lu cases of violations of
the election law, irbere perjury 1s most
flagrant and bribery is paramount, we find
very otten that the offenders are deait wlth
very lenlentîy, and If tbe judges do take

SENATE
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-And I know. what before the courts of the country wlb seliI arn talking about. 1 was going to say, ing to n servant of a raiiroad a glass of
better %ban those wbo cry 'bear, hear!' I liquor, bie Is liable to a fine of $500 and
Now, that la
have found that ln cases of people who are one year's Imprisoumrnft.
The botel keeper wli flot seil
unfortunate, from bank presidents down, not fair.
in Our crîrninai courts, the magistrates and to the conductor, engineer or firernan, bethe judges have a great deal of difficulty cause he knows *thern; Dut hie does flot
ia applying the crirninal Iaw asi passed by know the other employees of Vie rallway
They rnay be strangers. They
Vis House or the Ontario legîsiature, or company.
They rnay be
I may be the news agents.
any other legislature of this country.
bave heard it stated by the hon. gentleman subsidiary or supplementary brakernen, or
fromn Hastings that the magistrate should they rnay be new conductors or new engi'bave no discretion, but sbould impose the neers. Tbey carry no badge, yet the man
I have seen cases, la my experience, who selis thern liquor is liable under Vis
fine.
where the magistrate was wiling to find iaw to a fine of $500 or to, imprîsonmenli
I say Vint is flot
-the defendant gullty, but lie thought, and not exceedlng a year.
Such a law gîves Vie opportunity
I tbought as prosecutor, that the fine was fair.
exorbitant, that tbe penalty was over- to do an Injustice to these people. I have
reachiag the crime; but he had no discre- coasulted wîth other" people wlth regard
lion, and the resuit was that he would to this question, and a gentleman who is
pass sentence on the prisoner, but wlth weli versed in these matters states that the
a recommendatIon to the Crown to have clause ought to be quallfied by Vie word
Now, that le; no position ln ' knowviagly '-' every person who knowlit remitted.
whicb to place our magistrates or judges, Ingiy sells,' who knows Vie person to be
and that happens day after day. To corne an ernployee of the cornpany runaing a
to this arndment of the Raiiway Act, train at the Urne that hie sells the liquor,
I find that it la sIrnply s'hiould be condemned flot only to one year
what do 1 Enad?
Give hlm ail the years
This pro- but to ten years.
an Increase of the punisbrnent.
vision bas been ln existence for the past you please If hie knowlngly sellq liquor to
four or live years ln the Railway Act. Now, the engîneer of a train, wbicb may resuit
He iahouId
If it could nlot be applied, and If it bas ln tbe destruction of Vie train.
not been npplied under the penalty ao be sent to mail without the option of a fine;
therein stated, how wili it be applied under but give hlm a chance to prove that when
It wll he gave a glass of wJhlskey or a bottie of
the penalty proi'ided lu this Act?
I wilb to point out to this honour- beer to an employee that he did flot know
riot be.
:able House that there Is an unfaîrnese hie was giving It to an ernployee of the
existing la this case, and often an injustice company, la the service of the company at
This penalty la a severe one,
May arise; but no more under thîs clause the tîrne.
It says every and you cannot get one out of ten magisthan under the old iaw.
person who seils to any servant of the trates to apply it, and Vie stricter and more
eornpany Intoxfcnting liquor shall be lhable severe you make sucb laws without glving
to certain penalties and to certain im- our judges and magistrates a discretion,
That clause is not fair. That the harder It 1.s to enforce thern and to
prisoamient.
That Is the exclause must inievltably give rise to injustice have thern observed.
always, but ln sorne perience of ail men who have hnd to proseln sorne cases-not
The botel keeper who wants to be cute people for crimes before the courts
cases.
honest, and wvho is honest, and who will of our country. 1 arn thoroughly ln sýymflot seil to a conductor or any otber person patby witi the object the bon, gentleman
prohibited by the law-how is lie to k-nowv from Wellington bas ln view, to prevent
He rnay bona fide men ln the service of the comevery servant of the company?
kanow the conductor wio passes there ten pany running the trains ou accept liquor
Now, as to bis
He may know from these botel keepers.
or fIfteen times a week.
the engineer, hie may know the brakesman; argument that the ernployee of the coinbut bow Is lie to know every servant of pany is hiable to a fine of $20, $15 or $10,
the company who does not carry ia badge, whatever it rnay be. If hie does not show
wlîo wear- no insignia, and if hop i, chaqrged his badge, there Is no obligation in the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

FEBiRIJA1Y 12. 1908

2f99

laws of the company, tliere is no obliga- inain uiiless lie siglis the i)ledge amd beconies4
I know tbat on the
tion in the laws of our statutes to forcé- a strict teetotaller.
any emnpioyee to show bis badge. He wears Canadian P'acifie Rnilway, conductors aîîd
He does no.t wea.r engineers are not only not allowed to tako
ft where be pleases.
He wears it on his veat a train out of the depot wben they are
it on bis collar.
and bis ceat covers it so that that point under tbe influence of liquor, but if those
made by the bon, gentleman frorn Welling- men are known to frequent bar-rooms when
ton cannot stand ln favour of the botel they are off duty, they are discbarged frein
-He rnay corne in witb en oee the servlice of the compauy, 8o strict lto
keeper.
coat on, but be carnies bis badge ail thea the Canadien Pacifie Rallway CJompany ln
I arn the west. The Canadian Pacific Rallway,
gamle.
He le not liable to a âine.
tboroughly in syrnpatby witb the object ln ln the west, le strict ln this respect, and It
view, but we must not create machlnery seems to me that this Bihl le quite unneceswhereby Injustice and unfairnese may be sary2* lt la practically treatlng the railway
perpetrated, aud we must nlot page a law employees as though they were Indians.
which the judges and magistrates of the It le very far-fetched legislation when you
country will bave great difficulty In.apply- bave to put sncb a law on the statuteIug.
books to protect the most intelligent class
The CHAIRMAN-I arn toid that the of men we bave ln the country. The engilion, gentleman from Wellington wisbes to) neers, conductors, and brakesmen are as
withdraw- the amendment lie lias made. sober a class of men as you will find anyIt bas not been submitted to the Senate where. The Rallway Act as it stands, proyet. He desîres to adopt the suggestion vides very severe penalties for tiiose who
of the bon, gentleman frorn Belleville, and shouid be pnnished ns guiity-tbe employees
then the motion wiii bie that tbe ]ast tbret, tbemselves. Section 418 provides tbat any
lhues of section one be struck ont and the employee of a railway company wbo is
foliowlng words bie substituted ln lieu lntoxicated wbule on duty ls gnilty of n
tliereof:
offence, and hiable to be punished by a
Penalty of not le'ss than $25, nor exceeding fine not exceeding $400 or lImprisonrnent
the snm of $100, with imprisonrnent with or
without hard labour, for a period net legs not exceeding five yenrs, or botb. lu tini
than one month, nor exceeding one year.
dîscretion of the court. 1 venture to say
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I beg to suggest tbat la the last twelve menthe there basq
that If that be put on Our statute-booka, It not been a case where an employee of any
wlll be almost impossible to get a con- railway lu Canada bas been punished. and
viction for tbis offence. I do flot understanci penfflties infllcted under section 413 for
that there le any partîcular reason for tie being Intoxlcated. The next section 414,
leglslation at ail. It seema to me that the la tbe one that this Bill la designed to
Act we have at the present tirne, whiclî amend. I arn lu full sympatby wltb the
bas beeu explalned, a fifty dollar fine or expression we have beard to-day, tbat If
imprisonment. of one montb or both, le you make the penalties too severe tbey
qulte severe enougli. Then 1 would ask. Io wiil neyer bie irnposed. I venture to isay
there any particular cause for the legîsla- that If a case were brouglit before a magistion, any partîcular necesslty for lt ? In trate, ln whlch a botel-keeper is accused of
my experience, travelling on rallroads and sellng Ilquor to a railway employee, and
wlth rallroad employeea, It tg very seldomn the magistrata le asked to Impose a penyou ever find-ln fact I cannot recolleet alty of $100, or to Imprison the accusad for
for years -of seeing an officer ln charge of tbree rnontbs, you could not secure a cona train, an engineer, fireman, conductor Qr viction. If the penalties were llgbter -yoil
brakesman, under tbe Influence of liquor. rnight secure a conviction. The bon, genIt lo aimost a uoted fact now, that men tleman sbould wlthdraw bis Bill. Tbe penoccupylng responsIble positions wltb rafl- alties provIded lu the Act as it stands are
way companies are practically teetotallers. sufflcent, and tbere ls no nacessity for
Tbey are required to be so by tbe corn- traating an Intelligent, sober cîass of meni
pauy. We find that ln tbe Unlted States as If tbey were Indians. I amn opposed to
some of the great moade will not employ a thle Bill altogether.

SElNATL

300

Hion. '-%r. SCOTT-Is it a rule with the
Grand Trunkl Raiiway and the Canadian
Pacifie Railway, tbat any manl wbo takes
intoxicants is flot perrnitted. to remain In
tbe service ? 1 am n ot aware of sucb .9
rule.

What wvas the penalty imposed ? The governient dismissed these men, but no other
penalty was -lnflicted. Tbey ougbt to bave
been sent to mail at bard labour.

Hon. M3r. WATSON-The Bill before us
does flot provide for that at 'ail. It deah,
-%vitb tbose wbo give liquor to railway emHon. Mr. WATSON-I will state wbat 1
pioyees, the men for whom punishment ls
know. 1 know that Ia Winnipeg a coll- provided lu tbe iaw as It stands.
barductor or engineer wbo frequents a
rooni, Ns fot kept in the empioy of the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If an
Company.
emplovee could flot get the liquor. be wouid
not be intoxlcated.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thflt Js not an answer
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Section 413 prov ides
to the question.
a penalty for the man wbo takes tbe IlHon. Mr. WVATSON-If he frequents bar- quor.
itot
roouis eveu wben be is off duty, be Is

kept in the employ of tbe Canadian Pacifie
Iiailway Company. 1 kniow that If an engineer or conductor goes to report the taking
ont of bis train and bas the least taint ot
liquor on bis breath, be Je not aiiowed to
take out tbe train. Wben sncb precautions
are taken by tbe raiiway companies, an(]
nien kuow that tbey are liabie 10 lose their
positions If tbey use Intoxicants, Ibis legislation Is entirely unnecessary.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I know that an
engineer wbo drove the suburban train
froni Kingston was discbarged because
there was an odor of liquor on bis breath
on one occasion.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In the
remnarks whicb I made, I lntended no reflection on the railway empioyees as a
wbole. I qulte agree with the boa. genitleman from 'Marquette, that there Is not a
more Intelligent or sober class of men lu
Canada. than tbe rallway engineers. Those
are not the men we want to bit; we warit
to strike tbe men who do induige.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The
does that.

present

law

Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-No,
because lt leaves it optionai. I can mention
an instance wvbere a very severe accident
occurred iecently at Windsor Junction,
\.S.. resulting la iosq of life and injury to
several, the cause of which was that sorne
of the employees on the train were intoxicated. Not only the firemian and the engin
neer. but 1 bleieve the conductor aiso
ýwhen tite accident took piace.
Intoxicated
Hlon. Mr. WATSON.

Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-Tbe experlence of
lte bon. gentleman from Marquette Is onhe
thing-, but otbers bave bad a different experience. I bave known very different in)stances fromn the beautiful picture be bas
given us of the sobriety of raiiway eniployees. As a mile, the public bave ground
for tbankfulness for tbe sobriety of
the officiais of the Canadian Pacifie
especiaily in the
Railway Company,
western country; but tbere are cases
wblcb do not. corne to the knowiedge
of the. compnny, and 1 amrn favour of tbe
anîendment tbat bas been proposed ho tbe
Bill. and I bope that It wlI pass. I
will give an Illustration of no. later date
than fair lime last summer. at Brandon.
It was my business to bie there; but owlng
to the difficulty of finding accommodation
lu the town, 1 was forced. to travel on an
overcrowded train and retura borne la tbe
nigbt. lu tbis case the conductor owned
to inyseif personaily thiat be did not know
I' was 0o the train. The fact is, be was
ia the first car witb some fellows wbo bad
liquor. and be had committed the train
Th4to the charge of tbe brakesman.
bralzesman ran tbe train past one station.
and on to another and bad ho back Up tbe
train to aiiow some twenhy people to get
off. We went on again. The conduchor
liad not got off the train, as it was bis
duty to (Io. to give the engineer the signai
when to ieave. I knew my station was
next and stood on the car steps wltb
my vaise- lu band ready to step off
is the train drem, up aiongside
as -o-,ni
but instead of stopping
the platforin:

FEBRIUARY 12. 1908
It weut on. I saw aiea jurnp off, and soute
o! them %vent Into the dltcb with their
hieels Iiigher than their lieads. 1 went luimediately for the conductor, and the emeli
of liquor was on hlm. 1 said, ' You ought
to stop the train and let us get off.' He
said thiey had made a mîstake already
and did not like to repent it, s0 lie rau us
to the uext station, wbere four other men
sud myseif had the comfortiug experience
of walking back elght miles on the track
to our own station, sud we got there by
daylight. That was entirely due to liquor.
But I do not tbluk that the Candian
Pacific Railway knows anythlng about
that case. I msy, when I get an opportuuity, speak to the bead officiais about
It. 1 do flot thlnk It le wiee to demand
the highest penalty lu every case; but
the compauy ouglit to know that sucli men
should not be retained lu theîr employmeut, as there mlght be n end to the
trouble. The train mîglit have been dltched,
and many iujured or killed, and what would
a penalty of $50 amount to lu a case of
that kind? I shall certaiuly faveur the
ameudment and vote for the Bill as amended.
Hou. Mr. PERLEY-Tbere la just one
solution to this difficulty whicli wll be
effective, that la to stop the Importation,
manufacture sud sale of liquor. I caunot
uuderetand wby you permit the manufacture, importation sud sale of liquor, and
then punleli people for ueing It. I think
this Bll ie defective;.lt enys tlint liquor
muet not be sold to a railway employee
whlle ou duty. Now, ln our western country the engineer le the most important man
lu charge of the train, and lie sbould bei
perfectiy sober. That man le pnid by the'
mile and lie is not on duty until lie takeq
charge of bis englue. Once lie etepe on bix
euglue lie cannot get liquor, yet lie may have
got it hlI au hour before going to hi.;
englue, or lie mny have it ou the englue
wlth hiuî. In tlint case you could not get
at the man who sold hlm the liquor, becauffl
lie did nlot selI it wheu the employee wa4
on duty. The saute remark applies to the
couductor and the fireman. I do not think
the Bill la worth the paper it le prInted on.
Hon. 'Mr. 3lcGREGOR-A railway etphoyee is on duty ahways. He ls hiable
to be called out nt any moment.

301

Hon. Mr. PERLEY-T21he eugfineer's tlnic
only counts wben lie la on the train.
Hon. Mr . CLORAN-I amn prepared t<
accept the amendmnent, and If the penalty
were Increased to $1,000, 1 would vote
for It. The man who selle liquor knowiugly
to a conductor or engineer of a train, deserves a" very heavy penalty, and I would
make it an offeuce If doue withln three
hours before the departure of a train lnetead ot confiuing it to while lie la on
duty. But we must not, by our legislntien, create difficulties for magistrates and
We muet nlot create positions'
judges.
whereiu innocent men may be fouud gullty.
I arn thoroughly lu favour of the object
which the bon. senator lias lit vlew, andi
I would nlot nierely fine, but I would linprison any person who would knowingly
seli liquor to anybody liaving charge of
liumaîî life. 1 %vould suggest that the
clause should be amended by inserting before the word 'selle' the word ' knowingly,'
and niake the fine and imprleonmient as. severe as yeu like. I would ane particularly engineers, conductors, brakesmen and
ail men ln charge of trains. ewltchmen
alse. Switchmen do not wear badges. An
empioyee may be bandling lce and coal
ail day or eweeping out cars, and he
goes to bis lunch wlth a piece of pork and
bread and stops at a restaurant for a glass
of beer. As 1 eay, lie wears no badge, but
lie le a servant of the compauy, yet yon
leave tbe botel-keeper htable to a fine of $500
or Imprisoumieut for a terni of one yenr
for selling that man liquor. It le extremely
dIfficuit for a parliameut to pase a law
whlch shall be applicable under aIl circulastances, aud I would tlierefore urge nîy
hou. friend to accept my suggestion and
lnsert the word 'knowlngly' ln the clause.
There are not many dealers to whom the
clause would apply, perbape three or four
ln large towus near the station and one
ln a village. A notice should be put up
lu the bars o! sucli places warniug them
that If tbey knowiugly eupply liquor to auybody couuected with the runuing of n train
tbey- are Ihable to fine and imprisoument.
We must be careful about mnking it easy
for informiers and others of that dlase to
get men into trouble. Our laws should be
so pilain that tiiere would be no difficulty

SENATE
Hon. Mr. lc-%IIiLAN-It must have
lu the interpretation and application of
been stroug.
by inagistrates or judges.
themn
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-At ail events it Is
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-If my bon. friend
will read section 413, be will find that belleved that he was under the Influence
Now, wlth such accidents ocswltchmen are Included. My object In of liquor.
presenting this Bill is simply to protect the curring, It Is our duty to prevent men ln
travelling public. When _people travel by sucb responsIble positions Irom being supI have no doubt that
rail tbey want to feel that tbe trains are plled with Iiquor.
run by men wbo are sober. 1 amn makIng as a rule ralway employees are sober and
no refiection on the engineers or officers rellable; but occasionally you find. amongst
1 want to
of any railway company. I bave not the tbem some who takre liquor.
allgbtest doubt that our railway companies maire the penalty so, serions that hotel
try to get the best men available, and tu keepers will flot supply liquor to such men.
avoid employing people addicted to the use
Hon. Mr. KERR-I sbould like to call ato! intoxicating liquor. But that does not
tention to the very sweeping character of
reach the people wbo supply Ilquors to railthe legisiation the hon, gentleman le proway employees. We 'want to reacb those
The contention of the hon. genposlng.
who seli the liquor. The penalty provided
tleman la that the hotel keeper, from
In the statute does not exceed $50, and It
his knowledge of the business, would be
ls left to the discretion of the maglstrat* llkely to know wbo bis custoiners are;
to reduce It, so that a fine of twenty-five but the language used in the BU! Is%'Any
cents and Imprisonment for ten minutes ln person.'
Supposing a railway employee
jail would meet the requirements of the law. wbule on duty meets wlth an accident, and
31y bon. friead from VIctoria division (Hon. a doctor prescribes and gives hlm lîquor
Mr Cioran) would amend the clause by lu- for the purpose of reviving hlm, under this
serting the word ' knowingly.' Those who Bill a magîstrate wonld be obllged to imoel tbe Ilquor must know wbat tbey are pose the penalty provided ln this clause.
doing.
In ail cases wbere yon are dealing wlth a
Hon. Mfr. CLORAN-How wlll they question of this kind, sometblng should be
know?
left to the dîscretion of the presiding
But there is no qualification
Hon. Mfr. MeMULLEN-Railway empioy- magistrate.
If any person,
e have to weàr a badge, and It Is a notice at ail about this clause.
to everybody that tbey are la the employ under any cîrcumstances, gîves intoxicatlug
On a former liquor to a rallway employee wbile on
of the railway company.
occasion. I mentloned the circumstances at- duty, he is liable to thîs severe penalty.
tending the unfortunate accident whicb Where a man has been endeavourlng to
happened at the Horsesboe Curve, near To- act the part of a good Samaritan there
It was run ouglit to be an opportunity giving discretion
ronto, to un excursion train.
so, rapidly on the curve that the cars left to the magistrate to Impose a lIgbt fine
The section men at that point or relleve the accused o! the penalty altothe track.
The law Is severe enougb now,
were go scared wben they saw the speed gether.
and there Is nothing to be gained by makat whicb the train was striking that curve
that they felt sure an accident would hap- iag it too drastic.
pen and they not only left the track but
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I sbould like to
climbed over the fonce and went into the ask the -bon, gentleman wbo has introduced
There Is a the Bill wbetber before submitting Lt to
feld to be out of the way.
generai suspicion that the mau Who wss the House he bas made an Investigation
running that train was under the Influence into-the subject to Eind what bas been the
of liquor.
effect o! the operation of the present law?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It couid not be other- Is there any complaint that It bas been
w ise.
difficult to secure conviction, or that, If
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-He admitted prosecutions 'have been followed by cona!terwards that while at Owven Sound liE viction, they have not been effective in
stopping the evil. or have there been prosehad a glass o! beer.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

FEBRUA1IY 12, 1908

303

Now, If It operation of the Bill betore the coininittee,
cutions at aIl to any extent?
should be f ound that under the exlsting If It became law; and If the hon. gentleman
law It l3ad been difficuit to secure convic- will look at section 413 of the Raiiway Act
tions, where the minimum fine le lef t he wll flnd that that conductor was lhable
of the inagletrate, to a penalty of $400, or lmprisonment for
to the discretion
Consequently, the
it le reasonable to suppose that It five years, or to botb.
wlll be harder to get convictions wlth Bill before the committee ls not at aIt
the fine and term of lmprleonment s0 necessary to my mind ln the case to whiob
'2hegreatly increased; and If you put In the the hon, gentleman has referred.
word «'knowingly,' you wonld neyer per- story about the liquor, as I understand,
My vlew le was that it -ias given by some passenger
haps get a conviction at ail.
that very considerable discretion ehould be on the train, and the probabilities are that
He xnlgbt be per- next morning tbe. passenger would be ln
Ieft to the magistrate.
fectly satlsfied and clear ln hie own mind another province and could not be got at.
that the liquor wae sold, and sold know- Then, wlth respect to the untortunate acIngly; but there might etili be some cident wbich happened near Owen Sound,
grounds for doubt, or In the case of the one cen see-and I do not say It ln any
liquor belng given away, some doubt as to unfriendly spirit-that the hon, gentleman
the Intention of the party glving, or bis from Wellington was rather disposed to.
knowledge of the person being an actual tblnk that that conductor had been drinkWhen these considerations ing; but there le no evIdence tbat he had
employee.
Is It
would be present ln the mmnd of the magie- been drlnking, as I understand.
Impose a very not possible the conductor mlgbt have had
trate, he would probably
light fine; but If you make the minimum an attack of temporary lnsanity, or that
penalty $25. where these consîderations hie nerves may have completely collapsed.
would be impressed upon the mmnd of the Sncb things have happened, and It has
magistrate, he wIll be almoat certain to been suggested that the conductor les not
refuse to convict at aIl. It would be very the man who rune the train, but It Ie the
Âny one wbo k-nowe the duties
Important for this House to know as near- engineer.
ly as possible-for there are, no doubt, of a locomotive engineer le aware thet
statistica on the eubject-nhat prosecutions engineers, partlcularly when they get a
have there been for the violation of the little bit on ln lite, are very apt to havelaw whicb we now have on the statute tbeir nerves broken down.
books, and what was the resuit of the
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I thlnk the eviWere convictions obtained?
prosecutione.
dence ln the case referred to was tbat
And to what extent did tbey represthe air brake would not work on the train.
whether these liquor deaiers contlnued to
I do not thlnk there wae any suggestion
furnieh liquor to the employees ln defiance
that the enineer was lntoxicated, but the
I Imagine that If. they were
of the law.
air would not act on the brakes coming,
convicted and the penalty was large; the
down the steep grade.
practice wonld be repreesed; but If the
penalty were small tbey mnight go at It
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I was about to ask
The object we aIl bave le to the hon. gentlpman from Wellington If he
over again.
prevent the sale of lîquors to railway men was in a position to give us a report on
That is our oh- the coroners Inquest that was held ln rewhen tbey are on duty.
ject; but whetber that object wIll not be gard to the Horseshoe accident, and If
better served by the law as it stands, than the coroner's jury state that it was owing
It would be by a law fixing a larger pen- to the drunkennees of the engineer, conducalty, I am not at ail clear.
He has
tor, brakemien or employees ?
hon. gen- dwelt upon that, as a reason why he IntroHon. Mr. POWER-I tblnk the
tleman from Assinibola probably bad not duced thie Bill or desired to make the
adverted to the tact that the case of the penalty more severe. It seeme to me tha t
conductor of whom he bas told the House If we pase this Bill, we ehall Impair good
-and wlth whom be had, a very unple.a- legislatlou now upon the statute-book. At
sent experience-would flot corne nunder thE the present time It is let t, to a considerable

SENATE
extelît, iii tlie diseretioi, Of tue nliagistralte

to tix the amoulît of the fine lu case of
violation of the laîr. Are you going to take
awity froni tie inagistrates, an inteltigent
set of nmen, ail discretion iu these m.atters?
I kunow ttiat in Ontario ttie magistrates ex-ercise good judgment in dcciding wbettier
the penalty shaît tic large or sanl. There
are nmnny circunistances under which tic
,engineer, conductor, brakeman or ottier
enîploycc on the rond mnay have met wlth
an accident, or ttiey may bave been a long
time on tîxe ronad and their healtti andi
streîîgtb. to a certain extent, Is lmpalrcd.
Would the hon, gentleman say that ini sucti
a came the employee should flot have a stUmulant of some klnd ? Woiild be have
that man continue on the train until tic
fainted. rather than gire hlm haif a wlneglass or a thimbleful of stimulant ? Tthis
Bill absolî,tcly prerents a physiclan froin
givlng a drop of tiquor. Is it a reasonable
ttîing to pass a taw of that description?
Is the hon, gentleman so lnhuman. Is there
suech a lack of humanlty ln hlm that lic
%vould make ttiis mani suifer for a lcngtli
of tUe rather than allowr hlm tIquor eren
as a medicîne ? Who are the people tii
look aftcr the sobriety of their employees?
Does the bon. gentleman not know that the
ralroads have as great an intcrest lni
the sobrlety of their cmployees and canethe runnhng
fut attention given to
of the cars as a magistrate, or the
lion, gentleman or bis Bill can posslbly
have.? The company are belti responsib1e
for ailthVe losses and ail the accidents that
mnay occur, andi as far as my knowledge
gocs, ln order to protect theniseires tbcy
employ only gooti mcen. If au engineer,
brakemnan, fireman or conductor bas been
fonuid lu an lntoxicated condition, they at
once disiniss hlm. I lire ini a railroad city,
andi tiere the eunployees of the raitroati are
aftraid to be- seen lu a bar-room or place
wirere liquor is sotd, and wtîy ? It is no,
on account of the penalty of twenty-fivc or
fifty dollars, but because ttiey are afrairl
of losing their situation upon the raitroail.
Ttîey have an interest ini that îvay ini avoiçllu.- tiquor, and the ralîroais thare un itîtetest lu seeing that erery one of their cm-

l)laced uponi the statute-books ? Wou1d they
nînke the rallroati coîpauies more careful
to, see ttîat they bave honest meti in their
euîpioy, or restrain the men froin taking
liquor of any kind beeause they are liable
to be fined ? I do not beliere that. 1 lieliere we hiad better let weti euough atone.
If there bas been no prosecution under
the existiug law, wtio Is to blame ? We
know thiat recently there tbave been prosecations and men found violatiug the law
are punishied for It; and they are punistied
bon. friend fromn
by the courts of law. M-Ny
Hastings ï3ays, 01>i ttiey are sent to mail
and stay there a tittle while, and then they
are allowed to go out 011 suspended sentence.'
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWEL-I diti
flot 811.) that.
Hon. 31r. WILSON-I admire the lion.
gentleman froni Hastings for wanting ant
opportunity to make an attack on the gorWe ail sympathize
eniment of the day.
We ait know
wltlî hlm on that accounit.
that hie feets very keen about it, and
anxlous to get an opportunlty, and seizes
tbat opportuntty, and rubs lt ini to the
utmiost of bis ablitty ; and I confess that
tic bas any amount of abllity lni that Une.
I have suffered froin
I know hlm of old.
his attacks before now, and I know full
1 say ttîat if the
well what they mnua.
amendment suggc-sted by hiîn should be
placed upon the statute-book, it wttt flot
have the destreti effect :therefore I siiould
tic opposed to vottng ini farour of the Bilt
even as amended, and I thiuk we stiould
let the taw on ttîe statute book remain as
It Is at present.
lIon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
govrnment Is quite safe as long as they
thave the lion, gentleman to defend ttîem.
Hon. Mr. WAT$SON-I
committee rise.

miove that ttîe

Hon. Mr. (LORAN-I shoulti tike to
endorse tie suggestion of the bon. gentleHe lias a legal nuind.
man froni Toronto.
andi knows wliat the effeet of it in courts
H-e Is perfectty niglht iii that iuwill be.
ptoyees shoulti strictty observe thc lawv. 'MY tert)retation of ttîe law. andi I wil to
lion. fricnd fromn Hastinîgs introduces amend- eml)tiasize once miore titat I an not agatnst
nients. Wtîat effect %voutti tlîev have if the object of the Bill; but 1 sliould like
1-lt. Mr. WILSON.

FEBRUJARY 12. 1908
t'he henourable 1-oiise te draft a law that
weuld be applicable, and ceuld be made te
apply, and which would net be set asîde
by the judges of the country. I call attention te the werding of the clause, wblcb
gays :
Every one whe seils, gives or bartere any
spiritnus or intexicating liquorIt mny be your mether, your aunt or a
hotel keeper, or somebedy else, and he will
be liable under the law. It le an emnibus
law that cannot be applied by the courts.
It gays
Every person who selis, gives or barters any
spiritueus or intoxicating liquor to or with
any servant or employee of the cempany
while on duty.
If I understand Mr. Shaughnessy's positien, he ls on duty twenty-four heurs a
day, pretty much. He le an employee and
servant cf the Company, and If a botel
keeper selle hlm a glass ef lîquer he le
lable te a fine or lmprlsonment, and Mr.
C. 'M. Hays le ln the same position. There
ls ne distinction between Mr. Rays and
«Mr. Sbaugbnessy or any other employee of
a rallway Comnpany.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-The bon, gentleman shouid have rend the Act before he
He eugbt te know better-a
sald that.
itead
man whe claims te be a lawyer.
the Act.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I wlll argue the
matter before the magistrate, and he wll
They are al
have te admit I amn rlgbt.
employees, and the magistrate will eay that
they are empieyees and servants of the
Yeu eugbt te mention the men
company.
te wbcm It le prehiblted te sell liquor.
Yeni sbculd mention by whom it sbould
net be gîven; that la hotel keepers and unTis lb an omnibus Bill
llcensed. venders.
whlcli the courte will net apply. Yeu say
They wll
'any servant ef the Company.'
What judge ln the counnet appiy that.
try wlll sentence a poor man, or ask a
hotel keeper te be eentenced te a years
Imprîsonment and five hundred dollars fine
because he bas gîven a glass ef beer to a
man wbo bas been working on the train
fer a long period cf time?
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-lt le already
Whant le the use et talklng ln
the law.

What way for nothing.
It le already the
Law, and ibis le simply lncreasing the fine.
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-It le too much te
make the lmprisonment one year, and It le
1 arn
toc much te maire the fine $100.
prepared te make It a year's Imprisonment
witheut a fine, If he 'wll make It apply
to every hetel keeper, lcensee, or nonlUcensee who selle lquor to an emplovee
on a runnlng train, and name themn, and
then the courts wlll apply the law and
wlll have ne dlfficulty ln dolng so.
Hon. Mr. 8COTT-The arguments I have
Iietened te have been addressed cblefly te
the exletlng clause, and net te the present
ameadment, because the proposedl amendment reducee the fine and Impriecamient ln
the hope that If It were reduced It mlght
be paseed and put Into operatlen. A cae
bas been brought forward wbere the magletrate turned the Act Into ridicule by a
twenty-five cent fine and ten mlnutes
lmprisonment. The object le te avold auy
discreditable act of that klnd. We know
that there are magistrates and, sometimes
judges, who are net ln sympatby with the
temperance movement, whe think that, aiter
ail, a man la a geod fellow and may «take
a bora'1 now and then, and wlll net Impose
a fine on the man who Indulges. The object cf the amenument la te make the Act
effective. It le there fer a very gcod reason. It le there at the instance cf the
raiiway- authorities, and they censîder It
le essential that an Act cf that klnd .should
be paseed, because It le neterleus that ln
past years there were always saloons ln
the neigburbeed cf rallway stations, and
the saloon man ceunted largely on the business he get from the men connected wlth
1 can speak wltb semee
the ralireade.
knowledge on that subject. I tblnk the
experience cf the laet fcrty yeare will justlfy me ln making that statement. It bas
been held in terrer by the ralway authorlthe constant Induceties because there 1%
Ment te give a man a glass cf liquor, or
perbape two or three glasses. The necesslty for thîs statute bas been prcved over
and over agala and It remains as part of
the law cof thîs country. The Senate le
asked whether they will makre It more
effective by reduclng bots the penalty and
the fine. It dees net seem te me that $25

REVISED EDITION

S E-NATE

*Hom,
muchi loiver would bon. gentlemen make
it ? Would you make it five or ten dollars ? The opportunity for turning it into
ridicule la qulte apparent on the face of it,
and I think that 'with the aniendment of
the hon, gentleman from Hastings the Iam,
wili be a better one, and very much more
effective.

I-Ioni. Mr. WIATSON-No, I do not tliink
There are no boats running on
there 15.
the South Saskatcbewanl at the present
Uie, but If the Saskatchewan is a navigable stream the government will protect
the navigation.

Hon. Mr. MéSWEENEY-I second the

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The banka are
ivery high ln the Saskatchewan river.

is too lhigli for the minimum fine.

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-What about the
Is that prooverflowing of the lands?
It will dam a
vided for ln the Bill?
The CHAIRMAN-It bas been moved by large amount of water wbich wlll overflow
Is there any provision for
the hon, gentleman from Portage la Prai- the bankU.
tbat?
rie that the committee rise.
motion.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWDILL-Is
Hon- Mr. McMULLEN-The House wlI
motion carnies It thus the counterpart of tihe Bill that was
understand that If the
before the committee ast year, asklng for
kills the Bill.
extraordinary powers and wblch was reThe committee divided on the motion tu jected ?
rise, whicb xvas carried on the following
That was
Hon. Mr. POWER-No.
division :
Conmee's Bill the hon, gentleman is thliikYeas 23, nays 13.
Ing of.
The commlttee rose.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If it interferes wlth
SASKATCHEWAN POWER COMPANY navigation, the consent of the Minister of
BILL.
Pnblic Works should be obtained, of
course?
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. WATSON--Yes.
Hon. Mr. WATSON (in the absence of
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Hon Mr. Davis) moved the second reading
An Act to Incorporate the Sas- was read the second time.
of Bill (O)
katchewan Power Company, Limited.
DOMINION LAÂND SURVEYORS BILL.
Hon. Mr. POWER-We bave had some.REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
thing to do witb anotber power company
wblch undertook to deal witb the SasThe House resolved itself Into Commnittee
katchewan river. That la one of the great o! the Whole on Bill (9) An Act respecting
railways of this country, and 1 tblnk the the surveys of the public lands of the Dohon, gentleman wbo moved the second read- minion and the surveyors entitled to make
lng owes a duty to the House, to explain sucli surveys.
mast wbat the character of this Bill la.
(In the Committee.)
Hon. Mr. WATSON-This Company asks
On clause 22,
power to build a dam on the Saskatchewan
river at or near Saskatoon. They make
22. Every person who ia dnly qualified by
diploma or commission
provision in the Bill for tbe passage of certificate,lands in any part of Ris as a surMajesty's
of
main objeet veyor
steamboats or timber. The
dominions and who lias at least two years'
o! the Bill is to ereet a dam there for thse practice either as a snrveyor or as a pupil
which. practice at least six
purpose o! developing a hydraulic power. to a surveyor, (of in the field), shall ho enmonths lias been
I thlnk aIl the precautionas that are neces- titled to obtain a commission as a Dominion
on passing an examination in
sary for tbe purpose of protecting prîvate land surveyor as are prescribed by this Act
sucli subjects
will be provlded for lu the Blill. for the examination of candidates for adinterests
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-18
there now ?
Hon. Mnr. SCOTT.

mission as

rticled pupils and for commis-

there navigation sions as Dominion land surveyors, and on

his producing an affidavit fromn a Dominion

FEBRUARY 12, 1908
land surveyor in forrn C in the sehedule to
this Act, together with his own affidavit in
form D in the schedule to this Act, that hie
has, in addition to the service aforesaid,
served for one year with snobi surveyor, inclusive of at least six months' actual praotics with him in the field.
2. If, in order to become s0 qualified ini
such part of His Majesty'e dominions, snobi
person has passed in any subjeet or subjeots
an examination sufficiently similar in the
opinion of the board to the examination prescribed. by this Act in the same subjeet or
sbctthe board may, in its discretion,
dipnesuch person from further examination in sncb subject or subjects.
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRIN-I should Uike te
cail attention te the fact that this clause
This lu a
was net In the Bill laet year.
new clause Intreduced this year, and I do
not tblnk that It la an Improvement or
that lt should reinain in the Bill. I would
therefore move, seconded by the bon. gentleman fromn Toronto, that that clause be
struck out.

306,

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There have been ne
incidents et the kind. No applicant han
ever preeented himseLf, and it le qulte unllkely that anybedy wili.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tben It dees net de
any barm.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, It dees harmn.
It bas created a feeling that we bave been
dlscrimInatlng agaihat the previncial surveyors. The bon. gentleman argued the
other way yesterday.

Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon, gentleman
lu mistaken. The present law says that any
man whe bas bail at least two years practice elther as a surveyor or as a pupil tu
a surveyor shahl be entltled te recelve a
commission as a Dominion land snrveyor
on passlng the examinatien ln sucb subjecte as tbey are prescrlbed la the Act,
&c. New I want te knew if the toreigner
Hon. Mr. POWEÉ-I thlnk the bon. le treated any 9etter than the man from
gentleman In net qulte accurate In bis the provinces 7
I have not last
statement as te the tacts.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There is ne uee lu
year's Bill befere me, but I find that la wasting time dlscussing It, because I have
the Dominion Lands Act, Revlsed Statutes, agreed te let that clause go in deterence
Section 31
thîs saine provision appears.
te the feeling entertalned by the provincial
of the Deminion Lands Act reade as foisurveyors that-we are givlng larger rights
lews
te outsiders than we are givlng te tbem.
E'v*ry person who shows te the satisfacThe clause wad struck eut
tion of the Board of Examinera that
hie has bean duly admitted as a surveyor of
lande in any part of Ris Majestys DomiOu clause 44,
nion other than the provinces of Canada,
44. The townships shaUl be numbered, ini
that lie has had at least two vears' practice
either as surveyor or as a pupil ta a surveyor, regular order, northerly from the interna,of which practice at least six nionths has tional boundary, or ferty-ninth parailel of
been in the field, shall be entitled to a com- latitude, and shall lie in ranges numbered,
mission on passing an examination in such in the province et Manitoba, east and west
subjects as are prescribed by thiq Art for the from a certain meridian line run in the
year oe thousand eight hundred and sixtyexaminEton of candidates, and s0 on.
nine, styled the principal meridian, drawn
It la mast the saine. That lu the law now. northerly from thé forty-ninth parallel. of
latitude at a point ten miles or thereabouts,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have ne objection te westerly from Pembina; and in ranges numbered froi such other initial meridians as
the clause belng struck out, because It le the minister orders te be jestablished, which
rRther discrlminatlng against the standard meridians shall be styled the second, the
se on, accordef provincial surveyers, giving larger privi- third, the fourth meridian, andwestward front
ing te their order in numbler
leges te these eutslde et -Canada than these the principal meridian.
within, and I bave agreed te it being
Heu. Mr. POWER-Â very serleus omisstruck eut.
sion bas been made lu this clause. It apHon. Mir. POWER-I arn very sorry the plies apparently only te the province et
bion. Secretary ef State bas agreed te do Manitoba. The section In the original Act
that, because It ls a very emall piece ef contained these werds, ' And througbout the
business fer the patliament ef Canada to provinces et Saskatchewan and Alberta, the
try te exclude quallfied men 'whe heppen te Nortbwest Territeries and the Yukon Terricorne from othier portions ef the British tory ln ranges.? That le a very Important
omission.
Dominions.
0i

'308

SEINATE

Bill (S) An Act respectiag the Pacifie and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn advIsed. that
these words were dropped intentionally by Atlantic Rallway Company.-(Hon. Mr.
the Department of Justice, considering they Kerr.)
appled generally to the Dominion lands
DELAYBD RETURNS.
west of Manitoba wlthout namlng any particular locallty.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I should like to
know If the hon. Secretar of State bas any
Hon. Mr. POWER-If It says, 'elseof the returns for whlch I have asked this
where then la Manitoba, I admît tbey session, on bis desk.
might be dropped, but If hion. members will
look at the Bill they wll see that thîs
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, 1 arn sorry to say
clause deals with Manitoba. If you say 1 have not. I asked for tbem yesterday and
lanline eleven, 'elsewhere than ln Mani- to-day. Some of the Information bas to
toba' you cover the ground.
be obtalned outslde.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Manltoba is the
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I shal nlot forget
only province lu whlch the townships run those returus, and may bave to ask dally
east and west of tbe meridian. Outside of for Information about tbem.
Manitoba tbe numbers all rua west.
The Senate adjourned untiI 3 p.m. toHon. Mr. POWER-There is no question uiorrow.
about that, but this clause does flot say so.
The clause was aimex4ed as sugg-ested
and adopted.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS from the comimittee reported the Bill wltb amendments wbicb
were concurred lu.

THE SENATE.
OTTAwà,

Thursday February 13,- 1908.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
ALBERTA NORTHRiRN RAILWAY COM- o'clock.
PANY BILL.
Prayers and routine proceedln gs.
SECOND READING.
RAILWAY ACT AMENDME3NT BILL.
Hon. Mr. TALBOT moved the second
REPORTED FROM COMMrrIEE.
readlng of Bill (44) An Act to Incorporate
the Alberta Nortbern Railway Company.
,Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN from the CommitHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is flot tee on Rallways, Telegraphs and Harthis a work wbich les excluslvely wltbia bours, reported Bill (3) An Act to amend
the Railway Act, with amendments.
the province of Alberta ?
He sald: It wll be notlced on readHon. Mr. TALBOT-I belleve It Is; but
ing the amendments, tbat althougb the
to extend it into
the Intention Is eventually
principle of the Bill 15 not changed, aIthe province of British Columbia.
tbough ail the guarantees offered by the
Hon. Sir MAUjKNZIE BOWELL,-Are first Bill sent to the Railway Commlttee
the Kootenay Plains ia British Cohumbia ? have been guarded, some macblnery for
the operation of the Bill bas been provlded
Hon. Mr. TALBOT-Tbey are close to for the rallway board, and, as It Is a matthe boundary between the two provinces.
ter of considerable Importance, It bas been
The motion was agreed to, and tbe Biih suggested te me that this report be taken
Into, consideration on Thursday next lu
was rend a second time.
order to give bon, gentlemen ample opportunlty to look Into it.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bihl (R) An Act respectlag the Manitoulin
and North Shore Rallway Company.-(Hon.
M.Kerr.)
Hon. Mr. POWER.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-This being a public
Bill, wll It be submltted to a Oommlttee of
the Whole Hotise ?

FEBRUAIIY 13, 1908

Hon. Mfr. CASGRIN-It is a public
Bill, and I understand it bas to go to a
Committee of the WbTole House before It
can be read a third time.
Hon. Mfr. SOOTT-a-iiat wili be the next
move.a

1ltIs that the report be taken Into consideraif
the whole house.
t:ion; that is by
bat be the case, and we adhere to the
t
more than
r ules, then no member can speak
An amendment mlgbt be made
nce.
o
vlicn that motion was put, to refer It to
Committee ot the Wbole, and then we
nlgbt discuss It.
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRIN-At present the
)nly motion before the Honse la that this
.,eport be taken Into consideration next
L'hursday. Atter consideration, If It should
be. concurred ln, the Senate can take the
next step and refer it to a Committee of
the Whole House.

Hon. Mfr. OLORAN\-Ik discusslng thisr
Bill, dld the committee take Into consideration, anticipatlng the amendment proposed<
la the Bill coming from the House of Oommons, the question wbether the raiiways
have sufficient time to put into execution
tbe will of this House and the other Chamber.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Wby flot refer it at
Hon. 'Mr. OASGLAIN-I may say the
there. Ail the once ?
railways were represented
raliroads were -represented by one lawyer,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--If you
Mfr. Chrysier, and he made no protest.
take it Into consideration, and adopt the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Did tbey think of report, there la an end of it.
it?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Tbie simple commonact they sense way -%vould be to refer It to a ComHon. Mfr. CASGRAIN-Infl
mittee of the Whole House, 'witb the reseemed to accept the amendment.
commendation of the Railway Oommittee.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Is the motion
Hon. Mfr. KERR-Tbe rule on the subthat lt shall be taken Into consideration. on
of the Ject la the 88th.
Thursdny next by the Committee
Wiiole House?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-What I understand
Mfr. POIRIER-No, by the House. the House wisbes to do Is, to refer the Bill
Hlon.
to a Committee of the Whole.
Hon. Mfr. WILSON-MIght I ask theh'on.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-We are dealing
chairman If this motion embraces not only
of the report 0f the com- -with a public Bill, and a publie Bill, as a
the adoption
mIttee by the House, but also a motion rule, ia not referred to a special committee'
House.
that the Bill, being a public measure, wil but to a Committee of the Who]e
a spebe considered la a Committee of the Now that you have referred It to
cli committee, I submit that the report
Wbole?
of the committee sbouid be taken Into conHon. Mfr. POWER-Certainly.
sideration. either by the Senate or by a
Committee of the Whole House. -My mnoHon. -Sir MACKENZIE BOWEIJL-No,
tion la that tbe report be taken lnto conthat la not the motion before the Chair.'
sideration. by the Senate on Thursday next.
was asking the
Hon. Mfr. WILSON-I
Hon. Mr. WILSON-If that motion is
hon. gentleman If his motion would em- simply to apply to the amendments made
brace both?
to tbe Bill, then If we adopt that motion
BOWELI,--I and the amendments made by the Rallway
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
and the Bill
would suggest, to meet the views of the Coxnmittee sbould be accepted,
amendf passes as amended, it la flot submitting It
House, that my bon. friend -would
bis motion that It be referred to a commit- to a Committee of the Wbole House.
tee of the Whole House, Instead of inaking
Hon. Mfr. POWER-Every public Bill bas
a motion for the adoption of the report. to go to a Committee of the Whole House,
If I understood the motion made by the and wben the report cornes Up on Thurshou. Chairman of the Railway Committee,

310

SENATE

day, the bon. gentleman may moye that t lion. chairman of the committee bas a riglit
be concurred In. it is taken into considera- to move it, I tbink lie sbould do so. It la
lion, and then the natural motion, and one bis duty, ln view of the expression of opi.
whlch I think Is necessary, is that the Bill nion.
and.the report of the committee be referred
Hon. Mr. POWER-We are flot supposed
to a Committee of the Wbole House.
to know wbat the committee bas really rewltb
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Thie suggestion ported. The regular tblng Is to deal
the date
made by the bon. Secretary of State wou]d tbe report of the committee on
and then we can deal
cover the ground, that the Bill and report fixed by the House,
be referred to a Commlttee of tbe Whole, wltb everythlng.
The hon. senator from Halifax bas stated
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-We bave beard froin
the mIle quite correctly wben lie says that tbe chiairman of tbe commlttee that the
every publie Bill should be sent to a Coin- Bill bas been reported with amendments.
mittee of the Wbole; but this Bill was not The Bill bas, therefore, corne back to the'
treated wltb tbat courtesy last year, and a Hou se.
motion to send It to a Committee of the
Tbe SPEAKER-I bave to put the motion
Whole was voted down witb the bon. genHowever, different whicb bas been placed in my banda, but I
tleman's assistance.
views prevail now, and I agree with the feel that it will involve two discussions
hon. gentleman that the Bill having been wbere but one la needed If the motion is
read the second Urne by this House, must, adopted. If the report of tbe connnittee la
when it cornes back from the Standing taken Into, consideration by the House and
Committee, go to a Committee of the Wbole adopted, whist would hie the object in sentiHouse, and by adoptlng the suggestion of ing It to a Committee of the Wbo]e ? The
the bon. Secretary of State we can get it motion ahould bave been that thie Bill bc
cominitted to a Commnittee of the Wbole
tbere at once.
House on Tbursday next for consideration,
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Suppose thiat lnstead but there la a point of order.
of moving that this report lie taken into
wlll move anl
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I
consideration on Thursday next, the motion
amendment.
were, as is usually the case. that lt bc
taken into consideration to-day ?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-HavIng acted as godwould fatber to the BiHon. Mr. POWER-Tbe motion
Hion. Mr. POWER-Stepfatbier.
be ruled out of order.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-The report would
bave to be taken into consideration of the'
wbole House, and the House migbt refer
lt back to the Speclal Committee, or accept
It and refer it to a Commlttee of the Whole;
but the fact that tbe consideration of this
BIUl la postponed until Thursday does not
alter in any degree the usual procedure ID
similar cases. Therefore, the motion of tbe
chlrmanIs perfectly ln order, mast as much
in order for Tbursday next as It would
undoubtedly bie If no objections had beei%
ralsed, and had be moved tbat the report
lie taken Into consideration immediately.

Hou. Mr. YOUNG-I said the other day
tbat tbe Bill la ln tbe bands of the Housý,
snd sbould bie referred to a special coirnittee wbicb seema to lie the desire ou
hiothi aides of tbe House. Hnd that motion
not prevailed, the ordinary motion would
bave been to refer it to a Commnittee of
the Wbole House. To solve tbe difficulty,
the suggestion made by His Hoflour the'
Speaker la qulte proper, and 1 give notice
that I wll move on Tbursday next that
tbe House resolve ltself Into a Committee
of the Whiole on the report of the Railway
Committee upon this Bill.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I quite agree with
the leader of tbe governinent, tbiat it is
Just as well now to satisfy the House that
the Bill shall go to a Committet' of the
Whole without any p)rocedurlie, and if tho

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I wlll not give notice of motion, but I now move, ns anl
amendment, that thils report bie referred
to a CommIttee of tbe WbVole House on
Thursday next.

FEBRUARY 13, 1908
H-on. Mr. ELLIS-Courtesy would require that the Houee itseit shouid take1
some notice of the report of the committee.
Wiiatever inconvenience it may entail, that
ls the proper course to proceed on. When
that motion le disposed of, we cen do as
ive please. The tact that there may be
two discuseions should flot Interfere wlth
followIng the ordinary course.

311

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-And then uniy can
It le premature to go as
t be declded.
far as le euggested by tbe motion.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-In answer to the
point of order, I will tell my hon. friend
that the House la la possession of the report as soon as the order o! the C3hair le
givea that tbe report be read at the table.

Hon. Mr. POIRIF>)R--Oh, no.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If the report le to be
talcen up firet, the Houee je committed. to
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-The House le ln
The Chaîrman
the report If the m;jority adopt it, anu possession of the report.
wlmt le the use of golng into committee at- brings lu the report and the Speaker ascerterwards. Certainiy the true way le to re- tains the will of the House, and oraers that
fer the Bill and the report to a Commlttee te report be brought iu.
of tue Whole House. Nobody le tled up by
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-And then the questixat.
tion le, shall the report be adopted.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I consider that the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want to explain
ameudment is out of order. Before we can îuy poiat'0f order, and I do not want anysend the Bill to a committee, elther of the body to interfere.
I kuow wbat I have
whole or a standing committee, it must to sny, and I do not Intend to say what
be taken lnto coneideration, and the amend- the lion, gentleman wants me to say. The
ment slmply overiaps the main motion report le at the table, and next comes a
and lu nxy opinion le decidedly out of order. motion that the report be consldered at a
WVhetber the consideratlon le postponed un- future day; but It la i the possession of
tii Thursday next, or the usual course, the House.
The House, knowlug that the
which le propoeed now, le foliowed, the conslderation of that report la to resuIt In
House muet take possession of the Bill, a decision that it be referred bacic to the
wbicb we have not doue. Then the second commlttee, may give the order imuiedlately
etep, lu my view of It, from what littie that It be referred to a commlttee.
experience I have had, would be decldediy
Hon. Mr. REIQUE-Does the motion lu
out of order. We have to taire posseseeion
of the Bill, aud then refer It back to the ameudment not amount simply to, this:
commlttee; the Committee of the Whole that ln effect when this report be taken
reject it or pass It, or do wbatever they lnto consideration, it be considered by a
That le
choose wlth lt; but before doing that we Committee of the Whoie House?
vlrtually the effect, and the motion ln
munst take possession of it.
That la the
amendment le premature.
.Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-We are ail agreed,
eff ect of IL.
I thin. rliat ti.ls Bill ulthnmately will have
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-WhVea the motion
to be denit with by thls House lu a Commlttee 0f thie Whole, and It seeme to me would be made to refer it back to a comthat we are wasttng a good deal of time -mlttee, what le the conclusion to be drawn
It bas to come to the same conHowever, I tblnk the there?
over the questiou.
The report clusion, paslug it out o! the handzi of the
point of order le well taken.
of tbe commîttee le before us, and the first House to refer lt to a committee.
question to decide le that it shah be conHon. Mr. FE'RGUSON-I thlnk fhe point
Tben after that of order le not well taken.
sldered by the House.
The motion
bas been decided, the motion le that It la that It be referred for the consîderatlon
shalh be considered on such a date; and of the Honse. We certalnly have It ln our
the next question le whether It shall be possession before we can say, do that wlth
considered lu the House by a Commlttee It; and the ameudment le that It shall be
of. the Whole.
taken Into consîderation 'by a Committee 0f
the Wbole House. We have just as much
Hon. 'Mr. POIRIER-ThRt is my view.

312

SENATE

right to say now that we shall do one as
the other, and if we set it down for consideration by the whole House, it would
be realiy negativing the position that it
could be sent to the committee at ail, be-t
-cause we are determinlng that it is to be
considered by the House, whicb means that
it shail flot be considered by a Commlttee
of the Whole; but If we agree to the amnendment, it simpiy says that we send the
Bill to be considered lu a Committee of the
whole instead of being considered by the
House.

Hon. Mr. POWER-He
week's notice.

has given

a

Hon. Mr. LAND'RY-But he is making
We are voting on the
he motion now.
itseif. That Is not a notice. We
question
are votmng on the motion made by my
He
bon. friend, without a day's notice.
s making the motion to mefer the report
back to the House, to consider It at a
He Is not giving a notice of
future day.
motion.

Hon. Mr. 10UNG-Hle moves that it be
It not oniy gives
set down for that day.
Hon. Mr. POWERt-I wlsh .to say a you one day's notice, but gives you eight
word ou the question of order raised by days.
1
the hon. gentleman from ýStadacona.
Hon. Mm. LÂNDRY-I wili go further.
direct the attention of tbe Speaker to mile
I will not raise that objection. I suppose
24, wbich says :
do that.
One day's notice must be givea of any of my hon. friend bas a right to
But look at rule 25 wblch says :
the following motions, &c.:
No notice is required for any of the folloivAnd paragraph 'b' says:
ing motions:
For the adoption of a report, not merely
(a) By way of amendment to a question.
formai in its character, fromi any standing
committee.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL - i
should like to cal! the attention of t4e
The hon. gentleman from De Lanaudière,
Speaker of the House to the fact that Nve
presented the report, and he gave notice,
are getting to be something hike a bear
under paragraph 8, for, the consideration
garden, and 1 shouid like to cal! to, the
of the report on Thursday next. The hou.
attention of lny bon. fmlend, who Is a great
gentleman from Stadacona, wlthout any
under al
a motion stickher for miles and order, that
notice, moved In amenament
the mules that govern deiiberative bodies,
whilh undertook to deal wlth the report.
he bas no right to, enter into any discusYou cannot do that under paragraph 'h.*'
sion between two members of the body.
The report cannot be considered la any
If a member Is Interrupted, he must adway by the House unless the necessary
dress the House and not the individual. %V('
notice bas been given, and then, to conhave got into the habit of taiking to endi
firm that-It does not dlrectly bear on the
other just the same as In ordinamy couverquestion-lt is the same direction, parasation. But, going back to the point, thei'e
graph Id.'
bas been a great deal of discussion ov'î*
For the consideration of substantiai amend- a very littie matter which inight have been
-meuts made in a public Bill by a Coînmittee
The motion
decided without difficuity.
of the Whole.
made by the hion. -gentleman who IntroIf we undertake, without deaiing wlth duced the question is quite regular, andl
the report fnrther, to go to a Committee quite ln order. He presents n report of a
of the Whole House, I think we are dolng committee. The practice bas been, If no
somethlng we cannot do under the miles. objection Is taken, that It be considered
Hlon. Mm. 'LANDRY-I' answem the conat once; but there being au amendment
tention of rny hon. fiend by quoting the moved to this motion. the hon, gentleman
It says:
maie.
gives notice that bic wlIhI move that it be
One day's notice must be given of any of taken into consideratiofi; that Is, that the
the following motions
Bil! and the amendment be taken into couThen paragraph 'h ' says:
sidemation on a certain day next week.
For the adoption of a report, &c.
When the motion is put by the chair, 1
take It for granted the hon. gentieni'
notice?
Where Is the one day's
Hon. Mr. FERGIJSON.

FEBRUJARY 13. 1908
fi-Gin Stadacona eau then move that the
words be struck out, and that it be referred
to a Comimittee of the Wh1ole for consideratiou, and then, when tbe Commlttee of the
Whole are discussing the matter, as we are
prlv!leged to do, we can speak a doze.i
times If we like, but If the inatter 15 taken
Into consideration by the Senate, we eau
only speak once. Then, when the committee reports, the House wouid have to, adopt
or rejeet the Bill. So that to my mmnd
the motion is quite lu order, and when t
is taken up for consideration, tbe hon. gentlemnan froin Stadacona or myseif or anyonîe else eau miove that it be flot considered
at that moment by the House or that it
be referred to a Coimittee of the Whole,
and then the Huse eau discuss the matter.
Hon. 1fr. CLORAN-I agree iargeiy with
wliat bas been said by the bon, gentleman,
but I will put out a d4fficuIty immediateiy.
When the bion. chairman of the Railway
Committee neit week.
Hon. 1fr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I risc
to, a point of -order. The hon, gentleman
bas spoken tweaty times on an unimportant
matter. If each hion. gentleman bad sImpir
spoken once, the question would have been
settled before now. I hope the bon. speaker
wiii keep us ln order.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-If 1 amrn ot ln order,
everybody else bas been out of order.
The SPEAKER-I confess-and I wlill
leave it to the House-thiat I cannot recail
that the hon, gentleman from Victoria
spoke after the amendment was put by
the hon, gentleman from Stadacona.
Hon. Mfr. CLORAN-I have not ipoken.
Hon. Mfr. POIRIER-I eall for the décision of the chair on the amendment
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I rise to a point
of order. I dld flot make any motion. 1
only gave a notice of motion. There eaunot be any ameadment to, tbat.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Tbat
change.

is

quite

a

Hon. Mr. CASGRIN-I have been trying to, explain, but could not get a word
ln edgeways.

313

Hoa Mfr. POIRIER-I shall insist uponi
the chair rendering a decision on the question as to whetlier an amendment cau be
moved to a notice of motion as my hon.
friend froui Stadacona suggests.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-I neyer knew of
a notice being given on a motion of this
kind. ît follows ln due course.
Hon. Mfr. CLOltAN-The lion. gentiemait
from Hastings...
Hou. MEiMBEItS-Order, order.
Hou. Mr. CLOIIAN-Order wiii be ohtained i'heni xy vxewvs are piaced before
the House The hon, gentleman from Hastings bas stated that the chairman of the
couirittee bad a perfect rIght to do wbat
lie did. Nobody disputes that. He had a
riglit to do ivhat hie dld do; but wbat this
House bas a right to do is to, upset what he
wants to do, and that.notwlthstandlng bis
pretention that hie bas not made a motion.
Hle bas giveil notice that on a certain day
certain Bis shalh be considered. That notice eau oniy be passed la thils House by
a vote w-hîch wiii be put by the cbair lu
* f-v moments. Thierefore, this Is a motitun. The lion. gentleman f rom Hastings
stalt.j that the House would lose nothiug
of its privileges or rights by aiiowing the
motion to go, and on Tuiesday next or
'Thuirsdal next wben the matter comes up.
aun' nember wouid have a right to move
that Jt be referred to a Committee of the
WI-ole.. That is right but we ]ose our
priviiege and we lose our right when the
hon, gentleman from De Lanaudière wiii
makLe bis motion next Thursday. and no
meut ber can speak more than once; and If
lie ]tas enougb supporters of this Bill ln
tlie borise to prevent the blouse froua goInr!
Into Committee of the Whole we cannot
speak any more so that when the bon. gentleman from bastings says we lose nothing
by allowing this motion to go I contend
on the contrary that we lose a great deal.
we lose the opportunity of discussing It
upon Its merits. We hold that notwithstanding the point of order raised by thc
hon, gentleman from New Brunswick, this
motion does not require two days' or any
other notice. Under rule 25 lie bas the
right to make the motion.

SENATE
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I rise to
tion of order. I submit that there la
before the House for discussion,
wouid like the ruling of the chair
question.

n quesTherefore, our mile says dlstinctly that
nothing one day's notice must be given, and the
and I lion. chairman cannot do otherwise.
He
on that must glve a notice of motion, and we caunot discuss the BIII.
My hon. frlend from
The SPEAKER-There is a point of the west very properly sald that this disorder raised by the hion. gentleman from cussion was not proper, because there was
Shediac against the motion made by the no motion before the Flouse, merely a
notice of motion, which must necessarlly
hon, gentleman from Stadacona.
be oniy a notice of motion by the mules
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-You cannot amend of the Hlouse.
a notice of motion.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is that the adoption
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I wishi to get of the report?
back to the original cause of the discusHon. Mr. POIRIER-No.
He gives
Sion. If there was not anythlng before the
notice that It wlil be taken into consideraHlouse to whlcli an amendment could be
tion on Thursday next, as lie must do.
moved or a notice of amendment could be.
given, It must become manifest that ail
lIon.
Mr.
DeBCFUOHIERVILLE-The
the subsequent motions or notices of mo- lion. gentleman gave notice of a motion.
tion must fail to the ground.
The SPEAKER-He put it la tlie form of
The SPEAKER-I mny state thiat I have, a motion.
before me a motion and an ameadment 1
Hon. Mr. CLO)RAN-I nave just one
bave a motion by the hon, gentleman from
word moreDe Lanaudière.
Soule hon. 'MEMBERS-Ortler, order.
Hon. Mr POIRIER-lt need not be a
motion.

Tue

SPEAKER-The

hon,

gentleman

The SPEAKER-I have this amendmnent. from Victoria bas the floor.
There is no point of order raised against
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-flas the chiairman
lt, or none that appears to me upon whicli of any committee the riglit to give notice
I could render a decision, and I take lt as of motion, to take buis report of a comit is.
He moved that this report be taken mittee into consideration of the Flouse, and
Into consideration on Thursday next, and lias lie an equal riglit to asl, the House to
la amendment it la moved by the hon. take it into consideration by n Commlttee
gentleman from Stadacona that It be taken of the Whole?
If that answer can lie
Into consideration on Thursday next by R given ln the affirmative, then I wili ask
Committee of the Whoie House.
the hon. Chairman of the Rallway ComHon. Mr. POIRIER-Wlth the permis- mittee, lnstead of asking the Flouse to-day
ta takre the report into considemation, that
Sion of the Houselie shahl move that the matter be conSome lion. IIEM.BERS-Order, order!
sidered by a Committee of the Whole
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I now further dlaim ~House.
that the motion itseif is ont of order, lieHon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I beg to give
cause the duty of the chaîrman of thxe notice that on Thursday next I wlill move
committee Is to give notice.
the consîderation of the report.
Some hon. MEMBERS-No, no.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Rule 24 says that
one day's notice must be given of nny of
the foilowing motions, anu paragrapli 'h'
rends:
For the adoption of a report, imot merely

formai in its character, from anr standing
conimnittee.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

Flon. Mr. FERGUSON-If

there la no

motion, the ameadment becomes the main
motion.

Hon. Mm. LANDRY-A motion lias been
made, and lias been put by the chair, and
to that

motion an amendment

offered. and the lion. gentleman

lias

been

lias no

FEBRTTARV 13. 1908
riglit to withdraw his motion
withdraw my amendment.

unlees

315

1

Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex) moved tiuat
the notice lie postponed until Tuesday next.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-By leave of the and gave notice tbat he would add ta it
an Inquiry as ta what the government lnHouse.
tended to do ln the matter.
-Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No,
no.
My
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hon, gentleman
amendment must be withdrawn before hie
gives notice of eomething which le neither
motion can be witbdrawn, and I wli flot
a resolution nor a question.
The usual
witbdraw my amendment.
way le to eaUl attention ta a matter, and
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-I was going to then aek a*question; but the hon. gentieask the chairman of the committee what inan does not 'cal] attention; he sImpiy
the practice is; whether thils Bill wiii be gives us an abstract proposition, that the
reprlnted witb the amendments, made by renewai of rallway charters deserves the
the committee before the matter le taken consideration of the Senato.
Tbe hon.
up by a. Committee of the Whole House? gentlemnn's notice ehould rend that he wiil
1 do flot know what the custom le bere, cali attention to the pracLice, and a8k the
but in the Bouse of Commons where Bille govcrnment If they propose ta put a stop
have been materially ainended, they have ta It.
been reprinted before being coneldered in
The SPEAKER-I wouid draw the atthe House.
tention of the hion, gentleman from MiddleHan. Mr. (CASGRAIN-It will be on the sex ta the form of lis question ns Lt appenrs on the order paper.
journals of the House.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-The notice would lie
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I sbouid hILe a decision of the question 1 put ta the Speaker. perfectly ln order if I prefaced It with
tbese words, 'Wlill cali the attention of the
The SPEAKER-It bias been the prac- House, etc:'
It is presunied, If I speak on
tice of the Senate ta fix by motion a day the subject, that I shail cali the attention
for taking Into coneideratiou a report of a of the Sonate.
0f course the mere forni
camniittee.
That hae been the rule eince le Important, and I wIll follow the form.
I have been ln the chair.
On euch a
The motion was agreed ta.
motion, 1 belleve, the aniendinent of the
hon, gentleman froni Stadacona le regular;
that instead of being taken Into caneIdera- REFERENCE 0F PRIVÂTE BILLS TO A
COMMITTEE 0F THE W-HOLE
tion by the -Senste, It shahI le coneldered
BOUSE.
by the wbole Bouse, and I declare the
amendment In order, anti the motion Is
MOTION POSTPONED).
on the amendment of thue bon, gentleman
The notice of motion being called:
from Stadacona.
To amiend Rule No. 128, by striking out the
Han. Mr. YOUNG-I do not know what words 'the Sonate otherwise order,' and inposition we shall be lni with reference ta serting the following in lieu thereof :'asked
by two members of the Sonate,' se that it
the Bill.
may read as follow_ _128. Unless asked for by two members af
The SPBAKER-It wiil stand commit- the Sonate, a private Bill reported from a
standing or select committee je not comted to a Oommittee of the Whole Bouse.
mitted ta a Committee of the Whale Bouse.
Ajid the clerk js equet
ta notify the
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Let It go at that.
members of the proposed change in the ruies.
We want It ta go throughi.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I might eay wlth meThe amendment wns declnred carried.
ference to thie matter that 1 need not go
RENEWÂ.LS 0F RAILWAY CHARTEDRS. Into it vemy fully becauseThe notice being called
Hon. Mm. LOUGHEED-May 1 ask If
The repeated renewai of railway charters the senators have received the notice neceswithout anýy substantial expenditure on conI eertainiy
struction je a matter deserving the consider- sary for changing the mile?
did not receive any notctb.
tion of the Senate.

316

SE-N STE

timie, and I wvas given to understand tbat
If I did flot take it up to-day it wouid be
H7on. Mr. DAVIS-If bon. gentlemen wili dropped, I remained bere ail afternoon to
read the notice tbey will see that it calls proceed witb it, altbiougb I had other busifor bavIng the senators stummoned.
I hope on
ness demanding my attention.
the
Mr. LOUGHEED-The hion. gentle- the next occasion wben I bring It up
Hon.
members will have been summoned ln the
man's notice is ail right, but several senators bave stated that they have not received proper manner.
1 ar n ot taking exception to tbe
notice.
The SPEAKER-There is a motion to,
forai of the bon. gentleman's notice, be- that effect wbich bas flot been adopted by
cause it ls quite regular; but I for one the Senate.
bave not received notice.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-This Is the third
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I have followed the time this tbing has bappened when rnernrule of the House.
bers have given formai notice that the
Tbe bon. senator
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-But If the bon. senators be sumrnoned.
from Stadacona bas qsked wbat procedure
gentleman pmoceeds witbout the notice beshould be
ing given, bis labour will be ail la vain. sbould be followed, and there
some understanding about it.
The House bias not been summoned and
what tbe bon. gentleman sbould do is to
TIhe SPEAKER-I understand that no
postpone bis motion; but %veougbt to know notice was sent out because of ruie 29,
why the sumamons bas flot been issued.
wbich states
No moction for making a standing ruie or
Thie SPEDAKER-Thie bon. gentleman
order can be adopted unless two days notice
cannot put the motion if tbe senators bave in writing hias been given thereof, and the
not been called, and I arn informed that Senators in attendance on the session have
no notice bas been sent ont as tbe motion been summoned to consider the saine.
cails for.
The question that arose lu the mmnd of
the clerk was wbetber this Is an amendHon. Mr. DAVIS-If anybody la tbe
ment whichi falls under rule 29.
Senate objectsHon. Mr. BERNIER-The bon. senator
The SPEAKER-Theme is a rule, No. 29,
from Stadacona bas ask-ed wbat must be
wbich precludes tbe bon. gentleman movdone to carry that ruie Into effect.
ing bis motion under the cIrcurnstances.
has
dlfficulty
The SPFIAKER-The
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-In order to meet the
arisen from the cierk not understandlng
views of some lion, gentlemen, I move
would corne under
that the motion be postponed untii Wed- ~whether tbis amnament
nesday.,next and that the cierk be directed ruie 29.
to notify the members.
Hon. Mr. BERNEnR-I arn not compiainlng of any act or omission; but the
lion. Mr. LANDRY-I should like to
know If there is not some way to meet bion. member from Stadacona bas asked
Ia this case, notice lias wbose duty it Is to summon the senators,
those difficuities.
been reguiarly given, and I want to know and that question sbould be answered.
wbose duty it is to sumamon tbe senators?
The SPEAKER-Tbe clerk, by ail neans.
Mus4t the iemiber who gives tbe notice go That is the usual way.
to the clerk and ask hlm to sumamon the
The motion ivas agreed to.
members, or is the fact that tbe notice Is
on tbe paper sufficient to make It ImperaHon. Mr. POIRIFDR-Are we to undertîve on tbe clerk to summon the members?
standOur rules do not prescrîbe how It shall be
done; tbere sbould be some understanding
Hon. Mr. POWER-J rise to a point cof
on the subi ect.
order. His bonour the Speaker bas given a
Hon. Mm. DAVIS-This motion bas been decision on this mnatter, and another order
on the order paper for quite a lengtb of of the day bias been cailed and it is quite
Bon. Mr. LOUGIIEED.
Soine lion. GENTLEMEN-Nom 1, nom I.

FEBRUARY 13, 1908
Irregular to go back to what happened before the Speaker gave bis decision.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-Are we to under
stand that an inquiry made by an ban.
senator wben the subject wae properly before tbe *House, is to be passed over, or
that n notice properly given by an bon.
member le not*to be acted upon by an o111clal of the House, because he thInks we aro
acting Improperly?
The SPEÂKER-There te no such intention on the part of tbe clerk of the House.
He knows that it je his duty to send out
these notices.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-He should have
done It then.
The SPEAKER-There was a question
of tbe Interpretation of a rule on whieli
he could well have hie own opinion.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-le it the clerk of
tbe House wbo je to decide such matters
or the Senate ?
The SPEAKER-The Senate bas decided.
It bas paseed a resolution to couvene the
members, and they wIll be summoned.

ivili be represented. A commission may 1)(e
appointed, but I do flot know that it requireà legislation.
THE RULES 0F THE HOUSE.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Before tbe Orders of the Day are called, 1
wlah'to direct attention to tbree of our rules
whlch, If properly enforced, would prevent
unseemly discussions sucli as we bave had
to-day, upon, to my mind a very minor
point. I do flot wish -to be understood as
findiug fauit wltb the Speaker or any member of the Senate, but I desire to impress
on the House the neceselty for adheriug
more rlgldly to the ruies which govern
this House. Rule 21 requires that motions
must be made ln wrlting. Had tbe motion
of my lion. frlend opposite been put lu
writing, there would bave been no doubt
as to what Nvas intended. His Iiitention
was, as he explained, to give notice of a
motion. It was understood by myseif and
the hon. senator from Stadacona that he
had made a distinct motion. Had bis motion been ln wrltlng, the unseemly discussion which arose upon It would have been
avolded. I desire to cali the Speaker's attention to rule 10, in which the committee
THE QUEBEO THIRD CENTENNIAL
appointed to revise tbe rules departed from
CELEBRATION.
the practice ln the House of Lords by whicb
INQUIRY.
this House ls supposed to* be governed. In
the House of Lords, the Speaker has no
Hou. Mr. LANDRY lnquired:
House enjoys
Is it the itention of the government to pre- power. Bach member of the
sent during the present session any legisia- ail bis rights and privileges Independent of
tion on the subjeet of the celebration of the the Speaker. In the Senate unseemly disthird centenaRry of the founding of Quebev
and for the inauguration of a national park eussions used to occur, and tbe committee
for that purpose P
appolnted to revise the rules declded to
not aware that give tbe Speaker power to cali membere to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn
a delicate mnatter to
It le in contemplation to introduce any le- order. I know it ls
I presumne that Interfere when discussions taire place, but,
glelation on the subject.
I tblnk 1 can
tbe Itemn will appear ln the estimates wbeii speaking for myself-and
Is au appli - speak for every member of tbe Housethey are brougbt down. Tbere
motion ls made, the Speaker sbould
cation now standing before the Prlvy Coun- when a
gently intimate to tbe inover, 'Let me bave
cil for a subeidy towards the celebration.
that ln writing and I will put It to the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I thougbit It was House.' It may cause a littie more trouble
the Intention of the government to noini- or Inconvenience, but no qne would object
mite two or three cominissioners, and g¶vc to that, and the Speaker should insist upon
them certain duties to perform li the way the rule being carried out. 1 desire also
of spending money, and I tbought tbat to cali attention to rule 35, whicb provides
would be done by legielation.
that without tbe consent of the Senate no
> member bas a rigbt to speak more thani
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know If leInstead of adberlng
gisiation will be necessary. If the govern. *once on any subject.
*to tbat rule, we act ns If the House %were
ment vote a certain sum, I presume Canadia

SEINATE
Bill (39) An Act respecting the Kamloops
always ln Oommittee of the Whole. Now,
the renson wby a Bilf le referred to a Coni- and Yellowhead Pass Railway Company.mittee of the Wbole le because It peërmits (Hon. Mr. Bostock.)
Bill (38) Au Act respecting the Edmonmore freedoni ln discnssing details, and any
member may speak as often as be pleases. ton, Dunvegan and British Columbia -RailI have taken the liberty to cal! attention way Company.--(Hon. Mr. Roy.)
to these rules, and I hope my remarks will
Bill (F) An Act respecting the St. Clair
be accepted by the senators ln the spirit and -Erie Ship Canal Company.-4Hon. Mr.
ln wblcb they are made.
Lougbeed.)
My object lu to bave our business con-Bill (36) An Act respectiag the Boundary,
ducted in a more regular and dignified Kamloops and Cariboo Central Rallway
manner than bas been tbe case in tbe past. Company.--(Hon. Mr. Bostock.)
The SPEAKER-I bave felt my position
Bill (33) An Act respectlng the Calgary
a somewbat difficult one, because 1 had to and Fernie Railway Company.--(Hon. Mr.
pass tbroughi a transition stage. The Senatoý Bostock.)
had formerly been the custodian. of its own
decoruni and order. Greater powers were JOINT COMIMITTEE ON PRINTING 0F
recently given to the Speaker, but in vlew
PARLIAMENT.
of the former practice ef tbe House, 1
ORDER 0F, THE DAY POSTPONED.
thougbt a littie more leeway sbould be
given to senators for some tume. But my
Hon. Mr. ELLIS moved concurrence ln
greatest difficulty bas been this, to prevent the report of the Joint Committee of both
speakers from addressing tbe House two Houses on the printing of parlament.
or three tlmes on the one subject. 1 have
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-This report le diallowed the leaders on both aides to Inthe ruIe, and it bas been bard for me vided into two parts-the returns recomfringe
to enforce the mule against the junior meni- mended to be prInted and those that are
bers wben I have not enforced it against recommended flot to be printed. I suppose If we call the attention of the committhe seniors.
tee to one or two classes of Items that
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Under the miles, were not ordered to be printed, but which
the leaders bave no greater status than It is deslrable should be printed, perhaps
the other members.
the chairman mlght have a recommendaThe SPEAKER-I. meant the seniors.
tion in another report of the eommittee to
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (Victoria)-Any bave them prlnted.
member wbo is ont of order sbould be
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-I thlnk that would be
calied to order witbout besitation.
proper.
THIRD READINGS.
Bill (45) An Act especting the Canadian
Mr.
Company.-(Hon.
Paclfic Rallway
Young.)
Bill (48) An Act respecting tbe Niagara,
Grand Island Bridge Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Kerr.)
Bill (34) An'Act respecting the Lindsay,
Bobcaygeon anq Pontypool Railway Cou'pRny.-<-Hon. Mr. MçHugb.)
Bihl (22) An Act respecting the Macleod.
Cardston and Montana Railway Company.
-(Hon. Mr. Talbot.)
Bill (16) An Act respecting the South
Ontario Paciflc Railway Company.-(Hol.
'.\r. McMullen.)
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

,Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I should not like
the adoption of the report to debar us from
asking tbat what bas not been recommended to be printed should at some future
time be printed.-Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Oh, no.
Hon. '.%r. BEIQUE-For my part I tbink
there are matters there such as the summary of the decisions of the Board of Railway Conimissioners of Canada, whlcb
should be printed, and I understand they
However, 1 have bad
bave been printed.
no time to consider the question, and I
suggest tbat the consideration
port be deferred.

of this re-

FEBRIUA1Y 13. 1908
Hon. Mr. EbLIS-These returns as they
are brougbit down are ail publlsbed ln the
journals of the House of Commons or ln
the journais of the Senate, and hou. gentlemen who want to, have them printed
should make a representation to, the Joint
CommIttee or to the clerk of the committee,
and then the matter would be faIrly considered; but wben the committee meeta and
nobody asks to have a document prlnted;,
we do flot order it to be prlnted. I =nove
that the Order of tbe Day 'be discharged
and placed on the Order paper for Thursday next.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We are flot complaining 0f the action of the cominittee.
The motion was agreed to.
AND NEW BRUNSWICK
QUEBE
RÂILWÂY COMPANY BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. COSTIGÂN moved the second
reading of Bill (P) An Act respecting the
Quebec and New Brunswick Railway Company.
He said : The Quebec and New Brunswick Railway Company seeks this legisiation because they held a charter recently
which authorized tbem to construct a road
from a point at or near Chaudière Junction,
St. CJharles Junction, or St. Aselme on the
Quebec Central Raiiway, fron' the central
point in Quebec, to a terminus on the
Temiscouata Railway system. The road.
was subsidlzed-in New Brunswick and Quebec by both parliaments, and partiaily subsidized ln Quebec by the federal parliament. The company entered Into a contract to construct the eastern section of the
Before
road, starting ln New Brunswick.
that was conipleted, the announcement was
made ln the other Chamber by the Premier
that it was lkely they wouid takeothat
route for the construction of the TransImmediately that announcecontinental.
ment was made, I, as president of the company, addressed a letter to the Department
of Rallways, stating that ln view of that
announcement, and the probability of their
taking fliat line, no doubt as the governmeut were constructlng the eastern section,
that they would prefer to construct that'
portion rather than have our company do
it. I was glad to see the government takte

319

that route, because I wanted to see the
road built there, botb in Quebec and New
Brunswick.
The goverument bave located
their Une, and they have taken the central
portion of our line, but left botb ends.
I stated. at the time I sent tbis letter 1
speak of, that the company would cease
to do any work under those circumstances,
considering themselves entitled not to be
prejudicéd s0 far as their charter was concerned.
The Transcontinental bas taken
ail they wanted of that Ilne.
They found
a shorter Une with equally good grades on
the eastern end. They have left out the
eastern end lu New Brunswick, and the
western end In Quebec.
This charter
slmply "ika an extension of tlme, because
the whole ground ls covered by the original
charter.
We had a rigbt to bulld from
any of these three points down through
Quebec to, Conuor Station.
Hon. Mr., McMULLEN--I observe that
there is a pecuiiarity about this Bill.
Clause 5 provides for extending the charter
for five years, without any provision that
any portion of the money shail be expended
within two years, which le usually inserted
In such Bis, and I see that clause 10 of
chapter 75 of, the statutes of 1900, and
chapter 76 of the statutes of 1903, are pealed.
These provisions were with regard to the time withln, which tbe railroad
should be bult.
This gives the company
an extension of five years wlthout expendIng any portion of. the money under the
provisions of this Bill.
I want to draw
my hon. frIend's attention to that. It may
possibly have been overlooked, but I ehould
certalnly hope the committee wlll amend
that provision.
Hon. Mr. COrSTIGAN-I think the hon.
senator refers to tbe section that requires
a percentage to be expended withln a certain time.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-Yes.
Hon. Mr. COSTIGAN-There ives some
difficulty In tbe Standing Orders Committee about the form of petition and the
notice. The petition asks for lesa powers
than this -Bill gives.
The notice mentioned a revival instead of an extension; but
a practical vlew was taken of the case because the Intention was self-evident. That

SENATE
was one of the reasons why revival was
put In, because the secretary of the cornpany, who was a lawyer and solicitor of
the company also, tbought he ought to use
the word revival, the tirne for the expenditure of the fifteen per cent havlng lapsed,
and it had flot been wholly extended; therefore lie ought to use tbe word revival, and
be dld use It. It created somne dlfficulty,
but that was overcome, and the notice was
considered sufficient; but this is a second
The original charter was obextension.
talned In 1900. 1 amn sorry I bave not tbe
amending Act which extended the time
for a certain number of years and did
away entlrely witb the clause whlch required tbis expendrture.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The name woulcl
seem to conflict wlth a well-known insurance cornpany, and, possibly, ln cormlittee
very serious objection rnay be taken to
the use of that name.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-That rnight be conI caUled the attensidered in committee.
tion of the prornoters of the Bill to that
.rnatter.
.The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second tirne.
COMPANIES ACT AMEND'MENT BILL.

ORDER 0F THE DÂY POSTPONED.
The Order of the day being called:
Cornmittee of the Whole House on Bill
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill (L) An Act to amend the Conipan les Act.
was read tbe second Urne.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I have received a comLONDON AND LANCASTrER GUARAN- munication froin a gentleman suggesting
TEE AND ACCIDENT COMPANY
an amendrnent which I will have to conBILL.
1 theresider, thougb I may not adopt It.
fore move that the order of the day be
SECOND READING.
discharged and tbat It be placed on the
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex) moved the order of the day for Tuesdny next.
second .readtng of Bill (Q) An Act to amend
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEEID-I would suggest
the London and Lancaster Guarantee and
to my hon. friend, that if there be an
Accident Comnpany of Canada.
He sald :There la nothing in this Bill, amendiment or proposed amendment, the
other than what la usual ln Bis of a simi- House shouid be put In possession of It,
I do flot know that any expia- so that we may be able to dlscuss It Inlar klnd.
nation I could give would be of uny ad- telligently, and not have-to consider It In
vantage, as the clauses will, of course, be the committee stage.
discussed In the Cornrittee on Banklng
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It was found that
and Commerce.
sometîmes in the case of railways and
,Hon. Mr. LÀNI)RY-I suppose the hon. ordlnnry companies, .In
pledging their
member knows that tbis Bill bas flot been bonds", where they have not actually efprinted yet?
fected a sale, a considerable ndv'ance of
money has been made on theni; the quesHon. Mr. ROSS-I have it on my* file.
tion bas arisen In England that when any
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I arn speaklng of consîderation bas been extended for those
the Frenchi version.
bonds-whether they afterwards can be
Hon. Mi.ROSS-I do not know about the put on the mnarket as not baving been preFrench. I did not look for tbe French viously lssued? The question hns arisen,
It can stand over If rny hon. frlend and I belleve a decision bas been given
copy.
ln England which affects some of the secutakes the objection.
take the rities of railways, and It Is rather an ImHon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not
objection, but 1 wnnt to eall attention to portant su-bject.
the natter Bo that If my hon. frlend preHon. Mr. LOUGHBFED-Can the bon.
sents the Bill on another occasiongentleman say to what extent a company
Hon. Mr. ROSS-We wll not proceed can hypothecate Its bonds without putting
They are Issued for
wlth ut In commlttee until It is prlnted Ia them on the market?
sale and not hypothecatlon.
French.
Hlon. Mr. COSTIGAN.

FEBRUATZV 13, 1908
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe case decided lu
1 had flot an
Exigland was given to me.
opportunity of looking carefully lnto ItL
It was held ln one of the courts there that
a railway company having issued bonds
once, and money having been paid on
them, the company could not recali that
That was tbe
issue and Issue it again.
I do flot thlnk there la so mucli
point.
appiicability to companies Incorporated under the Companies' Act, because their emnbarrassment lias flot been as great, and I
arn iuclined to tblnk that I sbould suggest
that the ameudment be made rather to the
Railway Act than to the Companies' Act.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHPIED-Can the bon.
gentleman say to what extent a company
I arn very
may hypothecate its bonds?7
doubtful of their having such power.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I bave always considered tbat they could piedge their bonds
for Rn advance, and that lias been the ordiThis decision lu Engnary acceptation.
land, which I have flot examined, rather
controverts that conclusion by holding that
after having received an advance upon it,
they could flot re-issue tbem again.
The motion was agreed to, and tbe Bill
was rend the second time.

Rlevenue, and the substitution of the Minister of Trade and Commerce wltb two)
comi)trollers, one of customs and one of
inluud revenue, and aiso 4ý. appointment
of a solicitor general to agst the Mlnlster
of Justice.- I mentioued that I had ap)proved of that; but I went ou to say thut.
ou the whole, the operation of that Act
liad flot been satisfactory. The right hon.
gentleman who led the Couservative party
lu 1887 neyer brouglit the Act into operation, îvbicb showed that, to bis practical
xuind, the improvement was questionable.
After his decease the Act was brouglit
into operation, and we bud tbe pleasure and
lionour of hiaviug tbe Minister of Trade
and Commerce lu this House lu the person
of the bon. gentleman from Hastings; and
1 may sur that It: la a sonxewbat fortunate
coiucidenee tbat we bave tbe present Minister of Trade and Commerce a niember of
this House. Lt ls very bard to get the
public to feel mnucli Interest lu matters
whlb respect the constitution or tbe orgunization of the goverument, and, as far
as I could judge, the public neyer took
very ranch interest lu this niatter. After
the change of goverument in 18W6, wbile tic
Solicitor General was allowed to remain,
parliamnt stepped back to, the aid posi-

tion, e.xcept taat they allowed-and I amn
SEGRE- glad they did under the clrcumstnncesthe Minister of Trade aud Commerce to
reniaimi, and they brouglit back again th~e
ministere of Customs uud Inland ]Revenue.
DEBÂTE RESUMED.
Tbe bon. gentleman %vhobrougbt tais matThe order of the day being called:
ter to tae notice of the House dwelt couResnming the adjourned debate on the eiderably on the exaniple of Eugland, and
motion of the Hon. Mr. Ross (Middlesex),
that in the opinion of the Seaate, the time lie eeenied to thlnk we should be lnfluenced
has arrived for supplementing the exécutive a good deni by tbnt. No doubt, lu certain
goverament of Canada, by the appointment
of under secretaries to the more important respects, lt ls well we sbould be influenced
departm-ents of the publie service, with duties by tbe example of Eugiand. I thinl., for inand privileges as near as rnay be similar to, stance. ln the muanner ln whieb the civil serthose of thé corresponding offcers in thè
vice is conqtituted. we should be influenced
parliament of Great Britain.
POWER-The practice of ad- by the examl)le of England; but there le
Hon. Mr.
journiug tbese debates on what one may flot any great reason wby lu ail such ques.by
cail abstract questions, lu tbis liidefiniti, tions we sh5uld bo very mucli lnfluenced
their way of doing thiugs. There was lu
way, bas advautages; but It bas drawbacies
la as
too, because one forgets ivbere the debate Euglaud-I do flot think the spirit
strong now as it -%vas even ten years ago-was ut wben it %vas adjourned, and the
of subordination, a respect on tae
House loses interest lu it. I tbink 1 liad a spirit
people for their eIders, whiclb
got this f ar tbe other day. and I bad men- part of young
tbe does flot seem to prevail so0 lunch oni this
tioned that 1. had been ln favour of
England tae under secreAct of 187, wvhich provided for the drap- continent, and iu
tary looks up to bis cbief, and he follows
ping of 'Mînisters of C-ustoms and Inland
APPOINTMIENT 0F UNDER
TARIES.

REVISED

EDITION

SENATE
su(',h as NNî4
the directions of that chief Witbuut an.v is not lui any sense aJ cabinet
OUI.
hesitation. It dues niot enter into bis mind 1 ive under the British system. Under
systeni the cabinet is practically a joint
to question the wisdom of wblat bis chieft
is bouti
does, or, if it does enter bis bead, lie does conîînittee of botb Houses, whicb
to have the support of a majority of tla*
not talk about it. 1 do not think that bias
been the experience in this country. That popular House, and that cabinet là; the~
ls one reason wby I do not think that thé, body wbicb fornis the motive power of
example of England sbould weigh s0 lunch te administration. la the United States,
wlth us. We bave flot that spirit of subor- the cabinet is nothing of the kind. It is,
dination and discipline that they bave ln as the lion, gentleman hlmself sald, composed
England. Thien there is anotber tbing lu of a kind of idealised. deputy beads, deputy
of
England. wblcb ls not altogether admi- lIeads, lhomev-er, without the permanence
rable; there is a very strong tendency there app<uîntinent wbicbi deputies under the Britto multil)ly staff. Every Important officer isli antid Our own system bave. The mecmmust have an Inferior ofilcer, or two or bers of the United States cabinet are aptbree inferior officers. to follow hilm about pointed by the president. subject to conand belp hlm to do wbatever bis duties irination by the Senate; but, as, a general
may be. The ivork is passed on fromn one tlîing. the Seniate do0 tot raise any que,step down to another until you bave peu- tioll %Vitlî respect to the appointment of
baps baîf a dozen people doing what thte ineiners of the cabinet. thougli thev do
one man migbt do very well. 1 do flot with respect to other appointments. In the
tblnk It la a desirable thing to Introduce Unîited States the offlcers who most reseniInto Canada a tendency to increase staff, ble our tuinisters are the chairmuen of thcv
and I tblnk I may venture to indicate tbat illpOLtanit connuittees. Tbey bave them ini
there la at least one department ln tbe gov- both Houses. and the chairman of %vii.t
erament where we bave of late been folio w- you mnay c811 the finance committee i-,
lng the example of England to too great ex- really the Finance M-%inister. except that
tent. There is another tbing to be borne there they have sucb chaîrmen in both
in mind wltb respect to tbese utuler secre- Houses as botb Houses undertake to de-il
taries la England. The British House of with finance. The United States, as far as its
Commons contaîns nearly seven bundred legisiative work is concerued al1together. is
members the House of Lords about five governed by comaiittees. and as far as the
executîve work is concerned. It is governed
bundred.
by committees, except lui so, far as the prehuaHon. Mr. ROSS (Mlddlesex)-Six
Furtber.
sident h imself governs dlrectly.
dred and twenty.
the cabinet of the United States is composed
memibers, wbereas our cabinet is
Hon. Mr. POWER-It is a sort of poil- of nine
The population of
to the ministry of the day coniposed of fourteen.
tîcal necesslty
the United States is elgbty millions; the
that tbey should have a reasonable sprincof Canada is about seven milling of members of the adminittration in population
lions, so 1 do niot think you wlll get aniy
Tbe cabinet contalus
these two bodies.
for an lacrease in the number
altogether as a ruie, not more tban t-wenty argument
of tbe administration from the case of the
members. When 3-ou coine t0 divide twenty
States. But I think we can look tt
members amiongst 1,200, the proportion of United
otîter places iihere wve will get more llbt
cabinet ministers to Wetnbers of tbe House
is the Commonwealth
is very snmaîl. 1 can utîderstaind that it is and guidance. There
a population somnewbat
really alîMost necessary tbat tbey shouli] of Australia. witb
that of Canada; but it is a vast
hiave-more mnembers of the adinistrationl lcss tit
of Catitbanl we w-ould expect t<î ýonnitry. as large as the Dominion
la parliainent
ada. Its administration presents a great
bave here. So far as regards the example
There are many differelil
of England. The lion, gentleman also deait inany difficulties.
voufiicting territorial and commercial liesomnewhat w-ith the practice lu the United
are social difficulties to conStates. I do not tbink that we cau really tests. and there
lu Australia they
-witlî there tou.
draw any conclusions fromi the practice iii tend
we.
cabinet bave 0111Y scven tiisters. Why should
tîtat coutifty. The United States
Hon. Mr. POWER.

323

FEBRUAIIY 13. 1908
lu Canada require to have fourteeui miinisAnud if the lion. gentleman bad
ters ?
bis way. perlîaps a half dozenl inder
secretaries. 1 do flot see why It should
lie. But lt is flot necessary to go even
to Australla. We can take the cases
of our own provinces. There Is tbe province of Ontario. .The bon. gentleman told
us that lie had occaslonally found the demands upon bis time and energies excessive.
Well, 1 do flot wonder. The bon, gentleman came into power in Ontario at a more
or less critical time for bis party, and 1
bave no doubt that be bad to bestir himself energetlcally for the purpose of keeplug bis party from slipping out of office.
But one of the bon. gentleman's predecessors, tbe Hon. Sir Oliver M.%owat, ivas Premier of Ontario, for, I think, about twventyfive years. and wben he came here to this
Chiamber was a fairly vigourous man for
bis time of life, and lie lived to a very patriarchl age; so it (loes not seem to be
that. even in tbe province of Ontario,
wbicb, I admit, is l)robab]y the bardest
province of the Dominion to. govern, the
lfe of a inister is qulte unbearable. As
fur as 1 can judge, tbe gentlemen w'ho are
now goveruing Ontario, do not feel that
tbey requlre to enlarge their cabinet for
the purpose of doing the work, satlsfactorily. 1 think they bave only seven or elgbt
ministers lu Ontario. But it must be reinembered tbat they have not the valuable
bielp in that province. of a second House.
If they bad a second House in Ontario, I
have no doubt tbey could do with even a
smaller number of ministers. Go to the varfous other provinces and'you will find that
In no case are there more than eight ministers wbo hold office. In the province from
which 1 %ni myseif proud to come. we bave
only tbree ministers receiving pay. There
are some memibers of the governinent 'witbout office, but there are only tbree ministers
and that bas been the case for several
years; and I do not think that there is any
province in the country whlcb is better
governed than the province of Nova Scotiii.
1 bave neyer Iearned that auy minîster
there lias suffered eltber in bealth or Intellect fromn bis exertions as a minister.
My own Impression Is this :£0 far from
there not being sufficlent force In the way
of numbers to carry ou the government

of the country, I thinl, that wve bave rather
more than are absolutely necessary, and,
in support of that view, I mlgbt refer to,
tbe testlmony given by my bon. frlend. the
Secretary of State the other day, when lie
told us tbat lie had on many occasions governed thue country by blmself when ail bis
colleagues were elsewhere.
*Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ascrlbe
deputy mînîster.

it

to

the

Hon. '.%r. POWER-Tbat la just it. Under the British system, if you have a good
civil service, tbe country wll practlcally
mun ltself.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Wby
have It: then?

don't

you

Hon. Mr. POWER-I wish to say one
tblng wblch perbaps may bave a littie
It was stated by
wveight witb us here.
the late Sir John Macdonald, when speaklng on the Bill for tbe creation of Under
Secretarles, that It would give young men,
budding statesmen, a chance to qualify for
0f course It la rather a
blgher office.
narrow and seifish vlew to take; but 1 do
not think tbat that -%ould apply to the
Senate.
Hon. '.%r. ROSS
RE»
youflg.

(Mlddlesex)-We

are

Hon. Mr. POWER-I do flot think any
goverument wvould be likely to put members of this House into training as youtbs
whose characters bad not been formed,
and who should lie brought up to polltlcs.
1Most of us corne in bere. there are perbaps a few exceptions, at rather mature
ages, and I do flot thlnk ire sbould get any
under secretaries from this House. I iia
to say thîs, hoirever, that If the hon. gentleman proposes to reduce the numnber of
what one may call full blown ministei's.
and substitute under secretaries for theni,
then I shahl be prepared to agree wlth
hilm; but, as it la now, I do flot think there
is any necesslty for the under secretarles,
and the Introduction of under secretarles
would Involve addltional expense and
would tberefore be objectionable on that
1 may say, in conclusion, alground.
thougl, perhaps. It does flot bear Imnuediately on the question before tbe House,
that the governiment of this country costs

SEŽNATE
too much aitogether.
Both Houses cost
more than they shouid, and I feel that just
now that we are prosperous and money ls
plenty, the tendency is towards extravagance.
That should flot be encouraged.
The scbeme of the hon. senator from Middlesex, If currled out, would mean further
extravagance and expenditure.

trollers who werc supposed to occupy the
sanie position in Canada that Under Seýcre-

Hon. -Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-fn
considering constitutional questions of thîs
nature, it Is quite evident that the members of the Senate are flot very muciu interested ln any changes whlch may be
suggested, except, probably a change which
would affect their seats.
Beyond that,
they taire very iittle interest ln what is
dolng.
If we look at the House to-day,
and consider the question which Is before
us, we can corne to no other conclusion. I
cannot but compliment the hon. senator
fromn M'%idcllesex on having brought this
question before the Senate, and particularly for the manner lu which hie hias treated the whole subjeet. I ar n ot prepared
to say that I agree with hilm upon every
point tlîat lie bas raiséd.
The illustrations that lie gave us of the working of the
British and United States constitutions are
not applicable in their entirety to this
country.
In thec first place, the government of the United States. and the wbole
principle on whichi it Is administered, 15
diametricall3- opposed to that which governs
I3rltain and Canada.
The responsibilityattached to the niinisteriai position iu England is somewbat different to that which
prevails lu Canada, altbough ministers here
occupy a position somnewhat analogous to
the ministers of the Imperial government.
Not, bowever, to that extent is there responsibility.
The ministry iu Englnnd
have not only vast territories to goveru,
but numerous colonies, inhnbited by different races speaking ditTercut languages,
and who think differently and must be
governed differently-peoffle whose interests are so different from the interests
wblch arc uppermiost in this country, that
to aidopt the whiole systein lu its entirety
would flot be advisable.
At the saine

United States system into our government.

taries bold iu the Imperial parliament and
governrneit.
Let me say, that I did not
understand the bon, gentleman from Middlesex to advocate the Introduction of the
British system ln its entlrety, nor, ln the
remnotest degree, the introduction of the
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-Hear, hear.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-As I
understood bis remarks, tic explained the
mode of governing the United States and
the necesslty of tiavlng in a vast country
like tint the assistance of others than the
ministers. He also pointed out ttiat in
England It was necessnry to have UnderPSecretaries of State to a mucti greater cxtent tbau tic iwouid ndvocate their appointment in this country, owing to the varions
interests wblh they have to look after lu
the mottier country; but that thiere shouid
be assistants to the ministers ln Canada to
a lirnlted exteut.
Iu that view of the
question 1 arn fully in accord with hlm.

When the presenit goverument carne Into
power, I coinplined lu this House of thc

wnnt of knowledge whichi the representatives of the goverument here dlsplayed on
different questions whlcb carne before us
for consideration, and claimed that they
should have liad somebody to assist them.
The princiffle was laid down by the LMinister of Justice at that time-the Hou. David
M.%ilîs, and perhnps thiere was not a better
constitutionai nuthority- lu the country at
the time-that the desire of the present:

goverument was to model the administra-

tion tiere to as great an extent as possible
upon the British systemi that is. that
each minister shouid govern bis owu department, witbout regard, to a very great
extent, of bis colleagues. Wlien 1 poliiteil
out to hlm the difficulties whicb mnust necessarily arise in a country like ours, or such
a system, I recelved no answer.
The resuit of lt was that goverument mensures
were oftcn introduced by the representatives of the goverament here which thcy
time, wc miglit adopt a miodlfied form of were unabie to explain to the House. 1
the system which prevails iu Britain, and remember distînctly two moncy Bis, one
it was w-ith that objeet in vîew the late affecting the Inland Revenue, the other the
Sir Johin 'Macdonald introduced a Bill for Customis Department, wbiých wcre brought
the appointment of what ç%-rt- t'---ied con- iiito the Senate and neither of the ministers
Hon. Mr. POWER.

FEBRITAIY 13, 1908
hiere couid teli us what they contained. 1
take no credit ta myseif tliat I nnderstod
the details of the Bill affecting the customs.
Having been at the head of that départment for thirteen yeare, it was no credit
ta me ta be able to explalu to the ministere
the abject of their Bill; but what I arn
pointing out Is that they dld not underWe bad a similar exstand It themeelves.
perience when a Bill was introduced affecting tities ta lands ln the Northwest
When 1 appealed to the MinTerritories.
Ieter of Justice ta expiain the object of the
Bill, and baw it could affect real estate and
titles ln that country, he was unabie ta tell
I asked 'le it possible that you have
me.
introduced a Bill affecting the tities ta real
estate la the Northweet Territarles without having it first referred to your own
He frankiy acknowledged
departmentl
It bad been
that he. bad neyer eeen It.
introduced by the Minieter of the Interior,
without consultation with bis colleagues or
reference ta the Department of Justice. I
pointed ont ta him how we ueed ta govern
the country on questions of that kind, that
the Minister of the Interior wuuld have
been obliged ta makze a report ta council.
The council would refer that report ta
the Linister of Justice, that the Minister of Justice wouid report the effect
of It upon tities ln that country, and
If council approved of It, a Bill was
drafted embodying the changes which It
wae thought necessary ta make. The effect
of that systemi was this, that every mcmber of the cabinet knew preciey what
the désire of the department wae, and
what effect the passing of the Bill
wouid have upon tbe ties ta reai estate
I find no fault with thé
ln that country.
hon. Secretary of State for not being acquainted with -the contente of every govcrament Bill brought into the Senate, for
twa reasons; ilret, probabiy If the principle
laid down by the lite Minister of Justice
was carried out he badl had no apportunity
o! studying the principie of -the Bill before
he was aeked ta introduce it ln this Houee.
In the second place it is somewhat difficuit,
for a man muet have a gaod deai a!
physical as well as Intellectual strengtii ta
be able ta grasp ln a very short-time the
détails o! cvery Bill brought into this
If he had, as the han. senator
Hanse.
fromn Middlesex suggests, a deputy here

whose business It would be ta study those
different questions then he wouid be able
ta give thie Senate snch information as is
nccessary ta enable hlm ta deal intelligently with the subjecte brought before
him.
I do not propose ta go at length
inta thc reas.oas why the introduction of
controliers, wvhose position wae supposed ta
be that of under seccretaries of state, was
a fallure under the govcrnment. af which 1
was amember. Thcy were practicafly made
managers of thc Customs and Inland Revenue Department but not membere of the
cabinet, and, caaeequeatly, their recommendatione had ta came through the MinI do nat'
ister of Trade and Commerce.
hesitate ta say that the eystem would have
been a succees If -the original idea of Sir
John Macdonald had been carrIed out as
I have no désire ta
it ehould have been.
cnet reflections on former premiers, but in
the appointmcat af those cantrollers they
were promised too much power when they
In fact they were
accepted the office.
given ta underetand they wouid have Uic
same *priviieges witb respect to Uic exercise
o! patronage as thc minieter himsci! bad.
No such power as that ie given to* under
secretaries of state, and had their duties
been confined legitimately ta the carrying
out o! the practical wark of the départment, and had thcy not aseumed the duties
o! ministers, the principle adopted la that
There
Bill would have been successful.
Are many other reasons that I couid give,
but I do not deem It advtaable or necesAn expression
eary ta give themi now.
used by Sir John Macdonald ta myscif on
one occasion, perbape will ilIustrate my
menning better tian anything I could adWe were diecussing some very
vance.
Important question -affccting the whoie 'Dominion, and I neyer forgot Uic expression
He eaid: 'Bawcll, Uic détalse
lie ueed.
0f your office are o! such a character as
ta prevent you devoting your time or applying yaur mmnd ta greater questions.' I
said: 'Sir John, you are perfectly rlght'
Under Uic preseat eyetem, particularly ln
the Customs and Iniand -Revenue -Départment-and nio one knows It better than
Uic bon. gentleman who -site -befare methe minieter bas ta deaI w1th a multitude
If there Ie a :dispute at any
of détals.
port in the country affecting thc duty upon
$10 or $20 wortb o! goade, thc Importer ls

SENA'I'E
never satisfied juntil lie aulpeais to the min- those circunistances. it is zttsoluitely necesshould be in
ister, and the inister has to examine into sary that fthe defails of office
than
decide every littie two penny-hialf- the bands of under secrefarles raflier
and
Thaf is
with thie heads of departments.
penny question that cornes before him.
amn strongly luiThose are duties which are perforrned by the view 1 liold, and 1
i)ressed wltl flie correctness of tlie views
under secretaries in England and nlot by
gentleman froin
the inister. Wh ile 1 admit that the min- advanced by the lion,
M,%lddlesex, fliaf we sliould introduce du
isters in -England have greater responsibiliof that
ties, consldering the magnitude of the em- tbis country a modified mysfem.My lion.
which prevails In Great Britaln.
pire itself, wben they have to consider and
said. la a jokiug way, thaf
decide upon the policy flint should govern friend opposite
lie somefimes governed the counfry haîf
the Crown colonies and dependencies, and
memiiers of the
those colonies that are governed ns we are the finie alone wlien other
were enjoying themselves af the
under responsible goverament, their duties cabinet
and respomeibilities are somewbat more seaside.
*onorous than those wblch our ininisters
lion. MNr. SCOTT-With the assistance of
have to discharge.
tlie deputy muinisters.
We may coneinde flint there are vast iiiHon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-L
ferests whieh require the best thouglit and
ia file cabinet, wlien tliey rather fhink tlie conntry ran itself af that
fthe best intellect
I think I can apply f0 hirn tlie reare considering the lnterests of this Do- firne.
ne longer n littie prov'ince, mark that was applied te mue on many ocLt is
minion.
as ftle lion. gentleman from Halifax says. casions, fliat hie was perhaps fthe pack-horse
liad ail]
Thé province of Nova Scotia is a smaîl of flic goverument, and fhaft lie
1 synîpathize
province uuquestionably, but lit bas Inter- their dulies f0 perforiu.
1 have been in flic saine posiesfs wbicli are vital to ifs prosperlty. Sfti1l, witli him.
you are
if does nef require the saine Intellect, and tion nt firnes-alone ;but, ivlien
saine time te bie alone fliere is no question ef clianging- any
the sanjé thouglit and the
Imgiven te considering thie interests of fliaf Important maffer, or considering any
Lt w-as merely a quesportant question.
province as if weuld If you were considerhmg the inferests of fthe whole Dominion. tion of detail wlien my bon. friend was left
I arn judging hlm by my own exIn Canada we have lnteresfs as dlversified alone.
country can possibly have. We have perience, and I know pretfy nearly lmow
as ny
the interests of the maritime provinces, tlie country was governed under those cirThaf is, tlie depufs lieads ef
whicli are nlot at ail similar f0 those of the cumsfances.
different departmenfs pcrformcd thie
middle provinces sucli as Onfario, and fliese thie
lnferesfs have sides as diametrically op- ordînary routine business of ecd departvital
pesed as tlîey can be f0 the lnferests whlch ment; but wlien tlicy considered any
the Nortliwest Terri- question affecflng flic Dominion as a whole,
prevail and goveru
tories nnd Brifishi Columbia ;and if re- or when any question arose affcfing any
hon.
qulres-yes, I use fthe word advlsedly- *particular province as a wliole, niy
Thaf was conbrains, thouglif, study and time from one *frlcad did not decide fiat.
met, and
year's end f0 another ftu try andi devise *sidered wbca the wliole cabinet
Tliese are
mens by wbich yon can unife thesE *tliey discusscd fliose questions.
people and make the different inferestý reasoas wbicli suggest tliemselves f0 my
We arE mind, fiat La a rnodified w-ay the suggcsbarmonize as mucli as possible.
gentleman from
told flint flie United States have vasf in. t ions made by tlie lion,
I have long
but tlie lnferestý1 Middlesex siould be adopfcd.
Lt is quife truc;
terests.
sentiments uttercd,
of thie wesf are not exacfly the lnteresfb been in accord with
flic lien. eentlemafn ivho
of the east; vef wlben we consider flie greai particularîs. by
that bY adopting a systein
question of fthe nnify of ftle United States speke last:
cornpfrollers, or wlintand wlien Englisli statesmèn consider th(* ef under secrefaries,
te cail fliern,
of Imperialism, and the necesslty foi ever yen may fhink, proper
unity
leuse. se fliat
îi tgiving f hemn seafs in eacli
keeping flie unify of the whele empire,
flic defails of flicir ofrequires thouglif and sfudy; and, undel they could explain
lion. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

FEBRUARY 13. 1908
fice, and at the saine Urne give them suffidient power to decide questions to wliicb
1 bave referred, whicb now have to be decided by the minister, and no appeal,
except in very important cases, to the
Altbougb the late Hon.
minister himself.
David Mille, wben Minister of Justice bere,
advocated an Increase of tbe. present number of cabinet ministers, I could see no reaI suggested to blm that if we
son for it.
adopted the system that bas been suggested
of under secretarles of state, we migbt reduce the cabinet by four or five at least.
Under the Milster of Trade and Commerce
the Revenue Departments could be placed,
and the comptrollers or under secretaries
of those departments could perform the
duties witbout being cabinet ministers, or
pald to the extent to wblch cabinet ministers are pald. It is flot a comparison to
Their sys-tem
refer to the United States.
Is so different from ours that it le not
I may say.
necessary to refer to, tbem.
bowever. that I was ratber surprised at
the-shall 1 say flippant manner In wblch
I thought tbe bon. Secretary of State treatHe said 1Ne do not
ed that question.
require any Introduction of tLe American
I did not
system into tbis country.'
understand the bon, gentleman from Middlesex to advocate any su*cb pollcy. To my
nilnd the object lie bad in vlew, and tbe
only one, was to show bow that country
was governed by a limited pumber of*minIsters. but a vast number of wbat miglit
be termed under secretaries or linder beads
of departments, who performed the duties
whielb a minister la this country bas to
perform.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-WVould the boa. gentleman permit me to ask aiuquestion for my
The bon. gentleman
owa information.
stated that the advantage of having under
secretaries would be to relleve the mInisters
of the necessity 'of explainlag Ia the House
the details of tbe departments.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL
no. I did not go so far as, tixat.

-

No.

Hon. Mr. BEIQU.E-I amn askiag this for
my Information, beeause 1 nave flot a clear
idea of what would lie the duties of under
qecretarles ilf tbis system were adopted,
and 1 would be very giad to have the
opinion of the bon, gentleman on that ques-

327

tion. I direct his attention specialiy to
The under secretary w'ould be sitthat.
Supposiag tbere was
ting la the House.
q secretary for the Department of Public
Works, be could not lie present In both
Elouses.
The under secretary would not
be ia tbe House of Gommons If the minis.
ter was la tbe House of Gommons.
Rlon. Mr. ROSS (Mlddlesex)-HEe might.
Hon. Mr. BEIQ'UE-Suppose lie would
lie la the House of Gommons, and the Minlster of Public Works would also be Ia
-2be minister bas
the House of Gommons.
to lie responsible for the expenditure of
He could not caîl upon
bis department.
the under secretary to be responsIble for
any part of tbat, and I should like to know
bow. la thie opinion of the bon, gentleman
from Hastings, the duties would be divided
between the minister and the uner serretary Ia such a case?7
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
thouglit I was sufficieatly plain in explaîning that. My view ls tbat the details of
the departmeat should lie explaiaed by
the policy
the under secretary. .and
of tbe goverameat sbould be explained by
the minister. "If tbe poiicy was to bul2d
twenty-flve customs bouses, If you please, or
tbe subsidiziag of a large aumber of steaniers, tîjat would lie the policy of the goverament, and that should be expIa ined by
the minister; but In tbe carrying out of
the work. the' minister migbt lie relieveil
of explaialng tbe workings of the detale of the department. Tbat le tbe iden
tbat 1 bad Ia refereace to the question
put by my hon. friead. You can readily
understaad tbat when the question came
up as to the Imposition of duties, as to
wbetber it sbould be an ad valorem or
speciflc duty, tbat would lie the trade
pollcy of the goverament, and the under
secretaries would not be empowered to,
deal witb a question of that kind. That
would lie tbe duty of the advisers of His
Excellency, the responsIble ministers of the
Crown; but when it came to, a 'question of
carrylag out the details of the collection of
the revenue, under the policy whlcb bad
that
been adopted by the goverament,
would be the duty of the under secretary, and tbat dnty would not be lS-

SENATE
posed upon the miaister. Under the present system the minister of Custoins is flot
only responsible for the po]icy of the governiment, but he bas to explain the workings of if, and he bas to explalu the effeet
whlch it bas upon every Item upon whieh
the duty Is collected. Let me give that as
an illustration and see how iýwould apply
to every department. There are so many
details connected witb the introduction of
a principle of tbis kind tbat it is almost
Impossible to deal witb themn ail at once.
I arn only denling with Vie general priacîpie, as I understand it. My bon. friends
spoke of bow enslly they could get along
but for the lengtb of the sessions. If my
recollection serves me rigbt, my bon. friend
bas f elt the effect of the length of some
sessions as mucb as anybody li tbls House,
and If bie bad bad a-Uttle assistance to
deal withi the detals of the questions be
bas hnd to discuss, be would flot be s0
weary as I have seen bim on miany occasions when he rose'to speak la this House.
He speaks of the difficulty of patronage.
I can suggest an easy mode of getting rld
of that responsibility. I frankly state that
I ar nfot so enamoured of the Engllsb Civil
Service as some gentlemen pretend to, be.
Studyung that question a littie, knowing n
littie of its practical workings fromn tle
fact that 1 have connections la London ln
the Civil Service, I think that political
influence prevails f0 almosf as great an
extent in tbe appoinfrnent and promotion
o! civil servants there as It does lni his
country, and wiUl continue to be so. 1 would
suggest to the Secretary o! Stute how te
avoid ail tbat responsibilify. He says
that deallng with patronage is one of
Vie mosf difficuit and unpopular hilngs
a minister bas to do. Ail he bas to do
la to just transfer the patronage to tbe
opposition and relieve hîmself o! ail
responsibility and trouble aftached to It.
My lion. frieud, Vie leader of Vie opposition,
will assume Viat responsihiiity so far as
Vie Senafe Is concerned. and by that means
the Secretary o! State could be relieved o!
Vie trouble and annoyance wbicli be bas
to undergo. My bon. friend says if you
want to know w-bat is goiag on la the
Gommons you can rend Vie 'Hansard.'
1
should like to ask hlm, la ail sincerity,
bow mucb of Vie Commons 'Hansard' he
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELI,

lis rend duriug Vie last two wveeks ? Witlîout casting any reflections upon blm or
any other member, tbere is no bon, gentleman in this Senate wbo pays proper attention to Vie business of Vis House, can possibly read ail Viat la said ia the other
House and
become acquaînted
with
every question Viat is submitfed Viere.
I do flot look upon Vis as a poltical quqestion f0 divide parties. If is one
those changes Viat, If adopted, Vie goverrit.ert should be impressed with one
idea, and thaf is that if ls ih the Interest
of the couatry it shouid be ndopfed. I amn
not prepared to say Viat anything Vint bas
beexi said la opposition to this motion, bas
convinced me thaf the views I hold on the
quee-tion are flot correct. 1 can see maay
difficulties, as suggested by Vie hon. geni
tlernan from De Salaberry, la carrying it
out. Ail changes la government require
fime, to approach nnyViing like perfection,
aud If a fallure fakes place in a few
montbis, Vint is no reason why Vie change
could not be justified. Now, bnving snld
Vis rnucb, I do not propose f0 foilow Vie
exaînpie set by Vie hon. Secretary of State
and some others, and discuss Vie question
of Senate reform. Thaf may corne up under
another form. 1 have tried f0 confine myself exclusively to Vie one question. I
inay say, however, that I do not Viink
it la la Vie interesfs of Vie.Senate that Vie
senators should be suggesting improvemeats or changes in the constitution. It
strîkes me Vlint Viose w-ho oppose the existence o! Vie Senafe, who were advocafing
constanfly lts reform before tbey go into
the Senate, would show a little more discretion and a littie more common sense-and Vint §hould be paramount la the consideration o! almost nny question-if Viey
would just let that question alone. Pauderlng f0 Vie ciamour o! partisans out o!
doors is nof credifable to gentlemen occupying Vie position Vint we do la Vis
House. I admit frankly Vint w-hen Vie
Conservatives bad the majority, Vien Vie
wbole Liberal press w-as dow-a upon Vie
Senate as being partisan. Now that the
Liberals bave a majority, unfortunately,
and not to their credit, Vie Conservative
press are clamoring for a change also. 1
w-i give my views, upon Vint question n
littie more fully whea Vie matter comes

32i9

FEBRUARY là. 1908
up. I do not suppose tbe government are
going to adopt the suggestion made by
the hon, gentleman fram Middlesex, but
I venture ta say that the colleagues of my
hon. frlend the Secretary of State, I wil
not say ail, but many of them, are not in
accord with the sentiments he uttered here,
and I make that statement upon pretty
good authority. What the resuit may be
1 know not, but In discussing this question
let us hope that whatever changes may be
adopted, tbey may be lu the interest not
of the Senate particularly, but of the Dominion as a whale.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.) moved
the adjourument of tee debate tili Tuesday
next.
BILLS INT-RODUCED.
Bill (19) An Act to incorporate tee Bank
of Wlnnlpeg.-(Hon. Mr. Young.)
Bill (23) An Act respectiag the ministers*
wldows aud orph 'ans fund of the Presbyterian Church of Canada.--(Hon. Mr. WatSa.)D.

Bill (60) An Act respectiag patents of the
Gcodwin Car Company.-(Hon. Mr. Kerr.)
Bill (61) An Act respecting patents of
Montagne Moore and Thomas James Haskln.-(Hon. Mr. Kerr.) Bll (75) An Act ta Incorporate the Women's Auxiliary ta the Mlssionary Society
of tee Churcb of Englaad lu Canada.(Hon. Mr. Baker.)

Hon. Mr. POWER-It Nvas introduced ini
the Commons by a private member, tihe
I
hon, gentleman fram South Torouto.
simply give notice to keep the Bill going.
The motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned untili three o'cioek
to-morrow.

THE SENÂTE.
OT.TÂwA,

Friday, February 14, 1908.

Th~e SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedinga.
OOM-MAND

0F THE 16TH BRIGADE
OF INFANTRY.

MOTION.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY moved:
That an order of this House do issue for
the production of"a copy of the corre8pondence exchanged between the Departinént of
Militia and Defence, or any military authority whatsoever, and Lieutenant-Colonel J. J.
Davidson, on the subjeot of his dismissal from
the commnaad of the 16th Brigade of Infantry
and of the promotion of Lieutenant-Colonel
Sir Henry Pelatt to the rank of colonel in
the Canadian militia.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot tblnk there
ahould be any objection to that order.
The motion was agreed to.

QUE'BEC BRIDGE.
COPYRIGHT ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-1 wish to draw the
PIRST READING.
attention of the government to a telegrara
A message was received from tee House published this morning In 'Le Canada' of
of Colnmons wite Bill (28) An Act to amend ~Montreal.
The translation of It in Engthe Copyright Act
hish la as fohlows
The Quebec bridge-The main pier in its turn
The. Bill was read tee first time.
threatens to break down.
Hon. Mr. POWER-This is not a govQuebec, February 13.-The main pier of the
great danernment Bill, but it la a Bill dealing wlh Quebec bridge is now apparently in remains of
ger. owing ta the fact that what
question, and, lu order ta the superstructure is in exactly the saine posian important
keep it goiag, I move that it be read a tion as immediately after the disaster. The
enoineers declare that there is no'other. alternsecond tîme on Tuesday next.
ative than to eut off the steel structure, which.
stîi adheres to the pier, otherw-ise
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Is It will cause considerable damage next the ice
spring.
a government mensure ?
The depth of the river at this point is 300
feet . s0 that in sinkinç to the bottom the
Hon. Mr. POWER-No.
steel superstructure, which is altogether lost,
will not interfere with navigation.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-It Is
I desire ta Inquire of the goverament,
rather an Important question ta be deait
as parllament bas guaranteed the Issue of
wite by a private member.

SENATE
the debentures to au iiiiotnt oi five million and sinie hundred tbýiitsand dollars, If
the goverument w'ill interfere iii this matter and direct tlue company to remnove that
steel imrnediately, or if tluey ivilI run the
rlsk of a further disaster at the Quebec
bridge'!
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Before comlng to the
Cbamber 1 noticed the article that mv
lion. friend has rend. in the M-%ontreal
'Gazette,' and I intended ca]ling the attention of my colleagues to it. 1 will do
If the Comnpany
so to-morrow morunng.
do not. the governament certainly ought to
do anything neeessary to proteet the 1)1er
which has cost a good deal of mioney. The
n
metal that Is Iii the river, I suppose,
neyer be utilized.

fancy it is 0111v a cursory omie. The~ Iiai
i)urpose is the survey. and) 1 luesumne they
look upon that as aneillary to it. and probably do not take the samne care that they
I shahl be glad to get
otherwise would.
n copy of the instructions for my lion.
friend and give it to hlm at the next nuieeting of the Flouse.
'The motion wvas agreed to, and the Bill
was rend the third tinme and passed.
ýEASTERS TRUST COMPANY

BILL.

REPORTED FROM COMlMITTEE.

Hon. Mr. DRUMMOND- from the 'Comnmittee on Bnnking an(l Commerce reported
Bill (G) Au Act respecting tlue Eastern
Trust Comp)any, withi amiendmients.
H-Ie
said :The amendinents are on two clauses
urnd Involve somte attempt on the part of
DOMINION
ANDS 1SURVEYS BILL.
the commlttee to limit or guard the powers
THWID READING.
of the exedutive committee, so called, to be
Hou. Mr. SCOTT mnoyeu tue thira rend- appointed.
The object is to guard the Ialng of Bill (9) An Act respectlng the sur- terests of the company by limitiag the exveys of the public lands of the Dominion teat of the powers to be so delegated.
and' the surveyors entitled to make surli
The Senate ndjourned untîl Tuesdav uext
su rveys.
nt Three o'clock.
-Hon.
-Nm.
.McMULLEN-I
should liLe
to know w-hat are tlic instructions generaily
given the surveyors in esurveying Crown
THE SENATE.
lands ? Are they supposed to take a note
of the quality of the land and classify it,
OTT.AwA, Tuesday, Februnry 18, 1908.
or are any instructions given on thuit point?
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
I bave understood that the men emiployed
to survey lands lu the -Nomtlîwest were sup- o'clock.
posed to rep)ort ns to the quality of the
Prayers and routine proceedings.
lands they surveyed.
Now. I have had
some experience iii connection with lands
LIMITATION 0F DISCUSSION.
that were classed as No. 2. and I fouad
Hon. Mr. McMe.NULIJEN-I beg to give
sonie of themi were notbing but n bed of
the following notice of motion:
sand coated with prairie grass.
f1hat is
That in view of the increased length of the
why I wish to know if surveyors who
sessions of parliamient and the time consurnsurvey Crown lands are required to classify ed by inembers of the House of Commons iii
the-.land and describe Its fitness for agri- discussion of public questions:
In the opinion of this House the rules govculture?
erning debate should, be changed and the
Speaker clothed with authority to limit the
Hon. M'%r.
*SCOTT-I amn quite unable to time for discussion and appoint a date for
give definite information on that point. division on each question, giving a fair proThe opinion I have always entertaîned ls portion of time ta bath bides of the House.
that In the first place they are instructed
Hon. 'Mm. POWER-I wish to direct the
to make the survey and to report as to the attention of bis honour the Speaker to the
character of the land.
My reading of the character of the notice wvhich bas just
report of the Interior Department would been given.
I do not think this House
indicate that the,% alwiys make soune eoin- bas any right to deal with tlue way lu
nient on the character of tlue land;'but 1 which the other House <loes its business.
Hon. Mr. LANtiRY.

FEBRUARY 1Fý. 190S
2. Have the conditions on whichi such tuantbink the bo01. gentleacquired a: te progress, utihiobject by training bis ber lands were been cornplied with?
zation and sale
shall bave occasion to
3. Dees the holding cf such timber lands
by a few persons retard the progress cf setgeutlemian about It.
tlcmeat in the Northwest and enhance the
cost of timber for building purposes?
4. Is the government aware cf combinations
AM'%ENDMýENTS TO *MIIITIA ACT.
b> dealers in maaufactured tiinber acting as
INQUIRY.
a hardship or alrnost total prohibition to
coasumers, and poor settlers eadeavouring
Hon. Mr. LIANL>RY iuquired:
t) make a home?
5. Will the -government use its best inIs it the intention of the government to
to lessen abuses in this
submit during the present session amend- fluence and efforts new settiers?
direction and help
ments to the Militia Act?
He said : The questions tbat I arn askHon. '.%r. SCOTT-I arn advised by the
Department of Multia tliat the subject is iug tbe goverament are not pût wlb any
Tbey are ebtirely lu tbe
partisan feeling.
under consideration.
interests of tbe people of tbe Nortbwestsettiers, geing In %vitb very small
DISTRIBUTION OF KING'S REGULA- young
mens, and ne one will deuy that large
TI10ONS.
tracts et timber lands bave been sold or
INQUIRY.
leased te dîfferent people. and the question
is wbetlîer the holders of tbe leases are
lion. '-%r. LANDRY inquired
1. What class of military personis is the cernplying witb tbe conditions on whicb
Departinent of Militia and Defence appointed they receive those lands. If not, the
to niake gratuitous distribution of the Militia gavernment should step ln and caucel tbeir
Act and the King's regulations, of the United
leases or holdings, because I believe thiat
Kinugdom P
2. How many copies in ail of each of these timber is verv scarce lu the Northwest for
books are thus distributed gratuitously?
fuel or building purposes, tbere bave been
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-mThe xaswers to the very many settlers golug la there, some et
lion. gentlemnan's questions are as follows: them poor people, and they require ail tbey
I amn net conversant wlth the
1. 'Che Klng's Regulations and Ordersfor enu get.
the Militia, 1904, contalning the Militia lumber trade, but I daresay the bon. leader
Act, were issued to ail officers, warrant of the opposition -will be able te tell us
officers and staff nou-commissloned officers about It, If he feels so dlsposed.
of the permanent force. and to ail officers
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-T.he area of ferest on
commanding uits of reg-iments, adjutants,
Dominion lands In the western provinces
The
and quartermasters.
paymasters
was estlmnted by the Superinteudent of
King's Regulations for the Arniy, 1904.
Forestry In 1903 as 150,000 .equare miles,
were issued to ail officers, warrant officers
taking only one-fifth of the total area as
and non-commissioned officers of the perThere are rehein.- covered by forest.
manent force.
served fer tbe ferest parks and forest re2. 2,080l copies of the King's Regulaions
The area disserves 10,904 square mlles.
Orders for the MlUitia, 1904, containing the
pesed of te private parties under license is
Act were distrlbuted gratultously.
Millii
There la, therefore, ne
8,174 square miles.
347 copies of the Kiug's Regulations for
necessity fer any speclal consideration of
the Army, 1904, were distrlbufed gratultous1 notice that the ministrathe question.
]y.
tien of the department on the subject et
timber licenses la governed. by the mIle
SALE 0F TIMBER LANDS IN THE
tba9t ne Ileases are issued until the necesNORTHWEST.
sity for them la shown lu the locallty, and
INQUIRY.
thea tbey are seld by auctien. The answers
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.) inquired: te the other questions are as follows
2. Yes.
1. Will it be advisable to consider the present condition of affairs in the Northwest'
of tbe Interior
3. No. as the Department
Territeries or the new provinces with regardi can require the operation of timber limita
t, large tracts of timber lands acquired by
on Dominion lands and ls deing se In ail
purchase and leaseF

The SPEAKER-I
mnan cou]d attain bis
1
notice otberwise.
confer wjtb the bon.

SEINATE

339

cases wbere suchi limits are beld for five
years or more.
4. The government bas no evidence ia
regard to the matter except that presented
before a parliarnentary committee during
Iast session, and the -record of the trial of
the case entered by tbe government of the
province of Alberta against the Alberta
Lumber Association, but tbere now appears to be a sufficient supply of lumber
ia the west and prices bave dropped.
5. The government is usnug and always
wll use Its efforts to lessen abuses and
help new settIers.
CIRCULATION

0F CANADA

GAZETTE.

INQUIRY.
Hon.
What
Canada
in the

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I migbt asIc the leader
of the House if lie thinks it desirable that
1 should go on with this motion to-day ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-As there is sorne practical work before the House, I think we
must ail recognize that It would be better
to defer thîs motion and place it at the
foot of tbe ord er paper for this day week.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I have been given to
understand that a question of order will
be raised wlth reference to this motion, If
It is brought up. If it is to be ruled out of
.
order I shall proceed now.
Hon. Mr. POWEII-Is the bon, gentleman
anxlous that the question of order should
lie raised ?

Mr. LANDRY Inquired:
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-No, I arn not; but 1
is the present circulation of 'The have been given to understand that it will
Gazette' in each of the provinces and be raised If I proceed.
territories?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have recelved tbe
followlng staternent frorn the departrnent
wltb reference to the circulation of the
Canada 'Gazette' :
Staternent showing present circulation of the
'Canada Gazette' in each of the provinces
and in the territories of the Dominion,
also circulation in Prince Edward Island,
Great Britain and foreiga countries,
February 14, 1908.
Dominion of CanadaOntario.............690
Quebec.............438
120
.......
New Brunswick.. ....
146
.........
Nova Scotia.. ....
69
.....
British Columbia .. ....
76
...
........
Manitoba .. ....
29
.....
......
....
Alberta ....
Saskatchewan...........29
i
..
.
..
Yukon..
Prince Edward Island.......27
Great Britain........
Foreign countries.......

27
38
65

-

Total...........
THE TELEGRAPH SYSTEM
CANADA.

0F

MOTION RULED OUT 0F ORDER.
Tbe notice of motion being called:
That in the opinion of the Senate the Railway Commission of Canada should be enlarged, and the telegraph systeras of the
Dominion phaced under its control, and that
a thorough investigation should bc made by
the commission into the working of said systenis to assure the public an efficient service
nnd an equalization of rates.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

Hon. Mr. POWER-If the hon, gentleman Intends to proceed, I shahl ralse it.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Then I propose to proceed.
Hon. Mr. POWER-This motion is flot
In order, because it proposes to anticipate
action -wbich was foresbadowed in the
speech from throne, and is therefore against
parliarnentary usage. His Excellency sald
lu bis speech at the opening of parliament :
The time has arrived when the public interest requires that telegraph and telephone
conipanies holding federal charters should
be placed uader government control. A Bill
will be jntroduced for that purpose.
That is substantial]y wbat the bon, gentlemnan is looking for.
lIon. Mr. DAVIS-I 'want to cail my
bon. frlend's attention to the fact, that In
the same speech from the throne His Excellency says :,' I commend to your tboughtsubjects,'
fui consideration the several
which means that we are to discuss thern.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Yes, -wben tbey corne
before us.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-They may neyer corne
Something might happen 10
before us.
prevent the introduction of the Bill. Has
it never been known that a Bill foreshadowed in the speech from the tbrone did
flot materialize ? This particular one may

FEBRUARY 18, 1908
the govemumient do not
o r mnay not be brought down ; therefore I friand indîcate that
intend tu proceed with it, bacqu~e hie said
dlaim the rigbt to discuss it, because wc
it was not practicai.
have no such legisiation before us.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I did not make n
Hon. Mr. POWER-Then we shall have statement of that sort.
to live the rest of ýour lives witl3out the
light which the bon. gentleman wouid shed
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My hon. frleud
on the subjeet.
said we liait more practîcai business before us, and, therefore, wera not to deal
Hon. ',%r. DAVIS-We get sufficient light with this motion, froin whlch I Infer that
frein the hon. gentleman, who tonsîders the govcrnment thought it was not a prachlinseif wiser than MoIses and Soloinon and tical Issue, and had gone back on their
all the philosophera of the past; but I want policy. If my hon. friend meant exactly
to tell hlmi that I do not wlab to draw my what hie said. lt would be taken as an Inlight from such a source.
dication of the course the government Intend to pursua, that they have withdrawn
Hon. '-%r. POWER-I raise the question
that part of their programme as announcad
of order at any rate.
freim the speech frein tha throne, and, therebelng
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-lt la for the Speaker fore, we have right to take him as
absoiutehy ln earnest, and. In that way,
to ruie, and flot uiy bon. friend.
iny hon. friend fromn Prince Albert would
Hon. '.%I. LANDRY-I 1ind that on page be perfactly in order.
278 of the last edition of May, this quesHon. Mm. SCOTT-The reason that Intion of anticipating a debate is treated. HP
influenced me in saying, I dld not considar
saya:
the bon. genitleman is ln earnest Is that
A motion rnust not anticipate a matter al- this motion bas been on the order paper
by the
ready appointed for consideration
House. A motion la aiso eqnally out of order for two and one-haif monthas. Anyone who
which anticipates a motion for leare to bring puts a motion of that kind on the order
in a Bill Eht includes a subject propose
to be deait wjth by the motion or a Bill paper Is bhocking business. It la an obappointedl for consideration, though the Bill struction thiat we have to Jump over every
may neot have been printed. The reference, time we come to It. It has been on the
however, of a matter to a select committee
does not prevent the consideration of the ordar paper fromn December 2.
sanie matter by the House.
The SPEAKR-lt la a weli known
1 do not think we couid auticipate a principle thiat no question can be debated
debate until the Bill cornes hefore us, that twice during the samne sesasion. For that
Is If the Bill wva brought dowvn In the reason, rules have been laid down against
House 0 f Commors or hiere, we couid nlot anticipating a question with which 41he
discuss a motion to bring before this House House is seized.
Parliament has been
matters realUy to be discussed afterwards. saized iii a vary solemn way by the speech
1 think that wouid be auticipating the de fromn the thmone with a notice that a Bill
bate, but the niere mention lu a apeech will be broughit down. My opinion la that
frein the throne that a mensure is to be the hon. gentleman couid not proceed with
brought down does nlot prevent a member his -motion before asklng the ministars
frein discussiug the question until the men raprasantlng the govemnment here If theY
sure is brought down.
lntend to Implement that deciamation In the
If the
to the tUni espeech from the throne shortiy.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Ul)
ls lu the affirmative, I will deciare
-answer
mny hou. friend the Secretary of State lie
motion of the hon, gentleman out of
plied to the hon. member frein Prince AI -the
i order. A decision to thiat affect was renibert, I would have leaned to the opîniox
of the House of
that this motion Nvas not in order, becausi e dared by the Speaker
Commoas lu Great Britain on May 25,
the governmnent liad put a paragraph in thie
Lough of Ishington, brought up
speech froni the throne that a mensur e 1903. Mr.
question on a motion for adjournment
was to be brouglit down dealing with th!s the
la as follows:
very subject; but the remarks If uy hoeu .The report of the discussion

SENATE
MOTION FOR THE ADJOURNMENT.

lion. Mr.

LANDRY-Iu

the case w'hieli

fis Ronour the Speaker bas mentioned, ît
Mr. LOUGH (Islington, W.>-I beg, ta ask
whilh

heave ta move the adjournment of the flouse
ta, cali attention ta a definite matHii order
ter of urgent public importance-namely, the
determination of His MajestT's Ministers
ta, spend public money in connectioii with the
Brussels sugar convention without the sanction of parhiament.
Mr. SPEAKER-I do net think I can ao-cept that Motion, because, as I understand,
a Bill is already dowu upon that subject,
and the matter cari corne on for discustion
then.
Mr. LLOYD-GEORGE-1 undemstood the
l'rime Minister ta say it was proposed ta
spend the money before introducing the Bill.
Surely it is open ta the opposition ta contest
the right of the governrnent to spend money
without the sanction of parliamniet merely
oit a promise ta carry thraugh a Bill.
Mr. LOUGH-The convention is ta meet
on the lst of Juîîe and the Prinme Minister
said the Bill wouhd nat be introduced before
titat date.
Mr. A. J. BALFOUR-I said just the contramy.
Mr. WHITLEY <Halifax)-Asked whether
a esolution passed lest year could be taken
uîider the rules cf the Hanse as authorizing
tis expenditume of public maney.
Mm. SPEAKER-That is not a iatter which
arises on this motion. In fact, I do not
kiiow ta what resolution the hon. member
refers.
Mr. LLOYD-GEORGE-It is not on the
order-book.
Mr. SPEAKER-Notice has been given ta
the Hanse by the governmeut.
EBERS-No.
Sevemal hon. ME
Mr. BUCHANAlN--Can we be pmevenited
discussing this motion because of a
fram
mere verbal promise to introduce a Bill dealing with a snbject not yet on the order-book?
my ,.tatenient
Mr. SPEAKER-Although
has been contradicted, I may point ont that
notice of a Bill ta enable the governument ta
carry into effect the convention is on the
order-book, and has been there inany weeks.

wvas one involving an expenditure.
mnust be întroduced lu cammittee.

The SPEAKER-In that case there hadl
been no Bill, but at declaration of the governiment tliat a Bill would be brouglit down.
I think the fact thiat the speech from the.
the intention of the
throne mentions
govrnient to bring down a Bill, whlch
Is subsequently confirmed by the government of the day, precludes the bon. gentleman putting his motion.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Is that lu conformlty wlth the rlght of public discussion?
Hon. CENTLEMEN-Order, order.
lion. Mr. CIÂiIAN-I arn sirnply asking
a question of the chair.
Hon. '-%r. POWER-Tbe hon. gentleman
lias no right to refleet on the decision of
the chair unless lie proposes ta appeal.
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY-But we learu from
the report thagt the Speaker bas rend, that
the members of the House of Lards have
asked questions ot the Speaker.
Hion. Mr. CLORAN-I arn very glnd tlint
the hon. Speaker of this Bouse listens to
the advlce of the bon. senator f rom Stadacona instead of thint of other members. -I
arn asking If that decîsion is lu conforrnltr
with the right of publie discussion?

The SPEAKER-I have said It is in conformity 'wltl the practice of the British parSa I consider thiat the hon, gentleman, before putting bis motion to-day, shauld lu- liament and shouid be followed here.
quime of the goverument If It is their inHon. 'Mr. POWVER-When the epeaker
tention ta briug down that Bill, and If
gives bis decîsion. nnless an hon. member
they reply ln the affirmative, then the moproposes to appea]. hie lias no rlgbt to question must be deferred or dropped.
tion it.
lion. Mr. LANDRY-ihere is no decisioin
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-If 1 arn forcedl to do
given yet.
it. I shail niove the adjourumeut of tbe
I do not want the hon. senator
The SPEAICEI-Not until tue lhon. gen. flouse.
tleniani puts the question and is answered. from Halifax to bob up every tinie I have
anything to brlng before the House, and 1
nsked want hlm to understaud that 1 iîi not suhHon. Mr. SCOTT-I have been
that question once or twice since tbe Hanse mit ta it much longer.
I
opened, -and replied iu the affirmiative.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Aq long as the hon.
thlnk the Bill is already drafted, and, of
provisions affecting the gentleman is a mneier of the Senate, hie
course, it contains
matter contained ia thie notice given by my is houifd to suhînit ta thec riies of the
Senate.
hon. f riend.
The SPE_1Ul R

FEBRUARY 18, 190S
Hon. '-%r. DAVIS-I wanted to ask a
simple question. 1 could not foliow the
Speaker wheu lie was reading from the authorities lie quoted; but as far as 1 could
hear I eouli not see tlhe anaiogy -between
the case lie cited and tie case before the
House to-day.
The SPEAKER-Tue lion. gentlemian bas
not any riglit to discuss the decision-of the
chair unless be intends to appeal against
ut.
Hon. 'Mr. DAVIS-I shall bring the question before the House ln a way that It cannot be ruled out of order.
ROUTES

0F THE TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILWAY.

335

of that state bias applied for a winding-up
order of the New York 'Mutulai Reserve
L.tfe Company, and bas aise asked for a
They have been found upon the
receiver.
recent Inspection to be $1,360,000 short of
the necessary sumi to enable them to continue business. -The.ir license bas been
snspended, and there are a great many
poiicy-bolders ln Canada; therefore I should
lîke to know whetlier It is the Intention
of the Department of Insurance to suspend
the license of tItis conîpany in Canada, or
wbat steps are lîkely to be taken ln thé
We have
laterests of pollcy-holders here?
a .great mnny polcy.boh1orq ii Ci9,ada and
I think i would be iveli that some steps
should be tak-en on their behalf.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wll Inquire of tbe
Minister of Finance ln regard to the matI presunie tbnt If the Ilcense bas
ter.
Hon. '.%r. THOMSON moved
been suspended ln one country it must be
That ail humble address be presented to
Ris Excellency the Governor General, pray- suspended in tlie otber; but I wlill ascering that Ris Exceliency will be pieased to tain the facts to-morrow.
cause to be laid before the Senate a return
showing with respect to the two routes o! the
Transcontinental Railway that were surveyed DISALLOWAN'CE 0F NATAL ACT 0F
between Grand Falls and Chipman, in the
BRITISH COLUMBIA.
MOTION.

Province of New Brunswick, the estimated
cost of each of the lines, that is to say
1. The 'Back Boute,' so-called.
2. The St. John Valley route.
With the following details t(s) Cubic yards o! ordinary excavation and
fuls.
(b> Cubic yards of loose rock.
(c Cubic yards of solid rock.
(d) Cubic yards of concrete.
(e) Miles of steel trestie and cost.
(f) Number and cost of bride.
And with respect to the 'Bac RLoute,' giving the last-mentioned details as regards the
foliowing subdivisions of that route t

1. Grand Falls and Tobique River.
2. Tobique River and Intercolonial

Rail-

way.
3. Intercolonial Railway and Chipman.
And is it the intention to adopt a pusher
grade in the route seiected P
The SPEAKER-Periaps
an order of the House.

It wlll go as

Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
The motion was agreed to.
WINDING UP' 0F T.HE NEW YORÈ:
MUTUAL RESERVE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
like to
Hon. Mr. McULNIsbould
Inquire of tie Secretary of State ln regard
I see
to a matter of vital Importance.
that lu New York the Attorney General

Hon. .Mrt. LOUGHEED-May I direct niy
lion. friend*s attention to the fact that ail
the papers--and hince I do not refer te
any particular onie-liave stated la to-day's
Issue tliat the government was about to
disallow the Natal Act passed by the legîslature of Britisli Columbia and tbat an
officiai copy is daily expected nt the office
of my lion. frlend the Secretary of 'State.
Mlay I ask niy lion. frie.ti if the official
copy bas been received yet. and if It ls
the Intention of tlie governinent to disaliow
the Act at once upon its recelpt, and wbat
action lias the governuient taken wltli reference to protecting the alleged riglità o!
tlie two Japanese 'wlo have been arrested
in Vancouver under the Act? I presunie
my hon. friend's attention bas been directed to the fact of that arrest. inasmucli
as the statenient is made that tbis goverament bas instructed counsel to protect the
Interests of the Japanese to whom 1 ailude.
Hon. '.%r. SCOTT-Last week. Vie Department o! Justice was lnstructed to eniploy couinsel for* the purpose of defending
any Japanese who might be arrested under the recent Act passed by the British

SENATE
The Act itself was
Columbia legislatîire.
received this morniag, and was at once
sent to tlie Departinent of Justice, and I
bave flot seen the Miaister of Justice since,
Therefore, It
-nor have 1 seen bis report.
would be premature for me to make any
I presume we will have
announcement.
bis report to-morrow.

was pursued in this case from that taken in
the former case; because in that case a
telegram was sent asking for assurance?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.' I amn the one
wlio bad the conversation witli Mr. McBride.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I amn speaking
of the telegram.

Inthe
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-When Mr. MeBride
of was on his way to London, he called at my
be office, and, among other subjects, we diseussed this Act, and I put the question
whether this Act was going to be allowedHon. Mr. SCOTT-That I could flot an,%vhetlier it was to be assented to. and lie
swer. The renson for glving the Instructold me it was not. I then wired the lieutions was that w-e considered the Act
tenant-governor, stating that bis prime minpassed by Britishi Columbia was wliolly InIster liad Informed me that tlie Act would
operative as far as the Japenese are conflot go into operation-is that the intencerned, because it wou]d be contrary to
tion ? And be answered yes.
section 95 of the British North America
Acf, whlch provlded that wliule a province
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The hon, gentlemiglit Jegisiate on Immigration, It must man asked the governor, * Can w-e rely on
flot pass any lnws that are adverse to a that assurance ?'
Now we have
law of the federagl pow-er.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, on Mr. -McBride's
a law on our statute-books under whicli
assurance.
the Japanese are allowed to corne Ia, and
the treaty was confirnied Iast session; so
NEW YORK MUTUAIL RESERVE LIFE
that the Act, In nMy judgnient-and I preASSOCIATION.
sume I arn righit-would be inoperative as
Instructions liave been
against Japanese.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I wish to direct the
given to the counse] in Vancouver and Vic- attention of this House to the question
toria, that If aay Japanese were arrested raised by the lion. gentleman train Wellingthcy sliould look after their case and take ton. Hle referred to the Mutual Reserve
out a writ of hiabeas corpus if necessary. Lif e Iasurance Company, whicli Nvas under
If any proceedings were taken agalnst thein, investigation here tliree years ago under
the Japanese sbould be protected.
very adverse clrcumstances, and asked If
be In the government Nvas prel)ared to take menHon. '.%r. LOUGHEED-It would
tlie policy-liolders in Cananticipation of the- Act hein- la contraven- sures to secure
ada.
tion of the Japanese treat.

,Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Were fliose
structions issued for the defence of
Japanèse ln question, la contemplation
a disallowance of the Act, if the Act
along certain lines?

The SPEAXER-Does tlie lion. geatleHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Will my lion.
f rlend inforin the House w-hether the gov- mnan iatend to put a question ?
erninent gave the Instructions t0 tlie gaverHon. Mr. CLORAN-I amn referring t0
nor- of British Columbia in regard f0 the
wliat he said, and will put my question
Natal Act. that lie was to disallow it, or later. I asked if the goverament is aware
If there was any sucb instruction sent If
that it is not the Attorney General of New
lt was Ini disobedience of the order of this
York, but the poiicy-liolders of the coingovernnment.
paay who have asked tlint tliis company
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-He was left to follow go into insolvency, which is altogether n
bis own course in this matter, and lie seems
t0 have taken the advice of his constitutional advîsers bv signiag.the Act.
Hou. '.%r. FEROUSON-It would be in4c.resting to know why a different course
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT.

different matter. If the Attorney General
of Newv York deînanded nn iasolvency it
miglit be a party question, or some other
question ; but the policy-holders themnselves
la the United States have asked the State

FEBRUARY 18, 1908
to appoint a receiver. Under these circumstances, I would ask conjolntly with th(bon. gentleman from Wellington, what steps
tbe government intend to take to safeguard
the lnterests of the policy-holders ln Canada.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I answered the hon.
gentleman from Wellington that my attention had only been called to the matter taday, and that 1 bad no opportunity of findlng out wbat the views of the Finance Department were, and that I would do so at
the earllest possible marnent, and bave the
Information before the House to-morrow.
BILLS INTRODUCED.

337

likely ta be taken np ln France and same in
Germany, and they found that the parties
wha were taklng tbem up objected uniess
the currency of the particular country was
described. Sa that as nearly as practicable
to the equivalent of one hundred dollars, the
clause Indlcated. that bonds may be Issued
hi marks and la francs, twenty pounds sterling, 500 francs or 400 marks, or ln mums
not lesa than the nearest equivalent In round
figures to the sum of $100. It was fouad
that Canada's credit was risiag la the
markets of the world, and some of our
people who were Issuing bonds find that a
better price eau be had for tbem la Germany and France than la Great Britain,
and tbey wvish ta avail themseives of the
apportu7nity. It Is a great advaatage ta
Can.&da If aur bonds get on the financlal
miirkets of France and Germany. It gives
us a wider opportunity for floating bonds.

Bill (Ui) An Act ta change the name of
the head office of the Anglo-Canadian Insurance Company.--(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
Bill (V) An Act respecting the Dominion
Guarantee Company, Limited.--(Hon. Mr.
The clause was adapted.
Watson.)
Hon. Mr. MeIKEEN from the cammittee
Bill (T) An Act respectlng the Atlantic
reported the Bill without ameadment.
and Quebec Rallway Company.--(Hon. Mr.
Fiset.)
BANK 0F WINNIPEG BILL.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. W'ATSON (la the absence of
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
Hon. Mr. Young) moved the second readlng
Tbe Hanse resolved itself Into Committee of Bill (19) An Act ta Incorporate the Bank
of the Whoie on Bill (I) An Act to amend of Winnipeg.
the Companies Act.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I recently diIn the committee.
rected the attention of the Chamber ta the
numerous applications for what must neOn clause 1.
cessariiy be termed smali banks, and I
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-The Act la cafled by
asked my bon. friend what the policy of
different names lni the revisian. It la called the goverament wauld be with relation ta
an Act Respectlng Companles, aad ln the
Considerable
the passage of those Bis.
statute it was called the Companies Act of
criticlsm bas been made, not oaly i the
1902, and it has been hield, to make It
otber Hause but la the press of the country,
clenr, that the first section should be amend- witb reference ta the Incorporation of hanks
ed, adding that the Act shahl apply to ail
of this kind. It seems ta me that the lncampanies lncorporated under the Compa- discriminate action of parilament la charnies Act of 1902. I move that subelause C tering numerous omali banks, la bound ta
stand as part of clause one. It is a mere refiect upon the financial. status of our
techalcal point.
banks generally; and It further seems ta
me that the goverament should adopt same
The motion was agreed ta.
plcy upon this question; so thnt there
On clause 2,
may be some better supervIsiba than there
Hgnr. Mr. SCOTT-A firm ln Toronto re- bas been la the past, 'with reference ta
quested us te add a provision la the next the privileges which are being exerclsed by
section. It appears that they have' lssued those wbo are orgnnized for the parpose of
bonds under the Companies Act which are carrylng on the banklng business.
22
COMPÂNIES ACT ÂMENDMENT

BILL.

BEVI5EDD

EDMTON

338

SEXýATE

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon, gentleman
knows that the Bank Act itself prescribes
how a charter may be obtained. lt even
I subgives the ferm and wording of It
mitted the subject to the Finance M.%inister,
who said he was quite unabie to make
any change In the Bank Act untIl the terni
Every ten years our Bank Act
expired.
sultable
and
is criticized thoroughly
It is brought before
changes «are made.
parliament, and the minister thought the
responsibility for allowlng Bills of that
character to gn throughi rested with parliaThey mighit inslst o>n larger
ment itself.
smns heing deposited or greater capital
subscrihed.
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-The last clause
of this Bill provides that it shall remaln
I thixik that
in force until the year 1911.
I do flot think the
is an unusuai clause.
Bank Act perniits a bank to continue iii
operation that length of tume hefore the
charter heconies lnvalid, by reason of the
stock flot being subscribed. Hlowever. that
is a section that ean be amended In cornmittee.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEIDD-My 'impression'
la that the bank charters expire shortly ; but li might very well be said
that notwithstanding the fact that the
Banklag Act makes provision for the Incorporation of banks, the financiai eredit
of the Dominion hins been very seriously
shaken by reason of the failure of some
of the sinaller hanks, and the apprehension
whlch has been expressed in mny quarters, particular!y in 'financial circles witii
reference to the solvency of other snialler
banks which have heen recently Incorporated. If the Bank Act, even as It at present stands, does not sufficlently safeguard
the Interests of the hanking Institutions of
the Dominion, there is no reason why there
should not be an imniediate Intervention
by the government with reference to the
protection of those Interests; and it seenis
to me that It Is flot a good argument flint
we should. wait tntil the expiration of tl(,
present charters hefore the government
gives ruature*consideration to this question.
The motion was agreed to, aad the Bill
-was rend the second time.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

MISSIONARY SOCIETY 0F TEE
CHURCHI 0F ENGLAND BILL.
SECOND READING.
Bill (75) An Act to Incorporate the Womea's Auxiliary to the -Missionary .Society
of the Church of England in Canada.(Hon. Mr. Baker.)
APPOINTMENT 0F UNDER SECRETARIES.
DEBÂTE CONCLUDED.
The order of the day being called:
Resuming the further adjourned debate on
the motion of the hon. Mr. Ross (Middlesex),
that in the opinion of the Senate, the time
has arrived for supplementing the executive
government of Canada, by the appointment
of under secretaries to the more important
departments of the publie service, with duties
and privileges as near as may be similar
tu those of the corresponding officers in the
parliament of Great Britain.
Hlon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I do not
rime as much to discéss this question as I
do to express niy surprise that such an
experienced parlianientarlan as the hon.
gentleman froni Middlesex shouid place a
subject like this before the Senate.
I consIder It a matter entirely for the
governinent-a niatter of administration to
be taken up, or ieft alone as It finds the
necesslty. The motion may be taken as
a reflection on the governinent, as much as
to saY : 'You are hehind ln your vork, unfit to carry It on. We wlU give you under
secretaries who wiii quicken you up, and
do the work of the country. Although this
construction could be placed on the motion.
I amn sure It was not the intention of tlic
mover, but rather he was prompted by an
overflow of charlty and conimiseration for
a hard-worked cabinet. Since when has
the goverument of Canada become so modest and bashfui as not to ask for, and
take what It wants ? The hon, gentleman
may rest assured that If the governmeut
felt the want of under secretaries It would
have theni without asking the Senate, except ln the usual parliamentary way, hy
placîng a Bill before us to pass.
Under secretaries elected by the people.
if thoroughly hoaest, might he a source of
uneasiness to a minister. It is well known
that la the speading departments as weii
as ln that of the Department of the Interior there are alw'ays certain matters-such

FEB1tITARY 18, 1908
às contracts, extra payuients, purchasers,
commission to middlemen, sales and leaes
of land to, favorites kept back from parliament, which an elected under secretary
mlght reveal. Ministers do flot complain of
the present system, nor does the House of
Commons. Ail departmental Information
can be had under tbe present system of
deputy heads of experience, wbo have numerous clerks under tbem, wbo preps.re
briefs, replies to questions, and general information for the mînister to lay before
parliament as far as he considers necessary. It ýwill be, tiierefore, seen that It la
as easy task for the ministers to reply for
their Individual departments.
The only
bardshlp la ln the Senate, where tie bon.
Sec.retary of State bas to, reply for ail departments and Senators feel that this la ton
much for one minister. We know the IndefatIgable lndustry of the bon. Secretary o!
State; but the numerous questions asked
by the hon. gentleman from Stadacona
'would require two under secretaries to
reply to them. Tbe hon. gentleman takes
a position wltb the Ross rifle and blazes
round the corners at the non. Secretary o!
State or he uses tbe Marconi system. Seriously speaking, however, tbe bon. Secretary o! State should bave a responsible
person to assiat ln replying to questions
brought before the Senate.
Hon. M r. ROSS (Middlesex)-.My hon.
friend !rom Victoria wonders bow It ls
that !rom my experience of government
nnd parliament I propose such a resolution. WeU-. It la because of my experience
that I bave proposed the resolutIon; because o! wbat I have seen In the Bouse
o! Commnons during the eleýven years I
was a member o! that body; because o!
what 1 bave learned since coming bere, as
well as my observation o! the debates ln
the proceedings o! parlament, wben 1 bad
not a seat in either Bouse, that I bave been
led to the conclusion embodied ln this
Whether my experience la
resolution.
confirmied by the vlews o! bon. gentlemen la this House, Is a matter yet to, be
Tbe hon. Secretnry o!
determined upon.
State is not of my vlew, nor is the hon.
The only bon.
senirtor from Halifax.
inember wbo bas taken part ln this discussion who appears to coincide wlth my
view Is the lion. senator !rom Hastings.
22ý

339

1 have, therefore, the experience of one
bon. gentleman who occupied tbe distingulsbed position of Prime Minister at one
Urne ln this country, that the change now
proposed, whereby ministers would be
aided ln tbe discussions, and ln answerlng
questions, is a change that la ln the public interest
1 bave flot at ail changed
my view because of anytblng that lias
been sald by an hon. gentleman wbo opposes this motion.
My hon. frlend from
Victoria says when anything o! this sort
Is needed, the House of Commons wIll ask
for It.
We are not so mucb concerned.
wlth what the House of Commons may
want or ask for; It: Is wltb our own Interests we are concerned.
I may not voice
the opinions of the Rouse; I volce my own
opinion, and that la that we do want to
ask for It ; humbiy ask for it of course,
and that we do need it and need the change
very badly.
I do not by these expressions refiect ln the sllglitest degree on the
leadership ln this House or tbe support
given the hon. Secretary o! State by Uic
bon. Minister o! Trade and Commerce. I
slmply mention It because I feel that Uic
leader of thîs House is overtaxed in being
obllged to answer s0 many questions, and
to, explain every Bill coming from the
House of Commons, numbering from one
hundred to one hundred and fifty per session; and also to discuas the Blîs brought
Into this House and watt on tbe committees throughout tbe session.
The task la
more Uian we should ask any one person
to undertake. it la a task which bas been
on thc wbole well !ulfllled; but this la a
progressive age and wbat we have been
doing fairly well we may hope to do better by some change ln our plan.
The
hon. Secretaryv of State has sald that thc
press bas taken no notice o! this question,
and Uic hon. senator !rom H{alifax bas said
Uiat there Is no public Interest lu Uic question. That la Uic trouble with our situation.
The press, as a rille. takes very
Ilttle intereat ln the Senate--why?
Because there attaches so lîttie Interest to
One reasou is our limited
Uic Senate.
constitutional functions, and, another renson, because we do flot initiate legfislation
biere that commands the attention of the
We are lost to public observacountry.
tion, partly beca9use Of our constitutional

SENATE
limitations, snd partly because we under- The opportuuity did flot occur in bis 11f eMy proposai1 simply is that tinie. His successor was Sir John Thomptake so little.
under secretaries liere sud could son, ani he trausferred the hon. senator
if we had
initiate legisiation ' and bring before this fron> Hastings from the Departmeut of
House questions ranglng to a certain de- Custorns to the Department of Trade and
gree lu Importance with the questions I- Commerce. The hon, gentleman from New
troduced iu the other House, then the press Brunswick (Hon. 'Mr. Costigan) was then
1 do uot biame Minister of Inlaud Revenue. He could flot
would give us notice.
fiud reporters flock- retire hlm convenieutly, and dld flot want
You will
the press.
he
lng to the galierles o! the other House, to relegate hlm to an Inferior position;
Whly ?-because had to watt for bis opportuulty. The opwhlle ours are deserted.
Tiiey portunity did flot corne In his lifetIme; but
they Eind so littie here to report.
know we are a reglsteriug bodly--cali us in the matter of the Solicitor General when
that. They know that the details o! im-> the interest of noue of his colleagues Interportant niensures have been thoroughly vened and the coast was practIcally clear,
appointdiscussed before they corne to this House. he at once made provision for the
meut of that officer. So we are uot lu a
What further can be sald about them?
Nothlng further, as a mile, is snid, sud some position to say, and Sir John Macdonald Is
he did
of the most engrossing questions whlch may flot here to be examined as to why
the attention o! the other House not carry out at au early day the proviocdupy
for days, pass here without discussion. sions of bis Bill. I am> givlng the reasoDIt is to the able construction, aud 1 thiuk If the lion.
Discussion is flot necessary.
credit o! this House that we waste no senator fron> Hastings were here he would
eedless discussion; but If Import- corroborate what I have said. Then It is
tirne I
ant measures were lnltlated liere, there sald by the hon. senator fron> Halifax, and
would be Important discussions; sud the the hon. Secretary of State, that the Engattention of senators and their miental ac- Iish example Is not oue we should too miativity would lie eugaged lu prepariug bis vishiy follow. I did not ask this House
system.
for the House o! Commous, sud time to too slnvlsbly follow the Engllsh
WTe may adopt the English systen> of havo! Commns
wouid be saved to the House
Our
I notice the hou. senator lug a cabinet varying lu numbers.
lu that way.
cabinet seems to be rigld, the number befrom Haifax favoured the Act of 1887.
Engiand, as 1
So far so good; but he lieid, aithough he ing fixed at fourteen. In
said lu the former deliate, the cabinet vafavoured the Act, that Sir John Macdonbeing
ald had not himel! approved of It very ries fron> tw-elve to nineteen, nIneteen
the highest number lu the last tweive or
strongly when lie f ailed to put It lu force
There mlght have fi! teen years. I would have no objection~
during bis lifetime.
o! that systen>. There Is
been ressous why that Act was not put lu to the adoption
o! It. A
A iMluister o! Trade sud Com- a good deal to lie said lu favour
operation.
cabinet may be too large as well as too
merce -was appoiuted after tlie decease ot
reasou why the cabinet
Sir John Macdonald, sud that was, perhaps, small. In fact, the
was adopted lu Eugland lu the relgn of the
as far as the governeut could go at that
found hlmIu order that Sir John Macdonald Georges, was that the premier
stage.
self lu a safer position if he cousulted wltli
couid carry out the provisions o! bis owu
Prlvy Gouncil.
Billlie would have been oblIged to depose a smalier number o! the
Hence there arome an lmperlum ln Imperio,
smre o! lis miuisters-allow them to
That Is the
retire, or relegute then> to au inferior a cabinet withln the council.
origlu o! the cabinet, and though Its nun>1 cau
position lu the govemument.
preunderstand tliat lie was not disposed to do bers have varied wlth the different
miers, there la no reason why that systen>
that. The lion. senator from Hastings was
lu Canada, If we
then Minister of Customs. He couid not should flot be adopted
find It sultable to our'circumstances. .But
very weii say to that distlnguished collesState goes further
gue of bis: 'I -will make you coutroller.' the hou. Secretary of
the British goveruHe wouid say : 'l must wait until an op- and says that althougli
ment Is a very large cabinet and admînIsportunity occurs to make sppoiutments.*
lion. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

FEBRUARY 18, 1908

341

For Instance,
tration, the %vbole government consisting may inake myself clear.
of practically sixty niembers. Britain bas under the Act establisbing a board of works
many colonies, and bas an extended juris- for Ireland, the board of works bas charge
diction entirely uncomparable witb the ju- of ail public buildings, parks, barbours,
risdiction wliich the parliament of Canada roads and bridges, canais, educatianai buildpossesses. Tbat is true, and she bas offi- ings, constguard bouses, customs bouses,
cers ln proportion. If you look at some fisheries, drainage, Inland navigation, 'railof the details of the British goverument, ways, police courts, prisons, hospitals, dic.,
you wiil find that la many respects tbe ,wblcb do not belong ta counties or to the
cabinet is realiy relleved from duties that poor law administration. So that Ireland
encumber the goverument ln this country. is governed practical! from Dublin Castle,
That is to say, tbere ls suchi a subdivision -witbout tbe consent of tbe people of
of duties that a minister can very definitely Ireland, it la true-almost as fully as one
apply himaself to une department of the of aur provinces is governed by the British
public service without having is attention North Aýmerîc-a Act; so that the Home
engrossed by otber departments. For In- Secretary wbo bas charge of Irish sffalrs
stance, India bas Its Secretary of State is reileved by that local board, practlcally,
and under secretaries, but It bas its of ail Irish affairs. The ane may be aaid
Minto bas bis of the chief secretary for Scotland. Lookr
council of state -Lord
own privy council. India ls practicaliy at the extent of bis jurisdiction. Tbe secgoverned la India under tbe provisions of retary exercises Important statutory powers
the India Act, and tbere is no matter on the foiiowing subjects-poor law, public
wbich cornes uncler the imperial govern- works, boan acts, salmon fIsheries, flshery
ment respecting India except questions of board, prisons, education, school sites, board
war or famine or the regulation or duties of manufacturers, lunacy, public bealth.
afiecting Englilb goods. India is as f ully roads and bridges, local taxation retarDs,
free la its governiment, so far as a crown wild birds protection, police, general regiscolony can be. as Canada, under tbe India ter bouse, alkali works, assessors of railAct. Then there is a secretary for tbe co- ways, public parks, markets and fairs, counlonies. Wbat bas bie to do ? Very littie, ty general assessment, registration of births.
except to appoint governors, for tbe self- deatbs and marriages, parliamentary divigoverning colonies and the crown colonies. sions, artisans' and labourers' dwellings,
Tbere is no legisiation before tbe imperial turupikes accounts, locomotives, food and
parliament affecting Canada unless It be drugs, sberiffs, court bouses, banial grounds,
treaties such as the treaty of Japan or tbe and river pollution. Sa that the Cbief Sectreaty with France, or matters affecting retary- for Seotland practically represents
our relations with tbe United States or wbat ln this country is the local legislasome other matter of a klndred cbaracter. ture. If you refer ta the government of
The colonial office practically la relieved Britain you will flnd there are many subfrom tbe goverament of Canada ta a great divisions and that tbe beads of tbese varlou9
extent under tbe British North Âmerica departments need not be unduly pressed
Act, and the saine may be said witb regard ln the dlscbarge of their daty. Now my
ta almostail the otber duties of a secretary proposition ls tbat the beads of tbe deof state. For Instance, Ireland bas ins partments bere, tbat is tbe Ministers of
own privy council. and If we refer to the the Crown, the cabinet officers, sboald be
Act giving Ireland Ins privy council under reileved ta a certain extent s0 that ln tbe
Lord Aberdeen, you 'will see that almost larger measures of legisiation 'we can avail
every matter deait wlth .by tbe provincial ourselves of the experience, the ability, the
goveraments of this country corne practi- bigli standing and statesmansip of Our
cally under the goverament of Dublin public men. It Is a serious thing that the
Castle, and tbe great offence to Ireland i. public educatian of Canada la statesmantbat Dublin Castie controls bier poor laws sbip and the larger questions of polltics.
and almost everytbing reiating to Ireland. and la tbe larger horizon wbichi la now
Perliaps it might be xvorth wbiie ta refer opeaing up ta us, tbat the men who ougbt
to that for one moment la order tbat 1 to lead us la the discussion of these larger

SENATE
questions have their time occupied with tinct, and what w-as witbln the purview of
minor matters which au under secretary the local legisiatures dld not also corne
could very w-el disebarge, and wbich art, hefore this parliament, then the objection
more properly w-lthin bis lmited function. to the proposaI I bave made would be of
That is one reason, among others, why I far greater force. That is my answer ta
have asked the House to very serlously that objection.
Then. ry hon. friend fromn Halifax says
consider Nvhetber the proposai I have put
before the Senate Is flot w-ortby of consi- that If we appolnted under secretarles, they
deration. The hon. Secretary of State says w-ouîd scarcely respect their chiefs-that
that the ministers of this country need not tbey wvould not be as obedient as under
be very severely pressed, because w-e have secretaries are lu England. Wel, let us
provincial legislatures wbieh relieve tbem of have a chance to try. I tblnk that Canamany duties. That is true only to a llmlted dians, as n rule, are courteous and respectextent If you look at the British North fui. How docs the hon. senator from HaliAmerica Act, you w-lI find that many ques- fax know tbat tbey w-ill not be obedient
tions by which the constitutional functions to their chiefs ?
of the parliament of Canada and the local
lion. Mr. P'OWER-I spoke of the expelegisiatures are divided uip are given to rience we have already had in Canada wltb
both, questions lu w-hich each bas concur- under secretaries.
rent jurisdiction. For instance, w-e give a
Hon. MNr. ROSS-We bave bnd no exm
good deal of attention here ta the question
of agriculture; so do the provincial legisîn- perience; w-e have had no under sècretary
tures, and this House is flot relieved from yet
dea]ing w-ltb agriculture because It ls (1150
.lon. Mr. POWER-Yes, the controllers.
w-lthln the Jurisdiction of the provincial
Hoit. Mr. ROSS-My bon. f rlend. would
legisiature. Sa w-itb immigration. a subject w-blcb bas occupied a good deal of not give us a chance to bave experience.
1
our attention and bas become a vexed ques- Hle is drawing on bis Imagination.
tion in this parliament. That also Is wvithln think Canadians w-ould be quite as respectthe jurisdiction of tbe provincial legisia- ful to their chiefs as Englishmen are. The
tures. We deal w-ith railways and have a deputy beads of the departments are reRailw-ay Commission ; the provinces also spectfnl to the beads of their respective
I do not like that invidions
deal w-lth rallw-ays and, in Ontario, at ail departuients.
I would like to
events, there is a Board of Railway Com- reflection on Canadians.
We bave a Compaules Act bave an opportunîty of trying, and if w-e
missioners.
w-hiei w-e are amending to-day ; so tbey found that Canadians are not worthy of
have Companles' Acts ln the provinces. We this distinction, w-e could amend tbe Act;
have an Insurance Act w-bicb w-lt engage but I think they are w-ortby of auy honour
Then
a great deal of our attention during the that may be conferred on them.
next few w-eeks ; they bave Insurance'legis- my hon. frlend la afraid it w-ould lead to
Suppose it did, our
lntion to occupy tbeir attention la the local an Increase of staff.
legisiature. We deal with the fisheries; country is growing, and I do not think the
It is
sa do the provinces. We deal w-ith tbe public service should be starved.
publie lands ln some of the provinces ex- important, la every case. that tbe staff
clusively ; but bere aIl the lands of tbe sbould be equal to the emergencies of the
Any gov'ernuient that starves its
Northw'est Territories corne witbin the pur- state.
vlew of the Dominion parliament, s0 tbtit, service by non-appointmcnt of officers, does
Wbat is
althougb by the British Nortb America Açt not do Its dnty to tbe country.
certain questions are relegated to the pro- the cost of a few experts at most? What
vincial legislatures. yet they are also w-itbin would be the difference 0f expense if under
the purview of the House or ýCommnons, and secretaries were aj)pointed? Their salaries
It ls no answer to the necessities of the miglit amount to tbirty or forty thousand
We spend that on some little
case that w-e bave a divided jurisdiction dollars.
between parliament and the local legisla- harbour, or w-harf or post office. and it is
tures. If the line of cleavage w-ere dis- scarcely a sbining maýrk even for a local
lion. Mr. ROSS (Middlesexý

FEBRITARY 18. 1908
But what could they
But If we had six or seven in Inferlor position.
politician.
They could take charge of the estiunder secretaries they could relieve their do?
Tiiey couid be found iu this mate.,., and tbey could take charge of Bis;
chief S.
House and the other House. Tbey would they could Introduce muinor Bis and rebe useful lu debates on public platforms lieve the ministers at some of the long sitThey couid not declare questions
and in a hundred different ways which 1 tlngs.
of policy, except with the consent of the
need nlot now describe, but which hon.
Tbat they could do. The
But superior officer.
gentlemen cen see for tbemselves.
cabinet ministers In the United -States have
my bon. frlend says he does nlot thlnk we
would get under secretaries in this House. no such powers as au under secretary
How does he know? 1 do flot tbink under would. bave here. We do not wvant to copy
secretaries couid be appointed wlthout the the United States systeni In any respect,
Wbat excepting s0 f ar as it may be useful to ourSenate having a share of tbem.
would they do with six or seven In the selves; but I tbink this is too large a subother House, baving twelve members of ject to reject any suggestion tbEat may be
One of the pur- of value. though It cornes from the United
the goverument there?
pèses of my proposition would be that States, from Great Britain, from France,
If
there should be a certain representation In from Germany, or -wbatever source.
this House of under secretarles. Although tbe United States has not under secreI arn nlot intimately acquainted with the taries In the House, it kas In one House
members of tbis House, I tblnk the Premier sixty-two chairmen of committees; that is
could easily find among them four or flve In the House of Representatives; and In the
men who could usefully relieve the depart- Senate it bas fifty-five chairman of commîtments, the bon. member from Halifax for tees; s0 that between the two Heuses, the
one. I am nft golug to express an opinion House of Representatives and the t3enate,
I have the very higbest re- it bas sixty-two and fifty-five, rnaking 117
about hlm.
spect for bis attaluments; his knowledge of In ail, wbose duties correspond te tbe
So that the
forms, In debates surprises me some times. duties of under secretarles.
knowing so littie about some of those objection that it follows the system of the
In tbat
It would be lnv1dious to United States la net a valid one.
things myseif.
We would take whoever respect it 'ciii resembie, to a great extent,
mention names.
Notice the course pursued iu tbe United States,
the goverument migbt nominate.
the dlitinction as te the mode of appoint- and althougb there Is no executive chairInu Eugland the man to represent the department, there is
lng under secretaries?
under secretary does not resign bis seat a chairman of some commlttee wbo Is
In order to return to the electors for elec- familiar wlth the course of debate and the
He takes bis pollcy of the goverument If the governtien after bis appointment.
the electors as ineat's policy Is of great value, and 1 do
seat without an appeal to
That would sIm- not tbink it Is of ver:y great value there.
a cabinet minister does.
and make the of- At ail events, be is familiar wlth tbe course
plify things very mucb,
fice stilI more desirable, and the amount of public opinion. and, to that extent, he
of money involved is a matter whlcb need represents the vlews of the great masses
We waut somethlng of
not engage our attention for a moment. of the people.
says we could not that kiud bere, Ia my humble judgmeut,
Then my bon. friend
follow the example of the United States. somebody who Is alert to wbat p;ubic opin1 do not want this House to Ion demauds; sornebody who is near to the
very well.
follow the example of the United States, goverument 0f the day, who can give to this
nor do 1 want them to follow the example House tbe views of the goverumeut of the
of the BrItish governmeut precisely In day, and somebody possessed of Inforri aThe cabinet ministers In tien, whicb, on a grent mauy Importi-it
every respect.
the United States, nine of them, are not questions, may help to direct thls -Ho-ýe
responsible to the House In any respect: as to the best line of conduct to be taken.
states
but our under secretaries would necessarily The bon. gentleman froui Halifax
flot ln the that Nova Scotia gets along with three
be responsible to parliament,
witholut
senqe that a ininister is, for It would b*e iniisters. al1thougli there are some

SENATE
I amn quite satisfied they sbould
portfolio.
get on wltb tbree ministers; but the illusOntario has eight,
tration la flot very apt.
I think.
I amrn ot sure about Quebec,
but the -Dominion la much larger than
Nova 8&otia, and our interests are much
wlder, and the tact that Nova Scotia bas
got alung tolerably weil with tbree ministera with a population of hait a million
does flot prove at all that this Dominion
ils
ministerial
should flot
reintorce
I do flot
strength ln the way proposed.
ask for the appointment of additional ministers. I aak for tbe relief of the ministers
ln the course of this arguinuw appointed.
ment I notice two things, and with these
In the firat place 1
remarks I close.
notice that no reference bas been made to
one of the consequences that migbt resuit
from the appolntment of under secretaries,
ln the way of sbortening the session.
I
think that la Important.
In my early days
the sessions lasted from two and hait to
three montha. Now they go along for
four or five montbs, and. may continue no1 tbink It Is not
body kaows how long.
ln the public interest. I do flot thiak it Is
for the benefit of membera of this 'House
that tbey should be separated so long from
We are not a
their own private affaira.
wealtby ciass, flot men ut leisure.
if 1
were a medical man, 1 do flot think I could
accept a seat ln the House ut Commons,
or the more dignified place, the Senate.
How can a juan maintain himseif in a profession-unleas he is a man of meansand be absent from bis work five months ln
the year ? The same witb regard to business men.
It la said that the Senate la
flot attentive to Its duty because the memnbers are too much engaged la their private
affaira.
I think the Senate la remarkabiy
attentive to Its duty durîng the time we
are at work.
But a man must look atter
bis own private affairs ln some sense or
another, and to ask a man engaged ln
banking or In some large corporation, or
ln commerce or manufacture, to absent
hiruself for four or five mnonths dnrIng the
year, la to ask hlm to make a tremendous
sacrifice, and I feel tbat It la a reason why
a great many men of standing andl ability
are debarred trom the position.
There are
able men who would gladlr7 accept a seat
la t1lis House, were flot the demands
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

tlieir timne, aud the sacrifice, so great.
Su
that by shortening the session, la the way
I suggest, we mîght introduce into this
flouse and Into the other Chamber men ot
superior abiiity, to whom the indemnity wa
no conalderation, wbo have had large experience, and are prepared to give tbe
benefit of it to the couatry, la the matter
ut legisiation.
Then there bas been nu answer to thp
other plea I made, that this proposai would
redound to the relief ot ministera. I bave
reterred to that already, and I need not
repeat what I said. 1 amn anxions that,
la some respect,. we should litate tlie
Eaglisb method, and that the men ou
whose shoulders the burden of 'State lies
the men who are chosen by the good sense
and judgmeat of tbe peuple to represent
them ln the conacils ot the nation, should
iiot be overtaxed, but that they mighit give
tMeir beat thougbt and judgment to the
consideration ot those questions by wiiicb
the nation migbt be made great. It bas
been said that notwithstanding the pressure upon members of the Senate and members of the House ot Gommons, their Ilves
are not shurtened. I am flot so sure about
tbat. I waa looking over the Laurier administration and lis original membershlp,
and there bas been a remarkable decimaut
tluao Is ranks la the short period of ten
yenra. Sir Oliver Mowat was Miaister ut
Justice, and he la ao longer -,vIth us. The
bon. member trom Hlalifax, sa.id that being
a minister, d.ld not shorten bis lit e. I di)
aot know. At least he took an early opportunlty f0 relieve bimseit of the burdens
ut state, to accept sometbing leas taxing,
namely the lieutenant-governorsbip of tbe
proyince of Ontario. Then the Hon. David
Mills la no longer with us-Mr. Sutherland,
Mr. Préfontatne, Mr. Tarte and Mr. Blair,
ail gone, the last tour I have mentioned
beiag men early la yeara. Mr. Hyman la
Wle have six mtaisters in the
disabled.
wvho have passed
Laurier administration
away. We have une disabled, la the person
ut the late Minister ot Public Works, and
we bave, besides tbese, mea who have retired. I do flot kaow why. The present
Chiet Justice ut the Supreme Court retired
frum miniaterial duties at a very early age,
fouad something mure congenial and less
irksome. Then Sir Louis Davies, Sir Wm.

FEBRUARY 19, 1908

345

Mulock, Sir Henri Joly and Mr. Bernier cousulted them lu regard to that matter,
ail retired. There are five who retired. Ask and I hope the time will corne when the
thern as to the irksomuess and the toil Senate aît the Houce of Commons wlll
and strain of public dutles, and I think feel the Importance of acting upon sorne
they will tell you they were glad to bie such resolution. as I have proposed.
relleved of the strain, and perhaps we lost
Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I nia,
these men to the public service because of of course, not about to take
part lu thîs
the fact tlint they were overtaxed, that their debate, as it bas been very
properly closed
health was ln danger of being irnpaired and by my hon. friend who Introduced
this
the duties of the office were beyond what motion. I may say that I had uot the
goott
they could appreclably enjoy.
fortune to hear the opening address, but,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What about Mr. havlug listened to bis rernarLcs on thxe preEmmerson ?
sent occasion, I thiuk the Senate will agree
Hon. Mr. ROSS-Everybody does flot re- with me that It la an extremely Interestlug
tire for the samne reason. I amrn ot dis- and Important subject. It is one upon
cussing Mr. Ernmerson's retirement. I arn whichi, I rnay say, ln former Urnes, and ln
sirnply discussing the retirernent of the men another Chamber, I had occasion, on more
whom I have narned. And the question bas than one opportunity, to express my opiflot been answered, that thls systern whicb nion, and I amn not going to repeat it now;
I have proposed would lead to the training but on the whole, I think it le one of those
of our young rnen. That feature was urged motions wbich, while it ls extremely desiby Sir John Macdonald in 1887. It lu àN rabie that they shouid be discussed here,
most Important one, and, as I said ln open- and while. as I have said, we are lndebted
Ing, many of the most prorninent men lu to my hou. frlend for having brought It
English political life were caugbt young. to the attention o! the public. it ls hardly
trained ln early years, iu corne subordinate one ou which it is right to Invite the deciposition, and trained'step by step. It le clou o! the Senate. I would suggest to
a rule ln ail mercantile and transportation my hon. friend. that, having called our atcompanies that this should be doue. Sir tention to It, he.should. give the goverument
Thomas Shaughnessy was flot put at the time to digest the very valuable* remarks
head o! the Canadian Pacific Railway with- that hie and others have addressed upon
out early training, nor Mr. Haye, nor thé the subject, and, therefore, tliat hie should
vice president. These men grew up froin consent to aiiow the motion to bie withthe ranka to understand the whole systern drawn, and not press it to, a division.
of transportation, and when they reached
Hon. Mr. ROSS-I did not intend to
the hlgher position they were qualfied foi, press lt to a division. I .sirnply brought the
It by previous experience. Are there not subject up for discussion, and I ask that
young men ln the House of Commons. and the motion be withdrawn.
lu t1ils House, who rnay enter lu a suborThe motion wac withdrawn.
dinate position, get a course of training.
The Senate adJourned until three o'clock,
and therefore be qualifled for higlier posi1to-morrow.
tions ? I think the loas to the country frorn
the want of training of that kind may be
very great. I want to econornize the reTHRE SENATE.
sources of our intellect. and the resources
OTTAWA, Wednesday, February 19, 1908.
of our experieuce and the resources of our
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
talents lu every respect, so that the Houce
of Commons and the Senate rnay rIse tp o'clock.
a higher plane of efficiency and usefulness.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
I do flot know that I need say anythiug
furthier to elucidate the proposition I have~
STANDING OOMMITTEES 0F THE
laid down. I do not expect that any immeSENATE.
diate action wlll be taken. I think I exThe order of the day belug called:
pressed the views of rnany members of the
That Rule 78 of the rules of the Senate be
present goverurnient, altbough I have inf arnended by adding to the standing committees

SENATE
mentioned in the said rule the foliowing
Narnely, a standing committee on1. Agriculture and Forestry.
2. Immigration and Labour.
3. Commerce and Trade Relations of Canada.
4. Geologicai Surveys and Minerai Development.
5. Transportation Routes to the Seaboard
and Harbours.
6. Coast Surveys and Merchant Shipping.
7. Fisheries.
8. Industriai, Arts and Expositions.
9. Civil Service Administration.
10. Public Health and Inspection of Foods.
Il. Public Buildings and Grounds.
Said cooemittees to be composed of not less
than five nor more than nine members, and
to have and possess the same powers aad
privileges as the standing commîttees authorîzed by said Ruie 78.

Senate under rule 29.'
If It had been given.

1 made no inquiry
I assumed that the

regulations bad been complied with.
-Hon. Mr. SCOTT--On tumning up the records of the minutes and proceedings I
find the foliowing notice by Mr. Ross :
Jaauary 23--That Rule 78 of the rules of
the Senate be amended by adding to the stand-

ing committees mentioned in said rule the
foilowing:
Nameiy, a standing committee onTiien follows a list of the committees anl

the notice concludes in this way:
Said committees to be composed of not less

than five nor more than aine members, and
to have and possess the same powers and

Hon. Mr. ROSS (tlddlesex)-Tbls motion priviieges as the standiag committees ausaid Ruie 78.
bas been before tue House for a consîder- thorized by
There Is no reference to any notice to
able time, and bas been put, off at Intervals

on account of other matters on the order senators.
paper which, It was considered, were more
Hon. Mr. ROSS-lt is on my manuscript
I obImportant for immediate discussion.
serve that the order paper ls somewhat
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Unless attention was
llght to-day, and at the rlsk of troubiing called to It, ladependent of the notice, it

the Senate more frequently tban Is perbaps
ngreeable. I propose to-day to occupy a short
Uie, I hope nlot too long, in caliing the attention of the Senate to the motion whicb
It Involves, If acis now Ia my bauds.
cepted, the fippointment of eleven more to
our standing committees, eovering a large
area for Investigation and discussion.

would flot be sufficient.

The SPEAKER-The clerk of the House
gave two or thiee notices convening the senators for such motions, and hie is nlot clear
la bis mmnd If the notice covered this motion
specially; but there is a notice caliing the
members for to-day on the motion of the
The
hon, gentleman f rom Prince Albert.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-It is an amend- clerk of the House will look up the records
te see If the notice was given.
ment to tbe miles.
Hon.

Hon. Mr. ROSS-Yes.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-And

It requires

notice to the members.
Hoen. Nir. ItOSS-I sent word to the cierk
Are we to be biocked
to give the notice.

by*tbis clericai irregularity?
Hou. Mr. WILSON-I think the bon, gentleman should have given the notice.
The SPEAKER-Is there a question of
It did nlot reach
the chair.
order before the House?

Hon. Mr. ROSS-The question raised is,
was notice given to senators that this
it is
motion wouid be taken up to-day?
an amendment to our reguflations, and, unWhen
der rule 29, notice lias to be given.
I sent the notice to the cierk, I attacned a
postscript te it, 'Notice to be given te tuie

Mr.

MILLER-I

determined

to

ralse a point of order, Ia relation to the
question wbicb bas just oeen debated as
to tbe regularity of the notice of motion
for alteration of the rules of the House.
and I iatended to do it on the motion of
mi, hon. frieud from Prince Albert; but
I suppose I mighit just as conveniently do
It now. I muay remind the House that a
year or two ago we appointed a comimittee
selected frein those considered the inost
competent members of the House to deai
witb such subjects, for the revision of the
rules of the Senate. I tblnk a reference
to the committee chosen on that occasion
wll clearly show the fact that it was coinposed of men every one of wbom had spe-

cmal qualifications, either from
in parliament, in law, or for
and reasonable causes for the
signed te tlîein. I was on thiat

experience
other gofl
duties zicorniittee,

FEBRU ATRY 19, 1908
and I do not -wisli mur remarks to refer f0
myseif. In consequence of I11 healtx al
tbe tume, I was not able f0 attend the sittings o! fihe committee ; but I say It was
as good a committee as could have beec
selected for fthe purpose in view. That
committee entered on ifs deliberations durIng tbe session ln whicb Il: was appoint ed,
but, notwithstandlng very arduous labours, and especially of tixe chairman of
the committee, wvas not able f0 report that
session.
The SPEAKER-Is the lion, gentleman
discussing thxe point of order raised ?
Hon. Mr. MILLER-I ami going f0 raise
a point of order, and I aux mmaking fbese reThat committee
marks with regard to if.
was nlot able durlng tbe first session to finish
the work assignedl to It, and it badl fberefore
two years to consider Ifs work. It is to be
assumed, therefore. that fixe rules underwent a thorougx revision and were brouglit
to as perfect a staf e as possible for the
business o! fixe House. Thiat was only fwo
years ago ; but there seems f0 be a very
general desire now to attacx tixe work o!
tixat committee. If fixe Bouse wili consider
tbe qualifications o! thxe men who revlsed
thiese rules, and fthe study thaf they gave
f0
fhem, fhey will besitafe before receivlng any crude suggestions wlth regard to changes or innovations. I do nof
miean f0 say for a moment that cbanges
nxay not ln timie be necessary. Whea changes
are necessary, however, fixe. sixould be àpproached wltb fixe greatest deliberation and
serlousness. Under fixe mules w,,ilb exisfed
some years ago, when If: was necessary f0
change a standing order, tixe subject was
generalîr sent fe fixe Standing Orders Centmlittee, and a. report came froni that coinmittee, and that report, affer a great deal
of formallty, went flimougli this House. If
was only upon a report of the Standing
Orders Commiftee approved by ftle House
tliat any alterafion could be made ln fixe
mules. The standing orders are fixe constitution o! fixe Senafe as a deliberative body.
and, tixerefore, of fixe higbesf moment, and
tixey sbonld not be nltered unless upon Ifs
being clearly sbown that change ls necessary. 1 find now a disposition, especially
nîulong gentlemen wlmo bave corne f0 fixe
Bouse' only lately, to.move for changes of

the rmiles. The subject of parliamentary law
Our parliamenIs very complicated.
tary systemn bxxsed upon ftxe outeoine of
a
requires
precedents,
of
centuries
weaifb of learniug to be acquainted witx
those precedents so as to be ln a position
to judge correctiy as to tixe applicabllity of
the principle to be enacted ln a standing
order. Many gentlemen wbo sit ln parlinment, and bave been la publie life for many
years, are but superficlally acquainted with
the rmiles of parliament. Many of the most
use! ai and able members of parlianient go
througb a long public career la elther or
botb Houses of parliament, ivithout becomlng lntinately acquainfed wlth parlinThey devote
mentary law and usage.
tliselves to niatters whlch, ln their opinion, are of higher consequence ; but 1
contend there Is no subject of more luiportance hli the constitution of a deliberative body $.ban the standing orders. Very
offen. men of large experience lu public
life seeius to be non-conversant wltb
1 migbit just refer
parliamentary miles.
to au Important notice now upon the Minutes of the Senafe, a notice moved by fthe
lion. senator from Wellington who bas bad
large experience ln botx Houses of parliamient. In fixat motion fixere are two irregularitles. «There are f wo preamibles. Now
you cannot make a motion in tffs Bouse
with a preauxhie. Therefore, if anyope bail
ralsed the objection, that motion would
bave to be strlcken froml the Minuites, n
course whicb I myself wvould bave regretted,
foir we would bave missed fihe ili Intellectual treat which we recelved from the
lion. senator from Middlesex ln the discussion of that motion. Let me cali your afterifion to tbe Irregularities In thec motion
a, au Illirstrnfion of mny point. it reads:
Resuming the furtxer adjourned debate on
the motion of the- Hon. Mr. McMullen, tixat
in view of fthe agitation relgarding the services rendered by the Senate as a part of Our
legisiative system.
That is one preamble. Then If: continues:
And in view of fthe criticismn bofix ini par.
liament and the press with respect to appointment to this chaumber.
There is anotber preàmble. If does net
require a w-hereas or therefore to go before a statement of faet to be a préamble.
If is the statenient o! faets upon which the
conclusion is predicated that makes If a

SENýATE
preambie, therefore I say the motion is out
But what is perhaps more amusof order.
ing stili, the bon, gentleman wbo moves
an amendment to tbe motion, bas two
preambies, and the amendment Is just as
irregular as the original resolution. 1 mention this, flot in any disparagement to
elther bon, gentleman, but to, illustrate my
point, that wbere a man. no matter what
bis opportunities mnay bave been, has flot
devoted himseif to, the study of a gîven
subject, especiaily on a technical question
like la-%w or parliimentary usage, hie is
very Iikeiy to, make a mistake. I say tbere
is notbing more Important than preserviiig
I received
ail the forma of this flouse.
the otber day a notice ln connection witli
anotber motion on tbe Minutes, a notice
with regard to, the case of my bon. friend
from tbe Noitbwest 'wbo wisbes to amenci
rule 128. It ls very brief, brief as the
edict of a Russian Czar, and very mucb
like it ln toue and spirit. It la signed by
tbe elerk of this House and le ta this
effect :
The Senate,
Ottawa, Febriuary 17, 1908.
Circlar
Notice is hereby given that on Wednesday,
the 19th instant, a motion je ta be made ta
amend Standing Rule No. 128.
SÂM'L. E. ST. O. CHÀFLEAU,
Cierk of thé Senate.
It Is flot addressed to any one. It le not
addressed to me, and It Is cailed a ' circular.'
It is a most insignîficaut and informai way of calliug tbe attention of a senator to a certain state of facts, and It le just
.as much addressed to Tom, Dlck or Harry
as It Is to, nny partîcular Individual.
I
could not consider It addressed to me any
more than to, the wboie public wben my
names le not even put upon It. Tbe
ruies of tbe flouse formerly requîred
any cbanges to be recommended from the
Standing Orders Commfttee.
Tbat bas
been dropped, and we bave one less barrier
agalust
Infringemeut,
Innovation
and
continuous change of our rules tban we had
In former days.
But rule 20 is explicit in
tbis respect. It says that the attention of
tbe House must be formaily called ta any
We bave
change of tbe standing orders.
tbree barriers, three chances of saviag any
ruie that iay be attempted ta be interfered
witb under the rules at preseat. First, w-e
hav-e the minutes of the flouse, and every
Hon. Mr. MILLER.

gentleman is bound to be in bis place and
becomie acquainted withi the minutes and
proceedings of the Senate; and in the third
p)lace i-e are entitled to a specifie notice
and summons of the particular day upon
which the subjeet is to, be brought Up,
which makes It an extraordluary case, whilh
makes the sltting of the House an extraordiaary sittlng lu order ta give ail possible
soleumty to any change Iii the raies of the
Instead of that, what do we find?
flouse.
We have a bare notice of this kind from
the clerk, wlthout being even aadressed
to a single member of the Flouse,
teling us that the rules of the Flouse are
to be cbanged. on sucb and sucb a date.
No matter how humble a commlttee
of the flouse may be, the clerk gives a formai notice lu writlng addressed to every
miember of that commlttee, and If necessary
hie puts It into an envelope; but here le a
slip of paper tbrown by mhe clerk Into the
post office, wltbout our naines on it, flot even
la an envelope, on the most formai occasion
of the klnd that can posstoly eoine before
1 cousider it a dlsrespectparliament.
the clerk
fui act ou the part of
to send sueh a notice as that to a niember
1 acquit hlm of doing It
of this flouse.
Intentionally, but 1 can only acquit hlm on
Let me show the
the pieu of Ignorance.
House bow these things used to be done lu
the olden turnes, and the formality thut was
I am
observed Ia such matters as this.
1 amn referrlag now to
speaking of 1883.
the application made for a change In the
rules, and I amn golng to, show the flouse
the formaities that were then observed lu
carrylng out such an object. There Is first
thîs letter of the clerk. -It reads as foilows
The Senate Office,
Monday, May 14, 1883.
Sir,-I have the honour ta direct your attention to the

accompanying

order

of the

Senate and to request that you wili attend

in your place in the Senate Chamber, Wednesday next, the lUth instant, at three o'clock
in the afternoon, to consider the saine.
I amn, sir,
Your obedient humble servant,
EDOUARD J. LANGEVIN,
Cierk of the Senate.
Then on
That is virtuaily a sumumons.
the follow-ing page ls a full resumne of the
business that is ta be considered on that Important question, at tis extraordînary mneeting of the Senate., for It is intended hy the

FEBRUARY 19, 1908

spirit and letter of our rules to be an extraordiuary meeting for au extraordinary
and solemui purpose, and nere is the report
of the committee
The Senate, May 14, 1883.
The Hon. Mr. Bellerose from the Committee
of Standing Orders and Private Business, presented the foliowing report
I mny say that '.%r. Bellerose was one of
the parliamentarians of fils day ln this
House.
Ordered, that it be received, and
The same was then read by the clerk,- as
follows The Senate,
Committee Boom,
Monday, May 14, 1883.
The Select Committee on Standing Orders
and Private Bis, have the honour to report :
That in view of the frequent extensions i
past years of the time for presenting petitiens for private Bills; presenting private
Bis and reports front committees thereupon,
and the consequent trouble and often unnecessary delay in private legisiation caused
thereby, your committee have considered
whether the miles might not be amended, by
extending the time, in order to prevent as
far as possible a recurrence of the same in
the future.
Your committee, therefore, recommend the
following amendments, and that the said
mules, as amended, be rigidiy enforcedl in the
future
lst..That Rule 49 become Rule 50, and that
Rule 50 become Rule 49.
2nd. That Rule 50, hereafter Rule 49, be
amended by inserting before 'notices' in the
third line, 'petitions for private Bis, the
presentation of and meporting on 'such Bills
and the.
Smd. That Rule 49, hereafter Rule 50, be
amended to rend as follows :
' 50. No petition for any private Bill is reoeived. by the Senate after the first twenty
days of each session; norm ray any private
Bil be presented to the Senate after the
flrst thirty days of each session; nor may any
report of any standing or select committee
fil be received after the first
upon a private each session."
siZt days of
Ail of which is respectfully submitted.
J08. H. BELLEROSE,
Chairman.
On motion of the Hon. Mr. fellerose, seconded by the Hon. Mr. Armand, it was
Ordered, that the said report be takon into
considemation on Wednesday next, and that
members be summoned to consider the same
in conformity with the Seventeenth Rule.
Atteet,
EDOUARD J. LANGEVIN,
Cierk of the Senate.
I may say te non-professional men that
the word 1attest 1 means that this document was attested by the clerk, and flled
by the clerk among the -records, ,and ln-

stad of ail this formality, this ' circular'
is ait we have at the present day.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-We sbeuld
tbankfui that we have got.this much.

be

Hon. Mr. MILLER-Wle migbt as welI
abehislh the rules aitegether If the clemk
eau draw bis pan tbrough tbem and dieregard tbem. 1 do not balieve it le dene
through designu; I balieva it is threugh Ignorance ; but it should not be allowed to be
inade a precedent of, and I tbink tbe pmactice, wbicb Is the spirit of the mule lu our
bock, of surnmoning by a speciai summons
every member of the Senate when the standiug orders of the Senata are to be altered,
should be rigidly enforced. I consider that
ail these mottons on tbe papar now are out
of erdar, and I do not believe that It woul
requira much consideration on tbe part of
His Honour the Speaker to rula to that
affect. My point la that thesa notices are
not sufficlent.
The SPEÂKER-I would suggest to the
hon, gentleman fmom Middlesex te adjoumu
bis motion tili nent week, se that a proper
notice may Issue to the senators to be present on tbat date.
Hon. My. ROSS (MiddIesex)-I want to
put myself rigbt to the House ln regard te
tijis mattar. I tbink it ls simpy-I muet
not use stroag language, but it le uni air
to bon. members of this Heuse, wben notice of motion bas been given, and it stands
on the paper for one month, and the bon.
member banda his notice to the clark and
warns tbe clark to give notice accordlng
te tbe mules. and the motion bas been adlourued from time to tima partly to suit
the conven lance of the Housa, that then
througb the negligenca of an officer wc
should be put ln this position. My notice
ls not urgent. It la cf no.great sIgniflcance
anyway, probabiy ; but I want to empbasiza tbe annoyance f0 whichi membars have
been more than. once eubjacted Juat by a
defaction or nagUigance of this kind. If It
wera my own inuit, I wouid be ln a diitarent position, but it is net my inuit. I
wiil, as far as I arn concerued, wltbout any
feeling at ail, adjeurn the debate tili Wednesday cf next week, aud I do net know
what wlill bappen if notice is not given for
next week.

SEINATE
Hou. «M\r. FERGUSON-With reference
to the point of order raised by the bon.
gentleman, I thlnk it has been well taken,
and we should now, since It bas been
brougbt up formaliy, setie wbat is to be
our practice.
Tbe SPEAKER-I would suggest that
the hon. gentleman watt tili the next motion, because I arn not awa' re that any notice bas been given of tbis motion of the
bon, gentleman from Middlesex.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I think the bon. gentleman shÔuld move now-and put bis motion ln writing-tbat notices be sent to, the
mnembers.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-De facto.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-To my knowiedge,
there was neyer any notice given. During
the twenty-five or twenty-six years that 1
have occupied a seat bere, every time the
question came up the clerk sent the notices
ot bis own accord, as part of bis duty,
wiIIIngly, witbout any coercion, and I tblnk
it ls bis duty so to do witbout any special
motion.
Hon. Mr. POWER-If I heard correctiy
the pTecedent which was cited by the bon.
gentleman fromn Ricbmond, ln that case
the resolution of the House specified tbat
the senators shouid be sumumoned-and I
tbink that is the rule,-I tbink the practice bas been that the resolution moved lni
the House, ln addition to, setting out tbe
ameadment wbicbi is proposed, also points
out that tbe senators be summoned to conaider the same. That ls my Impression,
and that is borne out by the case cited by
the bon, gentleman from Ricbmond, and
that is the reason why I suggested to the
bon. gentleman from Middlesex tbat be had
better make that part of bis resolution now.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That maises the
question I put to, the Hlouse the other day.
ls it the duty o!
Who does that work?
the member who is pmoposing the amendment to summon. or ls it the duty of the
If it te the duty of tbe cierk, I
clemk?
do uot see wby the bon, gentleman from
Middlesex sbouid be oblIged to give a supplementary notice. The bon, gentleman
bas done bis duty. He gave bis notice of
motion, the purport of which ls -to alter
The -SPEAKER-I bave nothlng but the
the standing rules, and, that being given
Witb ail
House, I tbink it Is the duty of the letter of rule '29 of our Manuai.
to the
deference, I would take a contrary view to,
clerk tu issue the proper notice.
Any senator cau
the one just expressed.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Witb due defer- move an amendment to the rules, and he
ence, I tbink it wouid be better we sbould bàving that absolute rigbt of mnoving would
dispose of wbatever we have to say on not be debarred, I suggest, by a motion
the point of order now. than to bring up being made to, eal the senato1rs, wbicb
tbe discussion later. As other bon, gen- might be negatived; therefore, I take It for
tlemen bave been speaking with regard to granted, it is Incumbent upon the cierk,
this I tbink It migbt be as well that we once the notice of motion for the amendment of the miles ls given, to convene the
sbould continue.
Senate speciaiiy for that purpose.
The SPEAKER-But the discussion wouid
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I arn golng to,
be memeiy academicai, wbemeas tbe question
will bave to be settied wben tbe bon, gen- raise another point of order, and I wiii be
tleman from Prince .Albert makres bis mo- able to get ia wbat I wish to say la that
Tbe point is that when a notice
tion. There is another question raised by way.
ls issued, it should describe the motion
time hou. gentleman from Stadacona as to
there 'being a need for a motion for the tbat is going 10 be broughit up-the motion
that ruie so-and-so ls 10 be amended is not
clerk to issue the notices.
The change sbould be printed
sufficient.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-I contend that there in tbe order paper, so that members would
ls no need o! a motion; that the fact of a know wbat tliey were caiied upon to conFor instance, if I knew the exact
niember giving a notice that be Intends to sider.
give an ameudmnent to the rule is quite nature of the change, I might feel that it
sufficient for the cierk to issue the proper was not Important, and that I shouid not
give up some other matter in order to be
sunimons.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

FEBRUARY 19, 1908
Lt niight be a very trivial matpresent.
ter whlch I did flot consider of any conseIf the change Is set forth ln the
quence.
notice, we know what we are being called
The point of order Is
uipon, to consider.
that: the notices whlcb have been sent to
us, apart altogether from the size of the
paper, and of -their flot belng addressed to
members, and not being put In an envelope, are net sufficient under Our rules, because the practice has been flot to set forth
the change In tbe rule we are called upon
to consider.

351

The SPEAKER-Lt is for the Senate to
decide.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-One procedure will
govern the other.
The SPEAKER-The procedure on the
motion of tbe bon. gentleman from Prince
Albert could be a precedent for the notice
wbich wll bave to be given for the motion
of the hon. gentleman from Middlesex.
Hon. Mr. FE.RGUSON-I do not want
to be in the position of callLng the hon.
gentleman fromn Prince Albert to order.

Hon. M'r. SULLIVAN-I do flot think
Hou. Mr. BELQUE-No question of order
the clerk Is to larne as much as hon.
can be raised as to the motion of the hon.
gentlemen who are censurlng hlm.
gentleman from Middlesex, altbougb no sumHon. Mr. ELLIS-I was going to observe, mons bas been issued, because It cannot
wUVth reference to what bis 'bonour the be questioned wbether the notice Is regular
Speaker sald, that Mr. A. gives notice that or not, and therefore It seems to mie the
on such a day he wlll move so-and-so; but hon. Speaker is correct in suggestlng that
It appears to me there should be an order the point be settled ou the next notice of
of the House, as to wbether the House motion, lnasmuch as a summons bas been
would on that day proceed with It, and issued for that.
you leave It in a very uncertain way If the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The question put
hon, gentleman gives notice that on a certain day he wlll do It, the House flot con- by the bon. senator from Middlesex, bas
been ruled out of order because there is no
curring.
notice.
The SPEAKER-The notice is given by
on such a
a senator that he will move
RULES 0F THE HOUSE.
The -Senate is calied for that day.
date.
MOTION POSTPONED.
If on' that day the Senate is not ready to
The notice of motion being called:
deal wltb the question, It can adjourn It,
s0 that the motion of the hon. gentleman
Hoù. Mr. Davis will move to amend rule
from Middlesex is set down for Wednesday No. 128. by striking out the words 'the Senate
otherwise order,' and inserting the following
next
in lieu thereof : 'asked by two members
as folHon. Mr. 'FERGUSON-WIIl1 we have a of the- Senate,' 60 that it may read
lows
that the sumruling on the point of order
128. Unless asked for by two members of
mons sbould set forth the motion we are the Senate, a private Bill reported front a
standing or select committee ie not comxnitted
golnk to consIder?
to a Committee of the Whole House.is requese to notify the
And the
The SPEAKER-lt would corne up on members of clerkproposed change La the rules.
the
wblch the hon, gentlethe next question,
Hon. MTf. DAVIS-This motion la tbt
man from Richmond bas discussed most
because he bas recelved a notice one to which the hon. senator from. De
specially,
for that motion, wbile there is no notice Salaberry bas given notice of an amendof the motion of the bon, gentleman from ment.
ïMiddlesex.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I wisb to ralse
Mr. FERGUSON-But we are now1 the point of order that notice lu this case
Hon.
It Is due to
considering the notice which bas been given has not been sufficient.
gentleman from Middlesex. We members that they sbould get a summons
by the hon.
the
amendments-that
the
are considerlng the instructions ln regard *describing
the notice, and would that flot amendments should be set forth la the
to issuing
be a proper time to consîder what form Il summons, and the summons is not correct
When w-e look
uniess It contaîins them.
should take?

SEINATE
at the document whielh the hon. senator
froin Richmond read to the House showing
wbat the practice was in sucb matters ln
1888. I have no doubt that bis view is right.
It was the practice to set forth the proposed
amendment ln the summons and ln this
case we are nlot notifled what we are
called upon to' consider.

ment will try to get tiiose answers as soon
The returns are very short,
as possible.
and there is no reason m-hy they should be
delayed.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Any details we could
get in reference te the subseription of $200,000 of stock of the Quebec Bridge Company
were la the returu wbich I bave brought
The SPEAKER-I wouîdL suggest to the down.

hon. senator from Prince Albert to adjouril
bis motion until Wednesday next, se that
the two notices may Issue at the same
time.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I think that would be
better, because the bon. senator from De
Salaberry bas Inforrned me that he .wisbes
to leave the city as he Is not feeling very
weli, and to this I have agreed; therefore,
witb tbe permission of the House, I ask
to bave this motion adjourned until Wednesday next

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No, the first return
gives only the amount paid by the directors
of the company ; and the $200,000 was suhseribed not merely by the directors but hy
other members of the association aiso.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There la no Informa-

tion as to Mr. Simeon Délhle--to wbom.
does that refer?

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The Auditor General
was here the other day and I gave himn a
reference by whicb be could get it lmmediThe SPEAKER-My opinion Is that the ately.
It would nlot take long te prepare
notice should contain textua1ly the notice It- the returu.
self as it appears on the order paper.
THE BRITISH COLUMBIAN NATAL
*DELAYED RETURNS.
ACT.
]ZNQUIRY.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inqired:
Hon. Mr. LODUGHEED-Before the orWhen does the government think that it
wiii be able to lay on the table of this House ders of the day are called, may I ask my
the following documents, the production of hon. friend If the government bas yet taken
which was ordered during the present sesany action on the disallowance of the Brision, at the dates mentioned :(a) The winter and summer tarifi s on the tish Columbian Natal Act?
Intercoloniai

January' 24

railway for the years 1896-7-

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-On Wednesday, the
ubscriptions of the directors of
(b> T h
House of Commons; meets at two o'clock, se
the Qnebec Bridge and Raiiway company to
the capital stock, the secretary's salary, the it la Impossible to have a meeting of counbonus to the chairman-Jaanary 29 P
cil on that day; but I understand there wil
(c) The detais asked for on Z e au bject of
the additional subscription of $200,000 to the be a meeting to-morrow.
capital stock-January 29 P
lion. Mr. LOUGHEED-No action has
(d) The statement indicating the amounts
paid to Mr. Simeon Delisle-January 30 P
yet been taken?
(e) The statement of amounts spent on the
Deschambauit wharf-February 4 ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, only I understand
(f) The amounts to certain officars in the
the Minister of Justice bas made bis report
empioy of the government and connected with
the Department of Marine and FisheriesFebruary 5?P
MUTUAL RESERVE LIFE INSURANCE
OOMPANY 0F NEW YORK.
Hon. Mr. ïSCOTT-Some of tbe answers
have been already sent in-that is ln conHon. Mr. SCOTT-Before the orders of
I have
nection wlth the Quebec bridge.
the day are proceeded wvith, I wishi to
now received a return which answeis otiler
answer a question raised yesterday by the
portions of the inquiry.
hon. senator from Wellington ln reference
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I have received an- to the Mutua] Reserve Life Insurance ComOn the inquiry of the Superintenswers to questions ' b' and If,' but nlot pany.
I hope the govern- dent of Insurance I amn advised that the
a,' ' c,' I'd' and ' e.'
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

FEBRUARY 19, 1908
Fiinance Department received the followlng
telegram yesterday :
Re Mutual Reserve ; my firmi retained by
the receiver appoited in New York by
Federal Court.
Have obtained winding up
order bers appointing B. R. C. Clarkson,
liquidator. and our proceedings are framed
'ezclusively for protection of Canadian policyholdera. Negotiations on foot for re-masurance
in solvent Canadian company. and there ie
expected te be a surplus in Canadian assete.
Wriingfuly.
GEORGE F. SHEPLEY.
I do flot know whether bon, gentlemen
saw~ the notice in the Toronto papers of
yesterdny, 'wbich gave the Information,
quotlng very largely from the last return
of the Department of Insurance in which
it le polnted out thiat there will be suffidient assets to, re-insure ail the Canadian
policy-bolders.
If bon. gentlemen deslre It
I wlll be very glad to have the notice read.

5

wlhat the Speaker quoted te us yesterday
we find this :
Mr. LOUGH (Islington, W.)-I beg te ask
leave te move the adjournmneat of the House
in order te oeil attention to a definite matter
of urgent public importance-namely, the determination cf Hie Majesty's ministera te
in connection with the
"end ublic
BrZL& u r mcney
convention without the sanction of parliament.
Mr. SPEÂXER-I do net; think I can sccept that motion, because, as I underatand, a
Biii is already down upon that dubject, and
the matter can corne on for discussion then.
Observe It la because a Bill was down,
and further :
Mr. LLOYD-GEORG-It is net on the
ordÈr-book.
Mr. SPEÂXER-Notice has been given te
the House by the goverument.
Several hon. MEMBERS-mNo.
Mr. BUCHÂNÂN-Can we be preveated
fromn discussing thia motion because cf a
mers verbal promise te introduce a Bill dealing with a subject flot yet on the orderbock P
A QUESTION 0r, PRIVILEIGE.
Mr. SPEÂKER-Although my statement lias
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the orders of been contradicted, I may point out that notice
of a Bill te enable the government te carry
the day are called, I rise to a question of inte effect the convention is on the orderprivilege.
I bave rend In the debates cf book, and has been there many weeks.
yeeterdny thiat bis honour tue Speaker bas
POWER-I rise to n question
declded tlhat no discussion may take place of Hon. Mr.The hon,
order.
gentleman le 'brlaging
on a motion whlcb nxay nuticipate a debate. Up a question to reflect upen the decielon
I want the privileges of the niembers of given by Hie Honcur the Speaker
yesterthis House to be settled at once. ,Without day. That In ltaelf
le out cf order. I have
referring te the decision lteelf, I want te flot time
te, look up the authorities, but I
kncw If, In the future, a reference to any find thîs general rule laid
dcwn nt page
eubject la the speech froni the throne wll 273 of the laet edîtion
cf May:debar members of thie House from diecussA question cf
the Heuse or
ing any motion relatlng te that particular committee thereoforder in be treated as a in a
cannot
matsubjeet?
If we take the speech dellvered ter of privilege.
laet yenr we find this :
Se that thîs le really net a matter of priBile will be laid before yon amending the vîlege at ail.
Election Acta, the Poet Office Act, the Dominion Lands Âoit, a Bill for the more effective
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do flot want tn
supervision and inspection of Canadian canned
food products, meata and fish, a Bill relating appeal from the decîsion cf tbe Speaker
te the sale and manufacture of patent medi- at ail, or cnet any reflectlon on the Spenker's
cines; and alec a Bill te make better prode cisien ; I want to know If, In future,
vision for dealing with juvenile delinquenta.
Now, If the mere mention of the gov- we are debnrred frcm brlnglng up any
erninent's intention to Introduce these men- motion 'whlch may refer te a matter which
sures had the effect 0f preventing meni- le net yet on the order paper ?
bers of this House from spenk!ng on these
The SPEÂKER-IhIs le net a question
several1 aubjeets, whlch really were not be- of privflege, and, In consequence, there le
fore the -House, then, I thlnk that our nothlng before the 'Houe, and the hon.
liberty of speech la attacked. I have hunted gentleman la ont of order. 0f
course there
Up dIfferent declslons given In the Britiali la another wny In whlch
he can brlng it
parîlament on this subi ect, and even the Up.
decision quoted yesterday, In my opinion,
makes this point very clear-the subject
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I wlll fInd a wny to,
must be on tbe order paper. If we rend bring It before the Houe. I thought this
23
RUVISEDI

EDrrIcz

SENATE
KERR-It will discbarge coal,
Hon. M,%r.
m-ould lie considered a question of privilege, because our privileges are attacked. but I do flot tliink lt wilI unload timber.
The motion was agreed to. and the Bill
THIRD READING.
was read a second time.
Bill (G) An Act respectlng the Eastern
MOORE AND HESKETT PATENTS BILL.
Trust Company.-(Hon. Mr. McKeen.).
SECOND READING.
GOODWIN CAR CO«MNPANY'S BILL.
Hon. Mr. KERR moved the second readSECOND READING.
ing of Bill (61) An Act respectlng patents
Hou. Nir. KERR moved the second rend- of Montague Moore and Thomas J. Heskett.
ing of Bill (60) An Act respecting patents
Hle said :This is a process ýfor the treatof the Goodwln Car Company. He sai
ment of ferruginous ores. and la claimiei
By this Bill the owners of a certain patent
Although fthe
to be one of special value.
ask permission to lmport, tbough the time
tîme for construction as weIl as Importabas explred, the article wbich la patented,
tion bas expired, an extension Is sougbt lu
The article is n very expensive tblng to
order that the parties may be at liberty
construct. Tt Is a new process for unloadto apply to bring the proposition under the
ing cars, and It Is plainly of speclal value
llcensing clauses.
in the construction o! railwnys, and ln other
wnys. It is a process by wblch a car-loa(l
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
can be d4scbnrged lnstantly in any way de- was read a second time.
sired, elther under the car or at either
MANITOULIN AND NORTH SHORE
side, or at either end, and It works automatlcalîy. It is belleved to be a patent of
RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
special value. The cost of constructlng
SECOND READING.
the article ls very great, and unless It were
Hon. Mr. KERR moved the second readwould be
taken up by our rnllways there
no probabllty of the patented article belng ing of Bill (R) An Act respecting the Maibroug-ht Into use ln Canada. The patents toulin and North Shore Rnllway Company.
are stili alive, because the pntentee lias He sald : This Bill simply asks for an extaken advantage of the licenslng clauses tension of time.
under the amended patent Act.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE tiO\ELL-Wby
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWE>LL-The
bon, gentleman bas given us no reason wby
this patent, belng as valuable as be snys
It is, has not been manufactured bere.
Hon. Mr. KERR-Practically there Is only
one customer for It, the railways. The expense of putting up an establishment to
manufacture it wouîd be very great. The
railw'vays now have the right to do It If
they choose, because they can get the privilege under the llcenslng clause of the
Act; but, ln the meantime, until the superlority of the car over exlsting plant can
be practicahly sbown, tbey do not chooste
to do that and so both the patentee on
the one band loses the use o! bis patent
right, and, on tbe other band, those wbo may
,wlsh to use lt are not getting the benefit.

have tbey not commenced work?
Hon. 2%r. KERR-This road is controlled
by the 1Soo' industries at Sanît Ste Marie.
A few years ago those Industries were very
much paralyzed and unable to, carry on
A
the extensions whicb were necessary.,
certain portion of this railway has been
built, but they were not able to, carry It
Tbey now asic for this exto completion.
tension, ln order that they may be able to
make the arrangements now that tbey were
not able to make before.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.
NATURALIZATION ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.

FIRST READING.
MACDONALD (B.C.)-WiII If
Hou. M.Nr.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT introduced Bill (W) An
dischnrge any klnd of a load, such as coffl
Act to a9mend the Naturalization Act.
or timber
lion. Mr. LANDRY.

355

FEBRUARY 20, 1908
He said: The oaths that applicante had
to tai<c of residence and of allegiance In
Saskatchewan and Alberta have been taken
They are described as
under the statute.
In the provinces of the Northwest. In naming them, it says 'In the provinces of Saskatchewan tand Alberta with the Clerk of
the Supreme Court of the Northwest Territories, pending the abolition of that court.'
The court bas now been cbanged, and the
le alter the Act ln order to conproposalis
form It to the proper court.
The Bill was rend the firet Urne.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (69) An Act to amend the routine of
the Catbolic Mission of St. Basil the Great
In Canada.
NAVIGATION 0F HUDSON BAY.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Before the House
adjourns, 1 wlsh to ask the hon. Secretary
of State once more for the papers I moved
for hast session which reference to the HudIn the November and December
son Bay.
part of the session, I asked my hon. friend
about thîs matter, and gave hlm the date
when the address was passed in regard to
1 have only Just now learned that
lt.
they have not been brought down, and 1
would lîke to have them in dlscusslng the
motion which my hon. friend from Prince
Albert Is bringing Up wlth regard to -Hudson
Bay.

man from Prince Albert proceeds with his
motion.
The Senate adjourned until three o'ciock
to-morrow.

THE SENÂTE.
OTTAWA,

Thursday, February 20, 1908.

Tbe SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'ciock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
ALBERTA AND BROUSSEAU RIVER
RAI.LWAY COMPANY BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN from the Committee on Rallways, Telegraphs and Harbours
reported Bill (No. 44) An Act respectlng the
Alberta and Brousseau River Railway
Company with amendments, and moved
that the amendments be taken into consideration on Tuesday next.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-This le a motion,
It le a
not mereir a notice of motion.
Clause 24 of our rules
motion made.
says :
One days notice must be given of any of
the following motions:
(f) For the adoption of a report not mereiy
formai in its character, from any standing
committee.
If we want to comply with our rules,
department this motion to-dayý le out of order. There
Mr. SCOTT-What
Hon.
la no notice of one day. It may be given
would have them?
as a notice of motion.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Probabiy from
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-That le what it
They were
two or three departments.
papers relatlng to the navigation of the Bay le.
and the granting of harbour fronts and
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I asked If it wae a
givlng of fishing rights In the terrltory con- motion, or notice of motion, and I was told
tîguous to Hudson Bay ?
If it la a motion it
that It wae a motion.
Mr. SCOTT-What was the date of le not In order.
Hon.
the order?
The SPEÂKRR-I have already had oc1 have deHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Towards the end casion to pass upon this point
I have not iooked lt up, b'ut cided that the motion le In order, and for
of Marcb.
I gave my hon. friend the date, la Decem- the same reason I decided the point of order
This le a motion to fi a
not weil taken.
ber.
date for the taking into consideratlon of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wIhI make inquiries. this report, which wli serve ae a notice
le coming Up for consideraHon. Mr. FERGU SON-lt'le important to that this report
hon. gentie- tion on Tuesday next; so that the notice la
have the information before the
23J

SENATE
lion. -'%r. YOUNG-Oniy for soie future
Inasmuch
under the form of a motion.
before the Sen- day.
as something bas to be put
ate, and Inasmucli as any one could obHon. Mr. LANDRY-If it is a motion, lt
ject to the notice at the date at whieb lt eûmes under the rule.
is to corne up, I think it must be put lin
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It is n routine motion.
the form of n question to the Senate and
the proper form Is the motion whîcn ns
The SPEAKER-Tlie oniy ameadment to
been made.
this motion could be another motion fixing
contained in the
Hon. Mr. De BOUCHERVILLE-The hon. a. diff erent date to the one
gave notice of bis motion in the Motion.
gentleman
The motion was agreed to.
first place, and I tliînk that tbat wvas suffidient.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Hon. Mr. PERGUS0N-NVould tbe proBill ('X) An Act to incorporate. tlue Onper motion not be tbat the Bill be set down
tario and Micbigan Power Company.for consideration on Tuesday next?
(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
Some lion. MEMi\BERS-No, 110.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The motion is
INQUIRY.
that the bon. gentleman wll move concurlion. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
Perhaps it means
rence on such a day.
l.When was the Civil Service Commission
the sanie thing ; but the usual motion is
that it be set doivn for consideration on appointed P was it originally composed ?
2. 0f whom
sncb a date.
3. 0f whom is it composed at present ?
4. How many sittings lias it held?
The SPEAKER-The usuai way is that
5. At what places and how inany sittings at
is made that the report wiil be each place P
a motion
6. Ras it made a report ?
taken into chasideration on a certain day,
7. If not, when does the goverument expect
to have a report?
and that Is tbe way I put Lt.
S. Ras the governmeat taken any measures,
this commission
efforts,
Hon. Mr. POWER-Paragrapb (b) of rule or made anythat its to make bas been waited
report
understand
24 reads:
for a long time ?
for
For the adoption of a report that is not
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The following is the
from any
merely formai in its character
To
standing committee.
information I bave been able to get.
the -first question, the answer is on the
This is reaiiy a formai motion, and Lt Ls
It bas been the 8th of May, 1907 ; the reply to thue second
practically oniy a notice.
as chairman, Thomas
unlform practice of the :Senate from the be- Is J. M. Courtney
J. B. Garneau of
what the lion, gentleman bas Fisb, of Montreal, and
ginnlng to do
The reply to the thid is J. M.
Quebec.
done. He bas given ratber more notice
Courtney, chairman, Thomas -Fish and P.
than usual.
I am unable to say
J. Bazin of Quebec.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-i. difer from the how many sittings tbey bave bad.
I do
It is not mereiy a for- not know that they enu tell themselves.
bon. gentleman.
mai motion as if thiere were no amend- No report bas been obtaîned, and the hon.
It ls n motion to concur ia certain gentleman knows quite as mucli as the
ments.
The amendmnents may be of government does when tbey will make thel?
ameadments.
a very serious character.
It bas been expected fromn day to
report.
,Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The motion is oniy day, from week to week, and montb to
montb.
to fix a date.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I understnnd tbat.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-AtId year to year?
I understand lt Is to fix a date; but In place
I
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I bope not.
of fixing a date bie bas the same power to
within a month.
the right to hope we shall bave Lt
If hoe bas
fix Lt immediately.
calling attention to it wili basten
inake the motion for a future day, lie bas Perbaps
Lt up.
the right to makze the motion to-day.
The SPEAKER.

FEBRUARY 20, 1908
Hon. 3fr. LANDRY-Tlc lbon, gentleman
has nlot replied to the last question-bas the
government made any effort to give the
commission to understand tlhat is report
bas been looked for for some Urne?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We can do no more
than ask them when they are going to report.
We couid nlot brIng any pressure to
bear on tbem.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What I would do
If I were ln thc government, would basten
them n littie.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I suppose the
gentleman would tura them out.

bon.

TUE NATAL ACT.
INQUIRY.
Hon. 31r. LOUGHEED-Before the orders of the dny are caiied, may 1 asc aiy
hon. friend If the government lias taken
nny action wjth reference to tlie disallowance of the Natal Act passed by the legislature of British Columbia? My bon. friend
yesterday intimated that the government
probably wouid deai with tbe subject at
the council meeting to-day.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The governent are
advised that two Japanese have been arrested and Imprisoned.
The Department
of Justice named an agent to look after the
interests of the two men.
Tlie stipendiary
magistrate ordered the fine of $500 to be
paid, otherwisc tbe two men were to be
Imprisoned.
The agent for the Department of Justice bas made an appeal, whIcb
I understand the Chief Justice of British
Columbia wIll hear within a week. Under
these conditions, it ls very mucb better not
to take any action here at Ottawa.
0f
course, at any tume, the Act couid be disnliowed, but If the court would pronounce
upon* It, that would be more satisfactory
both for British Columbia and for the Dominion government.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Then the government wiii await the action of the British
Columbia courts?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
A QUESTION 0F PRIVILE-GE.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Before the orders of
the day are called, I wish te direct atten-

357

tion to the occurrences of yesterday, and as
I am not sure that I can do go by way of
explanation or as a question of privilege, I
fntend to put myseif witiln the ruies of
the house by moving that the House be
now adjourned.
Hon, gentlemen wiil remember that yesterday I brought to the notice of the Rouse
a question connected witb the alteration of
the standing orders now being made from
time to time by members of the Senate, and
I expressed my views pretty fuily and cleariy witb regard to the wisdom of moving
slowiy ln these Innovations under the circumstances, these circumstances being that
within a short trne we have had a very
able revision of the mules of the HRouse, and
tbat If possible they shouid be allowed to
stand now without any changes that were
not absolutely necessary.
I spoke, i ami
told, about 15 or 20 minutes at least.
A
discussion took place upon the question
raised by me, ln which discussion several
leading members of the.Hou se took part.
My hon. friend (Hon. Mr. Ferguson), a
former cabinet minister, was one, the
bon. senator
fmom Halifax was another, and several bon. gentlemen participated ln the debate.
I think It was
generaliy admitted that the s3ubjet which
I Introduced and wbicb I trled to elucidate
ln my humble way, was one of the deepest
Importance as it nffected the constitution
of this Senate, In regard to the protection
of whicb we ail ought to be so solicitous.
0f late years I have not been ln the habit
of addressing thils House.
There was a
tume when I frequently addressed the Senate, and took an active part ln Its proceedIngs, and I can appeal to tme leader o! this
flouse 'whetber I had not considerable Influence ln this chamber and ln the committees of this House, and whetber a large
party in this House bad nlot confidence ln
me?' Ia those days, I can appeal to the
hou. gentleman to say If my course was
not characterIzed wlth faimness and Justice
to my political opponents?
1 leave It to
hlm as a man of honour to say whethem
that bas nlot been the case. 1 have nlot had
tbe pleasume of so long an accjuaintance
with bis bononrable coileague beside hlm
(Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright).
But that
lion. gentleman bas been some time In the
Senate, and before he came into this House

SE.NATE
lie lad occasion to estinate me at my cor- trend of the reports of the discussions
rect value lu regard to partisanshlp, and as eltber one way or the oVier. The question I
a man o! honour iu the administration brouglit before the House, yesterday, I reo! justice. 1 had the bonour of sitting as a peat, is one of very great Importance, and
judge over that bon, gentleman, and I ap- 1 did think that It was possible there might
peai to blmn whetber a trace of partlsanshlp be some"allusion to It ln the synopsis pubwas ever evlnced durlng Vint memorable Ilsbed lu this morning's newspapers. Howoccasion, aud how far or flot Vie report ever, when I rend ln the ' MornIng Citizen,' 1
wbicb was brouglit Into tliis 'House was found that, aithougli there was a reference
due to my Influence on Vint commlttee? to the doings of the Senate yesterday, thero
Last year I, unfortunately, had a dîfference was flot one single word lu relation to the
witb an bon. member o! this House. i was subject 1 bronglit before the House, on
not very particular about having It reported; whIch 1 spoke for about twenty minutes, and
I ar nfot very partlcuiar about having any- ln whlch, 1 repent, several prominent bon.
tbîug I say reported; but I was astonlsbed gentlemen in Vie House took part-lot one
to find next morning, that not only was my word-as If It bad neyer occurred. There
speech elimlnated from the press report; was only one person Interested lu suppressflot only was the essence of the remarks of Ing that discussion yesterday, only one. I
tlîe gentleman wltb wbom I had Vie differ- have notbing more Vian a suspicion; still
ence ellmlnated, but there were words of there was no one else interested ln the
censure la the report lu regard to my re- inatter, aud 1 arn eutltled to draw
I do not waut to recail tînt oc- rny Inferences under Vie circunastauces
marks.
to inter -collusion
I do flot -,vnt to brlug Up uni- and amn entitled
casion.
piessant Vilngs. sud 1 would not have re- between Vint IudivIdual and Vie referred to It: now, but I find Viat Vie sanie porter lu not glving Vie remarks which I
thlug bas occurred wltb regard to my made yesterday when nddressing the House.
speech on the subject 1 spoke ou yester- 1 weut over aud spoke to Vie reporter after
day.
lie took bis sent to-day, aud I asked hlm
I have nIways been of opinion thnt It ls how it was that no reference was made ia
a sheer waste o! money to bave a press the synopsis yesterday to Vie subJect that
reporter on the floor of Vie Sente at ail, 1 had brouglit before the House, aud he
even If you hsd an able man and a good re- told me thnt lie had Instructions froni the
porter. He ls expected to make a synopsis, Debntes CommIttee flot to report any disIt is cussions wlicbl took place on questions of
and Vint ls a most ditllcult Vhing to do.
an easy thlng to get an expert sbortbnnd re- order. These are very queer Instructions,
porter, but lt is flot an easy Viing to get If Vie committee bad given them to bina,
a man capable of mnking n fair aud Just but it ls a most extraordluary thing that
synopsis; aud, therefore, I bave considered the whole synopsis of yesterday's proceedfor some time psst Vint It was n sheer lugs refers to points of order. I wIll rend
waste o! money to employ a young man Vie synopsis to the House.
Noue o! the
'who evidently does flot possess Vie qualifi- points o! order were s0 Important as the
cations whIch lie should possess for Vie one I brought to the attention o! the House.
purpose for whlcb he is employed la Vils s0 Vint Viere is a straiglit contradiction
House, at a very large expense. However. given by Vie facts of Vie very report o!
Vie gentlemen wbo are responsIble to Vie ivhlcb 1 complain. Wben 1 looked at Vie
people for Vie distribution of Vie revenues paper Vils morniug aud found Viere was no
of Vie country hilnk proper to do It, -sud notice lu Vie synopsis of my remarks, I
we, who are la the mlnority, have to sub- said ut once, Vie press were flot bound to
mit; but I may say to this House Vint 1 pubiish auythlng Vint our reporter sent to
have beard more Vian one gentleman coni- Vieni. We bave no contract, 1 understand,
plain Vint Vie synoptical reports are flot fair, wlth any of the newspapers. We pay Vhim
thnt Vie reports made by the preseut re- nothing for ft. aud they are at liberty to
porter are partisan aud unfair as a ruie, taire wbnt they please and to reject whaf
and tînt le i under some secret guidance they please, and very often Viey do that.
at aIl tirnes that can be traced ln the Consequently, I said to myseif : I supHou. Mr. MILLER.

FEBRUARY 20. 1908

ail the rest of the synopsis relates to points
pose they did not consider Vie subici of order. Such being the case, I arn to look
was not of suffiworth their space or it
for some other reason tlian the one given
dlent value to them. or it did not suit the
for icot reporting the
a report of Vint kind by the reporter to me
newspaper to publis!'
remarks whlch were made ai the discussion
from the Senate, and Vint they had curof the point of order raised by me ln this
talled the officiai newspaper report of Vie
I regret that I do flot
flouse yesterday.
flouse, and I did not nllow It to trouble
the Debates CommitI -was very ln- see the Chalimau of
me for a moment ; ln fact
tee here, whom 1 know to be a gentleman
Hlad Viese
different about Vie subject..
of honour-been Vie circumstances, had Vie paper deHon. Sir MACKENZIE, BOWELL,-The
clined to publish Vie reports made on the
point of order raised by me yesterday, 1 other members of the committee are here.
1 Intended to
slîould not have bothered myseif furthcr
lon. Mr. MILLER-Yes.
about it, but as I see n most brazen nt-' appeal to hlm as the chairman to cail a
tempt, a conspiracy somewhere, to suppress meeting of that coinmittee and have a
Vie debates'of this flouse, I am sorry that thorough Investigation as to the reasons
Vie chaîrman of the Debates Commlttee is why the discussion of yesterday was flot
not here, because I amn going to ask hlm reported.
That discussion was very unto make a formai Investigation into this favourabie to the Clerk of the House-uflBut on looking at the file and animously so by every gentleman who
case.
getting Vhe synopsis which the reporter spoke, and if lie is innocent, If lie bas flot
is bound to file wlth Vie clerfi, I been ln collusion wlth the reporter In supfonnd the report had been published In the pressing it, It wouid be only an act of
'Citizen' this înorning verbatlm as It lînd justice to hlmn to have the Investigation,
Now, as to Vie question and I trust-and no one would be more
been sent.
of whether dehates on point of order are pleased than mysef-if after an Investigato be sent to Vie press, I will rend Vie re.- tion it'would be shown that he badl nothport sent by our reporter to the newspa - ing to do lu the way ot lnfiuencing the reIt is as follows
-pers.
porter to suppress the debate of yesterday.
The Senate,
As the hon. chaîrman is flot bere himself,
February 19, 1908.
I shall make my appeal to other gentleSenator Lougheed was told by Hoa. R. W. men.
The hon, gentleman from St. John,
yesterday that the British
Scott in the Senate
Natal Act had not yet been dealt for whom I have the highest respect ls
Columbia
with by the government.
present, and I malce my appeal to the hon.
Senator Landry on a question of privilege leader of the House to put a stop to suc!'
Dandurand
discussed, a ruling by Mr. Speaker
I appeal
motion treatment of hon. members.
9iven the day before when a proposedl RailbySenator MocMullen, relating to the
to hon. gentlemen not to allow a
way Commission, was declared ont of order
Into
on the g round that it anticipated legislation system of thugtsm to be Introduced
proposed by the government and announced the pro>ceedliigs of this chamber, for It Is
in Vie speech from the Thxrone. Senator Lanif a man's speech ls falsely
dry declared that à government conld ini Vhi no better.
way prevent the discussion of an y subject by reported or* suppressed by the officers of
mentioning in Vie speech from the Throne s the Rouse, If the officers of the House are
Bill relating to it. Senator Landry thoughl
responsIble for It, 1 say It ls nothing betthis was an attack upon Vie liberty of speecl
to parliame et. He thoughi ter, and I do hope, without my taklng f orwhich belonged
the British precedent qnoted by Mr. Speakex mal action, that the commlttee will be
was not effective as in that case there haè
been a formai notice of the Bill. In thii called together and that some explanatioli
case Viere was no notice.
o f the suppression of yesterday'5 debate
Senator Power objected that a point cf ordeî *will b. made.
I think I have a riglit to
could not be discussed. as a question of pri
I have
vilege.
ask that !rom the commlttee.
The point was deçlared well taken, where Sa rigit to ask lt from the leader
upon Senator Landry promised to bring thi
of the House, as an old acquaintance,
niatter up in another way.
and one wlth whom 1
will see that the wh1oi eIf not an old frlend,
Hon, gentlemen
I have ncted la Vils flouse for many years,
report nearly consists of points of order.
and who knows me perhaps better than
have read to Vie flouse Vie whole report ex
any other member of thîs flouse. If tVis
cept, of course, Vie third rendings of Billç

SENATE
flot referred to lu the newspfiper reports.
1 can safely say to tbe lion. gentleman that
the reporter is flot influenced-I think I
can say that at any rate-ln any way by
It is bis duty to deal
the comniittee.
fairly and preperly by ail members who
1 do flot belleve be
speak ln the Hanse.
is Intluenced ln any way by -anybody lu
regard to the reports tbat lie makes. The
bon, gentleman bas decinred tbe reporter
I do flot thlnk be is
to be Incompeteut.
I tbink tbat ia making a
Incomupetent.
The SPEAK~ER-As the officers of tbe leng-hand report to tbe press he does bis
House, ef course, cannot speak la this woric better than any man we bave ever
Chamber, 1 suppose the chair owves It to the bad ln tbe Senate nt any previeus perlod.
House and to the officers tbat I shouid deSome bon. MEMBERS9-Hear, bear.
ciare upon the part of the clerk of tbe Senate that be bas lad notbing te do either
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-And that mre get, on
dlrectly or Indirectly wlth the report of the
the whoie, a better showing before tbe
proceedlngs of yesterday.
public than we bave bad for many years.
Hon. 11r. MILLER-I witbdraw my re- I bave flot looked at yesterday's sbortbaud
ference on tbat ground, if the clerk denies report te sec bow far the hon. gentleman's
IL.
observations were reported by tbe officiai represume that full justice was
Blon. Mr. ELLIS-I regret that the hou. porters, but I
doue hlm there. I shall call the attention of
gentleman from Ricbmoud did not waît unto tbe attack the hon.
tii the chairman was ln bis place. 1 tbink the bon. chairman
gentleman bas made on us, and we sbaii
it is eniy fair to the comrnittee, as tbe bion.
hear hlm, and If there Is anygentleman made the appeai, for me te make endeavour to
tblnk wrong we shahI try to make It rlgbt.
The bon. chairat least an observation.
man ef the commîttee Is absent. If tbe
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-As a member of
hon, gentleman from Ricbmond bad waited
I must endorse
bave been bere, the Debates Commlttee,
for a day or two, be wouid
wbat bias been sald by tbe hon, gentleman
and he wouid uuderstand tbe strengtb and
Indîvidual muemaI might say from St. John. Wbatever
force of bis observations.
bers of the commlttee may bave communithat, se far as I know-and' I am quite
to the reporter, 1 am qulte sure
sntisfied that I can say that for the com- cated
that no Instructions* were issued from the
mlttee-no instructions wbatever have been
witb reference to tbe form and
given te the reporter to make any selec- commlttee
shape ln wbIch the report should be made,
tien, or te treat anybody unfalrly, or te
have attended ail the meetings.
take any action that wouid prejudice a and I tblnk 1
Last year, very near the close of the sesmember et the Senate lu the observations
to criticise the
be mlgbt make. But the gentleman wbo sion, I bad occasion
reporter ou a matter la which I feit very
reports our proceedings, it must be rememHe keeniy, but It was In exactiy tbe opposite
bered, Is aiways at a disadvantnge.
by my bon. frlend
makes a report, and It depends entlreiy on Une from the point made
It was for reporting
on thîs occasion.
tbe uewspapers to wbom be furnisbes It
mlot bave reported.
whether they wili pubiisb tbe report or net what 1 tbougbt be sbouid
When the Incident occurred la this House
Tbey take that portion of it wbicb seems
I arn sure we
to be of the greatest value te the country, to which I refer and wbicb
have all fergotten and forgiven, and bave
wbicb -affects rnost the public ia'terest,
way, I tben
rather than matters which corne up between *no desire to keep alive ln any
tbought that tbe reporter silould flot have
members of the House, and tbat accounts
It migbt
to a large extent for the f act tliat very reported the offensive words.
suit the newspapers very well to get
often those discussions te wbicb we amoitg
the
ourseives rnay attacli great importance, are sornetbing of tbat kiad, but It served
Hon. 34r. MILLER,.

informai appeai ls flot answered, I sball
take steps to bave it brougbt up in a formai manner by piaclug a notice on tbe
paper to bave it cousidered lu tbe proper
way, and I thlnk it Is well for us te consider whetber in view ef the unsatisfactory
nature of the synopsis generaliy furnisbed,
If nothlug else, it would not be much more
creditable to tbe Bouse to save tbe money
than to speud It lu the way we are now
deing. 1 beg to witbdraw my motion.

FEBIIUARY 20, 1908
purpose of givlng a personal detraction a
wider circulation, and, on that account, I
know that the reporter as a newspaper
man would be very much inclined to take
the newspapers' vlew of Vie matter, and
whatever would be destrable to the newspaper to get hold of, he would report. However, I did flot agree with hlm, and I think
the House wlll agree 'wlth me that It is flot
desirable when any bitter personal remarks
are made, thoughtlessly It may ho, by one
bon. gentleman regarding another, that
they sbould be sent officially to the papers
by our own reporter. I simply desire to
show the Ilouse the point of view I took
by my crlticlsm at the close of lest session,
but 1 do thlnk It la regrettable-and I do flot
know wbat can. le the explanation-that a
due reference was flot made, la the report
of yesterday to the reuiarks of 'tie hon.
gentleman. It was a very Important subject.'
-The personal reflections or charges against
the clerk o! Vie Senate need flot have been
reported, but Vie substance of the speech
should have been glven, and I do flot Viink
that the reporter has a right to use a diacretion between what one bon, gentleman says
and wbat another says, or what the representatives of one party In the Hlouse say, or
wbat Vie representatives o! Vie other party
say. Hîis duty is to give a fair resume of
,what tookz place. I think my hon. friend
has bad good reason to complain. On Vie
irbole, 1 agree wIth what Vie hon. gentleman from St. John has said, Viat Vie press
bas given hils House more notice and more
space, sînce Vie present press reporter has
been at Vie desk, Vian we have ever received before.
Some hon. MEMBERS-'Hear, hear.

lie is taklng to-day.
He says lie censured
the reporter last year for reporting certain
remarks.
This session Vie reporter, acting on Vie direction of last year, omltted
similar remarks, and yet Vie hon. member
The remarks omitfanda fault with him.
ted were allusions to Vie <Jlerk o! the House,
and the reporter should not be censured for
having omitted them.
Hon. Mr. PERGUSON-I qualified my
remark. .I said anythlng tbat was personal.
or reflectlng on the Clerk of Vie House
should flot have been publlshed, but Vie
substance o! what was sald as tu Vie point
of order was o! a public character.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-If he had not reported Vie refietion on the <Jlerk there
would have been nothing le! t to report.
*Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I happen to be a
member of the Debates Committee, and I
!ully endorse what has been said by my
hon. friend from St. John and my hon.
Whlle regrettlng
frlend from Marshfield.
exceedingly Vint my hon. friend !rom Richmond bas not been reported as Vie others
were, I stili cannot helpi saylng Viat Vie
course adopted by our reporter waa Vie
The hon. senator from Richiright one.
mond, I regret to say, 1s not heurd o!ten
enoughi on que~stions of order, of which he
We ail rela a paat and present master.
gret Vint he does'not more frequently give.
us Vie benefit o! bis wide and useful experlence, but Vis was a petty matter. a
priv.gte affair, and Viere is nothing to lie
gained by washing our dlrty linen ln pubIt would not reflect credit on us. If
lic.
we bave to be severe amongst ourselves at
times-and I still believe Viat Vie castigation given to Vie Clerk was not too severe
-we should be actuated by a sense of
cbarity and proprlety and sucli matters
sbould not go beyond Vie preclacts of Vie
Sonate.

HEon. Mr. FERGUSON-I have aecounted
for Viat from the fact that he la a newspaper man bimself.. knows the newspapers;
better, and makes up a report la a way
Viat suits Viem botter. 1 think It is a pity
The SPEAKER-I suppose the hon, genthat thls Incident occurred, and that the
tleman is aware Viat he Is referrIng to a
observations -of my bon. frlend sbouid flot
paat debate?
have found a place in the press report.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-If our press reporter takes any direction at ail from the
membere o! the Debates Commlttee, Vie
hon. senator from Marshfieid should not
have found fault wlth hlm for the course

Hon. Mr.
about IL I
opinion for
porter, who
tion, one in

POIRIER-I bad forgotten ail
simply wanted to express Vie
Vie guidance of our press reoccupies a most delicate posiwhich lie requires an exquisite

SEINATE
sense of propriety, that in my own oPinlion
(and I think it is the opinion of the maiority of the House) whenever any subject
of a persona] nature, reflectiug dîscredit
upon any individual member of the Senate,
or upon any officiai of this House, whose
honour and good name are In our bauds,
Is under discussion, those discussions should
flot enter into bis report and should flot be
given by the press. Let us be as severe as
may be necessary, but let us temper our
severity with charity, and with kindliness
which is a form of dliarity.

o6jected to the appointinent as being unThe debate is properly reportnecessary.
Wliether the
ed in the Senate Debates.
press reporter was responsible for that I
Tliat is only one of vcry
(Io flot know.
many cases that lead one to the conclusion
that thére Is some Influence that guides
and controls the reporting.
Hlon. Mr. SOOTT-No.

Hlou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
not say it does, but the Incidents iead to
We bave liad an extrathat conclusionl.
ordinary statemnent mnde hiere to-day. The
lIon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIELL,-Tlie hon. member from Riclimond telis us that
discussion upon tis question of having au the reporter himseif when asked for an exofficial press reporter la une in whichi 1 planation said tbat hie had been Instructed
took some Iuterest la the past, and to-day's by the chlrman or some other member of
experieuce ou]y Intensifies the opinion I ex- the committee to suppress certain discuspressed on former occasions, that the em- sions whicli took place in the Huse. By
ployment of an officiai reporter to prepare 'wbat authority does any wiember of that
The
reports for the press, and paid for by the committee give such instructions?
if presq reporter Is as iucli a servnnt of the
Senate, la an utter waste of money.
the press do flot think proper to report opposition as lie is a servant of the govWliere the press send thieir own
wiiat takes place here we should aiiow ernment.
theni to remain ln Ignorance of onr proceM4- representative to report our proceedings, we
I must dissent from the doctrine canuot dlaim any riglit to bave our speeches
lngs.
laid down by the hou. gentleman from publlshed ; but when a reporter is employed
I object to deiegating to any re- by the Senate to furnisb reports to the
Sbediac.
porter employed by the Senate the rlght press, no member of the committee bas a
Noue of us right to suggest to hlm what lie shall or
to say what hie shiah report.
It Is arrogating a posishou]d say anything lu this House that we shaHl fot report.
ouglit to be shamed of, and if'hon. gentle- tion whieli no man bas a right to assume,
men wili Indulge. lu personalities that Is and the sooner members of the committee
their own fauît, and when their speeches uuderstand wbat their duty is, the better
are given to the public, they wili soon know lt wili be for the Senate.
I have a compiaint
where to place them.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I wish to. reiterate
to make of the report furnIshed to the press the statement made by the hon. member
of the discussion lu this House of the ap- from St. John, that we have neyer liad as
Not a satisfactory a summary of our debates pubpolnment of our assistant clerk.
word appenred In auy of the newspapers lishied In the newspapers as ýwe have had
ging the reasons advanced why hie should since the appolutment of the present reTlie press re- porter.
flot have been appoluted.
I think every lion. gentleman
ports that I read-and I looked at a uum- agrees as to that. We canuot control the
ber-smply spoke of the man's abillty to aewspapers. I have never made any comI am flot aware that a plaint, but I have kuowu cases where I
MI1 the position.
single senator who opposed the appoiutment have made speeches which I myseif humsald one word agaiust Mr. Evanturel's abil- lily thouglit were of some cousequence and
The objection was to IneurrIng un- whicli gave rIse to some debate, of whlch
ity.
uecessary expense; yet the public wlio read no mention was made at ail Iu the pressý
that report must have comne to the con- but that is not a matter which conceras
clusion tliat we attributed Ignorance to Mr. the public or this House, and I should not
Evanturel, or thnt we were actuated by dreamn of bringing It Up here.
party motives and dislike to the ladividuai
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Why is the hon.
I kuow that uo member on fis
himseif.
gentleman bringing it up now ?
side of the bouse advanced that ldea ; we
Hon. Mr. POIRIER.

FEB1IUARY 20. 1908
hould lie eniarged, and the telegrapli sysHon. Mr. POWER-I amn not bringiiig s
eni of the Dominion placed under its conup ; Vie matter bas been brouglit up, nst roi.
It
The t
I Viink, ln a very unjustifiable way.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Tliat was ruled out
course whic blas been adopted by Vie hon.
senator from Richmond, of rising and with-0 f order.
ont giving any notice, as 1 nnderstand,C
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The Motion havlng
and attacking officers of Vils Cliamber, Is
one, and one wiceh sliould <~ome before the Heuse and the Speaker
an unfortunate
motion out of order. the
lie deprecated. If Vie conduct efthVe re- iaving ruled the
ln the
net been satlsfactery, I hum- lecision of the chair sliould appear
porter lias
Is to M~inutes of Proceedings.
bly subit Vint Vie proper course
hring Vie conduct of tbat reporter before
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It slieuld, aq a Matthe Debates Comînittee. If another officer- ter of record. It is part of the proceedof Vie House ls supposed to bave doue some- lngs of the House.
thing whicli la not mast the riglit thing, Vien
The SPEAKER-The Clerk of the House
the proper course lu to cali the attention
of Vie Speaker to Vie conduct'of Vint offi- Informis me that lie did flot enter It ln the
cer ; but it is not fair or proper te make Minutes and Proceedings because there was
attacks liere ln Vie Senate, in Vie eyes of a decisien of the House that decIsions on
Vie public, and to a certain extent ln Vie points ot order should not be entered.
liearlng et. .-e public, upon men who have
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Quite Vie contrary;
no opportunity to stand up and defend tiiere was a decision lat year, whicli 1
themselves.
obtained fremi Vie House, that rulings on
points of order sbould be entered ln Vie
The motion was withidrawn.
proceedings.
AN OMISSION PROM THE MINUTES.
Hon. Mr. POWER-There was a discusHon. Mr. LANDRY-I should lke to sien in Vis matter some years ago, and the
draw attention to wliat I tliink lias been conclusion reacbed by Vie House was Viat
an omission ln Vie Minutes of yesterday's Vie ressens for Vie Speaker's decision were
The bon. gentleman from not to be inserted at length la the proceedproceedings.
Prince Albert brougit up a motioni whicli Inga, but the decision was not to be reIf Vie Speaker ruled a motion
was declared out of order. A discussion corded.
took place, and Vie chair declded Vint Vie out of order, Vint fact sheuld be set out
In the Minutes, because, otherwise, liew
motion was eut ef order.
could we account for Vie disappearance of
The SPEAKER-I suggested te Vie lien. the Item?
gentleman to adjourn his motion se Viat
The SPEAKER-As far as my knowa proper notice sbould be sent eut, at Vie
proanme time as one coverlng the notice et ledge goes, Vint would be Vie correct
senator f rom Middlesex. ceeding. I wIii look up the record and Vie
motion of Vie lien.
I made ne formaI decision en Vint point, Cierk wll govern himaself accordingly.
but I made Vie suggestion.
THIRD READING.
ail events, Vie
Mr. LANDRY-At was withdrawn
Bill (L) An Act to amend Vie Companles
*Hon.
motion was proposedl and
Act.-(Hlon. Mr. Scott.)
and It should stand on Vie order paper.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Thie hion. memiber COPYRIGHT ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
postponed Vie motion until Wednesday,
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
and 11t la lncluded ln Wednesday's orders.
(28) An .ct teae,
fi
Treading
h
Hon. Mr. LANIýDRY-That la net tlie eue raigo
mn
nAtt
il(8
I referred. The motion was one
te whicli
Copyright Act.
in whIcli Vie lion. gentleman t rom Prnc
Hlon. Mr. POWER--I flnd Vint Vils Bill
Viat in Vie opinion
Albert proposed te move
*on lias net been printed ln Engliali, and I
ofthVe Senate Vie Railway Corn"

SENATE
t liese rights, we secure n good share of the
seals in the Pacific ocean, and there is a
clause iu the treaty of 1903 whlch goes very
far In regard to the killlng of ail the funr
s eais; that is to say there is a space of time
1e!t open from January until May la whlch
s ealers can go down south and kili thue
s eals la young whie coming Up to Belilng Sea. I meationed that to Sir Charles
Hon. Sir 1 AOKENZIE BOWELL-Couidr ~lhbert Tupper when lie came back fromn
It Is a
the hon. gentleman informn the House what Pàrls, and hie said, 1Yes, I know.
the contents of the Bill are ?
pity, but that Is ail we could get.
,reat
a long tinie at the treaty, and
Hon. Mr. POWER-The effect Is slmpiy IVe were
take things as they were.'
the 'words wblch are generally ait hast we had to
to change
Our sealers leave Victoria lu January.
put mast opposite the tile page, 1Entered
They are not supposed
rhey sal south.
at the office of the Secretary of State, &c.
flali
~o for seaIs nortb o! 35 degrees nortb
That Is about San Francisco ;
atitude.
The motion was agreed to.
but there Ia no patrol of British war vesSECOND READING.
sels to prevent the seais fromn belng taken
respecting the Ministers' whien they turn to the south iastead of
Bull (2ý;) An Act
Wldowd' and Orphans' Fund of the Pres- turnlng to, the north to corne to Behring
-Nr. Sen.
The close season Is froni the lst of
byterlan Church of Canada.--(Hon.
At the end
May until the end o! Juhy.
Mackay, Aima.)
of July the senlers' who have been down
.The Senate adjourned until to-morrow at south move north to the Behring Sea and
three p.m.
remain there until the month o! October.
If the treaty shouhd corne before the goverament for ratification by them, although
THE SENATE.
thîs may hurt our own sealers, 1 thlnk the
seals should be preserved as mucli as posOTTÂwÂ, Frlday, February 21, 1908.
sible, and that the taklng of seais la any
took the Chair at Three part o! the Pacific Up to the month of July
The SPEAKER
After that time, the
o'clock.
should be prohlblted.
seals have al] passed Up to the north of
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Behring Sea to have their young, and In
the month of October regularly, they go
FUR SEAL FISýHERIES.
south ngaîn. 1 do not know how f ar south
INQUIRY.
tlîey do go, but they return In January to,
the sealing grounds la Alaska. 1 thouglit
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.) rose to:
It proper to cali the attention of the govCail the attention of the government to erament to tis wenk part of the treaty. I
a matter in relation to the modus vivendi
between Great Britain and the United States have the treaty before me, and if the govon the subject of the fur seal fisheries. Will eruiment wlsh to see it they can do so.
the gDvernment conaider the question arîsing
thereon should the opportuaity arise ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ahi this discredîtabie
rumours of conduct occurs, of course, outslde of the
Hle said : 1 thinlr there are
1 look upon the
an adjustment or of some arrangement be- jurlsdlction of Canada.
and seaiera, as a rule, as a horde of pirates.
tween the goverament of Great Britain
and no rethat of the United States in regard to some They bave no respect for hnw,
gard for the animais they destroy the exI do not know what treaof the treaties.
be that beties they are, but very llkely the Behring istence of, and the resuit wili
another genieration there. wiii be 'no
sen. arbitration will be alluded to, as the fore
The only rernedy that 1 can
Ulnited States goverument cinims, and have seals left.
Is for people. wlio use seal sklns
claimed exclusive rlghts to the seai fisheries suggest
Aithough they daimii to decline to purchase them for the next.
in the North Pacifie.
Hon. Mr. POWEIR.

therefore move tliat the order be discharged
and that the second readlng of the Bill
be fixed for Tuesday next. 1 regret that
the Printlng Bureau, whlch la supposed to
be under the immediate charge of the HonSecretary of State, bas flot found time ta
reprint this Bill of about three lunes, durlng
the week It has been on the order paper.

FEBRUARY 21, 1908
tweuty years witb a view te the preserva- on their breeding ground wbere tbey are
The reservatlon of a under the exclusive coutrol of the United
tien et seal lite.
Now I question the propriety ot
zone, and the mules laid down States.
sixty mile
this country becoming a party to any sucli
for the preservation et seais are ef ne
It wouid take the navies ef Great treaty. Under the Parle tre.aty the United
value.
no
Britaîn and the United States te prevent States obtained concessions such as
sealers. The only other nation bas ever obtained, establishing
the eperations of these
cannot lie
way te meet them is te get tbem on Vie a wlde zone wlthln wbich seals
No sucli privllege la enjoyed by
they have killed.
land and cenfiscate *everytblng
accept
-and their vesseis. Unlesa the nations like any other country, and If we are to
and Canada the view of the United States as to the
Russla, Japan, United States
agree upen some pollcy there will be ne seal fisheries on the Pacifie it will lead to
senîs lett In the next ten years. Ca&nada Le further encroacbments on the Atlantic
Tbey have made demande li
qulte ready te do ber share and lie a party fisherles.
seal that direction, and I would not be surprised
te nny arrangement that wlll preserve
lite and prevent Vie destruction et any If concessions are granted on the NewfoundBy preserving la*nd coast whicx wili give the United States
seals, except the males.
the temales and Vie young seals ln ihat fishiermen the right of taking fish witbin
way their extermination will be prevented. a mile or a mile ?and one-halt ef the shore.
the
You cannet mioderate the greed of the men There le no end te the attemptÉ ef
United States authorities te encroach upon
wbo go eut te bunt seals. Tbey kIli maies,
females and tbe young without discrimi- the r!gbts of the British portion of this connation, and tbey get one avallabie seal tinent. What tbey fail to get to-day they atThe government et tempt to secure to-morrew. 1 observe by the
perbnps eut et four.
Canada are prepared at ny time te do newspapers that permission was recently
wbat they can te put the seal lndustry on given the United States te take a war ship,
a. basis whlclx wlll leave some seals for through the Canadian canais, to be used
as a training ship, ln tbe upper lakes. That
posterity.
is ln direct contravention et the treaty
Hon. Sir MCE IEBOWELL-The
between Britain and the United States, by
remamks made by the hon. Secretary et
are te be maintained
lead whlcb no war vessels
State are et suc]' a character as te
To my mmnd, it ls a
on the upper lakes.
one te suppose tint the goverament le preI was glad te see the
suicidai pollcy.
pared te accept Vie dictum efthVe United
other day, ln a cablegram trom 'England
States that seal ilte shall be preserved
newsThe tbe comments of the leading Liberal
tbrougbout the wbele Pacifiec ocean.
paper ln London, the 'Chronicie,' on this
attack made upen Vie sealers et Britishi
out that Canada and
Columbia by Vie hon, gentleman le et sucb question, pointlng.
cona character that il muet lead one te Vint Great Britain are continually mnaking
cessions to the United States untIl we wiii
conclusion, because Viere is but one wny
et accompllsbing tbe ebject which the hon. sbortiy have no exclusive riglits and priviOur neigbbours
gentleman says every one bas ln view. leges ln Vis country.
il neyer give Canada any concession wbich
the preservation et seal lite.
namely
seai lite Is te be pretected in Vie manner interferes with their rights, and the sooner
suggested by Vie United States, Vien themE Canada makes a bard and fast mile trom
must be au arrangement between Vie dit whlcb It wll decline to recede, and let the
ferent nations, te which we must beçome e British government understand that no furparty, te preveut Vie killing ef seals at cer. ther concessions to the United States will
tain sensens et the year i ail parts et th( be permitted, the better it wlll be for the
Pacifie ocean. The demande ef the Unite& Canadian people.
States are et such a character that, If con
Hon. Sir RICHÂARD CARTWRIGHTceded, seais could'net be kllled by any on4
at
et the year except by UniteÉ I M1y lbon. friend beside me said nothing
at any sensen
sail about the terms on wblcb we wouid deal
If the bon. gentleman'i
States sealers.
and I can assure
suggestion la te lie carried eut theme woulk1 witb the United States,
? te hon. gentlemen opposite that It le. the
be ne seallng except wben Vie seals ari

SENATE

366

f ull intention of the government to see to
it that in the event of any further dexnands
being made by the United States, a reasonable equivalent shall be given to the people
That, of course, is a inatter
0f Canada.
As to the
for negotiation and treaty.
other point to which the hon. gentleman
aliuded, I may remind hlm that It is lu
the power of the United States, under the
convention with Great Britain, to terminote that convention at six months notice
ut any time. and it la hardly advlsabie, for
the sake of a single training ship, to raise
I tbluk the Senate wili
that question.
agree with me titut we are net ln any very
Imminent danger of Invasion by a United
States fleet, even If they have two or three
training ships lu the upper lakes.

We are ready ut auy time to consider the
question Nvhien any proposition may be
There la no proposition before the
made.
goverument on the subject.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-None
."et

My observaHon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
tions were entirely predicated on an existing condition, whlch, I think, is exceedingly regrettable, and does not reflect credit
on the Intelligence of any country, where
we allow life to be destroyed in this majnI understand the seal fisherles bave
uer.
been decreased from 50,000 a year at the
PrIbyloif Islands to ten or twelve thonsand, but we are not responsible for that.
Hon. Mr.. LOUGHEED-Is the goverument considering any remedy for the diffiHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before Mhe disculty which has been pointed out?
cussion of the matter la closed, may 1 ask
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-We younger
my hon. friend If the government contemIn the approaching refer- members ln thLs chamber have been lecplates submlttlng,
ence to the Hague Tribunal, the question tured lu pat days for violations of the
On the present ocWhat rules of the House.
of the regulations lu Behring Sea?
the hon. senator frein Hastings did say was casion, hon. members have for the last
this, that the observations made by the alfteen or twenty minutes been violating
hon. Secretary of State lef t only one con- Rule 39. Hou. gentlemen wll observe by
clusion lu the minds of hon, gentlemen who that rule that whien a question lo put to n
listened to hlm, and that La, that owing to minister lie Ia aliowed to answer that questhe dissatisfaction which must necessarily tion; but It cannot be made the subject of
We have the older
prevail because of the non-observance of debate afterwards.
the regulationa for the protection of seal members violating the mile, for whlch of11f e, it was an open question, and ûjie fence we younger members bave been lecwhich must be deait with In the near fu- tured.
If it be the Impression of this govture.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbie question cannot
erament that the present regulations are be debated.
Insufficient for the protection of seal 11f e
Hon. Mr. POWER-I humbly submit that
lu Behring Sen, then the logical sequence
la lu
question la the hon, gentleman fmom Wellington
of that seems to be that: the
The hon. gentleman fromn Victoria,
error.
stIli open and mur possibly be one of the
that he would caîl the
questions yet to be deait with by the Hague said In bis motion
attention of tbe goverument to a matter
Can my hon. friend say If thia
Tribunal.
and then he asks a quesquestion Is yet being considered by the la relation, etc.,
Our rules provide lu that case that
goverument, or 'wbether the United States tion.
a discussion.
goverument ha submnitted tliis as one of there may be
questions, or one of the ques-* Hon. Mr. McfMULLEN;-Look ut Rule 39.
the unsettled
tions which should be further considered by
A QUESTION 0F PRIVILEGlE.
the government?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the orders of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do nlot think there the day are called, I desime to caîl the atwas unything ln my language to at al] tention of the government to the foilowing
justify uny deductions being drawn from telegram wbieh appeared In the Toronto
It thut It was lu contemplation to have a press
new treuty with the United States or that
Montreal, February 19.-(Special).-There
we were moving In the matter at aIl. are somne interesting political notes floating
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

FEBRUARY 21, 1908
round here just naw. In the first place, a
strong delegation has just returned fram
Ottawa with the assurance that Hon. Arthur
Bayer will in the near future be appointed
lieutenant-governor of Quebec. The story that
Sir Louis Jette has been asked to hold on till
after the Quebea celebration ia Âugust is
not withont any faundation, and it je quite
is a
Srab able that unlees there Quebea,very strang
HEon. Mr.
ikfram the district of
Boyer's nomination will be gazetted in the
near future. Then it appears that a portion
cf the rumeurs touchîng the changes in the
goenment of Quebec is trueý Han. Adelard
Turgen will, it appears, leave the government and accept a senatorship at Ottawa.
Re will, it je said, replace Han. P. Â. Choquette, who goes te, the City of Quebec as
police magistrate. The present head of the
police court jes Hon. Judge Chauveau, who
wîll be retired, as lie is one of the directors
cf the Ba:nque Natianale. It is understood
that he wiil pase at ieast three monthe of
the year laoking after the Paris branch cf
that institution. Mr. Turgeou's successor in
the cabinet has nat been suggested yet, but
it nat ta be suppased that the change will
take place befare the caminz session which
opens the 3rd of Mardi.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I rîse to a point of
I do nat think the hion, leader
order.
can answer any of those question.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I have
the question yet.

not asked

The SPEAKER-The hon. gentleman
will limit his question te a federal matter
and net a provincial matter.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I amn net going ta
ask a single question iu regard te a provincial matter. I desîre teask if there laany
truti lu the fact stated here, tilat a deputatien has interviewed Sir Wilfrld Laurier
and bas exacted fram him the promise that
Mr. Bayer wlll be appolnted lieutenantgovernor lu the province of Quebec, te replace Sir Louis Jette, and Is It true that
a shuffle le coutemplated so as ta remove
frei this chamber the Hon. Mr. Choquette
and ta appoint Hon. Mr. Turgeon lu is
I do flot belleve the latter part
place?
of the despatch, because I do not thlnk the
Hon. Mr. Choquette, who bae heen a judge
of the Superlor Court, would reslgn bis seat
lu this chamber te become a magistrate.
In the first place, la Mr. Turgean to become
a senator?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In ail truth, I neyer
heard a reference te the matter until I saw
it this morning lu the paper.

367

Han. Mr. LANDRY-It might have been
declded on a Wednesday, the day the hon.
gentleman does flot attend council.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do attend council.
Imilst ask an explanation ef that.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The. answer given Is
that personally the hon. gentleman does flot
know anything about It, but I arn asking
hlm as representlng the government?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn answering for
the goverument. I neyer heard of it.
ARREST 0F JAPÂNEISE IN BRITISH
COLUMBIA.
Hon. Sir MAÂCKENZIE BOWELL-Before the orders ef the day are called, I
shoul lîke to ask the Secretary of State
for the reasons for instructlng the agent
of the Department of Justice to brlng before a justice ln British Columbia the case
of the Japanese who were arrested and lmprlsoned under what la termed the Natal
The heu. gentlemans answer le clear
Act.
enough, except that he gîves no reasons for
the action taken by the government in that
Is it because the Natal Act as
respect.
it ie termed, passed by the Brltish Columbia
Is It
government, la unconstItutIonal?
ultra vires, or was It for the purpose of
obtalnlng a decîsion as to the constitutionality of the Act from the judges, iu order
to relieve the government of the respousiThe hon.
bllity of disaliowlng the Act?
gentleman knows well that the practice lu
the past has been for the Mlnister of JustIce to report upon'the constitutlonality of
any Âct passed by a provincial legislature,
and upon that report the government
acte. Assumlng the judge to declare that
the Act, le unconstitutional or ultra vires
of the power of the British Columbia
legislature, then the goveramnent le relieved, I suppose, of the responsiblties
attendlng the disallowance of the Act;
and judging from the course that they
have taken, I think It le rather a dexterous method of relleving themselves o!
the responeibillty of a proceedlng which
would be extremely unpopular in the province which passed the Act. 1 suppose the
bon. gentleman can inform the House as
to the real reason why the course whlch he
stated was taken has heen taken, and the

SENATE
reason why they did not disailow the Act
if they considered it to be ultra vires?
H7on. Mr. SCOTT-It Is rather a curions
The government of CanInterrogatory.
ada feel It their duty to protect the Japanese when arrested ln violation of a treaty
We think the Act of the
wlth Japan.
legisiature of British Cjolumbia Is unconstiIt ls a violation of the British
tutional.
North America Act, which is quite plain.
I think I stated in the House the other
day that section 95 of the British North
America Act debars a provincial legîslature
from passing an Act on the subject of Immigration that Is not lu harmony with any
I made
Act existlng la the Dominion.
that explanation.

bave examined it since I made my remnarlis
the other day, and I find that the synopsis
is a very good one.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Hear, hear.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I desire to relleve the reporter of ail the reStll it only
sponsibllty ln the matter.
intensifies the statement I made that we
are spending money for reports which the
press will flot avail tbemselves of.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon, gentleman
wouid rather have no report at ail.
TIIIRD READINGS.

Bill (M) An Act resptecting the TransCanada Railway Çompany.-4Hon. Mr. ChoHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWZLIL-Tbe quette.)
explanation the hon, gentleman bas given
Bill (N) An Act respecting the Windsor,
Is flot the answer reported here or tbat hie Chatham and London Ralway Company.He gave no renson.
gave us yesterday.
(Hon. Mr. Coffey.)
Bill (58) An Act respectlng the Ashcroft,
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I do not recollect what
Barkerville and Fort George Railway Comanswer I gave.
pany.-(Hon. Mr. Bostock.)
LOUGHEED-In the event of
Hon. M.%r.
the courts of British Columbia holding thie
SECOND READINGS.
Act to be constitutional, may I ask my
Bill (T) An Act respectlng the Atlantic,
lion. friend If It Is not the Intention of thue
government then to dlsailow the Act, as Quebec and Western Railway Company.they would have a rlght to do under the (Hlon. Mr. Fiset.)
My hon.
Bill (U) An Act to change the namne and
British North America Act?
friend bas already given bis opinion upon heaci office of the Anglo-Canadian Insurthe hardship limposed by the Act upon the ance.-(Hon. Mr. Cnsgrain.)
Japanese, and bias aiso expressed the views
The Senate adjourned until Three o'ciock
of this government so far as the Natal Act on Tuesday next.
Suppose the court should
is concerned.
hold the Act Is constitutional and intra
vires of the legisIature of British Columbia,
THE SENATE.
what would be the action of thîs goverfiment in regard to it?
OTTAwÂ, Tuesday, February 25, 1908.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-We wll cônsider the
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
I o'clock.
subject and -come to some conclusion.
certainiy could not advise the hon, gentlePrayers and routine proceedlngs.
man as'to that.

-

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
GRAND TRUINK PAoCIFIC BRANCH
UINE COMPAN-Y BILL.
must apoligise to the Senate for referring to
the remarks I made yesterday in reference
FIRST READING.
to the report pubiished in the papers supthe proceedings
posed to be a synopsis of
Hon. Mr. WATSON introduced Bill (Y)
My remarks would An Act respectlng the Grand, Trunk Pacific
of a few days ago.
c!ertaily leave the impression that I was Branch Line Company.
The
casting a refiection on the reporter.
The Bill was read the first time.
synopsis which he made is on file, and I
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

FEBRUARY 25. 1908
The utilities
them.
Hon. M~r. WATSON moved that the Bill necessary to provide
those
on Thursday next. that are commoniy classed amongst
be read the second time
that might well be controlied by municipalidrainHlon. Mr. LANDRY-I think the hon. ties are electric iight, water service,
9 entleman should teli us why this Bill lS age, street cars, transportation and teleAU these contribute to the conHe does not give us any ex- phone.
ntroduced.
venience of a municipality, and efficient
lanation.
The ownership and
desirable.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The explanation will service is
utilities are two difof publie
>e given on the second reading. This is operation
It may be pardonabie for
ferelit things.
nerely lntroducing the Bill.
municipaiity to be the owners of their
any
telephone sysHon. Mfr. LANDRY-If I want to refer own street cars or their own
t :he Bill to the Standing Orders Committee, tem; but to be the operators of those sysmunicipal conpresent
Esbould want to know what it was, and terne under
second reading ditions ln Canada is, in my humble opinion,
t might be too late on the
When municipal
a questionable pollcy.
o0 get the explanation.
are held yearly, we muet recogHon. Mr. WATSON-It is for an exrten- elections
that the mayor and aldermen are la
sien of time for the construction of the nize
touch with the electors ail the time.
branch uines that the Grand Trunk Pacific close
No soflr is an election contest over than
two years ago.
received power to build
they begin to canvass for the next election.
This brings them into close touch with ail
to.
The motion was agreed
classes o! the community having votes, with
the result tlxat they try to cultivate popuPUBLIC OWNERSHIP 0F PUBLIC
lar feeling. Those wbo wish te get work
UTILITIES.
ln the municipality at wbich trey can make
MOTION.
an easy living, are apt to use their Influence to obtain positions where they can
movea:
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN
for every ten cents
That in the opinion of this Senate of Cana- get a dollar ln cash hmncplte
o
I
!lbu.
wri
o
and
the publie ownership be in operatiou of %ot f'aor
nalmncplte
da,
the iaterest
publie utihities would not
find as a result a certain number of muniof this Dominion.
drones, men who, perhaps, had been
He said: In rising to make the motion cipal
engaged ln other callings and had failed
of whichi I have given notice, I desire to
simpiy because tbey did not possess the
offer some explanation to the House why
and had
place the notice energy necessary to be successful, friends.
1 consldered it necessary to
a burden upon their
As most members o! tris hecome naturally are always anxious to
on tue paper.
th qustin o muicialFriends
Houe ae aare
men on to the municipal list
andrc te qetion o!ubi municipal shunt such
ouere
andrev cn m saketliing.es Thato is to
o
bas been discussed ln the press o! this counl- thycnmk
hil
-iig
great
A
try to a considerable extent.
t.common a condition ia the affaire of our
diposd t enourge
manar or-an
In 7.igland It ls someenorag It. inuaicîpalities.
to
isposed
maay ras are
. There councils are elected
otpoe
tjtes wuiat different.
opposed
Ohers arqestoal tod
for three years, one-third of their number
Wander-n
unqestllbl b ownedaly
shoud
Waer ndretiring every year. Aldermen are elected
byevey
ate mniipaity
sewage are two of the most Importantfosiyaroeaftenubretig
etrg
ero-hltenub
utilities. They are important because theyfosi
way, they are
In this
every three years.
contribute more to tre general health of
close touch witb the electors as
town tran any other utîlîties; not la such
the city or
members of our councils are ln Canada.
where there is not pure water, and aise
again, trey have other corrective
good drainage, the health o! the people le Then,
In
have powers that we have not got here.
at stake, and whatever it may cost to
they have a municiand Scotland.
these two accommodations, they are such England
board, created a !ew
an absolute and Imperative necesslty, that pal goverament
of Parliacity or town is justified years ago under an Act
-every municipality,
whose duty It le to keep a close
ia any expenditure that they may consider ment,
24
RFPVTqlF,r

VITION

SENATE
watch on the transactions of aIl large muni- t hat condition of things bas developed
cipalities, to see that they keep well within t here, witb ail the advantages tbey have
the law, that their expenditures are pru- i n the permanency of tbeir municipal offident aud proper, and that their accountsc ~ers, and with a municipal government
In ouri )oard and the safeguards thrown around
are well aud carefully audited.
own country our municipal audits are nott te municipal authorities, 1 should like to,
Wei znow what would happen in -Canada under
as thorough as they ought to be.
should bave a better audit system than we >ur loose system If we adopted the saine
We have no such perfection, and
In England and -Scot-i policy?
have at preseut.
]and tbe auditors bave to be chosen from t :here wouid be great danger from our cities
Tbey have to be embarking In municipal ownersbip anid
cbartered accountants.
We know that business men
approved of by the municipal goverument operation.
fix push business. Whether they taire hold of
The municipality cannot even
board.
the payment for their duties; that la doue a street raiiway or anytbing else they try
by the municipal government board, so that to make it a success by attending to every
On their management depends the
everythlng that contributes to a careful, detail.
In
prudent audit of the accounts of munici- credlt they will get for efficiency.
ÂIl those con- municipal works you bave not tbe sane
palities exista there.
ditions la England contribute very much active energy put forth, and, as a result,
to tbe success of municipal ownership you neyer get the ame return as you
What would you thlnk If the would derive from management under prithere.
Grand Trunk Ralway and Canadian Paci- vate Individuals. 1 deplore, and 1 suppose
Railway were operated by a new board there are others In this chamber who deOce
If new plore the fact that we do not always have
of directors elected every year?
men were put in annually, you would have the best citizeus elected to municipal offices.
new Ideas snd new policles and men dis- We find even tu our cities that a great many
posed to net lu opposition practically to the of our best men refuse to accept the posiTbey do not
course pursued by their predecessors, aud tions of mayor or aldermen.
you could not hope to attain tbe succes appear to bie incliaed to spend their time
ivbich bas attended the management of la the service ot the city, and the resuit Is
tbose companies under a board re-elected that municipal goverument very of ten
In our municipal drops into banda tbat are not capfrom year to year.
regulations, the risk of yearly changes and able of conducting tbe business of tbe
of new Mdens and new methods lu the municipality In the best interests of the
1 kaow several cases in whicb our
operation of municipal utilities would bring people.
best men have deciined to act on a muniabout a more expeasive condition of things
In England it Is different.
than prevails under the guidance of meu cipal board.
who are lu office contlnuously, and who Iu the city of Glasgow, for Instance, the
are careful sud prudent la aIl they do. best men bold positions on the concil board
The aldermen, of course, are
Again, la the old country, the Board of as aldermen.
Trade bas certain powers to fix the rates flot chosen by popular vote, but by vote ot
They are flot
We have no the council themselves.
charged for public utilities.
therefore directiy respoasible to the elecEven
snch regulation lu this country.
In
la our cities are.
under the present condition of thlngs lu tors, as aldermen
this country, aldermen are elected by popuEngland there bas been au enormous exlar vote, aud, as a resuit of that systers,
pansion Iu the ownershlp aud operation of
they have to fight for the position and
municipal undertakings, and the municipal mnany men decline going into -a municipal
Iu fight, or uudergoing the drudgrery and work
national debt bas greatly Increased.
1885 the municipal deb t ef Eugland and whieh bas to be gone through to get elected
Wales was $406,150,000. *In 1898 it bad as an alderman.
It bas been clearly
Iu 1901 It had reach- proven by experience ia England that as
risen to $580,000,000.
years the good resuits have not been or cannot be
Iu sixteen
ed $718,595,000.
municipal indebtedness of Eugland sud obtained under municipal ownership as bave
Wales had iucreased by $312,500,000.
Ifýresulted from private ownershIp and operaHou. Mr. McMtILLEN.

FEBRUARY 25, 1908

871

Glasgow was looked upon as one thîs principie bas been carried out lu Great
tbon.
There are ln England and Wales
of the model cities of the British Empire, BrItain.
Inhabitants, or a million, 229 municipalities that carry on municipal
with 780,000
counting ail suburban corporations. Tbere Industries out of a total of 317 municipaliTbere are 197 that conduct their
arose a popular demand for municipal ties.
There are 97 tbat conownership and operation of public utili- own waterworks.
There are 102
of the adoption of duet their own gas works.
ties, and as a resuit
tbat policy Its debt has risen f rom twenty- that conduct their own electric Ilgbt works,
seven and a baîf million lu 1890 to sixty- and there are 29 that conduct their own
In Scotland, as I said, Glasfour and at haif million lu 1900, whiie the tramways.
increased from seven- gow leada tbe way In municipal ownership
assessed value only
teen and a quarter million to twenty-four anid operation, with civie ownersbip of elecThe city debt tric llght, tramways, telephones, etc., conand three-quarter million.
Increased thirty-seven million, the assessed trois eleven public works and public gaivalues only increased seven and a baîf ml- beries, eleven batbs and wasb bouses, and
It owns and rents
In 1890, the rate on the dollar on many other things.
lion.
and upwards 873 sbops, 49 stores, 43 warehouses, two
fifty dollars rentai assessment
It is now 16J botels, one theatre, one pawn office, 43
was 12 cents on the dollar.
cents on the dollar of the assessment. The work sbops, and nine churches, and pays
amount paid Into the municlpality for tram the salary of the preacher out of the muniLt owns stone quarries,
receipts over operating expenses during cipal treasury.
the nine years tbat tbey had operated and bas no leas than nine hundred cars for
their street railway was $534,000, or the movemeut of that.atone, and the busiThe
about $59,000 a year for nîne years. ness that Is connected therewltb.
of Toronto total sum spent ln water works for supplyTbe amount paid to tbe city
for tbe samne time by the operators of the Ing water ln the city of Glasgow la $19,Two aud th1ree-quarter cents on
street car system was $1,&33,826, or a year- 884,850.
1 understand that the dollar for tbe rental withln tbe city and
ly average of $203,758.
last year the percentage paid by tbe street four cents without the city limit, Is charged
Tle rent for water
rallway of Toronto Into the municipal for supplying water.
tbe for a bouse paying an annual rent of say
treasury, under the lease that is held by
lessees, amounted to sometbing In the neigh- £100 would be bet'ween eight and ten dolbourbood of $400,000. The average rate on lars.
Hou. Mr. CLORANI%-That Io cheap.
the street cars of Glasgow is about a cent
The average rate lu the city of
a mile.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-It is not overiy
Toronto Is bighier than that; but there is
The city's water system covers sixTbey give no dear.
one pecullarlty ln Glasgow.
In Glasgow, If you get on a teen miles from north to south, and twelve
transfers.
The water sysstreet car to ride, you tell tbe conductor miles from eat to west.
distance you want to go, and you bave tem la flot confined to the city of Glasgow
the
When you get alone, because there are many corporato pay for that distance.
that car and go into another car, you tions outside of tbe city and the wateroff
bave to inform the conductor again of the works extend. to most of these and tbey
distance you Intend to travel, and he supply water, 'and as you notice, tbey
charges you another fee, and s0 on. Tbat charge four cents on the dollar of rentai
Is the way they run their street car system for water supplied outaide of tbe corporaln Glasgow. In Toronto you puy a fee of tion, and only two an 'd three-quarter cents
five cents, and, I believe, you can ride as for water supplied Insîde the corporation.
xnucb as elght or ten, or perbaps eleven Now, telepbones should not be classed as
If you were ln public utilities, because a small portion of
miles for tbat nmount.
In Toronto only
Glasgow and bad to change cars several the population use tbem.
to pay very nearly six per cent of the population use teletimes, you would bave
as mucb as you bave to pay ln Toronto. phones, and lu tbe clty of -New York only
Before dealing finally 'with Glasgow, let 4j per cent of the entire population use
In that case it would be unnme give Tou an idea of the extent to wbich telephones.
244

372

-SENATE

fair to tax the rest of the people of these
cities for a charge that might be Imposeti
for the sake of handlng telephones under
municipal contrai and at a fixed municipal
rate.
Hon. Mr. 4JLORAN-The lion. gentleman
states that In New York four and a haif
per cent of the population use telephones?
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Yes.
Hon. Mr. OLORÂN-Ànd lu Toronto six
Ia that a fair proper cent, and s0 on.
A man that has a 'phone may
position?
have ten of a family uslng that 'phone,
and that would mean perbaps forty per
cent of the population instead of four per
One telephone will do for ten peocent.
pie.

palities in Englanti andi Scotianti there Is
very great care taken ln the expenditure
of money, owing ta the existence of the
The munimunicipal government board.
cipalities know that they have to subjeet
their accounts andi expenditures to that
board, andi the resuit la that they may
suifer very seriously unless they can. show
good returu for the, money that la exIn Huddersfield, for instance,
pended.
there was £414,000 spent for the construction of thIrty miles of tramway. Wben the
accounts came under the eye of the municipal goverument board and had ta be balanced by them, there was £100,000 that
There was
coulti not be accounteti for.
nothing ta show that that money had been
properly spent--$500,000 out of £414,000.

Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Tbftt wft5 boodle.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Four and a haîf
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-That may have
per cent of the population of the clty of
New York are on the telephone list as been. They liad nothing ta iay before the
municipal board ta satIsfy them that that
users.
money haed been properly spent.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Representlng how
mnany people who use the 'phone?
ýHon. Mr. PERLEY-They must have
sent It over ta Catnada?
Mr. McMULLEN-Representing
Hon.
those that pay rent for the telephone serHon. Mr. McMULLEN-The City of
That la enly four andi a balf per Munich, Bavaria, took over the street railvice.
A very way system, andi in the first five years'
cent of the entire population.
large proportion of the population may be operation the earnings were $51,733 lesa
interested li the tejephone system, but It as a net return» than the average profit
is only tlîat percentage that la on the five years before when it was operateti unlist as payees for telephones lu New York, der lease ta a prîvate corporation.
If a
and there are six per cent on the list ln city la not well governed, municipal ownerToronto.
sblp la the moat dangerous thiug Imagingentleman able.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The hou.
would not want a 'phone for each member
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Hear, hear.
of a family or each clerk lu an office?
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-If you have not
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-No, certainly men who are auxiaus ta see the affairs of
the municipality cnrefully andi honestly
not.
their beat
-Tlat bingstheconducted, and who will bestowclose attenLORA
Hon.Mr.
rnateability, their energy and their
CLRNTa
Hon.ag M.
upon matters of vital interest ta the
averag U~>*tion
Hon. Mr. POWER-Whnt is the propor- municipality, extravagances wlll occur anti
money will bie squandered. Keir Hardie,
tion lu Glasgow?
the socialiat, voiced the sentiments of Enghave flot miade ilsh socialists when hie said at Bradiford,
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I
I have when giving an acldress there, the followout the proportion iu Glasgow.
The fact of illg:
just taken those two places.
It becomes increasingly evident that socialthe matter la that I was afraiti I was going
to bother the -Hanse with too many figures. ismn iii this country will corne throughi the
Municipal tramways, munimunicipalities.
I have alreatiy stateti that ln the municiHon. Mr. McMULLEN.

cipal water,

muLiicipal gas, municipal

elec-

FEBRUARY 25, 1908
tricity, municipal bread, rnunicipal coal,
municipal land-these things are ah putting
the people or will put them in possession
and control of the essentials af -Hie, and
that is what 'sociaisis aims at.
Perhaps I do not understand saclalism
aright, but frarn wbat little Information I
have gathered ta regard ta it, I hope the
good Lord will'pratect us la Canada from
It
being under the contrai of socialists.
destroys energy and Iadustry; it teaches
the principle that the world owes a man
a liing and hie bas a rIght ta have it
whether bie works for It or not, and It
teaches the principle that what belangs ta
athers, If necessary, shouid belang to the
public, snd that men wbo bave amamsed
fortunes bave no rlght ta enjoy themthat tbe land should belong to the people,
Sucb are the Ideas 'which are
and seoan.
pramulgated and advocated by those~ people.
WhIle saciaiim bas a very strong footing
la England, I hope It wlll not get a strong
I bave looked over the
foating here.
statlstics 0f cities and towns lu Eagland
that bave lest by taklng aver and operatlng the electrlc llght systern. 1 find that
slxty-two towns and cities la England have
lest la the operation of -their electrlc llghting plant W45,150, or an average of $8,534
The city of Brigbton heads the llst
each.
Now let me give
with a loss of $51,165.
yau an Illustration of extravagance under
It was clted la
municipal management
a discussion la Manchester on the subject
af municipal owaershlp aad operation, but
It happened la ane of the muburbs of the
clty of London. A lamp had got brakea
It
and a man was sent ta report on it.
took hlm about a day to do sa, snd wben
bie reported on the condition of the larnp
a carter was sent ta bring the lamp to
Thea It bad
whiere It could be repalred.
ta be carted back and men were emplayed
The whole exta have It put la place.
They could
pense Involved was $18.60.
have bought a new lamp for $6, and the
only addItIanal expense ta that would have
A pecuil'been the cost af putting It up.
irity Ia tbe operation of street rallwaym
la the munîcîpalîtles of Engiaad is that
natbiag ls set amide for depreclatian, and
accaunts are often coaked-that Is, charges
are often made ta capital account tbat
That
ebould be charged ta revenue, etc.
le one reason why the municipal gavera-.

373

ment board was appolnted.
itottenness
and deception. lu the bandling of municipal
matters had crept Into municipalities in
England and Scotland ta such an extent
that the governrnent, alter rnaking smre
Investigation, decided that sme contrai over
those municlpalitles was necessary.
A
municipal gavernent board was appolnted,
standing lu the sarne relation, virtualiy, to
the municîpalities of England as our railway commission stands to Canadien railThey contrai their deallngs, maite
ways.
thern keep rigidly witbin the pravisions of
the law under whicb. they operate, and see
that municipal matters are canducted In the
I have exarnlned
lnterest of the people.
statements relating ta sizteen towns In
lEngland whlch operate municipal street
railways, and.I find that the net loss In
those cities last year was $234,980, an averNow let me gîve the
age loss of $14,686.
House smre idea of the experience of the
Australian colonies, of governrnent awnerIn the
shlp and aperation of rallways.
fourteen years, prier ta the Urne they were
taken under the management of a commission, the annuai lass was $1,4063,996.
In 1904 a commission of three men was appainted. One af tbern, the chairman, ls a
They turned that annual loss
Canadian.
ito a surplus af $2,595 aver ail expenses.
The road bas been. warked so that It bas
made a srnail return after paying ail expenses Including intereat on the bonds.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It le still under the
system of public ownersbip.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-In 1901 the
operatiag expenses. arnouuted to £616,945;
la 1902, £671,588; la 1903, £591,897; *aud In
The reductian la aperat1904, £586,014.
lng expenses alone ta the four years was
The reduction was largely
$154,655.
brought about by dispenslng with the services of a number of men who were nlot
The staff was cut down, and yet
needed.
an efficient service bas been given ta the
people of Australla, just as good as tbey
had before, and ail this bas been 'accarnplsbed by slrnply rernavlng the rallway
from under governrnent management and
placing it under a board of commIssioners.
Hon. Mr. FER.GUSON-The rallways are
stiii awned by the gaverament af Australia?

SENATE
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Yes, but they are
mnaged under commissioners wbo are absolutely and entirely indepeudent of polîtiThey are iiot controlled«la
cal Influence.
0f course, la England the opauy way.
portunlty of borrowing money at low rates
bas undoubtedly been a great temptation
to the people te spend money as tbey have
doue. Municipal ownersblp of public utilities has so increased lu England, Scotland
aud Wales tbat the municipal debt has
risen from $=26 .250,000 lu 188 to $481,000,000 la 1901, an increase of 112J per cent
That, of course, la largely
la ten years.
owing to a desîre to become possessed of
municipal utllitles of varions ids.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-What are the assets
to represent that amount?
Hon. Mr. McMIULLEN-They are owners
of their street railways and so on, but, as
1 bave already sbown, la most cases they
Iu some cases, perare not remunerative.
As I have
baps, the rates are too, 10w.
said, tbey are aow talklug of increaslng
the rates la Glasgow sud Manchester. Manchester bias suffered from tbe adoption of
the systemn of municipal ownershlp, and, Its
street car system bas go't into a dilapidated
Glascondition, aud the service la poor.
gow gîves the best service of any city lu
Mauchester lias serithe British Islands.
ously lost by depreciation of plant, evidentiy for want of mouey, because of their desire to make It appear that the system was
earnlng something for the municlpality.
Municipal ownership doès flot appear to
bave taken hold of tbe people la United
I do
States cîties, as It bas doue here.
not know of any system of municipal ownershlp of street rallwuys lu any United States
In New York, even their subways,
clty.
wbile tbey belong to the city, are operated
under lease, and It is the same la Boston.
Ia Detroit, there are two street rallway systems operated by two lncorporated comIn Buffalo It is about the same,
poules.
I know tbat lu Phîlas0 far ns I know.
deiphia and Kansas City the street railways
Thbe
are operated by private enterprise.
legislature of Massachusetts appolnted a
committee to lavestîgate the whole question of municipal owuership sud operation
ôf street railways, nnd, ufter an extended
Investigation, occupylng many montbs, tbey
Hon. Mr. MoMULLEN.

brouglit ln a recommendation that it was
pardonable for a xuunicipality to be the
owner of bier own utilities, but they were
pronouneed lu opposition to municipal
operatloli.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-Was this a commlttee of the legisiature?
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-A committee of
the Massachusetts leglalature, appointed for
Municipal operation of
that purpose.
street rallways lias become very common
iu Great Britain aud Germany, and the
principle Is extendlug lu both those couniThe average rate of operating extries.
penses whcre street railways were owned
and operated by the cities themselves in
ln
1902 was 72 per cent of the earnlngs.
the United States under private ownersbip
the percentage was 62 per cent, or ten per
cent less than ln Great Britain, thougli
wages are bigher lu the United States than
Everytbing that
lu the mother' country.
goes Into, the Improvement of a street railway eau, 1 amn sure, be got cheaper ln
England tban la the United States, yet,
notwltbstauding that fact there was this
operation la favour of
dîfference ln cost o0*f
the United States. We have had some experience ln Canada If flot la municipal
ownersbip and operation, at least la Dominion owuership and operation la conneCtion with our Intercolonlal Rallway. Ia my
enrler experience as a member of parliament, I used to criticise the expenditures
la connection with the Intercolonial Railway. I thouglit that rney 'was sacrlffced
-1 believe it was-I hoped very much for
I believe that every Minimprovement.
ister of Railways-and I include Conservatives as well as Reform goveraments-begai with an bonest and earnest desire to
Improve the condition of the Intercolonial
Railway; but during niy parliamentary experience of over 23 years, every minister
bas failed. Tbey bave had to figlit against
the Influences brought to bear by members
of parliament la favour of tlheir own constltuencles, men seeking to be employed on
the Intercolonlal Rallway or to get some
job of drainlng or feacing or other work
That bas been going on for
on tlue line.
years, and wll continue as long as the
road Is operated under a governmeat bead.
1 do flot care who is appolnted to that posi-

FEBRUARY 25, 190837
tion, there will continue to be loas on the
operation of the Une under a goverument.
I arn satisfied that my esteemed friend the
Hon. Mr. Grahamn has begun with a determination to try and lif t the Intercolonial
Railway out of the rut ln wbich he fluds
it; yet, af 1er ail, bis experience will be that
Flventually he will
of his predecessors.
have to yield to the same Influences, or get
down and out. He wlll be forced to make
concessions lu behaif, possibiy, of bis poltîcal friends and his experience wlll be the
I can
sanie as that of bis predecessors.
recall the time wheu Sir Charles Tupper
He made a
was Minister of Railways.
i-igorous effort to sbow that he had wiped
out the large annual deficit which had occurred under the Hon. Mr. MacKenzie. The
deficit nt that time was soinething like
$700,000 a year.
In order to terminale
that deficit Sir Charles discharged a large
number of men from the repaîr shop. Cars
were turued to aidings and not repaired;
new cars were bought and cbarged to capital account. It was the same witb englues.
When the snow sheds aloug the Une got
àemolished, new Iron snow sheds were put
up. and charged 10 capital account. Every
Item that could possibly, by any excuse, be
charged to capital account was s0 charged
lu order to show that the railway was
I do flot
earning more than It expended.
say thal the expeuditure under hlm was
any worse than under any of his predecessors.
'When bis successor came Imb the
office. he found a large percentage of the
stores badl been used wilhout belng replaced, and a very large number of cars
were lyiug on aide tracks that had not been
repaired, while thxe englues were Iu the
same deplorable coudition.
AUl these had
to be repaired aud stores had to be purchased, ail involviug iucreased expendilures,
because the road had t0 be put Iu proper
As a result of ail tbIs we bave
shape.
piled up aguinst the Intercolouil Rallway
to-day something like $81,000,000 cbarged to
capital account, and the amount la sti11
growiug, and uuless cbecked will reacb the
That
$100,000,000 mark before ten years.
bas been our experience In owuiug and
operatlng a railway as -a government enterprise. While I arn williug to give the goverumeut every credit for makiug au houest
effort to manage the road to the advautage

of the people of this couutry, I predict that
there will be no improvemeut unlil we fol10w the exemple of Australia and put il
under an ludepeudeut commission-ti commission who wlll be as ludepeudent of the
goverument as la the auditor general of
Ibis country-more independent If possible.
Appoint two or three commiasioners If necessary and let them operate the Une as
lhough they owned lt-cnt It loose from aIl
political Influence and allegiance, and handle
lb lu the' lalerest of the country and the
country ouly.
If that is doue, I believe
that tbe Ulne wIll eventually returu a respectable annual surplus over expenditure.
I remember many years ago, iu travelling
from Toronto to Montreal, meeting the then
president of the -Canadian Pacifie Railway,
W. C. Van Home.
The Canadian Pacifie
Railway badl fot then bufit their short lhue
to St John, and I remember hlm saylng
distinctly that If the goverumneut would
baud him over the Intercolonial Railway,
the CJanadien Pacifie Railway would agree
to give the counbry as good, cheap and efficient service as was being given then, and
pay $,0O0,000 a year for the privilege.
What a plty that was not doue In the lutereat of this country.
The people would
have had a good service, and the public
treasury would have been $20,000,000 richer
Iban il 1a to-day.
Iu conclusion, I thlnk
It la well that Ibis HEouse should discuss
questions of this kiud.
The people wll
appreclale our effort to furnlsh Information
ou sucb subjects. I have eudeavoured to
get fadas aud figures; If any of Iheni should
be found Incorrect, I amn open to correction.
Hou. Mr. CLORAN-I have but a few
words to say lu auawer bo the very pains.
taklng, able speech on tbis question of public owuersbip to whlcb we have just listened.
The hon. senator from Wellington has
evidenbly_ studied the subjeet deeply and
broadly.
He la one of those public men
who bave' very Ulttle confidence lu goverumeut by the people, s0 far as local aif airs
Evidently he has confiare concerned.
dence lu goverumeut by thxe people lu natioual affaire; otberwise be would not bold
a position iu tbis House, and ask that
the country be governed as it la being goverued as Itlei to-day.. He seema to thiuk,
bowever, that whab the people are able

SENATE
to do on broad national Uines ln the administration of the country, they hiave flot
the same ability and determination to accomplisb lu municipal matters.
I for one fail to see wby any philosopher,
any student ofbuman history, any observer
ot human advance, will give to men the
rigbt to dictate, to regulate and to administrate ia the bigher sphere matters of
grave Import matters that touch the vitals
of the nation; wbo will allow the goverument of the day to administer public utilities sncb as the post officec; who wîll allow
the government of the day to administel
sucb a public utility as tbe navy and the
army.. He will aliow the goverament of
the day to utilize, to own and exercise patronage in the matters of the Interlor DeHe wIll allow the goverament
partment.
of tbe day to utilize, operate and uwn tbe
administration of the Justice Departrnent,
and so ou, along the whole list; but when
it comes home, where the people will feel
the burden of ownersbip and of utîlization
of ownership, whetber by Itself or by mndividuals, lie refuses Immediately to the
community the rlgbt to own or to exercise
Its rigbts in regard to public utilîties.
That Is a position that I can appreciate,
but It is a position that I cannot endors'e.
If the people are capable and bonest enougb
to conduct their affairs along particular national lines, why not aliow them to do so
nlong their smaller lines of municipal and
I do not.intend to discuss the
home life?
details 'whieh the bou. inember bas taken
sucb great pains and great trouble to, collect and place before tbe House. On tbat
score bie deserves ail consideration and
praise; but I arn talking on this question
from the point of view of principle. Wbat
is good for the wbole sbould be good for
tbe lesser part, and if we can secure better government ln the smaller areas, It is
the duty of public men to.cultivate that
cultivate public opinion
Wý%e
sentiment.
in regard to national matters by public discussions la the Senate, la tbe House of
Commons, in the pulpit, on the platform,
and ln the press, and we attain our ohWe sbouid be able to convince the
ject.
people that the government of the day
are capable of owniag public utilities in
the first place, and then operating them.
If, ln the lower spberes of society such a
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

position does flot obtain, It is the duty of'
public men and tbe press to educate
tbe people to appreclate, and to endeavour to secure for tbemselves tbe
same measure of responsibility ln regard to public utilities as the goverameut exercIse ln tbe broader spbere of 11f e.
He bas stnted that municipal bodies are exThere Is not the sligbtest
travagant.
Nobody will pretend
doubt about that.
that municipal corporations are very economical. Tbey are very often spendtbrifts;
There are many municibut not always.
pal bodies wbo strive to obtain, and who
succeed la obtainiag, for the people and for
tbe community wbich they represent, the
best that tbey can for the smallest amount
I know fromn personai exof expenditure.
I know
perience that It bas bappened.
that If men want to use their bonest endeavours to secure for tbe people tbe rigbts
of public owaersblp 0f public utilities to the
best advantage, tbey can do so. I know
fiom personal experience that electric corporations are probably to-day tbe most
exactiag among those wbo supply the
people of our cities and towas tbe ligbit that
Is aecessary for our use and for tbe protection of life. Electric companies, like others,
I know tbat lni the
are most exactiag.
city of Montreal, the Montreal Light, Heat
and Power Company exact prices for their
llght wbicb are simply exorbitant, wbich
I know
are crusblng on the poor man.
that tbey cbarge from 100 to a thousaud
per cent more than the ligbt Is wortb. 1
know that, as a municipal officer, 1 secured
for a City ln the province of Ontario ligbt 24
bours a day every day in tbe year, for a
dollar and a hiait per ligbt per year.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Wbat
want of It ln the daytlme?

does

bie

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-He bas it la tbe daytime if bie wants it.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-He does not cook
by it?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-He bas it, I won't
say la the daytime; but in tbe night time
lie bas it for a dollar and a baîf a year.
H-e can bura it nigbt and day for $1.50 a

Iyear.

FEBRUARY 9,5, 1908

377

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I do flot know The hon, gentleman 'weit into a lengtliy
statement of the experiences of municipaliabout that.
tbat have adopted municipal ownership.
ha tties
kno abut
Ron.Mr.CLOANbas taken themn from the statlstics of
abot tatHe
Hon.Mr.CLORN-Ikno
and I forced. the coutractor to an agree- tbe dIfferent countries, but what bas he
ment that he wauld flot charge more than given ta us? He bas tald us, for Instance,
haif a cent a nigbt per liglit for ail time to that Iu Englaud tbe- indebtedness 0f the
came. If municipal officers would anly sre
alasrs
nsvno
lh er
.execis thir ndevour an
bst
befrom $216,000,000 ta four hundred and some
I lnterrupted tbe hon. genhonest, these public utities would give add million.
I did nat think the statement was
dividends to the people instead of to tleman.
Tbe hon. fair. And wby? Tbe Indebtedness migbt
twa ar three capitaliste.
gentleman spoke of tbe extravagance bave iucreased. ou accaunt of the Increase
Why not of cars and machinery and other necessaries
government.
of municipal
I asked hlm wbnt
band the publie utilities of roads to a pri- for runuing a rond.
vate corporation, and allow a private cor- wsteaon
fteast
scmae
poration to coustruct our roads and main- wltb tbe $200,0W0,000 increase of ludebtedtain them?
That is a public utliity. Wllns.H
l
o uns
ewt h n
the hon, gentleman from Wellington,' or formation, altbougb witbout It tbe argumeutt
any hon. friend wbo will follow me, and bsdo
h at
ebsadcdcnbv
whois nofthi prncileasktheno value ta establisb the prîncipie he wauts
fvou
city of Ottawa to baud over tbe owuersblp u
oaotbr.H
etIt
hta
and administration of- ronds ta any private far asEgadI
ocreasawl.
Is
corporation? Will nny hon. senator asic Wa s England,0 oueuedneas a whoe.
Gneatees srad
mus
this government to band over the public Wbarth $400.000.000
utillty of the post office ta a prîvate cor-avrtemncpltsofGatrta?
we have
No. Will any senator asIc the Moutreal is oniy a small towu and
poration?
or forty million.
of Montreal to baud over the adminis- an indebteduess of thirty
city
People maIre n bugWe couat it notbing.
tration of its parks, a public utility, toa
Plidbsaeaserodbt.
Wiil auy bon.
private corporation? No.
wiil say more than
senator lu thls House asIc the government luteiy necessary, and I
bouest elemeut
band over tflb awuersbip of Its canais that, they are an absolutely
to
Why sbould 1 as n muniln public life.
No. Then.wby
to n prîvate corporation?
tbat Is going to
came before tbis honourable House with a cipal officer build a road
wiil ad- last 25 years and pay for it out of annual
proposition whicb hon. members
Why sbould I supply four enmit themselves-is diametrically opposed ta revenue?
lnvolved ln gines that wiil last ten or fifteen years for
the principie of public ownersbip
Hlis theý protection of life and property ln my'
tbe utilities that I bave referred ta.
to de- municipality, and pay for them out of thie
position here 15 to asIc tliis House
of borrowing
clore ngainst tbe pubie ownersbip of public revenue of one year, lnstead
the at a 10w rate of lnterest, wbich wili be
If
utîlities under aIl circumstaflces.
ta pay lnterest
matter came ta a vote, we could not stulify redeemed by a emaîl levy
A public
eyes and provide a sinking fund.
ourselves in our own eyes and ln tbe
A debt
of Canada by declaring that debt Is no calamityv to a nation.
of tbe people
ln is no dishonourable tblng la the 11f e of a
this honourablè Bouse does not believe
Ou the
We are bere, day after municipaîity to be pointed et.
what it practîses.
of coutrary, tbe more you owe the more you
day, in this Hanse, and Iu the House
doue something
Commous, practically doiag wbat the hon. can show that you bave
eau- for posterity that is comiug after you.
We
gentleman wants us not to do.
er
-er
OE
r
Hn
not as a body declare on the motion of
er
O E-er
r
Hu
the bon. gentleman tbat It Is againat the
Hou. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-That Is good
iuterests of the Dominion ta asIc for-public
ownerslii of publie utilities, or publie ad- logic.
We cannot do that
minuistration of them?
Tbe
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-And wby?
lu the face of the circumstaflces existiug ln
ln tbe different provinces. money that ls borrowed ls not thrown luto
the municipalities

SENATE
the gutter. Wben you bulld a railway station
la Ottawa, or a city bail that la going to
Iast tbirty or forty years, as your present
one bas done, whvy sbould the people who
bave lived bere tbirty or forty years bave
to pay for lt7 A debt Is not necessarily a
dishonourable thlng, nor is It au Indication
of poverty. Tbe largest debt lu Europe la
that of Englaud, the richest nation In the
So that this cry of the national
world.
There
debt growiug larger la a bugbear.
As long as tbe money
is notblng ln it.
that Is borrowed la speat bonestly aud fairly in the public interest it is ail rigbt. The
bon, gentleman alluded to extravagance of
Tbere la extravamunicipal goverument.
gance, but I venture to state froml my
place lu tbis bonourabie Senate that there
is more extravagance lu oné insurance coinpsry or la one banik tban uinaIl the muniI* venture to say
cipalities of Ontario.
that the Iasolvency of oue bank wiil do
more barma to the people of Ontarlo than ahl
tbe extravagance of every municlpality lu
I venture to say tbat the
the province.
lusolvency of an insurance Company wIll
do more barra, and rob more people tbau
ail tbe municipalities in tbe Dominion of
Canada put together.- Talk of extravaWby we find tbese
gance and dlsbonesty.
elements in Individuels. We find them In
It is not te be wonprivate corporations.
dered at that there Is a lîttle of tbat kind
of tbing lu municipal corporations. Municipal extravagance Is not based on tbeft.
'rbat extravagance does not arise frdn rob,
*bery, tbe samne as It does In tbe management of our banks, Insurance and other
companles. Municipal extravagance arises
f romn the desire of the representative body
From the
to give jobs to tbe poor man.
time the snow falis lu the City of Montreal, is It extravagance to engage two or
three tbousand men to cart the snow away?
It la extravagance, If you will, but It la not
That is s0 far as tbe character of
theft.
our municipal corporations Is concerned,
and, after all. supposing tbere Is extravaIt is the people's
gance, wbose fault la it?
fault, and I arn one of those wbo belleve
that with proper educatIon lu the press
ond on the platform, and among men tbemselves when tbey meet, eitber lu their club,
ln their social union or no matter wbere
thiey meet, If tbey simply do the rlght
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN.

îliing, tbey can find men who 'wili adminisIf we
tel these things on an bonest basis.
ranuot obtain them, it is our own fauit.
The hou. gentleman stabbed bis own argument three or four times, and drove tbe
life blood out of It, wben hie stated that
the railroads of Australla, owned by the
I)eople, and administered by themn under the
forni of a commission, were made to puy.
The hon. gentleman from Wellington drove
the lite blood out of bis own argument wben
He was fair enbie miade that admission.
If thiat eau be done for
ougb to do so.
railroads la Australia, wby can it nlot be
done with telephoues and telegraphis? Wby
can It flot be done for tramways, trolleys
The hon. gentleman
and electrie Ilgbt?
bas knocked the foundation from under bis
1 amn witb Wm. J. Bryan ln
own feet.
the opinion that people are getting better
every day, notwitbstandiug the reports of
murders, uotwitbstanding the divorces and
tbe ousiaugbts on tbe i-irtue of women; but
the vast masspe of the people of this couutry
are becoming better snd better every day,
and it ougbt to be our bonest endeavour
to mnake tbem better, and educate tbem to
fulfil the duties not only pertaIning to
prîvate citizensbip, but of public lite.
Tbe bon, gentleman cited otber Instances
to wbicb I wiil not allude, to prove that
a commlssion-nominated by a legisIature
elected by tbe people-bhad made the public
owuersbip and operation of public utilîties
aud the administration tbereof, a success.
In regard to that point, I may quote bis
He stated that for fourteen
own figures.
years the railways ln Australia were losing
over a million dollars a year; but for tlie
past fBye or six, or probab]y seven years,
tbey have been makiug a surplus, their
earnlugs hein.- greater than their expendiHe
tures, and tbat Is n public utility.
quoted that ln Englaad there were 62 lightIng companies wbIclî lost $400,000. Wbat
Wbat is the loss of $400,000 Ili,
is tbat?
1 don't know 110w many years, compared
to the gain by the people, Iustead of puttiug divideuds of six or seven per cent
into the companies' pockets and instead of
increaing the capital, watering it and
adding more -divldeuds-wbat la the loss of
.$400l,000 ln 632 cities of Great Britain coinparcd to the gain made by the people Ili
obtainlng- gas or lighit at 25, 50 or 75 per

FEBRUARY 25, 1908
greed
cent cheaper than tbey wonld from a pri- the people, will drive this corporate
The day is comIng in the
Why nlot illustrate his f rom Its place.
vate company?
It la true United States-and It will neyer come ln
argument witb a comparison?
a private corporation may 105e, accord- Canada-If we are wise, If we are conthat
ing to Its size, according to the amount of cerned about our future-the day is coming
merchandise furnIshed, more or less, and when the people of that country wiil rise
posiwbule tbe municipaiity as a corporation ln their mught and drive from théir
loses, the people as a wbole gain, and In tions the men who bave amassed such unMontreal we bave had experience of tbat. told wealth as G<od neyer gave to man
I
We have two companies la Montreal, one throngh the honest sweat of bis brow.
say fixe day will come when these people
outside the town and the other inside. We
have the Montreai Liglit, Heat and Power who to-day stand tn their offices and dictate
Company that wiil charge six or sevea dol- the prices of food for man and animai,
lars for one or two liglits a montb, when the price of liglit, the price of railway trawve can get the same ligt-and I get it vel, instead of having It dictated by thxe
inyseif--sevea or eight ligbts a night for represeatatives of the people, wiil find that
three dollars and a hait a moutb, and that the people cannot be trifled with ail the
llght la under the control of the municipal time, and that tbey will not allow tbemTbey are amassing
I hold that the hon. gentle- selves to be crushed.
corporation.
Let them amass It,
inan from Wellington bas flot nmade out a their wealth to-day.
His motion but let theni be careful. To-day we stand
case on behaif of his motion.
ls academic, but it would flot be in the ln a position to relieve the situation and
Interests of tîxis honourable House, as far not perpetuate a serions state of tbings.
as our appreciation of affairs of public 11f e, We caa be careful Ia our legislation, and
or the Ilfe of the nation la concerned, to we must remember that, under ail circumhave it go abroad that we bave no confi- stances, we have confidence In thxe people.
dence la our municipal or provincial sys- I submait that thxe resolution of the
We would put ourselves on record hon. senator from Wellington, aithongli
tem.
against a princîple which to-day la gaining s0 abiy defended and weii put forth, shonld
He flot be endorsed by this hononrabie House.
ground ln every part of the world.
stated that the priaciple of public ownerlon. Mr. BELCOURT moved the adship of public utilities was not making any
Jounment of thxe debate.
And why?
hendway la the United States.
Did lie ask huiself the question? Does be
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tbiak this motion
not know that nearly ail the public utilities
should be placed at the foot of the orders
of the United States are lnrgely ln the
We must nlot allow academic
of day.
hnds of the legisla-fors and that the legîsmotions of thîs kind to Interfere with the
lators bave been knowa to seil charters business of fixe Senate.
for fabulons -aura? It was almost tbe
case Ia the province of Quebec, I am sorry
The SpEAKER-Tben It will -be adFor the past twenty journed tillI to-morrow, to stand at fixe
to say, ln past years.
years our municîpalities were under the foot of the orders of the day.
screw and the thumb and the burden of the
Quebec legislature. They graated ahl kinds
The motion was agreed to.
of charters, ail kinds of monopolies to coinpanies that simply- drove the people wIld.
ROYAL GRAIN COMMISSION.
But tbat day bas passed. To-day we bave
INQUIRY.
a goverument by men who say that these
charters shaîl not be graated to private corHon. Mr. PERLEY laquired of
porations to enable theni to grind tbe public
statement
In of The goverament for a detailedthe services
and taire ail tbey can ont of tbem.
expenses ini connection with
the United States, that state of things bas of thxe Royal Grain Commission from the
appointmeat to the time they ceased
not rlpened to the extent It bas here; but dlate of on dnty, inclnding the days in the
to be
Is comlag whea the nation, by re- service and the amount of each commissioner
the day
vulsion of feeling, If not by revolutIon of per day

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answer furnished me by the department Is as follows :

Naine.

Days.

Salary
Irr

S
......
John Millar, chairinan ....
....
W. L McNair .........
....
.
G. E Goldie.
J. R. Boyle, secretary, to- 1)ec. 24, '06.

397
309.
302
126

iTravelling

cts.
15 00
12 <10
12 0010 <10

Services.

8

'te.1

4,60à500
3,708 00<)
3,624 0010
1,260 010

Exîense,

S

Other.

Ocean
Tickets.
8 cts.
882 00
46
78..............
Il...........I
52........2,M5

cts.

1,995
1,970
2,258
1,.590

Total.

8

cts.

7,482 46
5,678 78
5,882 il
52

of Evidence
I

and

Reîxrting.
E. Neild, secretary ..
Vice J. R. Boyle..
R. C. Dunbar, reporter.
Gea. Simpson, reporter..

....
146

100

1,4r00S -1
f

1,1420os

23>00

14,682 00
*

2461
122

2,732 25
1,763 25

5,442 01
2,905 28

10,337 66

5,777 55

31,797 21

Reinuneration for secretarial d uties froin February 6 to May 11, 1907, during suspension of Commis-

sion's sittiligs.

of this Bill is to naine the officers who are
now holding positions to take oaths in the
Bill (E) An Act respecting a certain courts of Alberta and Saskatchewan.
It
patent ef Frederick C. Rehm, Elias Frank Is simply to. transfer the authority.
and Isidor Frank.-(Hon. Mr. .Beith.)
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Bill (8) An Act respectiag the Tobique
its was read the second turne.
Manufacturlng Company, and to change
name to 'FÉraser Lumber Company, LumitCOPYRIGHT ACT AMNENDMENT
ed.--(Hon. Mr. Thompson.)
BILL.
Bill (52) An Act respecting a patent of
SECOND READING.
Eugene François Giraud.-(Hon. Mr. McMullen.)
Hon. Mr. POWER moved. the second
Bill (72) An Act respecting patents of the reading of Bill (28) An Act to amend the
Windsor Puxnp and Foundry Company, Copyright Act
He sald : This is a very
LImited.-(ýHon. Mr. Beith.)
short Bill. It reads as follows:
Bill (75) An Act to Incorporate the Woi. Section 14 of the Copyright Act, chapter
men's Auxlllary to the Missionary Society 70 of the Revised Statutes, 1906, is amended
ont of the said section the words
of the Church of Engiand In Canada.- by strîking
entered according to .Act of parliament of
by Â.B., at
(Hon. Mr. B-aker.)
Canada, in the year. .....
Agriculture,' and substituting
Bill (60) An Act respecting patents of the Departnient of
therefor the words 'copyright, Canada, 190,
Goodwin Car Company.-(Hon. Mr. Kerr.) by Â.B.'
Bill (61) An Act respecting patents of
This Is a public Bill; it Is flot a goveraMontague Moore and Thomas James Hes- ment Bill.
It was Introduced In thieHouse
kett.--(Hon. Mr. Kerr.)
of Gommons by the hon. meniber from
South Toronto; anîd his reasonable and proNÂTURALIZATION ACT AMENDMENT
The new
per object Is to save verbiage.
BILL.
inscription for the fly leaf of a book would
be only about one-third the length of that
SECOND READING.
which is requlred now.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readHon. Mr. LOUGHBED-I shouid like to
Ing of Bill (W) An Act to amend the
He sald the object have some further explanation why an Act
Naturalization AcL.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.
THIRD READINGS.

FEBIRUARY 23, 1908
of parlament whlch has been on the
statute-book since confederatian should be
The economy theainded as proposed?
ory advanced by my hon. frlend wil
scarcely appeal ta the reasan af the Hanse,
If It le for the purpose of eavlng: the prînt-1
What le
ing of some haif-dozen words.
required ta appear on the fly-leaf of a.copyrighted book le 'Entered accordlng ta Act
of Parliament of CJanada in the year-by
A.B. at the Department of Agriculture.' It
le proposed ta substitute for thîs the words
The words
'Copyright, Canada-by A.B.'
nsed at present suggest ta those who wishl
ta mnake Inquiries where they may get lnformation, nameiy the Department of
Agriculture. Any one referring ta a capyrighted work will find that Informatian,
but the propased wards give no Information of the kind se far as the public are
The government should exconcerned.
press Its appravai or disappraval of this
The bon, gentleman
proposed change.
from South Taronto le a responsible autborlty for the Introduction of any measure, but 'wha has Insplred hlm ta intraHave
duce an amendment of this klnd?
the gavernment gîven any consîderatian ta
It ls a Bill affecting a dethe subject?
partment of the government and in my
judgment shauld bear the Imprimatur of
the gavernment of Canada upon lt.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I venture ta eay
t hat nine out of every ten Intelligent clUi,ens do nlot know whicb7 departmeflt has
control. of copyright.
Haon. Mr. POWER-If he addresses a
etter ta the Copyright Branch, Ottawa, It
I ar nflt enthueiaetic
wlll get there.
about this measure; but 1 -muet eay 1 thlnkr
Lt isý a decided improvement, and If we
hiave been using an unneeessarlly long snd
clumsy expression for some years, that la
no reasan wliy we should, not shorten It
now as long ns the meaulng 'conveyed le
absalutely the same, whlch It le.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second tîme.
ALIflËRTA NORTERN RAI.LWAY COMPÂNY'S BILL.
AMENDMENTS

CONCURRED IN.

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN moyed concurrence
in amendments made by the Standing
Commlttee on Raiways, Telegrabhs and
Harbours, ta Bill (44) An Act to IncorporHe
ate the Alberta Northern Rallway.
said: The first amendment changes the
It was 'An Act to lntille of the Bill.
corporate the Alberta and Narthern Railway Company!' It was faund there was
aiready the Alberta and Narthwestern
Rallway, so the tîtie le changed te ' An
Act to lncorporate the Alberta and Brazeau
River Rallway Company. In clause 9, the
words 'In Canada,' were struck out, as it was
supposed ta be too wlde a margln to give,
and the words 'trIbutary ta the terrltory
traversed by the railway,' were substituted
therefor. Then subelause (c) and (d) were
strlcken out of the Bill and subelause 2, of
clause 9 aie, as it was ta give effect to
subclause (c) and (d.)

Han. Mr. IPOWER-I assume that the
government did not disapprave of the measure, since they aiiawed it ta pass the
House of Cammans. As I understand, the
words which are proposed ta be substituted for the camparativeiy long string
which has ta be put on the fly-ieaf of a
book naw, are the same as those which are
used ln other countries, substantially. Then
with respect ta the humble seeker for Information who might be misled by the
The motion was agreed ta.
change, he wili, as a matter of course,
is entered at Otknaw that the copyright
AND MICHIGAN
tawa; and when ho cames here he wlll have ONTARIO
COMPANY BILL.
praper office ln
na difficulty ln flnding the
which ta apply.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-He le ta apply
to faurteen departments ta ascertail whicb
one deals wlth copyright?

POWER

Han. Mr. WATSON maved the second
reading of Bill (X) An Act ta Incorporate
the Ontario and Michigani Power Company.

Han. Mr. LOUGHEED-15 my hon.
Hou. Mr. POWER-Any Intelligent citifriend nat gaiiig ta give us an expianatian
zen wl! tell hlm where ta go.

SENATE
of Canada or Isle Royale. Ile Royale la ln
the United States; and there was a great
deal of discussion lu the comrnittee and ln
the House also over this question of authorlzing the cornpany to do auythiiig on Isle
Royale. The prornoters of the Bill lnstead
of dropping out 'Isle Royale have added 'Or
ln any place ln the United States of AmnThat expression appearfi ln two
erica.'
It appears to me that
or three places.
bas no power to authorize
this parlarnent
a cornpally to do thlngs lu the United
States.
Hou. Mr. YOUNG-ýWe have IncorporHon. Mr. WATSON-It was not fulhy ated the 'Mexican L lghti Heat and Power
dealt with; there was not tîrne.
Company, the Rio Janeiro Railway Company and other companies.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELLr-My
hon. friend says it is not the same Bill.
Hon. Mr. POWEll-I think the company
rnust get power from the United States or
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Yes, It is the same the State of Michigan.
Bill.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-I presume Mr.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I see Conmee will be-present when this Bill is
that in order to bring It within the purview before the commlttee and wIll explain the
I
of the Dominion parliament, It la dechared powers of the parliament of -Canada.
to be a work for the generai advantage of suppose we shahl have his assistance In
It was discussed for some time conslderiiig the Bill.
Canada.
I see
lu a commlttee room last session.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I wlh undertake to
that larger powers are asked for ln this
included lu the 'Bil of lai thave Mr. Conrnee present.
Bill than were
year, but there is no question about It beinî
SECOND READING.
practicahly the same Bill, and 1 have n< 0
doubt the same parties are connected wlth 1 Bil MV An Act respecting the Dominion
It 18 Guarantee Company, Lirnited.--(Hon. Mr.
It, and the principie la the same.
the same atternpt to get from the Dominox nBaker.)
power to carry ou a work whlch belong
BILL INTRODUCED.
excluslvely to the province of Ontario
we cai
However, that la a question whlcb
Bill (31) An Act respecting the British
more fulhy when the Bill cornes be Yukon Railway Compafly.-(Hlon. Mr. Beidiscuss
fore the cornmittee.
court.)
t 1 did say wa~S, The Senate adjourned until to-rnorrow at
Hon. Mr. KERR-Wha
that a somewhat simîlar Bill was lutr 0- Three o'clock.
duced iast session and passed practicalîl 7,
covering the ground which is here descrîl bAfter long conslderatio
ed lu this Bill.
THE SENATE.
that Bili passed the comrnittee of the Sex
ate and was sent to the House of Comrnon
5-OTTAWA, Wednesday, February 26, 1908.
but there was not time apparently to di
The SPEAKE2R took the Chair at Three
pose of it before prorogation.

of this Bill? I think 1 arn rlght lu sayiug
that parliarnent rejected this same Bill hast
session or a very sîmhlar Bill.
Hifon. Mr. WATSON-A simihar Bill to
this was introduced last year, but there
was flot time to consider It, and the consequence was it was not passed. The power
was asked for because It ls proposed to
dam a river which ls an International
stream, Pigeon river.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Dld we not deal
with that question last session?

H[on. Mr. POWEll-I have no feeling o'clock.
edns
Prayers aud routine procednS
hostile to the Bill, but I wish to direct atBILL INTRODUCED.
tention to the fact that it goes a good deal
further than the Bill of lat session did.
Biii (Z) An Act rehating to the Water
The Bill of hast year nuthorized the comthlngs ln the Dominion Carrnage of Goods.-(Hon. Mr. Campbell.)
pany to do certain
Hon. Mr. LOUGHTEED.

FEBRUARY 26, 1908

.

8
383

1say, original powers of lnquiry and InPapers might be roforred to,
v'estigation.
MOTION.
smci committeos by tee House. Motions
HEon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex) moved:
that have passed thls House mlght be roRule 78 of the miles of the. Sonate be amend- femred to such committees for consideraed bv s.ddinq to the standinu committees men- tion, snd roturns and mattors of a similar
tioned in said rie the. foilowing:
kind teat tee committee mlght very well
Namely, a standing committee on1. Agriculture and Forestry.
consider. But tee main obi oct of my motion
2. Immigration and Labour.
3. 'Commerce and Trade Relations of Can- la to, have a series of committees deaiing
ada.
wite Important matters, that might con4. Geological Surveys and Minerai Develop- aider what la best to rocommend, what rement.
5. Transportation Routes to the Seaboard port to make that would be most useful to
and Harbours.
teHouse, and generally pursue sucb a lino
6. Coast Surveys and Merchant Shipping.
o! In4uiry as might suggest possibly ta the
7. Fisheries.
You wiil notice
8. Industriel,' Arts and Expositions.
Senate certain legisiation.
9. Civil Service Administration.
the committees are some10. Publie Hlealth and Inspection of Fooda. the subjects of
I wiii not rend themn ail.
what Important.
11. Publie Buildings and Grounds.
Said committees to be composed of not less Agriculture and Forestry stand at tee head.
than five nom more than nîne members, and Then we have Immigration and Labour,
to have and possess the same powers and privileges as thie standing committees authorized Commerce and Trade Relations o! Canada,
by said ruie 78.
Transportation Routes to the Seaboard,
-He said: The motion I am. about to pro- and so on. 1 want nt tee outset to demur
pose to the Sonate cails for the appoint- to the idea teat the Senate ls merely a court
ment of a number of committees In addi. of meview, or If you choose to change te
tion to those whicb, by our standing rules, phraseoiogy, a Court of Registration for te
Though, penbaps, not
are usuaiiy appointed ait the beginning of House of Commons.
The rules of this îHouse a co-ordinate branch of the legisiature, for
our sessions.
require the appointment of certain select our constitutional limitations prevont thnt,
committees, but these committees have dif- we are a branci of tee legisiature, and
ferent functions. iu the case of a few of parliament la not able, without reoognizing
the committees-four or five-they appear tee status of the Sonate to do its full duty
They are to the country unless the Senate. as s
to have no Initiative at ail.
merely committees to whom the Sonate re- branch of that parliament, dischargos Its
I so, understand the own proper function In whatever direction
fer certain matters.
1 notlced that te
on Banklng and Commerce, the these -functions lie.
C'ommittee
Committoo on Railways, the Committee on Mînîster o! Customs stated at Windsor the
Misceilaneous PrIvate Bis, and perhaps othor night teat our sole duty was to revise
the Joint CommItto. on the Printing of Par- tee hasty legislation passed by tee memThe dutios of theso committees bers of the Lower House. I do not think
Ilament.
seem to b. limlted to a consideration of that ts our sole duty. I do not know teat
such matters as may ho referred to them the Houso o! Commons is gullty s0 very
Thore are other commit- of ton o! passing hasty legisiation that it la
by the Sonate.
tees that may, I suppose, faly be con- necessary to have the Senato for tee purIf It
sidored as havIng the right of Initiative. pose of evising such logisiation.
on tee Lib- were so, thien of course tee Senate would
such as the Joint Committee
rary, the Commlttee on InternaI Economy, be Indispensable; but I thInk that, as a
and the Debates and Restaurant Commit- mile, the Hlouso o! Commons la sane entees. My proposai is to Increase tee num- ough to send to tels House legislation teat
I may not be obstructed or rejected, slmply
ber o! the committees of the Senate.
do not say, In making this proposai, that because it is basty, but legislation somethe committees may bave no right o! deai- times Incomplete and so Imperfect, necesing with matters referred to them. Many sarily because of the amount of work ta be
inatters might vory properly be referrod to donc there, thnt such legIsiation miglit ho
And It ls bothem:- but the main object o! my motion is revised In teis Chamber.
cause I do not think thnt that ls the solo
to have at number of commItteos, 'wite, shall
COMMITTEES 0F THE SENÂTE.

884

SENATE

on an investigation
function of the Senate that I ask for addl- That commlttee carried
Its reports
may extendlng over many weeks.
tional committees wbereby the Senate
of by this
Its scope and perhaps fulfil moreý were submitted to and approved
wlden
House and bave since been publisbed by
perfectly than it now does-though 1 amn
Intertor and distrinlot censorlous in that observation-the the Department of the
That Is a very valubuted ia the country.
functions for which It was originally lnI do not know of aay comtended. The question resolves itself simply able report.
mittee of any other legisiative body that
Into this: shall we be a registration or revaluable InformavisIng board, or shall we extend our scope has ever coliected more
than that committee did, and the fact
and endeavour, tbrough commîttees such as tion
givefi to Its report
I have lnd.icated to secure for tbe Senate of such publ.icity being
the extent to which its Importance
greater Information than we now possess shows
the Department of
even from the Debates of the House of bas been appreclated by
But committees appoiiited
Commons-and they are voluminous en- the Interior.
select committees,
ough--or from departmental reports, and from Urne to time as
their labour, perthese are certainly voluminous enough, in- wouid be Intermittent In
It xnight nlot occur to
would be use- haps spasmodic.
formation at first hand tiiat
to ask for the apfui to us ln formlng our -own judguient, members of the Senate
There Is
It pointment of select committees.
nd, may be, suggesting legisiation.
tbem,
be encouraging ministers to introduce usually some besitation lu appointlflg cause
may
ourseives lest for some reason tbey migbt
legisiation or It may be enabling
If we bad standing committees,
to orIginate legisiation. Now, there are trouble.
know, the members of which had some continuity
but two models for us, so far as I
of which would see
ln otber leg-Islatures to which we could for la office, the chairmen
and that the committees did valuable work for
a moment refer by way of Illustration
to the
We follow the practice of tbe the country, II: wouid give continuity
assistance.
work of the committees and put every
Tbe comHouse of Lords very largely.
on the aiert
mittees of that House are somewhat simi- member of such a committee
to see that its reports contain valuable lalar to ours, seem to be framed for a siuiThere Is another advantage ln
They have no committee, so formation.
lar purpose.
tue course which I suggest, and that Is, we
far as I can see, tbat may be called a comof the -Senate
mittee for the purpose of Initiating. Tbe would bave certain members
I
would be, practically, expert.%
example of the Hlouse of Lords is a good who
Its precedents govern us asked the other day for the appointmeflt
one to f ollow.
Tbat matter bas
Tbere is another Il- of under secretaries.
to a certain extent.
States having been laid on the sheif for the present. .Had
lustration ln the United
the necessity for the
great Influence and great prominence ln that motion carried,
and exerting, committees I bave named would not be SO
the councils of the nation,
that we bad those
perbaps, more relatively its Influence over great; but assuming
eleven committees, with eleven chairmen
the policy of tbe United States government
see that the work of
than this Senate does over the policy of the specilly charged to
Sen- the committees was efficieiitiy done, with
government of Canada I refer to the
of that commlttee who
nte of tbe United States. In that Chamber five to aine members band, had beard the
with un- had evidence nt first
there are 55 different committees,
wbo were obliged
limlted powers of Initiation, and usuaiiy examination of witnesses;
to whicb by the duties imposed on them to study
also 10 to 12 select committees
recommendations to the
matters of urgent Importance are referred. reports and make
no0 reason Senate or If nlot recommendations, to preNow, it may be said tbat there is
practical 'reports, then,
why the Senate should nlot appoint secret sent condensed and
wbenever the subjeet of afly resolution
committees to cover the subjects mentioned
bave
i admit that that Is came up for consideratiofi, we would
la my resolution.
wbo could speak on those points with
withln our right. We bave had select men
No person la this ýHouse, so
committees for special purposes. Last ses- autbority.
I Inow, bas made a special study
sion w-e hiad a speclal committee appointed far as
We bave a
and forestry.
to investigate the navlgability of the Hud- of agriculture
- eat deal or Information, no doubt, stored
son Bay and resources of the Northwest.
lion. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

FEBRUARY 26, 1908

38

I amn not a radical, and yet I
Up ln the mInds of members of this House judgment.
Similariy witb Immigra- do occasionally like to strike out on a ne,%
on botb subjects.
tion and labour, with coast surveys and uine, and to make fresh investigations, and,
fisheries, etc. There is a good deal of In- if possible, further discoveries and add to
formation that ought to, be co-ordinated and the achievements of tbe past, and something
ciassified. and made available for the dis- ln the way of accompiishment ln the preSome hon, gentleman may say, and
eussions in parliament on these points. Sup- sent.
posing we had eleven committees with five 1 have no doubt the word bas a somewbat
We would have 55 malodorous effect upon this House, that it
members on edch.
members of this House, therefore, who la an Âmerican Innovation, and, therefore,
wouid be ln a certain sense'speciai &uthori- objectionabie. I hope the Senate la broadties wlth regard to every subject to which minded enougb not to reject good suggesThat would be tions, no matter from wbat source they
these committees related.
of great advantage to us. It is absoluteiy corne. Looking at our bistory, and at the
necessary, In order to be able to forma a terras ln wbich business la carrled on, and
judgment on questions before this 'House, public bodies named ln this country, we
that our Information shouid flot be meagre. have become wonderfuiiy Americanized,
We can get it, we are toid, from the de- and yet we are, nevertheless, none the les
The very name we bear as the
bates, from the public press, and from re- British.
ports; but Information gathered at second Dominion of Canada came f rom an Ameriband is neyer as valuabie or serviceable as can source, the Dominion of old Virginia,
Information gathered at first band and be- christened of course by England, but comTo us
sides the responsibility iniposed on the ing to us from the United States.
chairmen of sucli committees or Its mem- the Dominion of Canada la of American
The very principie of our gavernbers to see that they are fully Informed. origin.
witb regard to, these matters would give ment, the federal principle, is American.
an Impetus with regard to investigations of We were the first federation under tbe Bnithese questions which 1 arn sure wouid be tish constitution, and I hope we will not be
Then the very term Senaté is
valuable to the Senate ln more senses than the last.
We were to be calied, by tbe
That Is the general scope uf the American.
one.
resolution. wbich 1 have the honour to sub- Quebec resolutions, a legislative council.
It may be objected that this la a By sme legerdemain unknown to me, we
mit.
Our
In a certain sense it is; adopted the Âmenicsn terra Senate.
new departure.
but we are making new departures here currency la American, and our standards
The parliament of Canada Is of weights and measures la American. We
every day.
designed almost expressly for the purpose got our very achool. system and normal
These are
of making new departures ln legisiation. schools from the United States.
We made a new departure last year ln the valuable contributions to us as Canadian
We do not umder- people. I want to make one more; I want'
revision of our ruies.
stand them. yet; perbaps like Parnell we no0 member la this House to reject my sugwill learn to know them by breaking tbem; gestion or treat It with Indifference or conand 1 think we have been breaking them, tempt because, perhaps, lt Is more ciosely
It was a new reiated to the American than to the British
pretty freeiy tliis session.
departure and caused some friction. -New system of governulent.
Now, what will be the advantages of
depRrtures are flot to, be condemned. The
1 have already hinted
wbole worid la ln a state of evolution, and what I propose?
parliaments and Industries whicb stand at one, namely we would get our Informastili wili find tbemseives bebind In the race tion at first band. I have also hinted that
for distinction or for advancement. Con- ln this House we bave no representatives of
federation was a new departure; the Sen- the varlous departments wlth wbose legisate itself was a new departure; every hon. lation we bave to deai, and ln that respect
member who cornes ln the Senate for the we are leas fortunate than the House of
In England the practice le, wben
iftrat time makes a new departure, and 1 Lords.
hope no hon. member of this House wIll be royal commissions are appointed. on any
afraid of making a new departure If the Important subject, to select for tbem one
proposed departure comrnends itseif to hili or more members'0f the Hlouse of Lords,
25
REVI5ED EDITION

386

SENATE

identifieci
and f romn long usage It bas become a of these commissions was closely
of the United
a member of the House of Lords witb the publie interests
rule that
In every one of tbese commisWe have Xlngdom.
la chairman of the commission.
confederation appointed n great many sions the House of Lords was represented,
since
its chairman. I arn
Royal Commissions, and yet I know of but in most cases through
bewbicb a member of the Senate flot finding fault with the government
one case In
cause members of this House have nlot been
bas been appointed to sucb a commission.
Far froin IL
commission.
I refer to the Ottawa Improvement Com- appo[nted on
I amn fortunately iu the position of bavlng
mission, on wblcb two members of this
grievance lnldividually or politically;
House, the hon. member from De Lanau- no
and, therefore I can speak slncerely and
dière (Hon. Mr. Casgrain) and the bon.'
freedom; but I do say
member from Smitb's Falls (Hlon. Mr. wlth the greatest
that there bas been some oversigbt to wbilf
Now, suppose some
Frost) are members.
of the government migbt very
proposition arose concerning our relations the attention
properly be called, and If my humble voice
wlth the city of Ottawa, In wbat a conthem I now call attention te,
veulent position we would be In this House would reach
whereby this House, wlth Its
wlth two of our members on that commis- this overslght
large experience and Its social and publie
sion, to give us Information at first baud.
bas been ignored ever since conLet me refer to somne commissions ap- standing,
federation, as far as I can learn, by every
pointed by the House of Lords, aud the
time in the niatter of
very name of the commission wll I ndicate goverument since that
Let me say
appolntment on commissions.
tbe superior position lu whicb the House
so InItself.in deaiug with the again that there Is no commission
of Lords finds
sîgnificant, nor Is there a commission se,
questions witb wblch tbat commission was
House
First on the llst 15 the Important, on which members of this
speclally charged.
migbt nlot properly serve. It would not be
A vexed
subject of elementary education.
dignlty of any member of this
question, and one that seems to give a great beneatb the
House to do so; and wben we look at the
deai of trouble to both parties Just now, and
see perIndeed bas doue so for mauy years. Then practicai advantages of It, we can
haps what we have lest as a Senate, ana
the aged poor, the poor laws, from the time
use
of Elizabeth have been revised off and on, we can see perbaps the discourtesy-I
tbat word nlot lu an offensive seuse--that
and still tbey bave a commission on that
The British pracus.
witb a member of the House of Lords as bas been cast upon
tice la followed by the United States
The Vaccination Act, the concbairmnn.
foiUnited States can
dition of the blind, deaf and dumb, the and If the
10w British practice lu the appointmnent
Welsh land question and the Irish land
When 1 mention the Irish of their commissions, we ueed flot feel
question.
States
Land Act, bon. gentlemen can see how humillated in foilowing the United
Take tbe commissions of reoif practices.
closely that ls allied wltb the question
First the commission on the
the United Kingdom and how Important cent date.
Alaska boundary-sball I cail It a commitIt Is that the members of. the House of
One of the members of that comLords be inormed with regard to it just tee?
mlttee was Henry Cabot Lodge, senator for
as well1 as members of the House of (3ommember of
The Indian opium trade, the cur- Massacbusetts, an Influential
mous.
Looking at it frein our point
the Senate.
rency, market rates and tells, horse breedshould neyer have been apiug, Suuday closiug In Wales, Scottlsb uni- of view, hie
polnted, as hie was a member of the United
versities, miulng royalties. militia and volTake another commission
unteers, poor law, motor cars, trade dis- States Senate.
known as the Washington commission, that
putes, ecclesiastical disputes, luuacy laws,
Quebec, and
railways and canais, capital sud labour- first met at the city of
afterwards at Washington, and for sev(a very lrritatlug and urgent question)the reliceuslng, local taxation, physical training, eral months was considering
lations between Canada and the United
railway accidents.' 1 have run over about
One of the lufluential members of
twenty or more titles of some of the com- states.
missions that bave been appolnted in the that commission was the present Vice-PreEvery one sident Fairbanks. nlot then vice-president,
st twenty or tbirty years.
Hou. Mfr. ROSS (Middlesex).

FEBRUARY 26, 1908

387

1 do not say we
but a mnemijer of the United States Senate. vice of bis department.
Associated wltii hlm were Mr. Dingley, sbould be rneddlesome; but I do say that
who was a member of the House of Re- in some way we might, as ln the United
presentatIves, and Mr. Foster, who was States, very well inquire into the eficiency
one of the secretaries of state. 1 mention of some branch of the public service, into
these two as tbey were first at my hand, its mode of dolng business, preparlng reand had I taken the trouble to proceed fur- ports, etc., and ln that way improve the
ther through the records of the United public service, and bon, gentlemen of exStates Senate, or House of Representatîves, perlence, such as the bon. members of this
no doubt I would have found other com- House are ln tbe main, would understand
Let me say whnt form public service sbouhd take, and
missions simllarly situated.
then that In the absence of such commis- bow Its duties are best dlscharged.
Then, ln the fourtb place, such commitsions the urgency of the committees suggested lu my motion ls ail the greater. lu tees- would increase our own usefulness.
tbe second place, snch committees mlgbt One gets exceedingly tlred of observations
As a mile the legis- tbat are made ln regard to tbe Inactivity
suggest legislation.
Just
lation of this House ls of a somewbat ele- of the Senate-exceedingly tired.
baîf our fancy tbis remark made by a minister of
Nearly
character.
mentary
legîslation deals with prîvate Bis and the Crown:
Sometimes we
with renewals of patents.
A body of oid gentlemen. who sat and
have important legislation, such as the Bill dreamed life away in complete serenity.
lntroduced ln this House ln regard to surYou caunot characterîze that remark ln
veyors, and we bad some Important Bis Its proper -term.
He must bave been rehast session also; but If we had sncb com- presentlng some kind of public opinion.
mittees getting right at the beart of public
matters, comlng closely ln contact with the
Hon. Mr. ROBERTSON-He was at a
essential elements ln the organisation and dinner tbat day.
ln the foundation work of goverument, I
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-And be was a teeventure to say that legisiation niuch more
Important and much more comprebensive totahler, too.
mlght very properly originate ln this House.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-It does not matter wheIn the tbird place 1 think tbe action of sucb ther tbe remamk was made before dinner or
committees would stImulate public service. after dinner. It la the remark I am quoiEvery minister of experlence--and I am Ing, witbout any censure upon the mîn-ister,
sure my bon. frlend the Secretary of State, because be bas j ust as mucb a right to say
wlth bis wlde experience, and tbe rlgbt what be thinks about the Senate, as we
bon. Minister of Trade and Commerce, as have a rlght to say wbat we think about
well as the experlenced representative the Commons heme or anywbere else. This
from the county seat of Hastings--know Is a land of free discusbion and free
how tbe tendency towards apathy and rou- speech, and If the bon. minister chooses to
tine, and sometimes towards indifference, give uttemance to these observations, I do
grows into the public service-not that our not object, for be is My- senior by sevemai
public service ls Inefficlent by any means. years, and consoquently I am not lncluded
I think we have men of distinction and Iu that observation necessamily.
abillty that would do bonour to any government ln the public service; but assume
Hlon. Mr. FERCUSON-Who was the
for n moment that tbe public service that 1is minister?
now malnly subJect to the supervision of
Hon. Mr. ROSS--My hon. f rlend might
the House of Commons, ws ln some other
refer to the Ottawa papers of last evening,
manner, I could flot specify 1mw, subject
as 1 do,
to the review of a committee of thîs House, and as be belleves lu a free press,
i am sure lie wlll be satisfied wltb bis lnIs It to be for oiie moment assumed that
1 do flot want to be persoual.
sucb review mlght not add to Its alacrlty, quirles.
1 do not waut to be
1 am not persona].
to Its energy, and perbaps to Its fore1
A minister cannot censorlons; but 1 refer to tbls because
thought and prudence?
fear the expression by the hon. gentleman
alone keep before bis eye ue extended ser25ý

SENATE

We bave seven ex-iniocal legisiature.
sters of the House of Commouls, and four
~x-Speakers, and iu farming, banklng and
I have neyer ln my experience out-e
true.
mercantile pursuits we have some men of
-side this laouse indulged ia sucb observalie ripest experience, wbo bave sbown
tions; but I fear, because of the form in t
ex- themselves to possess qualifications of the
whlch it Is expressed, that it may be
order, wlio bave accumulated. forCan we do aunyuunrg iighest
pressed elsewbere.
tunes by tlieir experience and their judgIs it within our power luIn
to correct It?
We ment, aud wotild refiect honour tipon anyany way to correct public opinion?
The Senate body. I feel tnat we have the experience.
talk of reformn of the Senate.
Ifeel that we have the qualifications neexcept by ltself.
can neyer ho reformed
cessary for the work to wliich I ask this
We cannot
We are the reforming body.
House to iiddress itself, and it is, therefore,
be destroyed except by our own act, and I
witli tie greater confidence that 1 submit
do not suppose we are prepared to commit
consideration of the
If we feel lu our this resolution for the
polîtical suicide; and
Let me be sure upon this point:
Senate.
mlnds that our work ls not well done, or
that this resolution Is flot lntended as an
If ln any way our usefulness could be Inattackz upon anybody ludlvldually, upon
creased, Ibeet It Is our duty to obey the
1 any members of the government or upon
duty.
calis of conscience and do our
Let
the flouse of Gommons as a 'wholo.
tblnk this wlll increase our usefulness. I
me dlsavow the intent to meddlo with anyam not disconnting our present efficiency.
1 do flot think the coinhody's business.
1 arn merely polnting out that by the adopa
get mlttee would Indulge lu anythlnig like
tion of the course 1 suggest, we would
moddlesome luterference witb the adminisaddltional employment for tbe relief of our
tratIon; but at the saine time lec us feel
superabundant activity-whlCh we are not
that the wbole of the governmont of Canpermltted to express-a wlder scopie for our
ada cornes wlthin our p urview, excelit the
experlence, sud lu that way 1 thlnk we
matter of tarifs and the expenditure of
would stand hlgher lu the country, and If
publie money, and that we sbould reach
we did not, thon we would have ourselves
forth our hand and deal witb aIl those questo blame.
tions whlch legltimately belong to us as a
The question naturnlly may be asked, delîberatîve body.
have we the qualifications for the work
Let me proceed brlefly to urge reasons
whlch I have assigned to the Senate? la
few committees-for
we have tfle ex- wby in the case of a
the first place, 1 think
E caunot take tîme to deal witb them al-ý
Some persons may say that ve
perience.
that the request I make should. be granted.
bave gone beyond the age at whlch experi- Take agriculture and forestry.
On the
I remember
ence Is profitable to a man.
fourteen
wbich I ground of exporlence we bave
readlng n remark by Beaconsfield,
They surely ouglit
farmers in this flouse.
may quote bore, lu whlcb be compllmented. to know, If they were on the commlttee,
ou a
a man late la life upon bis enteriug
wvhat suggestions mlght be made on that
politIcal career, aud Beaconsfield made this
Flrst consîder the expeuditure
subject.
remark:
ivblch we wIll bave to consider by and by
'You have chosen the onl y carer in which for the devolopment of agriculture, $1,255,-,
a man is nover old. A statesman can feel aud 500.
When we have no right to Investiiiuspire interest longer than any other man!.,
gatte la detaîl how that money Is to be spent,
If Beaconsfieid's statemeut was true-- we have a riglit to know, by inquiry, and
and lie is an eminent authority-thefl our to be funushed. wîth Information that the
advanced years do not disqualif y us for the expeudîture lu the public service Is a wlse
Besides we
ordînary duties of legisiation.
1 caunot critîcise It; I have
expenditure.
Man for man, this no objection to It.
bave the experience.
1 do flot know tuiat
flouse bas a wider experience than the auybody lu this Flouse lias.
I rnerely
is the expression of somebody else.
I do not 'believe
should that be?

WhyI
it isi

We bave 20 mem-

it as one of thie rensofis whv 9,7ri-

House of Commons.
bers la this flouse who had scats lu the
Hlon. MIr. ROSS (Middlesex).

our attention, and, secondly, trie immense

House of Commons.

mention
bers tu thîs flouse who had seats in the culture is sufficientily important to receive
have 82 memW%ýe

FEBRUARY 26, 1908
la
amount of our trade and business depend- more than one member of thia House
The question of stock ralsing,
conceraed.
ing upon agriculture, the Importance of
For In- which yields us $56,000,000 every year.
which will be greatly enhanced.
on cattie.
stance, out of a total of $237,000,000 of ex- There la thxe British embargo
agricultural producta and animal pro- We bave heard the remonstrances of the
porta,
ducta, constitute $113,000,000 or nearly one- Canadian goverument against that embargo.
I tlxlnk
hait. -So that the subject of agriculture I think myseif It la intolerable.
I do not thlnk it Io justiIt la 1II-advised.
I suppose about sixty per
lorna large.
wbich precent of the people of Canada live by the led at ail by the considerations
vail ln this country; but the Senate han flot
product of the farm, or live on a f arm.
posNow notice how many questions would been heard upon it yet. Is it barely
sible that If, to the voice sent out by the
For Instance,
open up under this toplc.
thxe still amali
we mlgbt consider whether the methods of government of Canada,
voice of thxe Senate of Canada were added,
agriculture could be improved. We might
might give
consider the distribution of Uiterature on that the British government
more attention to the remonstrances from
We mlgbt consider thxe marthe subiect.
We might Canada than they bave done 7 It la worth
kets available to the farmer.
Ân opportunity might arise If the
consider the Importance of Our experimen- while.
be Im- committees 1 have named were granted.
tai farma and ascertain If they could
of the diseases
proved; and to the Northwest, as well as Then we have tbe treatment
con- of our cattle, a moat Important subi ect. I
to the eat, the matter of a wlsely
that at the expertducted experimental f arm la of supreme was delighted to know
mental farm tbey are carrying on experi1 think the old government
Importance.
by Pasteur
did very wisely la the establishment of ments on the basis laid down
as to the treatment of glandera and cholera
I notice the present goverathese farma.
wlth remarkment ls lncresing them ln number. I do and other diseases of cattie,
That subJect might be folable success.
not think we shall ever get full control of
I ought to know
the agricultural possibilities of the North- lowed up and extended.
I canuot speak
more about It thau I do.
west, unless we have experimental farms,
Senate, I
to the people flrat what cereals for any other members of the
and reveal
have briefty mentioned a few of the eubare most productive, and best adapted to
wider than this
the soli and climatie conditions of the jects, but the horizon la far
meagre sketch, aud fixe force of it would
Nortbwest, and secondly what grasses will
when the comhupply the stock of the rancher wltb the ouly be fully appreclated
mittee got to work; but that la not the scope
necessary supply of food ln tImes of stress.
We have the whole question of
Then 'we have Irrigation, an Immense ques- entirely.
There were
fruit growing to consider.
tion, which presses upon us by our relaIrrigable land, and the un- 25,000 barrels of apples shipped, I see by
tions with the
year, and I
productive land' of Alberta more particu- the report from Montreal, last
la engaging the at- amn sorry to know that in spite of the efThat question
larly.
other House,
tention of thxe United States. The British forts of this Hlouse and fixe
the land of the that fruit packing bas not yet obtained a
government la reviving
lu thxe hast bulletin from
Phnraohs by the millions of money It la proper standard.
work ln Egypt. the Department of Trade and Commerce, I
spending on irrigation
Here la
India la being saved from starvation In *read very alarming statemeuts.
on Irriga- *a staternt by Mr. Jackson, our agent at
certain districts by expenditure
We have no urgency such as Leeds, who says:
tion works.
exista lu Egypt or India, or even ln the
again been calied during
Mv attention
United States, ln regard to this matter: the past season lias apple importa to the unof
before satisfactory way in which several barrels sent
yet while the land is la thxe Crown,
it is slienated, perbapa a committee mighi there from Nova Scotia have been packed, and
a personal knowledge of the matter 1
very well give its attention to fihe subjeci tfrom
amn satisfied that the regulatious laid down in
of Irrigation, save money to the country the Fruit Marks Act were not observed, and
here were
and promote Indulstrlous settlement. Thei ithat the complaints of the retailers
well founded.
to read what a local
there la the question of ranching, ln whici
It will be instructive

890

SENATE

fruit exebange that.supplies the labour for
pluckiug the orange crop and braudlng aud
classification, and they are branded by officers who are not coucerued lu the markThey are marketed
ing of the fruit at ah.
wlth the brand of the fruit exehauge, and
the honour of that exchange lu hiivoived,
and as it la doue by Impartial operatori
the standard of the oranges la less variable
than the standard of the Canadian apple.
That la a matter that might require conThen lu the Department of
And there are several other comments of sideration.
Canada bas won disa similar character lu the report which 1 Agriculture, lu whlch
tinction, la the departmnent of dalryiug.
will fot wait to read. Now, that is a very
Do you tbink thls commit- We have lu this House a man whio bas been
serions tblng.
to Ontario, 1 thlnk; the hon.
tee would help lu correcting that matter? worth millions
We have an1 see by the re- gentleman froin Brockvllle.
Is It flot worth trylng?
other hon. member lu Western Canada, aiports that we have 25,000,000 fruit trees lu
These are less productive than most of equal value, Mr. Ballantyne, who
Canada.
House. These
they ought to be, and the good name of bas been Speaker of our local
that goods two men have been Instrumentai lu luiCanada is lnvolved lu seeing
dnirylng of our province, and
branded as first class arrive lu a proper proving the
serious to-day Canadian cbeese holds about 87 per
Defective packing la a
condition.
The United
Transport to the market lo a cent of the British market.
inatter.
States cheese bas beau driven ont almost
Have we sufficlent cold
serions matter.
That ludustry can ha exstorage for snch purpose? 1 tbink we eau- completely.
teuded. Thls year It bas not been as good
flot give too much credIt to the governpast. and the export of butter
ment of Canada for Its efforts ln that direc- as in the
But there la a wïde field for
bas failen.
tion; and yet we have not at aIl reached
the committea to consider the details neperfection lu the matter of. cold storage.
adapt ourselves to the British
Go to the British market and you wll find cessary to
tbat perand market. But we must remamber
beautIful fruits from New Zealand
baps the greater brancb, If not the greater,
Australla that are laid upon the British
value, la the export of'
muarket fresb and bright as the day they one of Immense
Are we dolng what we sbould
timber.
Tbey came there, througb
were packed.
of preservlng our foresta?
the torrld zone, across the equator, and do lu the matter
The goverument la dolng somethlng lu that
Could we flot
landed ln n good condition.
Forest reserves have beau laid
do somethiug lu that .direction ? And direction.
ont ln the differeut provinces as foliows.
couid we flot do sometbiug more than we
Squýare
have doue lu the matter of pears and
miles.
That Is an importanc alatter,
penches?
Manitoba.............
nnd one which a commlttee such as I have
Saskatchewan..........740
Alberta.............186
named mighit very weli give some attention
British Columubia.........890
Then we have the placing of our
to.
The Northwest is
fruit lu the Northwest.
5,391
......
....
Total Dominion ....
11,728,000
iargely dependent lu the matter of fruit
Ontario reserves in acres
Qnebec reservas in acres 105,903,360
upon dried or dessicated fruit. Couid we
Squýare
pince our apples there aud give ourselves a
miles.
the transThen there la
wlder market?
Dominion parka..........10,904
Ontario parka..........18,32.5
port to the Northwest, and there mlght be
Quebec parka..........175,474
the adoption of the California method of
It wili be sean that Quebec bas outdisdeallng with oranges : a very simple pro.
cess. -The grower of oranges does not tanced us allinl the mattar of forast reShe has 105 million acres of forest
grade them or classify them for the mar- serves.
There is a reservas, and not an acre too many. This
ket, nor does hae piuck thien.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)

trade journal bas recently haed to say on the
subject;
There is supposed to be a very rigid inspection of Canadian apples for export, but, notivithstandiug, there is a crop of complaints
again this vear against the goods sent out.
In Englaud there is a vigorous kicking, by
retail fruit and grocery men, against the
of the Dominion goverument
fauity *nature apples, and St. John's grocers
inspecýtion of
are lnakinz similar complaints. Many barrels
of apples arriving here, branded No. 1, are
really only second grade, and second grade
apples are merely ' windfalls.'

FEBRUARY 26, 1908

OCI

will be, upon Canadian forests for
is n most siuggestive question, and it would soon
their pulp-wood. Last year, iu the mnatter of
take the time of the cornrittee for weeks
to the
it would pulp-wood and other wood, we sent
and weeks to consider it, and then
That pulpabout $3,000,000.
United States
flot be exbausted.
if made into paper, would represent
One of the greatest authorities ln the wood,
How to make that transfor$25,000,O00.
United States, Mr. Pinchot, says, and this
is a matter that mighit receive the
Is a very suggestive expression >-mation
soil t attention of our committee.
The Mississipi river carnies as muchisthmus
Then electrlcity 19 usurping the *place of
the
the sea as we are removing from
We are going
water and steam power.
to build the Panama canal.
on presutuably before long witb tbe Ottawa7
Whiat a waste of the best part of the
There wlll be a
Bay canal.
Wlb the denudation of our forests, and Georgian
soli.
if our
water power there.
trernendous
our rivers and streaims, carry out, shall 1
the sources of supply
forests are denuded,
say the juiclest part of tbe soul, the most
Georgitul Bay canal will pass away
and fertile part of the solI, and for the
friable
wlth the spring f reshet t o a certain extent,
durnp it into the lakes, or carry It ta the
bappen.
We want and serious conseqilelces mlght
seacoast of the St. -Lawrence.
whereby mille
we must pre- 'You can niultiply Instances
that soli, nnd to preserve it
migbt be Injured. and other calamities
serve our forests. So greatly is the Ulnited
My
that 1 caused, by the denudation of forests.
States impressed wlth this matter,
composed of sucb men as 1
committee
notice President Roosevelt bas called the
could name, If I might dare presume so
governors of the different states of the
far, migbt do a great deal to clarify the
union to meet hlm at Washinlgtonl auEan
ta its
question. snbject and draw public attention
early date to consider the whole
and suggest to the House the
Tbhat brlngs Importance,
That ls ln regard to forestry.
of best Uine to pursue.
us ta the question of the preservation
1 have immigration and labour as. the
of our puîpour plue, tbe preservation
That la a very urgent matthe next question.
wood, bow to deal with pulp-wood,
Some of you May have
now.
ter just
question of an export duty upon puîpread the animadversions passed upoti the
We have
wood-all these are Involved.
the
Immigration ta Canada last year by
Iu tbe province Ôt Ontario, according to the
for the
the Inspector of Prisons and Cbarities
report a! a commission whlch 1 had
I arn not prepared
province af Ontario.
honour o! appointing In 1890, the fact statto criticise tbem, for I arn not sufficieiitly
ed by that commission that we have 800,lnforrned; but If bis statemelits be true
000,000 cords of pulp-waod north of the
that the charities of Ontario are taxed,
height of land In our province. At ten dollars
and taxed very severely because of the
a cord-perhaps that Is too large a figurebave
a class of derelict Immigrants who
say at five dollars a cord, It represents
of Toronto and elsewhere
We cannot Ianded In the city
billion and a bal! of money.
diseased,
I know Ia Ontario, helpless and partially
value of the forest.
realize the
matter ought to zecelve
then 1 think this
the statemelit was made by a deputatioli
We received let year
the premier-and I cannot early attention.
that waited on
277.376 Immigrants, a number alrnost equal
comprehend It, it seeme so wide of the mark
to the population o! the city o! Toronto.
-tbat the value o! our forests to Canada
assimi1 That will go on, If we are able to
every year is about a billion dollars.
them, propenly, for years to come. The
late
sbould like to vent y that statement before
now numbut 1 Immigration to the United States
It is
1 leave It with xny own autborlty;
over one million per annutn.
bers
took It as 1 got It from the despatch. flot aIl good. nor Is our Immigrationl ail a
.Without committing oneself to thiese stateWe bave to
s0 tale that Is pleasant to tell.
ments, one can see nt n glance that
and disadvftntages as
taire its advafltages
much o! the future wealth and prosperity
But look into the queson the preservation of part of one whole.
,o! Canada depends
It Inre- tion o! Immigration and see what
the forests that the subject ought to
Involves first, If possible by
It
volves?
ceive our Immediate attention. The United
tbe Immigration depal'tmeflt the seleptioII
States people -ire almost dependent, or very

392

SENATE

of immigrants from thoso countries more
like ourselves ln point of education, general
habits and industrial pursuits, tban the
people of other countries uiiht be, and the
nearer the foreigti Immigrant la to *ourselves In modes of thought, Inteilectual pursuits and ln education, the more readiiy
wi lie be assimilated.
I notice In the
report of a commission appointed ln 1905
by the United States government, that the
govertiment commission reported that no
Immigrant should be naturalized wbo did
flot know the English language.
It does
not say that no Immigrant should be admitted Into the country who did not know
tlje Englisb language; buit sucb was the
empbasis laid on the use of the Englisb
language-and that Implies Engliali literature and tastes and Engllsh traditions embeddod in the mind-tbat t1ils commission
toit that n knowiedge of the iEnglish Iangauge was essontiai to American citizensbip. It suggests, therefore, that we select
our Immigrants, as far as possible, from
countries where the English, or shall we say
the French language, ls spoken, for, witb us,
both are on a parity, both are ln sympatby
with our Institutions.
We are familiar
witb b9th races and both languages. Each
lias an equal share ln the government and
an equal stanidinig,, as they have a rigbit to,
in tbe community. 1 would suggest furtber,
that we shouid direct our attention cbiofly
to the United Kingdom, for the assimilation of the citizen of the United Kingdom
would lie an easier matter than tbe assimilation of the GalIcian, Russian or Itaian.
We are suffering now somewbst from tbe
peculiar habits of the Italian, for Mis taste
ln seeking the blood of bis companion in
a manner very direct and very uncomfortable to his victims.
The matter of inspection at ports of
embarkation la aiseo f great importance.
We are nt considerable expense
now ln the doportation of undosirable Immigrants.
Do not ]et us get hlm bere at
ail if bie Is unfit.
Thero should be such
a rid
Inspection on the other aide where
the emîgrant takes sbip for Canada tbat
when ho is on board ship it is because ho
bas been declared' fit to be landed within
our own Dominion.
A more rigid inspection may b'Q desirable.
Could a committee
bolp in doing- tbat?
Tlien I do flot know
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

that the bonuses to steamsbips need lie
furtber continuod unless more vigilant inspection is given to the immigrant. There
is aiso the reception of the Immigrants at
the port of entry, a very difficult and Important matter; their distribution among
the varions trades and agx.cuitural districts
is aiso Important.
1 tbink the congestion
now toit ln tbe city of Toronto arises partly
from the tact that the system of distribution lias not be adequate.
The immigrant
is very mucli inclined, coming from cities
and towns ilu the old land, to locate hlmself lu a clty or town ln Canada.
As far
as possible, we sbould encourage the
Immigration of the agricuitural classes.
Ontario is going througb an extraordinary
revolution now, bas beon passlng tbrougb
that revolution for the last twenty-flve
years, largely from the want of agricultural
labourera.
In my old riding of Wes4
Middlesex tbore is one scbool section well
known to me. for I bave traversed it very
otten, ln whicb there was a general attendance of. 50 to 60 pupils In tbe public
scbool.
The attendance now Is tbree or
four. Wbat la the matter?
Not trom the
sterility of the Inhabltants by any means,
but because lands bave been turned into
grazing- fields that were formerly given to
the production of cereals.'
The tarmer
could nlot find sufficiont belp, and tbe only
way lie couild protect biniself was to -go
into stock raising.
Wbat ls tbe effoct?
It simply thins out our population, and
stock raling ls neot tbo most productive
way la wbich the farmns ln Ontario could
lie worked.
The change la one that etfects our population and politically la more
senses than one.
Thon we have the very perplexing question of labour.
It is a somowbat serious
tact which yeu will find in the report of
the Bureau of Labour ln the United States
and I do not know but you will find. it ln
our own. that ln six yenrs wo have bad
iii Canada seven bundrod
and sixteen
strikos, iavolvîng upwards of 140,000 employees and costing the Dominion two million fivo hundred thousand working days.
Convert two million five hundrod thousand
working days into money at two dollars
a day. and that would bo an average wage
I suppose, you have a loss of $5,000,000.
FolIowa that loss to the families of the

FEBRUARY 26, 1908
workiiugnen or the charitable Institutions
of this country and you will see it wll1
have to bc replaced lu one of two ways,
either by charitable contributions or the
sufferings of the wives and familles of the
working men.
The Lemieux Act bas been
of Immense advantage; could tbat Act be
extended?
I ar n ot ln favour of coinpulsory arbitration as tbey bave It ln New
Zealand; but so successful bas been the
working of the Lernieux Act that sorne industries that did flot legally corne under it
bave accepted Its principles for the settiement of their owu strikes.
Perbaps If a
committee of tbe Senate took the niatter
up, alded by the very capable Deputy MinJeter of Labour, wbo would certainly give
us the benefit of his experieuce, the advautages o! that Act could be extended. Then
there la the question of skilled labour. We
do flot waut the unemployed of the Britisb
Islands to corne here; we do want skilled
labour, but tiiere necessarlly miust be smre
conciliation between tbe skIlled labour of
our own country and the lmported skilied
labour.
I remember a few years ago,
wben I undertook tbe task of organizing
technlcal schools ln Ontario, the dlfficulty
that confrouted me was the opposition of
the trades unions.
We bad entered on a
new experience ln the matter of labour.
flot ln fasbion, as apprentlceship was lu
tbe old land, and the trades unions
feIt that by the education afforded by
techalcal sebools, their own grlp on skilled
labour would bie slightly weakened, and I
bad to, proceed rnuch more slowly tban 1
wouid have wished.
I was able to estabIJ.sb five or six.techuical sebools; but that
was only touchlng tbe triage of the subject. We bave now reached a time wben
we sbould proceed to organize trades schools
la Canada, somnetblng Ilke the Pratt Institute ln the State of New York wbere
trades are being taught, and young lads o!
fourteen to sixteen years o! age eau
prepare tbemselves for eatering. wben
they leave scbool, upon au apprenticeship, at ail events,
ln tbe
work
of sklled labour. The great want of our
scbool systeni bere, la England, la the
United States and everywhere, is tbat ire do
flot get tbe grip o! a boy at tbe age irben
be begins to know thiat lbe bas real banda
and flugers and tbat bis brain la the centre

of cerebral actlvity tbat muet spend ItseIf
eitber ln mischief or sme active pursuit.
Here la tbe complaint made at tbe great
convention 'which met at Cbicago, at which
Presideut Eiliott, o! Harvard University,
was present. Âmong the startling statements made at the convention iras one to,
tbe effeet that 55 per cent 0f the boys lnx
Berlin, Germany, between thie ages o! 14
and 16, are ln tbe Industrial achools, while
lu Chicago lesa tban one-tenth o! one per
cent are being so tralned. Germany, It was
sald, trains its youtb for a vocation; the
United States trains Its youth for a job. In
those two sentences 'wblch I have read we
bave the secret o! tbe extraordinary developmeut of German industry. From a
tbird rate position, lu a rnulitary as weli as
in an industrial sense, Germifny bas reached
a foremost position since the Frauco-Prussian irar o! 1870, and England's greatest
competitor at borne la the product of German manufactories, largely because of ber
skilied labour, and the superabundauce of
tbat skiiied labour-If superabundauce
there be-ls owing to the industrial achools.
Bavaria, with a population flot rnucb greater
than that of Newr York city, bas 290 trade
sehools, giving Instruction nigbt and day lu
28 trades and .crafts, and the wealtby Dominion of Canada bas not a single trades
sebool froni beginning to end, 'with a revEliiott,
$110,00)0,000.
President
enue
quoted from the figures coliected by the
Massachusetts commission on Industriel
and techuical education, sbowing tbat 25,000 chIldren ln that cornronwealtb irere
engaged ln trifling occupations that failed
to prornote skill or advancement or to prepare for more use! ul manbood. Tbe report
of that convention is good readiug for everYbody. *SkIlled labour ouglit to occupy smebody's attention. Noi, I arn not-prepared
to say that tbe Dominion of Canada sbould
usurp by any mens the functions of our
provinces with regard to education in auy
department. I do not tblnk it sbould. It
bans been suggested that a Royal Commission should be appointed by the Dominion
on the subject of techuical education, but I
'would be far from cornmitting mysel! to
the policy tbat the Dominion governrnt
itsel! sbouild-1aaaume the burden of techuical
education. Our provinces are ricb enough
to dîsebarge tbis duty to tbe satisfaction of

SENATE
the people and as far as the Decessities of againet importations from Canada ; stili,
the case may require. As education is pro- is there not somnething tbat can be
vincial under our constitution lu other mat- be done wbereby our trade with tbe Unitedi
ters it sbould also be so lu technical edu- States migbt be brougbit nearer to an
cation. No two provinces require the saine equilibrium. If there is one tbiug that juskinti of skiiled labour. Wbat would suit tifies tbe establishment of the Department
British Columbia might not suit Prince Eti- of Trade anti Commerce It is the appoinwarti Islandi; andi what 'wouid suit Nova ment o! trade comumissioners to different
Scotia ilgbt not suit the province of On- countries, sub-consular ageacies you might
tario. The variety of tecbnical education cail them, to caîl the attention of manuwoulti be one of its virtues. 1 would there- facturers anti coasumers of these countries
fore say that some note migbt very well go to what Canada bas to seil. I attribute to
for-th from a comiulttee of the Senate that the activity of tlhat department to a certain
mwoulti suggest perhaps to the provinces ln- extent the developmeat of our trade with
creaseti activlty la this regard. 1 amn not Great Britain, coupled with Vihe Preferential
golng to admit thiat the judgment of the Tariff, anti the maintenance of our position
Senate, formeti by a commlttee o! experts la France anti perhaps the West Ladies. As
sncb as we miglit bave on that question, Is yet we are but at the beginning o! the dea judgment which would be dlsregarded by velopment of our trade which I amn sure the
the legisiature of any province. My next Minister of Trade anti Commerce so fondly
committee would be one of trade andi coul- desires. It je a new departmneat. The hon.
nierce, or commerce anti our trade relations. senator from Hastings (Hon. Sir Mackenzie
I nmust say a few words on this, as It is a Bowell) was present at Its organisation. Lt
matter of supreme importance. Now. If is not yet more than about fifteen years o!
there Is anytblng that bringz to our minds age, anti coulti fot bie expecteti to have sesome appreclation o! the great possibilities complisheti at thiat age ail that the minîster
of Canada It Is the extraordlnary develop- woulti desire or ail that is within Uts power.
meut of our commerce ln tbe last ten years. The Board o! Trade of Great Britaîn, s0
The wbole trade of Canada ln 189 was powerful anti Influential la the sbaping o!
$23,029,360, and ln 1907 it hati Increaseti to tarifes andi the promotion of Britlsh comlahVe days o! Oliver
$617,965,147, greater per heaà nearly three merce was organize in
ties than the trade of the Unitedi States, Cromwell, anti that is one thing tbat gooti
anti wlthiu a few dollars of being equal pier olti Oliver titi for us during bis short probenti to the trade of Great Britain, greater tectorate. We fint inl the Unitedi States a
than Germany, greater than France. WVefar better illustration, 1 may be permitteti to
have extraordlnary powers o! productlvlty, say with my American proclivîties, which
of deveiopment anti of acquisition, as sbown are very outspokea on the developmeat of
by these large exports. There, Is only one trade, than either Canada or Great Britala,
feature of our trade to wblch I wouid cail much as Great BrItalin bas doue. Let me
attention, anti that is that our limports from give two or three Illustrations. Take, for
the Unitedi States are growing mucli more instance, the tratie with Australia. It 1s
rapidiy than our exports to that country. not mucb more distant f rom Caustia than It
For Instance, ln ten years our imports bave le from the Unitedi States. We have subIncrenseti f rom $64,334,S00 to M22,280,876, sidizeti steamers ln order to increase trade
or 340 per cent ; w bile our exports to the facilities between Canada anti Australia,
Unitedi States bave only increaseti froin anti the PacIfie cable, for which we pay a
$44,448,410 la 1890 to $104,260,394 ln 1907, considerable eum every year, bati no tioubt
an Increase of 210 per cent. Our trade witb a similar object la vlew. We have two
Great Britain bas growa witb reasonable trade agents la Australla, anti the Unitedi
satisfaction. Great Britaia can ouiy bie ex-' States bave no Iess than eight, so that wlth
pecteti to -take our natural products, and their increaseti represeatation la Australia,
she takes of them ln great abundance. Tbe making it a question o! arithmetic, they
Unitedi States does not require-our naturi] ought to reaeh out to four times the trade
products, andi the present tariff in force lu which the Canadians cau secure. I canthe Unitedi States pute up a highi wail not say whether our tratie cominissioners
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

FEBRUAIRY 26, 1908
industries ; no wonder ber textiles
cover the whole of Australia or flot, but if lier iron
market. She has
do not, and if that trade le worth are to be found la every
tbey
worked for that market and for that trade.
havlng, we ouglit to get it and get It soon.
that our farmers produce good
Ia the case of France, with which country Lt ls la vain
butter, cheese and stock anises they can
we have negotiated a treaty that is soon to
for tbem. It is la vain that
corne before us, there is but one Canadian find a market
we manufacture goode of the fineet quality
trade 'commissioner; the United States
texture and design,
have seventy-fonr. Suppose withl the adop- and the most elegant
unlees we can find a buyer for them. I
tion of this treaty new *commissioners will
of Trade and Combe appointed, our trade witb France will know the hon. Minister
merce sympathises wltb that view. I have
increase accordingly. In Japan, wlth whlch
witb hilm on the subwe are trylng to establish a trade, and with had no conversation
I do not know wbat Is la bis mmnd,
which we happlly have very cordial re- ject, and
when I was
lations, notwithstaadlug the effervescence but 1 have hiad this experience
of Educatiou, and It was flot a
la British Columbia, we have one commis- Minister
times-that if
sioner ; the United States have thirteen. very pleasant one to me ut
for techalcal schools or
There is an Immense trade to be done i 1 wanted money
out of the ordiflary
Japan in flour, and perhaps la other domes- educational purposes
rule, the treasury was very poor, and
products, and yet we have only one mn
tic
as to
*to deal with 45,000,000 of people and see the treasurer had maay misglvingB
always
goods tbey have to buy *are pur- the wisdom 0f the expeaditure. He
that the
the surchased la the Canadian market. 'Ia Mexico wanted a surplus, and the larger
one trade commîssiofler. The plus the more glorioles bis position, la bis
we bave only
empty
Ulnited States have ifffty-seven. We have own opinion, and I had 0f ten to go
; they have four. I away. Is It possible the Minister of Trade
one la Newfoundlaad
? I do not
have here perhaps somethlng of the secret and Commerce laso5 treated
of exporte from Can- know. If he is, I for oae member of the
of the vast increase
behaîf
ada to the United States, and that la ln the Senate would be glad to say on bis
United States have tbat any reasonable expenditure for the defact that la Canada the
selection and
145 consuls ; wblcb are sub-trade commis- velopment of our trade by the
of Ontario alone appointmeat of proper commercial agents for
sioners. Ia tbe province
suptbey have 45, and If there la aaythiag an that purpose, wouid secure my hearty
buy, there is a consular. port. I am conflrmed la this view by the
American wants to
Board of
agency somewhere la Canada, la that flam- report made by Mr. Gregg to the
to buy Trade of Great Britain on the resaIt of bis
ber of 145 who wlll Indicate where
the
or wbere to selI. 1 do flot know whether wE visît to Canada, la whicb he recognizes
Ulnited Inecessity of dolag for Great Britain precould Improve our trade wltb the
email way,
States by the appolntment of commissoneri icisely wbat we have dons ln a
and wbat the United States Is dolng la a
la the Republlc. That would. be a mattel
of
for a man with mucb larger knowledge ci large way, namely, the appoiatment
tradl trade agents la Great Britain and tbe
trade than 1 have. We waat to open
with China. We have one commissionei SUnited States. Here le what be said :
ls uadoubtedly a need* for wbat
there ; the United States have thirty. li i'There
be called national trade representatioli
we have oae; they have seven. ix imay
Norway
single agent of
Belglum we have one; they have twelve la Canada.' There la not a
D
of twenty, iacluding 1Ivý Great Britain bers that I know of, unlese
We have n total
of the city of Manwho do flot give their 'whole time to mat it be a represeatative
; the United States hav e chester la Toronto, looking out for trade.
ters of trade
be commercial travellere, but
eleven hundred and ten scattered over th e There may
wonder their iron Eads It 8 that le another thlng. He goes on to say «
whole globe. No
substanway to every market of the worid; no wor L-There can be no question as to, the to the
aearly three time a tial services which 'have been rendered conder tbey produce now
States trade as a whole by the
as muech metal and* steel products as o1d United are scattered throughout Canada, at
suis who
ie totally withEngland produces, notwithstanding ber cei present the United Kiagdom Consular advice
sucli representation.
turies of attention to the development cif out any

SEINATE

Should they be under govmanagement?
ernment control, under a commission. or
owned by private capital; bow sliould they
If tbey develop elecbe regulated, etc?
To
trical power who owns the power?
which goverument, provincial or Dominion,
sbould that revenue go, and so on ? And
Then- he goes on ta recommeud the ap- the question of harbours la equally urgent.
pointment of trade agents in the United We are spending millions on deepening
That auma up ail 1 the harbour of Moutreal and the channel
Statesansd Canada.
wiah to aay on the matter o! trade and of St. Lawrence, aud not too soon. We
There are other objecta ta are spending maney at Fort William, and
commerce.
whilb I should lik-e to caîl the attention of we bave a whole serles of western harbours
the Hanse, which I must pass over. For on Lake Huron. Lake Erie aud Lake OnInstance there la the questian of geological tario sud seacaast harbours at St. John
surveys sud mineraI development, a very aud Halifax. We must have means whereStrange to say our great by the largest ships ln the empire can lond
large question.
dlscoverleq of minerais lu Ontario were aud unload their gooda rapidly and sucmade by praspectars and not by geologista. cessfuly.
I am not finding fanît wlth that; but I do
1 arn going to draw my remarks to a
know as a matter of fact, that districts close, though I bave *uot gone over lieilf
which were declared ta be eutirely without the subjects I have mentioned.
1 wili
minerais have been found ta be very pro- juat mun over the naines.
We bave coast
Our prospectora found gold ln surveys and merchant shippiug.
ductive.
I notice
the Raiur River district, and saine of the au order lu council was passed not long
Our -since to the effect that the coas ting trade
mines are said ta be very valuable.
prospectors discovered Cobalt, and there la of en9steru Cauada la to be reserved to, sbipa
much more that may be diacovered atill. of Britishi registration.
That excludes
We located, ourselves, the Iron mines af Norwegian and other foreigu vessels f rom
Michipicoten, sud some ou the nortbern competition.
I suppose that is ail riglit;
Can somnething be I caunot express an opinion on it one way
aide of Lake Superlor.
doue ta develap aur mineraI resources? We or the ather.
The question arises. howcanuot estimate the value of these, but we ever, should similar miles be adopted witb
migbt luvestigate stili mare perbapa witb reference teoaur inland waters.
Our
satisfactory results.
Canadian shippiug Is declining-wby? We
Then there la the question of transporta- bulld fewer vessels-why? We have pertion rates ta the seaboard, aud aur har- hsl% Insufficient accommodation for reWe have now the Canadian Paci- paixllag ships, and they go to United States
boums.
fie Rallwny as the northeru artery exteud- dry docks for repairs.
Should that conThe dition of things continue?
ing coutlnuously from east ta west.
We are not a
lutercolanlal Ralway la a midway section. maritime country lu a certain sense, and
The Canadian Northern la reaching ont bath perbapa we ought to be.
We bave an
west sud east acroas the continent. Later equipment for a naval reserve, iu our fisherwe will have the National Transcontinental men, that no country lu the world can
Railway, sud perbapa later still commun!- equal.
That ought to be considered.
cation by way of Hudson Bay. The wbole
Then there is the whole question of the
question of transportation lies at the foun- fisheries, moat perplexing matters for interdation of the future trade sud commerce of national negotiation.
Matters wbich have
Cauada--cheap, qnlck transportation. Therc perplexed diplomatists since the treaty of
la ou the horizon to-day the Ail Red LinE 1783, aud since the treaty of 1818 more para'nd the construction of the Georgian Bay ticularly, and the Uuited States are settiug
caual. These are Immense projecta whiel up pretentions 'which have. to be very
we mlght ait dowu sud consider, sud maný serlously considered.
Then our inland
0f them wlll no doubt be realities iu timf
lakes are being depleted, because the United
ta came. r-Iow soon should they be begur
regulations differ from Canadlin meaud what consideration should lie lu theli States

sud information eau neyer take the place of
efficient trade represeatation, but unquestionably if the right gentlemen are .available, it
eau render substantial service, sud it is generally believed in Canada that such service
lias bees doue ta the trade o! the IUnited
States by its consular representatives in the
Dominion.

Blon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

FEBRUARY 26, 1908
trated their usefuiness; they are -nfot overLake of the Woods bas been s aid; they might at least bie given a separate
gulations.
-filer- p;lass, having a liberal maximum, and bie
ainaost fished out by United States
of the priviieges
men, thouga nt one time Lake of the Woods brought within the scope on the permanent
pen to maie civil servants
wns one of the best fishlng lakes lu Canada. c ist.
are
I understand that the Manitoba Inkes
A discussion in al] frienatiness, for we
Do our flsh
aise being rapidly fished ont.
nlot have anytbing else If my ideas
a sufficient quantity of couid
hatchieries supply
tvere carried out, on the question of the
Then ln Ontarlo we have this perfIsh?
civil service would be very muchl n the
plexing question, that we own the shores
It migbt be advlsable to
public interest.
and beds of the rivers and consequentiyi
a commission,
goverumeliti put the civil service under
the fisb, whiie the Dominion
as is done in the United States. Here is
regulates the close seasohl, and the close
a report f rom the Federal Civil Service
senson ln our opinion does nlot correspond
Commission wbich Is well wortb considerwith the emergencies of the position. The
Practicaiiy two-thirds of the civil sering.
saine wlth Lake Superior and Lake Huron;
vice of the United States are appointed by
ene Is coider than the other, and the same
There are examination.
close season does net appiy.
these and many other questions te be conThe article reads as foilows:
Then we have the civil service
sidered.
According to the annual report of the FedeHere, because 1* Is a val Civil Service Commission, pirtisan acto be considered.
inatter of public notoriety, I mlght refer tivity on the part of empio yees in the competitive service has practically ceased in the
to an observ-ation made ln the 'University Lnited States. The report gives the testimony
ser- of Mr. Brvan that in both his contests for
Magazine' on the question of the civil
It le rather an Important matter. the Presidency he received less opposition
-vice.
from the civil servants than fromn the emf1* says
piovees of the railways, who were coercedl by
into supportîng the RepubliAn anomalous situation bas been created by their employers declares that lie would rather
He
the rapid expansion of the Dominion during ran ticket.influence which a President can
the past twentv yesrs. At the present timo risk the
civil service than to risk
there are about 2,800 govornment empioyeos bring to bear on therailroad owners can bring
nt Ottawa. 0f these, 600 are workingmen, of the influence which
workmen. During the year
one sort or another, almost iiholly attachod te bear on their were obtained for violation
t
to the Public Works Dopartment. Thoy are wo convictions
relating to political
net regardod as civil servants in the strict of the Civil Service Act removals were made
inoaning of the terin. 0f 'the romaining 2,200 assessments, and severai activity. The comonlv haif appear in the officiai civil service for pernicions riolitical that examinations are
Eist. The othors are 'temporaries.' They work mission says that 'now parties on equal terms
sido by side with the 'permanents,' but they open te members of all f reely vote and exerare not eligibie for annual increasos of salary and public officiais; may varions formis of polibeyond a certain linit, nor do they came with- cise their opinions, the
are
in the priviloges of the Civil Service Act with tical coercion and campaîgn assessmentspartisubsidence of
respect to sick leave, superannuation, insur- being overcoine, and the of the adherents of
anc,p romotion and so on. They are not evon san spirit on the part will be offset by a like
accorded uniform treatment. In the Public one of the great parties
Works Dopartinent, for oxemple, thoy are forbearance on the part of the adherents of
subject te a schedule which le unique. In the the other partv.' There areinapproximately
the executive
Post Office Departnont thoy are not allowod 337,000 officers and employees
number 196,918 are
either holidays or the limited sick leave rocog- civil service, and of thisDnring the last year
nized in other dopartmonts. There is neither subiect to examination.
classifled by
a definite minimum nor maximum rate of 1,500 duRferont positions were twelve months
compensation applicable to ail departmeuts. order of the President. In the
persons
Thev are atot 'temporaries' at ail, in the period covered bv the report, 136,108 and 44,souse that their tenure is ta neet a passing were examined, 99,261 persons passed with the
emiergoncy. They forn a flxed and indispen- 712 were appointed. As comparedof 14,047 in
Lsable p art cf the staff. Tiiese conditions call previenis year, this is an increase the numthe number examined, 4,222 in
urgently for regulation.
Iii this relation the status of young women ber that passed and 4,835 in the numdein the civil service arises. Twenty-one years ber appointed. Many. appointments were this
ago there was iess than a score of female ciined, and the commission says that onnoth,clerks in ail the departnents. To-day there account mucli of its work lias gone forinstead
are seven hundred, of whom a vast najority inf. It adds that 'the departments,
take ranli in the temperary ciass alluded te. cf securing the bést material fromn the regisThey have corne to stay. There are cogent ters, are onlv able to obtain persons who are
roasons why they should net be piaced on p3re- less successful in outside business.'
,ciseiy the same footing as men; but the preThen the civil service at Washington is
sence of such an army of wvornen in the service
sug-Reets the need for soînething better thin appointed pro rata from the various states
f lie present systern. They bave amply demon-

SENATE
aud territories, nccording to the population,
of the states or territories. No city or town
bas a -mno0poly of the appointments to the
civil service. W9ben a vncancy occurs, they
inquire wbat stute bas its quota of repersentatives. That state Is passed over and
they go to another. These are a few instances indicating wbat has been doue elsewbere. Perbaps an Inquiry Into this matter
migbt be useful to us here. Now 1 close
with on1e or 'two observations. First In
cnrrying out the proposition I bave suggested we rnay find additional ernployment for
ourselves, giving assistance to the members
0f the Hlouse of Commons and valuable
assistance to the government In suggestions
tbat we miglit offer, and we would strengthen our own position as a Senate. Mr.
Asquith, speaking lu Eugland not long ago,
makes this remark :
Iu the long run every society is judged and
survives according to the material and moral
minimum which it prescrabes for itself.
My comment upon that sort of observatiou-whicb I perbnps antIcipated earlierIs that the usefulness of the Senate and its
standing Iu the community will Increase or
'diminish according as It vindicates its proper functions and applies Itself to the vanious departments of legislation wbicli lies
within Its constitutional limits.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-WIII the hon. gentleman permit me to ask a question. He refers to a speech made by Mr. PatersonI dld not understand very well wbat bie said.
Was that an after-dlnner -speech ?
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Mlddlesex)-I am sorry
I was not present, and did not enjoy the
dinner or bear the speech.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-I arn not golng
to take up the time of the House discussing
t.his subject, but I wish simply to draw the
attention of the -House to this reniarkable
utterance of an hon. member of tbe goverument, Mr. Paterson -The report of bis remark reads as follows :
Paterson's idea of the Senate.
<Special to the ' Evening Journal.'>
Windsor, February 25.-Hon. Wni. Paterson
and Hon. Adam Beck were the principal
speakers at the dianer of the Windsor Board
of Trade last night. The Minister of Customs convuised hîs auditors bv referring to
the Senate as a body of oid gentlemen who sat
and dreemed life ewav, in complete serenitv,
undisturbed by the storms of political life,
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

wvho feared neither elections nor the resuits
thereof, and whose sole dutv it is to ,revise
the hasty legisiation passed by the members
of the lower House.'
Mr. Paterson kept clear of any political
questions of moment.
In the first place, the hon. member of the
governiment makes a false statement. I cani
give blm the names of two prominent men
from Nova Scotla who refused seats Iu the
Senate--Mr. Blackadar, editor and proprietor of the Acadian 'Recorder,' and Mr.
Currie, of Windsor ; and 1 think there are
Instances in tbe province of New Brunswick
also where a senatorship bas been refused.
If these flippant remarks were made by
a green or a new member of tbe House of
Commons, they would not recelve any attention from me, but being made by a member of the goverument, -and reffectlng on
the members of tbe goverilment In this
House, I tbink they should receive the
severe censure of tbis Cbamber ; tbey are
certainly uncalled for and unjust. When be
reflects upon -the Senate, be Is reflectiug upon members of bis owxn goverument wbo
are ornaments to the Senate, and when ho
refleets upon this Cbamber hie reflects upon
a body that Is superior to the House of Commous. I amrn ot at aIl s0 sure, If the hon. gentleman bappened to be defeated at the next
election, that be would flot be rapping ut
the. doors of the Senate askiug for admission.
I amn sorry that my bon. frlend and namesake bas pnssed that staternent over so
llghtly, because I wanted to caîl the attention of the House to the uncalled for remarks of a member of the goveruiment, reflecting not only on the Senate but on members of the goverument lu the Senate. I
thlnk the hou. Secretary of State sbould be
glad to caîl bis coiýleague to account for
these uugentlemanly and uncalled for remarks about tbe Senate.
Hlou. Mr. SULLIVAN-I desire to, say
that I seconded the motion of the bon. gentleman frorn Middlesex, because 1 do flot
tbink the bon. gentleman had made any arralngement for a seconder. and 1 approve
50 strongly of bis conduct while in this
Hlouse, so Independent nnd so, devold of nny
party spirit, that I was very glad to have
au opportunity to, second the resolution.
Hîis speech was eloquent and full of materil
Whetber we
and 'valuable information.
t
agree wlvtb it or not, we are hound to ex-

FEBRUARY 26, 1908

399

iîothing for anybody else. Whetber we
agree 'witb hlm or not, It adds to the lutellectual life of the Senate to hear a gentleman wbo la so well versed la the subjects
lie discusses. My own view Ia that in the
past hlstory of the Senate on ail occasions,
when very Important matters lwere before
the public mind, the Senate bas had committees appolnted to discù.eri utnem. Many
years ago, it la now some twenty-five or
thirty years ago, wve had a large commlttee
'which spent a session, perbaps more, on the
Great Loue Lands. A quarter of a century
passed by -and men had forgotten it, and
lInt year another committee was appolnted
on the same subject and Investigation was
revived, and the committee added a most
valuable mass of Information, which la being
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Reference was made to now utilized by the government and by the
me by the hon. member for Halifax wben public ln drawlng attention to Vie great
dlscussing the remarks of a colleague of value of the nortbern parts of Canada. On
mine miade at a Board of Trade dinner, I other occasions, on one particuiarly Vint
think, at Windsor. I understand tbat It was now bappens to come to my mind, wben 1
wbere Mr. was on Vie other aide of Vie House, a conigatherlng,
a non-political
Paterson was flot permitted to intro- mittee of the Senate was formed, hostile
duce the subject of politica, and, neces- of course to Vie goverument of the day, on
sarily, he was short of subjecta, and he the expendîture of Canada. It was probabhappened to tilnk of Vie Senate, and la a ]y a proper subject for lnquiry at the time,
very jocular way made Vie allusion whicb and àl whoie session, I Viink, was spent ln
bas given offence to my hon. friend. I am discussing Vie extravagance Of Vie Mackenquite sure if Mr. Paterson waa spoken to zie administration. I need not allude to
on the subjdct, he wouid express his regret otber occasions on wbicb Vie Senate bas
Viat be -was reported. Many of us 'wben formed specl committees for Vie discussion
speaking often use expressions we would and Investigation of topics Viat at Vie hour
rather flot see in the public press. How- and at Vie time engrossed public attention.
ever, public men'a Ideas and views are My oivn vlew la Viat It wouid not be wise
public property and members have a right or prudent, and it wouid bring Vie Senate
tu seize on Vieni and criticise theni wben raVier into diarepute, to form committees on
the opportunity offers ; .but I am quite those eleven different subjecta lncluded. iu
sure these remarks are not Vie real honeat the motion of my hon. friend. Practicaily
it wouid aupersede tbe administration of the
opinion of Hon. Mr. Paterson.
Adverting to Vie address of Vie bon. gen- affaira of Vis country by Vie government of
tleman from Middlesex, as nobody else the day, because on ail Viose subjecta Viere
seems to he desirous of speaking at the pre- is a policy announced by Vie government.
sent moment, I may say Viat I do flot pro- Take, for Instance, Immigration and labour.
pose to make a long speech on Vie subject. We apend considerably over a million dolThe hon. senator receîved the applause of lars a year now In bringing immigrants to
this House wben he resumed bis seat. It this country. The subject la being discussed
hi an assurance to bum Viat v,'hen he In Vie public press. It la belng discussed lu
rîses to address Vils Chamber bis views Vie House of Commons, and It might be disare always listened to -ivlth very great cussed ln Vis chamber, too, as to whether
pleasure, because we recognize Viat be bas the poiicy and Vie mode of bringiag immigiven whatever subject he bringa before grants to Canada by Vie Departuient of the
the Senate Vie fuilest consideration. His Interior wvas Vie proper one. And s0 with
-view's are always exhaustive. They leave many other subjects. For instance, the

press our satisfaction at the learning and
abillty which ke bas shown, ani bis knowI
ledge of every Canadian subject
particularly agree with, hlm, because I
tbink If any spirit requires to be
cultlvated Ia this Senate It Is one
So soon as the tramof independence.
mels of party are doue away wlth, so so
wlll the Senate rise ta a higher position
than lt occuples at the present time. I do
flot make these remarks wlth reference to
any particular gentleman here. I only give
tbem as my own for what they are worth.
I regret very much that 1 am flot prepared
to discusa this resolution as fuily as Its
Importance demands, and I slmply make
tbese remarks as the seconder of the motion.

SENATE
they ougbt to be the
trade and commerce and trade relations of t ions were made-and
>est-tbey should be uniform in both counCanada. We bave a Departinent of TradeI
proposiand Commerce. They are collecting a vasti tries. That is such a self-evident
t !on that it should not requIre an argument
amount of information at a very considerln hopes the
able cost, which tbey are circulating, week to prove Its wisdom. 1 amn
day la not far distant when these regulaby week, among the mercantile coiamunity
both aides. Cerof the country through the different chan- tions will be unlform on
taInly, Canada bas been at ail times most
They
nels where they have trade.
agents-England, anxious and wllling to preserve the fish if e
appolnted
have aiso
coun- of the country, and to unite with our neighother
and
France,
Australlil,
in framlng regutries-ascertainiflg wbere Canadian goods bours to the south of us
the fIsheries and
can be best mnarketed. It would be idie for lations that would preserve
to throw at the same time yield to sportsmen and
the Senate to suppose it was going
acany light upon that subject, unless a very those engaged ln tbe trade a reasonable
beexi cess to the fish.
considerable sum of money had first
Tben talze the civil service administration.
voted to pay the expense of experts and
lion. gentlemen are aware that there Is a
wltnesses that would have to be brought
commission now about to makre a report on
before the commlttee.
Then we have the Geological Survey's re- that subjeet. 1 am qulte unable to foreor wbat
port of the mineral development of Canada. sbadow what their views are,
changes tbey mnay recommend. I admît that
1 asIc hon. gentlemen who of us can throw
It Is
any llgbt on that subject, other than to it is a systemn that may be improved.
take up the volume of the Geological De- a long inqulry to enter upon, and therefore
any
partment. The Geological Survey of Can- tbe better wny for me is net to express
ada bas made very great progress, and views at the present moment about It.
their work stands hlgh ln the estimation of Then as to public health and inspection of
scientists outside of Canada; therefore It fooda, subjecta tbat pertain to the life of
would seem rather-I will nlot use a word every Individual ln the Dominion, I should
that mlght be offensive-but it would nlot bave no objetion to a commlttee on these
of Informaseemn ln keeping wlth the dignity of this questions. 1 thin-k a good deal
we should dictate to men of tion could be obtalned that ia not now avaiHouse that
science as to whether they were adoptlng able and that is flot utillzed ; at ail events,
notice. ,I
the right metbod ln brlnging to llght the it could be brought to the public
perhaps have rather advanced vlews on the
varions geological conditions of different
and
.parts of Canada. The question of Coast subjects that are covered by that item,
want a
surveys, &c., is lmmedlately under a de- I quite recognize tbat the people
it than
partment of the government, and we have good deal more Information upon
be benelited
experts who are glvlng It very great study, tbey now poasesa and would
Wlth those
men who have been ln the service of the immensely If it were received.
to my bon.
for 25i or 30 years, and who certain- observations, I should suggest
country
If he would
ly must knoiv more about it than a com- friend, as an experiment, that
and
of tliis House could ascertain. Take limit his committees to agriculture
mlttee
forestry-beéause that Is a subjeet upon
the fisheries question ; we could not add any
Information to that now ln the possession wbich the public have not ail tbe Informatbem, a subject on
of the government. The fisherles involve an tion tbat could be given
years and years wbichi they require education-I would agree
international question. For
attempts bave been made to adopt regula- wvith bis-views. They are vlews that 1 bave
tiens that would be the same on both sides held for over tbirty years. It was my
of the line. The fish do not recognize Can- privilege thlrty years ago to be Commisada or the United States. They have the sioner of Crown Lands ln Ontario, and 1,
-freedom of the rivers and lakes whether it therefore, recognize the enormous value of
is on the Canadian or the United States our forest lands. I did wbat I could ln my
eide, and common sense would bring the time to reserve forest lands from settiement,
experts botb in the United States and Can- because 1 bad noticed ln other provinces of
ada to -the conclusion that whatever regula- the Dominion that there bad been a fearful
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

FEBIRUAIIY 26, 190840
waste of wealth by the wreckless destruc- would limit tbem, at the beginning it would
tion of the forests. Certainly the provinces not Interfere ln future with bis enlarging
down to the east of us ought to be the the scope of our usefulness bere by the
weaithiest portions of the world ln propor- formation of other committees ; but let us
tion to their size if they bad conserved In begin by a more inoderate attempt to
any reasonable degree the timber wealtb of gatber information wbich wiUl be of value
the cou ntry. 1 çan remember now 'when the to tbe people of tbls country. I ask my
flaies of the forest burning ln New Bruns- bon. friend If be will consent to lîmit the
wvick extended up as far as the town of committees to agriculture and forestry, ImPrescott. 1 can remember a hunge lire tbat migration and labour and public bealtb and
iasted a good part of the summer tbat fol- inspection of food, to start wlth?
lowed the St. Lawrence up as far as PresElon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before my hon.
cott-seven or eight hundred miles f romn friend responds to tbat question I should
where the lire started, destroylng timber like to congratulate the hon, gentleman
that 'would have amounted to millions and frein Middlesex on the very lnteresting and
millions of money. I mention tbat simply as exhaustive manner ln which hie bas prean Incident. Tbere la a vast amount of In- sented to this Cbamber bis views upon the
formation on the question of forestry that Important subjects Involved in the motion.
could bie given to the public, because tbe I, however, cannot congratulate hlm upon
future of this country, the future of lts the measure of comfort afforded bim by
transportation, the future of its agricultural my bon. friend tbe leader of the House with
resources, the future of its supply of tim- respect to the adoption of the motion. My
ber. depends entlrely to-day on wbether we bon. friend bas deait out a measure of cold
are prepared to preserve and reserve to comfort.
The bon. gentleman from Midsoine extent the remuant tbat we now pos- dlesex may posslbly know that during bis
sess. It Is only a fragment. Anybody wbo administration in Ontario what cold comnbas gone through any part of our province fort meant to certain portions of tbat proand bas seeu the terrible destruction by vince.
The termi Is a familiar one, and
fires uselessly and carelessly started, must therefore It may be appreciated.
I was,
be lmnpressed with, the enormous waste of bowever, about to say that the commeats
money ln the sbape of timber tbat has gone made by my hon. frlend the leader of tbe
up lu smoke. However, hon. gentlemen quite House were not without some humour, witb
appreciate it as much as 1 do. At tbe saine reference to the varlous subjects deait wltb.
time, 1 recoguize that You canuot* Impress My hoa. friend appears to tbink that It
the public mmnd too strongly with the lim- would be a work of supererogation for a
portance of the preservation of our forests. committee of this Sendte to attempt to
We see now ln every place, wbere tbey bave review the dîfferent subjects represented
neot reserved their forests, ln the sprlng of by the different departments of the govarntbe year freshets rIse and sweep down the ment and lie made tbe rather bumerous
streams, and rivers are changed ln their remark, It seems to me, in vlew of the
course by the enormous volume of water Impression left upon the bouse by my bon.
rushed off lu probably a few weeks wben friend frein Middlesex, that the adoption
the normal flow of water sbould have ex- of this motion and the selection of those
tended eight or nine months. The Ottawa committees, would simply mean a usurpariver rises twenty f eet opposite tbe city of tion of the rights of the varions departOttawa "ln the spring of tbe year. Nobody ments of government, aud would mean,
would doubt If we lmproved tbe navigation aise, a supersession, of the duties performed
between the upper reaches and Quebec tbat by those departments. Rowever, my hon.
we could conserve that water by a very mo- friand was apparently willng that the DeThose are points on partmnent of Agriculture sbould be sacriderate expenditure.
They ficed.
It seemed to me that the question
which public men should be educated.
do not appreciate the value of a subject of of the administration of agriculture did not
that sort until It is brougbt home to tbem by occupy thue promînent position la my hon.
practical Illustration. Now, wlth regard te friend's mmnd that the other departmneuts
tbe particula.r committees, If my lion. friend dld. lie was also wllling to sacrifice the De26

409,

SENATE

partrueut of Inland Revenue, that department being cbarged wltb bealtb, and tbe
analysis of food, aud of food produets.
1 do flot know wbetber that will
qulte meet tbe expectations of my hou.
frlend from Middlesex, but we bave the assurance that the goverument wvill co-operate
wlth this Chamber lu maklng Inquies into
tbose subjects, namely, agriculture and luland revenue.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-And forestry.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-He bas also sng1 fancy the discussion
gested forestry.
whlch bas recently taken place ln tbe
other brancb of parliament bas impressed
on my bon. friend tbe desirability of doing
It seems
sometbing to protect our forests.
to me tbat sncb an Indiscriminate disposition bas been made of our forest property,
and Our forest preserves, that even fire is not
s0 great an enemy to tbose valuable properties as other elements wbicb are being
so seif-assertive at the preseut time,
and wbicb have apparently been looked upon with a great deal of favour by tbe
Tbe idea sbonld commend
goverument.
Itself to the bon. gentleman f rom Middlesex, and I bope, under no consideration.
wlll bie overlook tbe uecesslty of seeiug
that a committee Is appointed to look well
into tbe question of forestry, and the furtber preservation of our forest preserves.
And the saine migbt be saîd of minerais;
but be bas more confidence lu the adminis1
tration of coal lands tban of forests.
miglit be permltted, bowever, to say, apart
from auy political refereuce to the varions
subjects deait witb, tbat tbe suggestion
made by my bon. frlend from Middlesex,
aud embodied ln this motion, migbt be carried out witli very good effect ln this SenThere bas been considerable comnate.
plaint during the present session at the
non-representation of mnembers upon tbe
standing commnittees of tbe House. This,
It seems to me, would aff ord a safety valve
for bon, gentlemen wbose time is not occnpied upon other committees, to devote
wbat spare time tbey bave to the cousideration of the varions snbjects indicated
lu my bon. friend's motion.
It, however, migbt be pointed out with
some degree of gratification to the Senate,
that the investigations hitherto made by
Bon. Mr. LOUGHTEED.

committees of tbis Clhamber upon any special subjects bave received considerable promineuce both from tbe press and from tbe
public. We eau look back upon two or
tbree Investigations particularly, made by
tbe Senate, lu wblcb great Interest was
Tbe 'Investigation
taken by tbe public.
made last session into tbe resources of the
Hudson Bay district Is to-day receiving a
great deal of attention tbrongbont tbe country and will be productive of mncb good.
Tbhere is, therefore, no reason wby small
speciai committees of the Senate should not
be appolnted to make inuniry into the varions subjects snggested, and I sbonld be
very pleased ludeed to see the bon. senator
from. Middlesex place bis motion lu sucb a
shape tbat tbe Senate eau carry ont tbe suggestions embodied therein.
My bon. frieud the leader of tbe House
cousidered It necessary to make an explanation on behaîf of the Minister of Customs.
Our attention bas been dlrected by tbe
press to, a speecb made hy the Minister of
Customs at Windsor the otber uigbt, lu the
course of wbicb he made certain allusions
to the Senate, and the report assnred us
tbat tbe bon. gentleman -was lu a fine velu
of bumor and lu an excellent toue of voice.
It wlll be gratIfylug to the Senate to kuow
tbat we furuisbed tbat gentleman a snbject for humourons comment ou that occasion. It Is not ofteu tbat tbe Minister of
Customs is lu that mood, and It Is wel
tbat be sbould bave every opportuulty to
indulge bis seuse of bumor and volumie 0f voice even at tbe expeuse
of the Senate. I was surprlsed, however. at the attempt of my bon. frleud
the Secretary of State to explain bis colleague's allusion to the Senate ou the gronnd
that hoe bad notbing else to talk about. Iu a
moment 0f caudour aud fraukness, my bon.
frieud admits tbat there was uo otber snbjeet wbîcb tbe Minîster of Customs conld
briug before the Windsor Board of Trade
aud the guests from Detroit. It was nfortunate tbat tbe only subi oct the Minister of Customs conld dîscuss before the represeutatives from the United States at
tbat banquet was tbe oue upon wbicb be
lndnlged bis oratory. My bon. friond assures ns, uotwitbstauding bis coileague's
inappropriate remarks about the Sonate,
tbat be really did not mean what hie said.

FEBRUARY 26, 1908
'HE ARMY ACT AND KING'S REGUJUnder ail the circumstanCes, we Muast sicLATIONS.
cept the explanation made by the lion. SecINQUIR-Y.
tliat
retary of State and simply suggest
should thie Minister of Customs liereafter atHon. Mr. LANDRY inqured:
tend a banquet, lie sliould prepare himself
To whàt class of miiitary persoas is the
with some other subject for discussion thilD epartment of Militia and Defence appointed
of the Ar.my
that of the Senate of CJanada. in conclusion, t omake gratuitous distribution of the United
ect and the King's regulations,
I wish to assure my hon. f rlendf from Middle-~ A:iagdom.
How many copies in ail of each of these
sex that s0 far as I can lndividually assist
gratuitously?
hlm in carrylng out the idea embodied ilits books are thus distributed
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thie answer of the demotion 1 shall le very glad to contribute
ln any way I can.
artment Is as follows : To thie first quest :ion, tlie King's regulations and orders of
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I arn considerably la
contained la the Militia Act,
accord with the views .expressed by the t :he Militia 1904
were issued to ail officers, warrant officers,
bon. senator frein Middlesex. WNe may nlot
officers of the
agree as to the advisabllty of forming al and staff non-cominissioned
permanent force, and to ail officers comtlie committees mentioned ln bis motion,
units of regiments, adjutants, paybut, on thie wliole, lie la to lie commended manding
masters and quarter-masters. The King's
for liaving raised this important question.
Army, 1904, were issued
I have bad it in mind ever siace I eatered regulations for tlie
and non-comthis House to suggest sometliiag of the kind. to ail officers, warrant-officers,
I liad sufficient missioned officers of thie permanent force.
However, I did not feel that
la : 208
authority to briag up the subjeet until 1 Thie answer to the 2nd question
The hon. copies of the King's regulations and orders
lad acquired more experience.
tlie Militia
leader of the opposition need not lie afraid for thie Militia, 1904, containiag
Act, were distriliuted gratuitousiy ; 347
tliat any committee of tliis House wouid fail
for tlie
to work barmonious1y with tlie governent copies of tlie King's regulations
to Army, 1904, were distrIbuted gratuitously.
departmneats. Their object wouid lie
work. la harmony witli thie departments, and
Hon. Mr,. LÂNDRY-Will the hion, gentlehelp them la maturing Important questions man lie kind enougli to return that aaswer
and formiag public opinion upon them. to the departmnent, and ask tliem to lie id
For instance, an Important question was enougli to answer the questions I put ?I
raised yesterday by thie lion. member f romi did not say a word about tlie Militia Act;
Wellington, and it was a question whidli I nslted about thie Army Act.
could lie very well considered by a committee of thie Senate. Such a committee couid
THE SENÂTE DEBÂTES.
lie formed, nlot only for one session, but
Hon. Mr. WILSON moved:
could lie adjourned from session to session
That an order of the Senate do issue for a
and
to gather ahl the necessary Information,
detaiied statement of the expeases incurred
thus lie thie mens of keeping this House during the past three years, in connection
the debates of
inforaied on sucli questions and directing with the synopticai reports of special reporter
Senate, furnished by the
public opinion la Its proper course. 1 arn the this House; as well as a statemeat of the
of
ln accord witli thie principle emliodied la nature sud particulars of the agreement with
the motion and tliink we sliould tnl<e an the present reporter.
early opportunity to form as many commitHe said : Although I move for tliis return,
tees as posaible wltli that end la view. The I have no intention to malte a rellection
committees need not necessarily lie limited upon the committee or upon the gentleman
to those mentioned ia the motion, and soe
who maires thie press report. Tlie statemnlt
of tlioae mentioned miglit lie lef t out and lias been made time and time «again tliat
otliers added, but the idea of the lion. gen- this report costa, more than it sliould, ln
tlemaýn commeada itself to my mind.
view of tlie small benefit we -derive from ItL
Hon. Mr. POIRIER moved the adjotura- Tlie papers do not publisli it as prepared,
and, appareatly, do not desire to record
mient of thie debate.
'uvlat la going on ia the Senate, anmd the
Tlie motion was agreed to.
26J

SENATE
amount pald for preparing this report Is
more than it is really worth. We pay the
reporter some W4 a week, even when the
House sits for but a short time or when it
Io adjourned for weeks. Some other means
rnight be adopted to popularize the Senate
and bring our debates before the country
ln a manner creditable to, tbe Senate. 1
have, therefore, moved for this return, and,
when 1 get it, we may be in a position to
maIre somne suggestions to the House for
an Improvement. We cannot expect that
Under the present systern the Senate will
receive that consideration at the hands rf
the press that it ought to receýive. The Debates Cornmittee have, or pretend to have,
absolute power to employ any one they
please, and fix the salary. 0f course they
must corne to the Senate to get approval
of It, whereas the appolntrnent of other
employees of the House has to corne before
the Comrnittee on Internai Economy. The
Debates Cormlittee adopte a different
course.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The hon, gentleman
bas flot answered the last question.
Hon. Mr. -SCOTT-They have been asked
how soon they wiil maIre their report, and
it bas been promised frorn Urne to time. 1
believe It li ln press now.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I asked If the goverfiment had taken any measures to make
the commission understand that this report
bas been expected for some time ?
Hon. Msr. ;SCOTT-And I answered the
other day that the government had asked
when the report would be presented, and
that It had been promised from Urne to
Urne. The last reply 1 had was that the report was la press.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (AA) An Act for the relief of Andrew Walker.-Mr. Prost.

THE GEORGIAN BAY CANAL.
DEBATE POSTPOKED.
The motion was agreed to.
The order of the day belng called:
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
Resuming the adjourned debate on the
motion of the Hon. Mr. Casgrain, that hie will
INQUIRY.
eall the attention of the Senate to, the imthe
Hon. Mr. LANDRY lnquired of the goy. portance to, Canada ofcanal, early construction
and will inquire
of the Georgian bav
ernrnent:
of the government if the report of the survey
be laid before the
1. How many sittings has been held by the made of that waterway will
Civil Service Commission since their appoint- Senate during the present session.
ment ?
Hon, Mr. BELCOURT xnoved that the Or2. At what places and how many sittings
at each place?
der of the Day be discharged, and that it
3. When does the government expect to
order of the day for tohave a report fromn t he said commissioners? be made the flrst
4. Has t he goverament taken any measures, rnorrow.
or. made any efforts, to, maIre this commission
Some hon. GENTLEMEN-No, no, let it
understand that its report lias been waited
for for a long time P
take its turn.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I have an addreý5s
Hon. Msr. 9COTT-The number of joint
sIttings held was 140. 0f these 125 were to maIre on this subjeet, which will bring
held at Ojttawa, flve at Montreal, five at somethlng new and interesting before the
Quebec, and five at Toronto.
Senate. 1 have given this matter a good
deai of study, and If it is put off until after
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What about the rethe adjourriment It will be no use. The
port ?
subjet bas been discussed ln the House of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They have promlsed Commons lately, and if anybody has anythue report from day to day. .1do not know thing to say on the subject it will be superhow soon it may be. I cannot squeeze a re- ceded by members of the House of Comport out of them. They know that the pub- mons, and the chance to bring the matter
lic and parliament are looking for their re- *properly. before the publie will be destroyed.
port The hon, gentleman does not supposE I do not menu to say that my remarks will
that the government can force a commission *bc ln opposition to the very fine speech
made by the hon. senator from De ILanaudito maIre a report ?
Hon. Mr. WILSON.

FEBIRUARY 27, 1908
-ère. This order should be the first order for
to-morrow.
Sopie hon. GENTLE MEN-No, no.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Weil, I amn going
to move to-rnorrow thnt no adjournrnent
take place untIl ail the subjects on the order
paper be fully discussed..
The motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjournied until to-morrow at
tbree o'clocic.

THE SENATE.
OTTAÂWA,

Thursday, February 27, 1908

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
AN ADJOURNMENT.
Hon. Mr. BAIRD nioved:
That when the, Sonate adjourne to-day it
du stand adjourned until Thursday, March 5.
He said : I uuderstand some hon. members have Intimated that tiiere should be
no session on Asb Wednesday, and they
would Ilke to have the tirne extended.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I second the motion,
on the understandlng that an amendment
wlll be moved.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I beg to move ln
arnendment that the Senate stand adjourned until the lOtx March, seconded by Hon.
Mr. Owens.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I prefer to support
the arnendment moved by the hon. gentleman from Wolseley. I think it is notblng
but fair that we from the western provinces sbouid bave a chance to visit or
We have been bore a considerable
homes.
Urne, and our friends [n the other Chamber
have furnisbed. us witb very 'ittie wonk.
The mountain bas laboured and has not
even produced a mosquito.
The SPEAKER-I would ask the bon.
gentleman to limit bis rernarks to the worlr
of this House.

405

journment because there wili not be very
much work for the Senate durIng the next
two or three weeks, judging from our exThis House Is properience in the past.
pared to do the work, but no wonk lias
boon donc by the othor House up to the
present tirno, and, thorefore, we have littie
We should place the biame whero
to do.
It belongs.
Hon. Mr. ROBERTSON-I wish to express my approval of the position taken
by tieclhon. Socrotary of State when this
He told ns that he
motion was made.
expected tie Frenchx treaty would be Introduced. ln this Chamber in a day or two,
and we should be hore to- receive it when
On the other band, we wbo
It cornes.
have to remain. bore do not want a long
adjournment; tho 5ti of March Is quite long
enougli, but If we are iikely to be bore
until July, let us have a long adjournment
I
at Baster wbon wo can ail go homo.
objoct entlrely to the amondront.
Hon. Mr. POWÈER-I qulte agree with
the hon. gentleman frorn Georgetown, and
wish to direct attention to this furtxor circumstanco. As a general thing, wben the
Senato bas adjourned, tbe order paper bas
At tbe prosent tirne,
beon cioarod Up.
tiougb we have beon fairly busy, thero are
a good rnany ordors on the papor, and thoro
Is flot the excuse for"adjourning that there
The
very often bas been ln the past.
botter way Is to take the short adjournment proposod by the bon. Socretary of
State and keep on working until we el
Ébat we can bave a reasonably long adjournment at Baster.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-It was
pretty Weil docided Borne sessions ago tiat
the House would only adjourn when assurod by the bonourable leader of the
Hlouse that It wouid not intorfere wlth the
I hope
progroas of the public business.
It wiil
the amondment wiil be rejected.
not be long until the Eastor holidays corne.
Tho Senate divided. on the arnondmoiit
wbicb was adopted by the followlng vote:
Contents, 29; non-contents, 28.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I rise to a question
of prIvilego.

Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I wlsb to draw a com- 1The -SPEAKER-That will corne proper.parison. We are asking for a longer ad- ly when we reacl tbe orders of tbe day.

SENATE

RULES 0F THE SENATE.
MOTION.
Hlon. Mr. DAVIS moved1
To amend raie No. 128, by strikine ont the
words 'The Sonate otherwise order, and inserting this following in lieu thereof: 'asked
by two members of th e Sonate,' so that i t may
read as follows:
128. Unless asked for by two members of
the Sonate, a private Bull reported from a
standing and select committee is not comnmitted to a committee of the whole House.
And the clerk is requested to notify the
members of the proposed 7ch ange in the tules.
He said : This motion embodies the same
principle as the one contained in the motion
mnade by my hon. frlend from Saskatchewan (Hon. Mr. Douglas) namely requirlng
that public Bilis and private Bilis when
reported from standing committee may be
referred to a Committee of the Whole
At the time of that diseussion,
Hanse.
some objection was taken to the motion
of the Hlon. Mr. Douglas because there
wvas a certain class of Bis which some
hon, gentlemen in the House thougbt should
flot go thraugh a Committee of the Wale
Hanse, and pernaps that contention may
However, there are many membe right.
bers of this bouse who would like to have
an opportunity of discussing the clauses
of certain Bis ln a Committee of the
Whole bouse. We are told that members
who wish ta get information wlth reference ta those Buis can do so by going ta
the different commIttees that are sitting
when the Bis are before those commitBut I want to point out that it is
tees.
absoiutely Impossible for ahl the members
of this bouse ta, attend the different com
For Instance two or tbree commIttees.
mittees may be sltting at the same time,
and it would be Impossible for any hon.
member to, be tn three places at the one
He, therefore, shouid attend the
time.
meeting of the committee of which he was
a member, and would not ne in a position
ta, get any Information with regard ta, the
measures before the other committees.
Under the practice un this blouse at the
present time, when the chairman of a committee presents a report ut Is adopted, and
the Bis go through, and a great many
members of this House have no opportunity
at ail of discuss!ng any of those Bis at
We are told by some bon.
that stage.
The SPEAKER

members that we can discuss the Bis on
I arn certhe motion for second reading.
tain that a great many hon. members
know as a matter of fact that one ean
get very littie Information about a Bill at
The majority of the
he second reading.
Bis presented here stand la the name of
some hon. gentleman, wbo accepts them as
a matter of courtesy, and 1 venture to, say
that one-haîf of the Bilas that are fathered
by some bon. member of the House are
Bis 0f which he knows very littie, and
when the second reading Is called, and we
are supposed to adopt the principle of the
Bill, and we ask tbe hon. member la charge
to give us some Information wlth reference
to it, he will. tell us he knows very littie
about ut. The only people who know about
When it
it are the promioters ef the Bill.
goes to, committee, It is tbreshed out there,
and wben it ls threshed out ln committee, you hear ail that Is to be said for or
against It by those who are supporting or
those wbo are opposing the measure. That
places the members of the commlttee in a
position to, be selzed of the facts, but the
rest of thé members of the House are ln a
position to, learn little about the Bill at ail.
Ail we ask in the resolution which I have
submnitted is that If any one or two members should like to discuss a Bill reported
from the Standiag Committee that they
shall have an opportunity of doing so by
requestIng that the Bill be submitted to a
Committee of the Whoie House. I observe
that there 1s an amendment proposed by
the hion. gentleman from De Salaberry,
which appears on the order paper. It has
been suggested that perhaps If this resolution were ndotted, and lt were piaced
ln the power of any two members to, have
BUis isent to a Committee of the Whoie
House, It might resuit ln obstruction. I do
not think there Is anything ln that conIf two hon. gentlemen wished to
tention.
obstruct any legislation going through the
Hlouse, I thlnkz thiey would find ample opI do
portunity under the ruies to do so.
not -think there is any hon, gentleman in
this House who desires to obstruct legislation simply for the purpose of obstructOur miles were revised a year ago,
ing It.
and we may be told that when they were revised we should not now be interfering with
I have also beard it said these rules
thern.

FEBRUARY 27. 1908
bave been the rules of the Senate for some
forty years.
I read soîne place, I do n-o
knew where, the staternent made by a
philosopher tliat wise men can always
change their minds; but another class ef
gentlemen cannot.
If the miles do flot
suit, and we find that we cau improve thern
so that we eaui have more discussion on the
legisiation, and satisfy, flot only the members ef the House, but the public at large
by maklng n change in the rules, I do flot
see wby we sbeu]ld net change them. Our
rules are flot like the laws et tbe Medes
and Persians.
We do flot have the samne
rules forever.
1 submnit that If we an
show It la beneficlal to have a rule cnanged,
we sheuld have it changed.
Ail that we
ask is that If any twe lion. gentlemen lu
this House wlsh to bave an opportunlty
of discussing auy Bill that gees through this
House, and tbey ask that It be committed
te a Cermlittec of tbe Whole House. that
that course shall be ndopted. It is net unfair.
It is a free parliament, and we have
a right te discuss everythlng that cornes
before us, and ln discussing those thtags,
It will be better for the legislation going
threugh the Flouse.
Everybedy la possessed ef some IdeRs, and when a Bill la
dlscussed la Cormlittee ef the 'Wbele where
the members have an epportunlty ef speaklng more than once, yen always i'écelve
valuable suggestions.
The question of obstruction should net be takea Into cousideratlon nt ail, because 1 #Io flot thlnk
any hon. member ef this House would ohstruet legislatien slmply fer the sake of
obstruction. There are Bis goiug threugh
this Heuse, and Bills have gene through
this Flouse la the past, In regard tu whlch
several members sittlag around me would
like to have had an epportunity te make
seme rernarks.
The Bills could net be
referred te Cornmittee et the Whole, and
they had ne opportunity et dlscussîug them.
Legisiation affectiug the part ef the country we cerne frern has gene threugh, and
members representing that part of the
country have had ne oppertunity 0f offering n suggestion at aIl.
They have a rlght
te effer suggestions, wlth regard te any
clause ef a Bi11 wbicli particularly affects
the part ef the country they represent. Iu
conclusion, 1 wish te say that if any hion.
gentleman thinks that twe members are

40'

net sufficient te demand that a Bill be ref erred I would be wllling te Increase the
number, and maIre It three or four mernbers, If that will meet the vlews of rny hon.
frieuds la ail parts ef theHjouse.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I second the motion.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I arn beartlly in accord wlth this motion, fer twe reasons. in
the first place, It: Is net a new tblng fer
me te enderse such a proposition, and In
the second place the public demand ItL
Durinig tbis session, and during previens
sessions, members ef the Senate wbe do
net beiong te certain cemmittees have had
occasion te ask the reason why certain
Bis were submitted for eur apprevai, and
In the past few
ne explanatiens given.
years tat proposition was net favourably
This year
loeked upon and ivas set aside.
one or two bon, gentlemen ef this Flouse,
who seem te be lu toncb with the needs ef
the people, nnd volce the sentiments ef the
people, have renewed the demand that reports et cornrnttees be subrnltted te a
Committee et the Whole Flouse for full and
proper discussion and In order that llght
That has been
should net be kept eut.
I find that the people ef
rny position.
Canada wbom we are snpposed te represent, demaud the same thing, and la support ef what 1 say I wlsh te quote the
opinion of a newspaper wlth the largest
circulation Iu Canada, eue whicb voices the
sentiments ef the people la a larger degree than any other journal la Canada.
This 15 what the Mentreal Star' says:
TWO SENATORIAL MISTAKES.
Tho Sonate soms.determined to create in
the publie mind the impression that it is a
enrporation-riddeu body. Aiter having vetec
down the other day a proposai- that cernmitteos declaring any works to ho «for the
general advantage et Canada' must report
their reasens in fulil te the whole Hlouse, it
again on Wednosday rejected a motion intended te, balk the ' lobby ' at another peint by
requiring ail private Bis coming frem a
standing committee o, e passed upon by 'the
comrnittee of the whole.' Tho way in whioh
this wouldl work eut is clear. When a private, Bill is accepted without rnuch question
from a standing committee, ail the 'lobby'
whioh is working for it need do is te capture
thesmall standing comrnittee; but if it had
thon te go before the committee ef the whole
Flouse, tho 'lobby' wonld have hofore it the
anch greater task et winuing over a majority et the ontire Sonate.
.But the Sonate has voted down both these
proposais intonded te, clip the claws ot the

SENATE
«lobby.'

It does flot want its railway coInmittee to be compelled to report to the full
Senate a summary of the arguments pro and
con which it heard when it decided to lift
a local raiiway out of the jurisdiction ofThe SPEAKER-I would Uike to draw the
attention of the hon, gentleman to the fact
that lie cannot read a criticlsm on the proceedings of this House fromn a newspaper.
Hon. Mr. <JLORAN-Then I shal nlot
read It; I shall express those views as
My own. Whien a prlvate Bill Is accepted
wlthout discussion At means that the in.
terests of the people are passed upon ID
the dark-, that the House Is subject to the
Influence of a lobby.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Not at ail.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Not at ail?
Hon. Mr. POWER-Certainly net.
-.

to understand that the influence of the
hobby is aecessary ln many cases to throw
liglit on legislation.
We have Buis before our committee which we do not understand wjthout the instructions and exphanations o! what -I caîl the lobby-of the
attorneys interested ia the case, and o! the
members who promote the Bill.
That is
n justifiable Influence.
Why does thie hon.
member from Halifax assume that I want
to say that Bis are subject to undue Influence?
I did not use the word undue.
The hon. senator from Ha]lifax is too ready
to raise questions of order without aay
basis whatever.
It is time lie stopped the
practîce.
I for one, and I know others
share my feeling, amn tired of this.
Hon. Mir, POWER-I eau readlly understand tliat the lion, gentleman should lie
tired o! questions of order more tlian aay
other member of the House.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Probably the hon.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I have not hiad to
gentleman- snys not at ail, without knowwîthdraw any speeches I have made.
ln, whereof lie speaks.
The SPEAKER-I would ask the hion.
gentleman as far as possible to be amenable to the ruhes so as not to produce fricHon. Mr. CLORAN-Does the hon, gen- tion ln tlie House.
tleman know for the whole House or for
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I can be as miid as
himself personally?
a hamb wlien 1 amn not attacked, but I do
Hon. Mr. POWER-I rise to a question not want statements put in my montAi that
of order.
The hon, gentleman bas stated 1 have not uttered.
I am speaking of
that the reports of the committees of this something ln the lnterest of tlie House and
House are iafluenced by the lobby; that ls o! the people o! Canada, and arnprepared to
a reflection upon ahl the members of the show that tlie organs o0f public opinion la
committees of this House and is therefore Canada have condemned votes taken in
out of order.
this House two or three weeks ago. I arn
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The Influence 0f the told by His Honour the Speaker that we
hobby may f;e perfectly justifiable; but we cannot quote expressions of a public opinwant to know the justification of the in- ion whichi are criticisms o! what lias taken
place ln this House.
I submit humbly,
fluence.
and with a great deal of diffidence to the
Hon. Mr. POWER-I persist An my point decision of the chair.
That decision ls to
of order.
be respected for the present; but If lt is
The SPEAKER-The hon, gentleman te be maintsined with regard to aIl discannot refer to what takes place ln com- cussions, then lt wIill Ilmit debate very
mittees, nor speak dlsparaginghy of the conslderabiy la thIs Chamber. This House
conduct of senstors In committees, unless has placed ltself ln opposition to the public
interest by Its action In the past.
Tolie brlngs a charge.
day It bas a chance to redeem lts position
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I do not wlsh to by adopting this motion.
I amn making
speak disparag-Ingly of anybody, but the -a contra aI between what lias takea place
hon. senator from Halifax says 1 want to and whaî I hope wIli take place to-day.
do so.
I shouhd like the hon. gentleman The hon. senator from Saskatchewan is
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do.
than the hon, gentleman.

1 know better

FEBRUARY 27. 1908

40

asking- frorn this House the righit to discus not aware tljat a dernnnd to refer a private
matters of publie Interest on whicb be bas Bill to a Comrnittee of the Wbole House
I would have exbad no occasion prevlously to express an bias ever been refused.
What can be pected that the membera la favour of aubopinion bere or elsewbere.
Is it tbat commit- mitting- private Bills to n Committee of the
objectionabie ln tliat?
tees which report Bis are afraid of open, Wbole Houae would have suggeated that
That Is what the people tbnt course be adopted, and had teated the
free discussion?
In my opinion tbey are justified feeling of this honourable Hlouse for the
thiak.
in thinking tbat something is wrong. That purpose of ascertalnlng wbetber the ruIe
ls a position wbich 1 do flot wiab to bold really required to be changed or not. I do
myseif ln personally, arna that is wny I flot tbiak really that the rule'needsanny
I arn In accord with the deaire
bave taken the stand I arn explalning to- change.
If the bon. Speaker bad oniy ai- that, If occasion sbould arise, opportunity
day.
lowed me to quote the opinion of the Mont- sbould be given for discussion on private
real 1Star'1 witb Its circulation of over Bis la Commlttee of the Whole, but to
100,000 copies and four to flve rendera of my mInd the ruie need not be changed for
I believe that the leader of this
eacb, representlng from a quarter to a balf that.
a million readers ln Canada be would bave House would be wllilng to grant any mensseen that public opinion la directed againat onable requeat o! that kind, and, therefore,
us on account of our own foolisbness in I would bave much preferred that the hon.
flot opeaing our eyes to the wantsannd member !rom Sakatchewan abould wnit
But I arn debnrred before maklng bis motion until some neneeda of tbe public.
from putting on the records of thia House cessity was abown for. cbanging the mules.
tbe opinion of over n quarter of a million However. since be bas ndopted a dIfferent
of tbe people of tbis country. It la a pity course, it becomea my duty to move an
I have no objection 1» prithat a young man like myself sbould be ameadment.
obliged to stand on the floor of parliarnat vate Bis belng re!erred to a Committee
and ak to have the rIghts of the people of the Whole House, but If the mule were
I feel myself-I will flot say ameaded ns propoaed by the bon, gentlerespected.
abasbed-for when standing up for wbat is man frm Sakatchewan It might lead to
right a man is neyer nbasbed and neyer miscbievous results, especlally nt the end
afraid-but I feel a Ilttie lonesorne wbeii o! the session, and might be the mens of
A conalderable part
combatting for this principle wben I find blockIag leglalation.
that older men witb vnst Interests ln this of the legisiation cornes up near the end
country, and large experlence of public of the session, and of necesaIty the rules
life, seem to bave fallen out o! touch with have to be suspended to enable us to pasa
If tbe rule were cbanged as
Tbey forget that ail the Buis.
the people of Canada.
this country Is a democratic country, and, proposed by tbe hon. senator !rom Sasas our leader aaid, a democrntic country to katcbewan, It jwould be the mens of blockthe bult. 1 do flot wiab to blame or asperse iag legialation to sncb an exteat that the
them for their attitude; it la the resuit of mule would bave to be repealed. I therebabit and custom, and we know tbat It la fore deem It my duty to move an amendmore difficult to get rid of a eustom, or a ment that the following words be ndded to
habit than It is to get rid of a particular the motion:
vice. Under the circumstances, 1, with the
If this ameadment lsandopted, nny mempeople of the country beblad mie, aak thia
ber of the House rnny move to have a -Bill
honourable House not to repent tbe mistake it bas made ln the past and to con- referred to a Committee of tbe Whole ; but
sent to let full light ln on subjects debated, It will remnin the right of the majoritY
I wIll flot say privately, but la close quar- nt any time to suspend that mile for the
tera before saal committees, If boa. mem- balance o! the session.
bers wish to bave these matters brougbt
Hon. Mr. KERR-Tbat abould not be
before the wbole House.
a dded to the ameudment, but ndded to the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I have been sitting
la this Chamber for six years, aad I arn rule.

SENATE
Hon. M,%r.
LANDLIY-The amenament ofI lie Salabermy is necessary.
By mule 30
my bon. friend is adapteci to the rule as wve cau suspend the miles at any time, and
if we are going to change the rule at ail
amen ded.
it is a very simple, and, I think, harmless
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes.
one, to provîde thant any two unembers who
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I would ask my ask for it shalh have a right to have a
bion. friend if hie could flot alter bis amend- private Bill refemmed to a Committee of the
IL might be that these two memnment so that we could understand what Whole.
bers, or even one member migbt possess
he means by 'the balance of the session.'
Suppose the first day of the session a information whichi siuould. be elicited. before
motion of that kind is made, and a request a Commlttee of the Wboie. It might affect
Is made to rcfer a report on a private Bill bis constituents, and lu view of the tact
that only n simili number of our members
to a Committee of the Whole; would that
rest of the session would can be on'the partictnlar coininittee dealing
menu thiat ail the
with the Bill. It is only reasonable that
be counted the balance of the session?
any two members sbould have tbe right to
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It would be lu the bave the Bill referred to n Committee of
power of this House to adopt what 1 sug- the Whole. Then wilh the power we bave
It ls not to be sup- to suspend any mile or part of a mule, we
gest at nny time.
posed, however, that the House would can accompliali wbat the bon. senator fromn
W e cannot fix nuy uay D)e Salaberry asks for by lils nmendment,
abuse its power.
wben this powe~r inay have to be exercised. without encuinbering the iiile with ail these
and, therefore, I do not think it advisable words whichi are rather puzziing.
It Is
to adopt any other wordlng.
going back through the samne hiole by wblcb
Tbe simple way Is the one
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We might follow we entered.
I was not
proposeLl by tbe amendment.
the course that Is usually pursued towards
in the House when the larger question was
the close of the session.
The House deand settied adversely, but If 1
cides that for the balance of the session discussed
had been. I should bave voted against It.
such and such ruies are suspended. That
wouid be a fair way to attain the object But thîs proteets a mlnorlty, and a very
smail minority, In their right, flot to force
my hon. frîend bas in view, and the House
having that power theme is no object ln their vlews on the House. but ln their rilht
to have a Bill thomoughly discussed, and I
tnaking the amendment.
think. we mighit pass It very well ln the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-As mile 128 now wny ln which it bas been submltted.
rends It is subject to a9 majority nf the
Hon. Mr, DOUGLAS-As I bad the
The effect of my amendment wili privilege a few Weeks ng0o0f stlbmittlng
House.
As It Is, it r- a motion very much of the sane nature,
be to reverse the order.
quîmes the consent of a majority of the I wish to say that I stili approve of the
House to send a private Bill to a Commit- prîncîple of the motion suggested by the
According to tbe mo- hon, gentleman from Saskatcbewan, and for
tee 0f the Whole.
Lion, and with the amendment the rule the very reason given by the bon. unover
would be reversed, but would be subject of the amendment.
He bas stated that
to the wili of the mai ority.
in the last days of the session it might be
LANDRY-Tlie effect is this; a1source of trouble; that the House might
Hon. MmNf.
you give to two senators the iglit to refer not be able to get tbrough with iLs business.
a Bill to Committee of the Whole, but at Prom my own expemience 1 may say that
the saine time, you say they have no rig-bt 1 consider ourselves to be aIl honourable
nt aIl because tlue majority may decide gentlemen, bonest and sincere; but la IL
xîot n fact that lu a bodv~ like this, whether
against themi.
l iL be parIiamentary or otherwise, you wli

Honi. Mr. BEIQUE-Not for an indlvi- find men who are not hionest and who are
UdI

DII.111:

nV

for

te

IwIiU.

Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON-I do not thinki
the iniendinent of thie lion. senator fini
Hlon. Mlr. KER.

1not

sincere, and whio bave designs. and iL

is our duty as prudent mnen to prevent thie
dishionest individual froni gainiug advan-

FEBRUARY 2,7. 1908

411

Neither does the motion reflect upon
il.
tages ln the last days of the session ? 1 a
Lie standing of the court or the hoaour o!
know of hasty legisiation that bas gone t]
and t)Lie court or any metaber 0f it; but we hold
through the House of Commnsl
tot be a sacred riglit which I claim. I
through the Senate ln years gone by that i1
it now h ave liere or anywhere else, that If 1 have
was mIschievous, and If the raie as
a vote and represent my people,
Is stands unaltered you can deny one or t o cast
to a.nd assume the responsihiiity o! casting it,
two members of a committee permission
bat I ought to have the opportunity of
Investigate a particular Bill, wbere they t
considering it and having it thoroughly
If they have suspicions,
have suspicions.
and under the existing state of
they should have the right to ask this c'onaidered,
t hings, the privilege of knowing what is
House to allow them the privilege of statinvolved ln a Bill Is flot given to us
Ing the reasons wby they have suspicions, r eally
i f we allow It to pas la the ordinary way.
and to warn bon. gentlemen to be careful
nlot say that every Bill should be disIn exercisIng their power in "connection I do
at ail. I amn
<~ussed clause by clause-flot
We ail -know that
with such legislation.
It to the judgof legIsiation many privatei )erfectly willng to leave
la the history
of this honourable House, but I wish
Bis have heen held back titi the last hours .nent
prIvilege, the,
because they may be t:o retain the opportunity, the
of the session, just
rlght, If I feel so disposed, If tbere la anykept In the clark, and that these designing
wrong wlth the Bill, that I may have
parties-I arn net saying they are members thing
an opportunity of stating the reasons why
of the House at ail-the designing parties
vote for the Bill, and that la cermay ln that way get measures through the I cannot
taiflly my right as a member of this House.
House in lts dying hours, because of this
see why the House should hesitate
rush, and la that way gain an adatage I do flot
for a moment ln allowing two members of
that may nlot be for the Interests of the
to asic that a Bill ahould be decountry, nor yet to the credit of! the legis- this body
tained for a short time untIl it was looked
lature whicli allows tbera to do so. I amn
carefully. I ahaîl support the motion.
flot going to say anything about thec motion lnto
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The hon. gentleman
voted clown ln the past, because we do not
who bias just resumed his seait seemas to lareflect on the past action of the Senate;
with regard
but my reason for opposing the amend- bour under a misapprehension
to tbe duties of hon. members of this House.
ment la the very reason that the mover of
It la be- In the first place we are supplied with a
the amendment gives to-day.
Bill nnd eometimes before It
cause there la a posslbility under this copy of every
reading objection la tsken.
submitted by the bon. gentleman receives ita second
motion
to a Bill becauise it la not printed ln French.
from. Sùskatchewan, la the very last rush
Every hon. member of this House huas thereof the session, for any individual who may
fore an oppoI'tuflity of 9tudying the details
have suspicions well grounded, to have the
of the RIi. and If any bon, gentleman was
opportunity of making statements to this denied the right to go before eny committoe
House and having the attention o! the and state bis grievances there, then there
I cannot see that
House called to theni.
mighlieb gorne good reasons for makiag this
It refiects on the dignity of the Hlous to ameadment; but 1 hold it la the bounden
give this right to any two members who dnit' of every hon. inember of this House,
are supposed not to be seeking to obstruct, when he knows there la somnething wrong la
unless they have reason for obstructing- a Bill to appear before the committee to
and It they have reasons for obstructing whieh It iq referred and give bis reasons for
they ought to obstruct.
objecting to It. I arn bound to say that If
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The hon. gentle- bis objections are of such a nature as to
ma wili observe that this ruIe bas only comnmand the respect of tihe committee, they
reference to private Bis, and private Bis woffld lie far more ready to acquiesce la bis
rarely appear lu this House at the close suggestion than they would be la a Coinuof the session; therefore there is no neces- rnittee of the whole House.«
Hon. Mi.CLOIIAN-Supposing he fanda It
sity for the ameudment.
bas
amn makiug It out after the report of the committee
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-I
been macle, what is lie goiag to do?
appiy-on general princIpies to any Bill at

SENATE
in a f ew
Hon. Mr. POWER-Hle cau brIng lt up presented by a certain paper, and
minutes lie dropped down to a quariter of a
at the third reading.
million. -He is backlng down gradually. I
Hlon. Mr. GIBSON-He can make bis obbave been more dellghted. to have
jection at the third rending. Yon already 'would
hlm raise the nîuber frorn 500,000 to a milbave ail t.be prIvileges you are now asklng
But be that as It may, this
without any arnendment o! ie rules at ahl. lion people.
chamber le constItuted. to protect 't.e rigbts
You are going to introduce into ithis House
irrespective of pubthe sarne condition of affaire that exisîts in of the people of Canada,
lic opinion, to do what Is rlghit in the préthe House o! Commons of reviewing
and when an
a Bill that has already been reviewed mises. We may be criticlsed,
made against the Senate
by tbe comrnittee, and givlng hon. mern- adverse criticlsrn le
of bon. gentlemen wlthin
bers an opportunlty o! dlscussing it over there are plenty
of this chamber to defend the
again. That imigb.t be ali rilht If there the precîncte
honour of the Senate at any tirne. We need
were any serious objection to the Bill, and
flot be aliarrned tat any hasty legisiation
the miember who bas a serions objection to
1 amn
ever passes through this House.
the Bill at present, under existing miles,
of ithis House,
bis objections to It on bound to say. as a member
bas a rigbt to volce
and attendiug the comittee. meetIngs, that
the third readlng, and I arn bound to say
gentleman, 'wheare of a valid char. I Ïhave neyer heard any hon.
that If his objections
ther be was a member of the committee or
acter, tbe members of this House, either ln
indeed we go furtbe Private Bis Cormlittee or any other not, refused a hearing.
ther than that, we shlow members from the
committee wll lilten to birn, and so wili
House of Commons to corne bere and discuss
tbe members o! the House as a body. Take
and public Bills whicb tbey are infor Instance the Divorce Cornrittee. Thes private
so far as the rnembers
The members of the terested la. go that,
bring ln a -report.
of ouz own House le concerned, every latiHouse are treated witb tbe confideatial reIs given to them, and we
part o! that commlttee. Would it be tude and liberty
extend thait liberty also to mernbers of the
wisdomn on tbe part of this House for
branch of parliament, and to gentletwo bon. gentlemen to rise and ask some fur- other
men who corne bore to represent the luther explanation from tbe committee wben
of promoters of private Bis.
tbey are mot demled the opportumlty of at- terests
temdlig the meeting of the committee? Sorne
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I bave a few words
of the bon. members wbo want amendmeats to say ln answer to the rernarks of the
made to the mules ef the House do -net feel bon, gentleman wbo bas just spoken. Hle
dlsposed to waste the 'time nt cornmittee says wbat a sharne it would be to refer tbe
meetings; lu fact some o! tbern neyer attend reports 0f the Divorce Commlttee to'a Corncomrnlttee meetings. and ln order to save rnittee of the Wbole House.
He urges
their preclous time or to enve trouble, fliey
that as an argument against adoptlng the
want a chance to review or criticise tbe
resolution of tbe bon. gentleman frorn AsBills before this Hlouse. During the six
if tbe other commitsinibola, and why?
years I bave been lu the Senate I have neyer
tees would do wbat the Divorce Commitbeard the House refuse to allow any hon.
Let
we would flot ask for it.
gentleman to express bis opinion upon any tee does,
them. print the evldence and the conclusubjeet, wbether o! a public or private chairwhat is going
acter. The mules have been carefýully revlsed sions, and then we will know
But It is flot
before the comrnittee.
by every member of the Senate. Theyý bave on
worked well lu the past, and I see no good necessary sbould two members ask to bave
meason for the arndment proposed by the a divorce case examlned, for us to do lt
I have known divorce
hon. gentleman frorn Saskatchewan. Under with open doors.
the exlsting rules every bon. gentleman bas Bills to be granted when 1 know lu my
ail the rights and powers that tbe hon. mein- soul tbey were flot deserved, but 1 couid
ber now dernands as a mlght. Tbe rigb.t le not discuss tbern.
Other members could
given to hir nmow. There is no need 'to ex- not discuss tbem.
Tbey bad to be swaltend tat rigbt. My hon. friend frorn Montlowed bolus bolus, tbougb I knew the Bis
real spoke about the constituency of bai! R
but I could not discuss tbern.
million people that lie represents, or is re- were wrong,
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

FEBRUARY 27, 1908

413

Hou. Mr. POWELl-I bave a sub-nmendHon. Mr. GIBSOIN-Wliy did you uot ohment wbicb 1 propose to move, but
ject?
before doing that I sbould like to
Hon. Mr,. CLORAN-On account of the say a few words. 0f course this
scandai, wbich was more to be feared than matter was discussed at consîderable
swallowing my.own conscience, so to speak. lengtb on the motion made some weeks
If It were necessary ago by the bon, gentleman from Âssiniboia,
That Is the reason.
to discuse the divorce BUis, we coult. .do and -I do not think it [s necessary to go
it wltb closed doors, but the Divorce Cern- over ail tbe arguments wbicb were used
Tliey then. Sometbing bas been sald as to the
mittee give us enougb to go on.
print thelr evîdence and the conclusions, want of wisdoma of the man who does
and the reasons wby they make such a re- not change bis mmnd. There ls anotber
The bon. gentleman saylng, by the way, that n loud laugbi beport to the House.
from Beamsville says that every bon. gen- trays the vacant mmnd; but I shal nlot aptleman is at perfect liberty to tbresh out ply that quotation to anybody.
I quite
what le ln the Bill. Certainly we are, but ngree lu that.
The man wbo, wben reason
there Is so mucb between the Unes that It ls sbown to change bis mind, ls not willlng
takes a good lawyer or clever business man to change it, ls certainly not a wlse man;
te find. out wbat le la tbem, and It ls only but I think be la anytblug but a wise man,
wben they are tborougbly thresbed out, and just the reverse of a wlse man, wbo
wben you bave the opponents and support- changes bis mind wben no reason is sbown
ers of the Bill -face to face that you can for changlng It.
Is that not the case bere?
really find wbat is ln>tbem ln many cases. Here ts this rule whlcb bas been ln operaHe says that every hon. member bas the tien s0 long, framed by the wlsdom of the
Please do Senate, lntroduced wben, probably, senaright to go to the committee.
It tors were not as wise as they are now; but
not advance that argument any more.
ls a matter of lmposslbillty for ail isenators bere ls the fact; net one bon. gentleman
to attend more than one committee at a bas sbown n single case ln wbich this rule
They have other business to ao and bas led to any abuse. Then wby caîl upon
tîme.
other cominittees to attend to, and it ls a us to say we are fools, If we do not change
filmsy argument to say that we have a our minds?
rigut to attend the committees. We have
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-We are nlot supthe Inherent rlght, but we are not ln a
I agree wlth posed to review the past action of thxe Senphysical position to do so.
If you wlsh us te cite cases we can
the hon, gentleman from &sslnlbola that ate.
It is the sacred right of every public man find tbem.
to know the facts on whicb a Bill ls based
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbe bon. gentleman
before being called upon to vote on it. We does not make any point there.
If the
We
are adjournlng for want of business.
bon, gentleman asks ifor a change ln Our
say we have no 'business, and we refuse procedure, be bas to show some failure ln
The bon. gen- our procedure ln t he past, and If be can
to give ourselves business.
tleman says the committees do their work. point to no fallure be bas no ground on
-No doubt about It but wben other mem- wbich to demand a change.
I was rather
bers of this Flouse want to know wbat a amused et one bon, gentleman who told us,
comfmittee bas done, tbey should be gîven that I tbink It was a haif million people,
Under tbe
the opportuuity of discussion.
called for this change, and la order to show
rules an hou. gentleman cannot discus
the accuracy of the bon. gentleman!s figures,
wbat bas taken place ln committee, and
he went down ln the course of bis remarks
to-day, accordlng to the decision, we canfrom haif a million to a quarter of a milnot discuse anythlng that bas been enacted
lion.
These decisions are beginla the past.
ning to limit the rigbt of public discussion,
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-If the hon, gentleand If the attitude assumed by the bon. man wIll permit mesenator and those wbo thlnk like hlm lin
Hon. Mr. POWER-WiII the bon. gentlethis House. ts correct, we stilI wlll bE
man allow me to Proceed?
again under the reprimand of the people.

SEINATE
Hou. Mr. POWER-I do nlot thilk that
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I shall not go on1
I mise to a point Of any ground bas been shown for a change
record lu thnt way.
lu these miles; but as the mind of the
order.
House, and the mlnds of bon, gentlemen
Hon. Mr. POWER-What Is it?
may have been somewhat unsettled by the
Hon. Mm. CLORAN-Tbe interpretation eloquence whlcb tbey have listened ta, and
I used the expression by the ameudments whicb bave been ofof what I sald.
quarter of a million, and immediately after fered, I beg to move lu amendment ta the
ameudment, seconded by the Hon. Mr,
sald balf a million.
rilits:
Hon. Mm. POWER-I accept the bon.
Tbat the proposed alteration in rule 128
It [s only the difgentlemani's statement.
and the amendment thereto to moved by the
ference between Tweedledum and Tweedle- hon. gentleman from De Salaberry be referred
dee. He sald a quarter of a million, a 'nd to the committee on standing orders to consider and report.
then lmmediately ralsed It to balf a million.
The rule will receive more careful conHon. Mm. CLORAN-I refuse to bave
sideration there than yon ean give it In
I said
these words put lu iny month.
House.
1 said the circula- the
notblug of tbe klnd.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-1 really do nlot
tion of that paper was .100,000, an average
of five eaders to a paper, and that made see any reason for sending this matter to
It Is a
the Standing Orders Committee.
baîf a million.
We know as mucb
veéy simple matter.
Tbe SPEAKER-Tbe hou. geutieman eau
about it as they eau posslbly know. .We
only rise and speak, while a speech Is in
bave been dlscusslug it (for a wbile, and
pmogress, wlth tbe permission of the bion.
I tbink we bad better corne to a conmember wbo bas the floor.
clusion about it.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbe hon, gentleman
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-There are so many
stated-and 1 am lu the hearlng of tbose
to the
amendments and amendments
who listened to him-tbat there were 250,I must
then amendmnents to this resolution that
000 readers of the Montreal 'Star,' and
I
say I do not know just wbere I amn at.
be amended thnt statement by saying tint
believe tbat T struck Lt better than I irnIs tint correct?
there were 500,000.
ugined, when I moved tbis mesolution, on
Hon. Mr. CIÀORAN-If you ask me, I account of the interest that I observe is
sRy no, It is nlot correct.
given to it biy some bon. members of thîs
Tbe last bon. gentleman who
House.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Then I witbdraw the spoke after the lion. gentleman whu moved
Anything te get rid of tbe
statement.
the amendment to the amendment, lu disJust thiuk of tbe argubon, gentleman.
cussIug the resolution said that he did not
ment that the(re are 500,000 meaders of the see any meason for wlse men ta change
'Star' wbo express tbe views tbe bon, gen- their minds so far as this resolution was
tleman proposed ta read. to the House. Does coucemned; that we dld not give any reatbe bon, gentleman not know tint these soas wby sucb a mesolution sbould be
are not necessnrily tbe views of the meaders adopted or tbis mule changed, and lie wantof the ' Star'1; that they are slmply the ed, I suppose, to dig back into the past bisviëws of the gentleman wbo wrote tbat tory of this House.
I do not propose to
article lu the 'Star', and he may not mepre- dig bacit into tbe past blstory of tbis House,
sent tbe views of teu men besides bimself; but If the bon, gentleman wlsbes me to
and, furtbem, I do flot -now just wbat tbE cite case,ý 1 shall cite tbem. I proved conpolities of the Montreal ' Star' are now, clusively In thls Honse. only about a year
but I do not tblnk the bon, gentleman hlm. ag-o, that a private Bill, a railroad Bill at
self would be prepamed to accept the viewe that, was railroaded tbmougb a commlttee
of the Montreal 'Star' upon political ques. of this Hanse, and that lt became law, and
tions.
had the cousent of tbe Govemnor Genemal ten
Hon. Mm. DAVIS-No polities lu thik days before the notice that was requlred
I proved that
byv the rules bai expired.
House.
Bon. Mr. POWER.

FEIBRUARY 27. 1908
Thiat amneudment
lat year, aud I think I arn correct lu say- tor from De Salaberry.
lug that we have a perfect right to discuss la sirnply drawlng a red herring across the
We here demand the right to refer
the legislation, aud when .we want to hold tral.
Up a Bill and discuss it ln Comn- a Bill to a Comrnittee of the Whole House,
mlttee of the Whoie, we have a rlght but when I move for hils simple rnatter of
Wlth regard to the arguments right we have an arndment and an
to do It.
of the hou, gentlemen opposed to my amendment to the amendrnent, and last but
resolution, there is nothing ln them. not least we are asked to carry Vis matWe were told by the hon. senator froin ter to Vie highest court that is Vie ComThe Committee on Rulei§
Bearnsvllle that we had the rigbt at the rnittee on Rules.
present Uie, on the third reading of a forrnulated this ruIe; does any one expect
Bill to dlscuss the measure then before us that Viey will go back on wnat they have
That le all rlght so far as he le doue?
at wili.
concerned, but I amn here speaking for myHon. Mr. POWER-The Comrnittee on
self, and I sny I do nlot and cannot get Rules was a apecial cornrittee, and a
sufficlent time for proper discussion of totally different comrnlttee from the Comthose Bis on the third reading. If he la mIttee on Standing Orders.
satisfied I arn not, and tiere are other
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I do not see any neI de nlot
senators who are not satisfied.
cessity for submIttlng this resolution ta
see wbat there Is ln this motion that should
it la merely asking for a
Stated ia plain language, anybody.
ralse objection.
We are asking for no privisimple rigit
certain Bis reported to this House frorn
hon, gentlemen
pass without many members lege, yet we are toid by
committees,
on the other side that we cannot have Viat
They sny
knowlng anythlng about them.
denied free discuswe would lîke to know what we are voting right, that we must be
sion. I neyer heard a more childlsh thing
on, but -when they ask for Information they
on Vie Lancaster Bill
are told that no allusion can be made to than the discussion
as to whether It should be referred to a
what goes on tu the commîttees. We are
Hlouse or not.
taken, so to speahk, by the throat, and told Commlttee of Vie Whole
That discussion lasted for about an heur.
' Yon bon. gentlemen who do not belong
I propose, any two,
to the committee have no right to know Under the rule that
members could have had It referred to a
I take Issue witb
what is ln that Bill.'
If any two CormlIttee of Vie Whole and saved time
hon. members on that point.
I can readily understand
members wLsh to have a Bill subrnltted and discussion.
that sorne hon, gentlemen who are the
to a Cornmittee of the Wbole Blouse for
of wisdorn, and who are
further consideration they should have a fountain head
oracles and some of whom are the fathers
If any legisperfect rlght to dernand it.
want any one to lay
lation cornes before a committee of which of Vie mules, do not
They
sacreliglous hands on Vie mules.
I arn not a member, I dlaim as a rlgbt,
made Vie rules and do not want themn
and as a duty to the people I represent,
That Is ail very well, but when
that I should be perrnitted to refer that changed.
we as representatives of the people ask te
Bill to a Comrnittee of the Whole lieuse.
changed s0 Viat we can have
What haiîm can It do? M%~ are told that have the mule
opportunities to dîscuss the legisiation that
It mighit cause obstruction near the end
before us, we should not be met with
of the session; and, to prevent that, the *cornes
hon. senator frorn De Salaberry moves an thîs opposition.
I amn
Hon. Mr. DAVID-If I undemstand tlie
arnendrnent that means nothlng.
nlot as 'wise as the hon. senator frorn Hall- *motion of Vie hon, gentleman, it means
fax wlio stands- Up here day after day *that any two members of this Hlouse may
reeking with wisdorn; I do not understan1 oblige the Hlouse, even against is wlsh,
the ruies of the Hlouse as well as lie does to go into a Cornrittee of Vie Wbole?
but I thlnk that under our rules, should
Hon. Mm. DAVIS-Yes.
this motion of mine be adopted, the Hous(
can have it suspended at aay timie wlthoul t Hon. Mr. DAVID-If it does nlot mean
If It does not
-that It means nothing.
the arnendrnent proposed by the hon. sens

SENATE
mean that, would the hon. gentleman bave
any objection to addlng two or three words
Then
-1 Wlth the consent o! the House '?
auy two members would have a right to
move that the Bill be referred to a Committee of tbe Whole with the consent of
I must admit there la somethe House.
tblng in the arguments of tbe boa, gentleman and hi$ friends la faveur of the moThere la no hnrm lu giving every
tion.
At the same
facillty to dWsuss a Bill.
time, I 'would net likle to put the House,
towards the end of the session, at the
Therefore,
mercy o! any two members.
If tbe hon. member Is willing to add the
two or tbree words I have -suggested, I do
nlot see that tbere Is any objection to the
motion.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I understand the
Even supposHouse cau always control.
ing we adopt the ameadment of the hon.
senator !rom De Salaberry, I do not see
bow that la going to better the position.
Tf my motion is adopted, the ruhe will rend,
'Unless asked for by two members of the
Senate, a private Bill reported from a
standing or select committee Is not conlmitted to a Committee of the W'hole Hlouse.'
But the whole House can suspend that rule
any time they Ifke.
Hlon. Mr. KÇ-ERR-I wlsh to state why 1
latend to, vote against the motion. I have
been a member o! this House long enough
to bave wltnessed here something o! the
effort which is frequently nmade to bhock
Bis lu committees, and lu the other House.
That practice bas been more apparent towards the ead o! tbe session, and when
prîvate Bis have been more or less op'We
posed la the standing committees.
hear sometimes reflections upon the procedure of this House and of the other
Chamber, and although we are not calied
upon to pass any Judgment upon proceedlngs elsewhere, we are perhaps not alone
ln tblnking that reflections might be cast
upon efforts at obstruction frequently made
I
both la committee and la the House.
fear that this is just one means by which
I
such a course would be encouraged.
say that because I do not k-now of any case
that has ever occurred, since I have been
a member o! the Senate. la which a request
Hon. Mr. DAVID.

made to go into Coinmittee of the Whole
bad been refused.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I will state a
The Lancaster Bill of last year. I
case.
moved myseif tbat it be sent to a Committee of tbe.Whole House and sny motion
was voted down.
Hon. Mr. KERR-That was flot a private
Bill and an entirely different matter.
Hon.
worse.

',%r.

CLORAN-It

was

ail

the

Hon. Mr. KERR-No, because, as a matter of tact, the Lancaster Bill was deait
with here as It wouid bave been deait
ýwith ln Committee of the Whole. Had
we spent a week discussing it In Committee of the Wbole it would nlot bave changed
the decision. Until some case la made
for changing the present rule, we had better leave well enough alone, and wben a
case does occur, ani any one bas a grievance, I shall be the first to stand Up to assist hlm ln having tbat grievance removed.
But, until that takes place, t. is unnecoming for the Senate to have discussion after
discussion and motion after motion on the
same question. It 1s thîs constant discussion over rules and points of order which
tends to bring discredit upon the manner
ln which we conduct business in thîs ChamEveryone is aff orded facility ln thîs
ber.
Hlouse to kaow ail about tbe legisiation
comiag before us.
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS--I wish to call the
attention o! the hou. gentleman from 'Toronte to a case which occurred in
1903. A railway Bill was submitted la
the House of Commons and passed that
body and was sent to tbe -Senate and passIn the
ed la the last days of tbe session.
Commons It contained no clause deaiing
with the question of demurrage-the detenThe reason
tion of cars beyond 24 bours.
for leavIng It out was to place the farmer
in tbe same position on the question of demurrage as every other business- man la
Canada; but the Senate, la It& wisdom, la
the rush of business, allowed a clause to be
iatroduced fixing the charge against the
farmer for demurrage at 25 cents an hour.
That was on the verv last day of the session, and I cal] the attention o! the leader

FEBRUAIIY 27, 1908
the adoption of a report 'Not rnere]y forIf that rifle were
malinlais character.'
acted upon, and not superseded *by a forni
of proceeding -%vhich aflows it to pass without a dny's notice, then I would oppose
the motion of niy hon. friend; but, as It
is now, this mule wbich should prevail over
the procedure, does not prevail. The mule
Is very obscure, 1 grant. It Is vemy difficuit If not impossible to find ont what is
ineant by 'Not merely formai lu its char1 would deem a report nîot mereir
acter.'
Hon. Mr. POWER-I gather frorn the formailu ints chamacter Is a report on a
way the lbon, gentleman speaks of this Bill Bill. The subject of the repoit Is a Bill,
that It was a public Bill.
and aay Bill reported to the House, amended or without amendment, Is a report that
Hoin. Mr. DOUGLAS-It does nlot mat- Is not mereiy formai ln its character.
ter.
The SPEAKER-I draw the hion. gentleHon. Mr. POWER-Every public Bill bas
man's attention to the forms of proceeding
to go to a Comuiittee of the Whole In the
which have been circuiated and adopted by
It affects the hou. gentleman's
Senate.'
la years gone by, which was
In order to show how badly the Senate
illustration.
cited to the House by the hon. senator froni
this. rule, whichi deais wlth private Bis,
Halifax as preciuding even the necessity
works, the hon. gentleman briags up the
of n formai motion for the adoption of a
case of a public Bill.
report where a Bill Is reported without
principle is- any ameadment. I adjourned the quesHon. Mr. DOUGLAS-The
My contention ln pro- tion wbilh was maised, to ascertaîn if there
equally applicable.
moposing changes to mile 128 bas been to pre- was even a necesslty for a notice of
vent anything of the kind occurring again. tion before the adoption of a report.
If we search lato the history of the past
.Hon. Mr. POIRIER-That 1 amn perfectly
-we could find other cases. 1 see no wrong aware of, and it is why I Bay theme Is some
that can be lnflicted, upon the honour and contradiction between our formai proceeddignity of the Senate la allowing t-wo mem- lngs and our standing orders.
There is
bers to ask for a reference of a private another clause whilh coatradicts mile 24.
Bill to a Commlttee of the Whoie House. It 1is mile 39. This Is a formai proceeding,
If the House deems It not expedient, then but that again conflicts witji the standing
the two memiers can bow to the will of order No. 2-4 and our practice, before our
If other reasons were need- present Speaker w-as lu the Chair, prevails
the majority.
,ed, we are not barmen of tbem; we can over the standing order, causlng a great
flnd more.
The muotion of rnY
deai of confusion.
lion. friend -wIll, I arn afraid, accentuo.te
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-There is no doubt
It wili produce chaos.
our handllng of the reports' 0f the commit- the confusion.
That is why, although 1 arn prepared to
tee in thîs House is unsatisfactory, and
motion, I should like to have
theme Is reason for complaint. Bis comn- vote for the
it referred to the Committee on Standing
Ing from committees are railroaded; that
ail these contradictions
is, a motion is made that the report of the Orders, Bo that
mlght be taken Into coasîderation and n
committee be Immediately adnpted, before
We could then deal
made.
the House really knows what the report Is. careful report
the subject once for ail lu a lucid ani
The motion is mnade and generally camried. with
know what we should
It is unsatIsfactomy, no doubt, to those sen- clear manner, and
every member of the House
ators who are nlot memb ers of tbe coin- do sO that
I shahl themefore vote
rnittee, and it is ofteaitimes unsatisfactory would be satisfied.
the motion to refer this question to the
to the minority of the committee Itself. for
on Standing Orders.
Our rule 24. requimes one day's notice foi Committee
27

of the House of Conimons to the fact that
it was a grievous outrage. The difficultY
was to know how it couid be rernedied.
The proposition was made simpiy to leave
it as it was, and the amendrnent subjecting farmers to the payrnent of $6 a day instead of $2 a day neyer came Into force.
There Is a case showlng how errors rnay
occur and wrongs be inflicted by rushing
private Bis througi ln the closing heours
of the session.

REVISEO) EDITIOe

SENATE
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I should like to
know exaetly the meaning of the motion
proposed by the bon. senator from Saskatchewan.
As I understand. it it proposes
to ask that mile 128 be amended to rend:
lUnless asked for by two members of the
Senate, a private l1 reported fromu a standing or select committee is not committed te
a committee of the whole flouse.
What, ln the opinion, of the niover, would
be the meaning of the rule if adopted?
NInII It mean that If the two members asic
to bave a Bill referred to a Corniittee of
the Whole flouse, it will be referred ns a
matter of rigbt?

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The title on]y came
bacit.
Hlon. Mr. WILSON-la reply to the leader of the Honse, I rnay say the Bill did
not go to n Oominittee of the Whole flouse
here.
A vote w-as taken, and it was decided it should go to the Railway Committee, and the leader of the flouse and the
hon. senator from Torouto knew pemfeetly
well when it went to that cornmittee what
its fate would be.
Did it ever corne bacît
here?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes.

Hon. Mr. WILSON-Some of us eontend
it for the rig-bt te, have tiiese Buis considered
There is
ln Committee o? the Whole.
Hon. Mr. BELCOUIIT-Without it being ample time to, give them full consideration
iu the flouse, and there Is no use in taItsubmitted to a vote of the House?
ing about taking up Urne towards the end
o? the session. My bon. friend from BearnsHon. Mm. LAND RY-Certai nly.
ville referred to reports o? the Divorce
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Whetlier the Commlttee. Do we flot give yon a f ull
pinted report?
You ean at your leisure
flouse is wllling or flot wlvlllnig?
rend It over carefuIly, and If there *be one
Hon. M.GLORAN-Yes.
single Item iu the Bill to whieh objection
is taken, It eau be discussed ln the flouse.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-The hou. senator Not once or twice, but sevemal tirnes, have
from Toronto sald that no injustice Laad we been treated ln the saine wny, as lu
been experleuced by members of the Sen- the case o? the Lancaster Bill. The flouse
ate on account of Bis flot biavinig been bas the soverelgu right in ail cases, wheconsldered in Committee of the Whole ther the Bill be a publie or a private Bill,
flouse.
No longer ago tlian last session, to refer It to any comrnittee o? the Senate.
the Lancaster BJII came bere, and, contramy AIl we ean do when a Bill cornes bacit to
to the wishes of many senators, wvas me- the flouse Is to maise our voice ngainst it,
femred to, the Railway Committee, and a vote is taken, and wbeme are we If we
neyer camne back.
are la the mlnorlty?
We are askîng now
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-The Lancaster Bill that the ights; of the public be protected.
was a publie bill. The committee reported Not mnny yenms ago, I understnnd that one
was a public Bill.
It was by virtue of a bon. gentleman, feeling that justice badl
majomity vote of' tbis flouse that it went not been done to hlm and that bis rigbts
to the Rallway Committee.
By riglit It were belag trmrpled upon, tnlked tlimee or
should have gone to, a Cornmittee of the four hours to prevent a mensure fromi
Would a private Bill be likely
Whole flouse under the mules.
Any one passing.
If it did,
to take up that length of time?
could have Insisted on the mule beïng obsemved unless one day's notice was given It woutd be beenuse members o? thîs flouse
that It was to be sent to the Rallway Comi- feit there was an Injustice in that private
mlttee.
Every publie Bill must go to n Bill, and that If it wns allowed to pass it
woul do an Injustice, not oaly to the
Oommittee of the Whole Honse.
member ln charge of it but to bis constituHon. Mm. KERR-The Lancaster Bill ents.
I themefore sny that I think the
came bacit bero and this flouse was in pos- resolution proposed by rny hon. friend froni
session of the whole matter.
If there had Saskcatchewan is a reasonable one, wbich
been a disposition to dent with that Bill this flouse sbould flot besltate for a moin any other waty, it could have been doue. ment to adopt.
Whv do you waat to
floii. M.Nr.
POIRIER.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Thnt
means.

is

wlbat

FEBRUARY 27, 190841
prevent a Committee of the Whole House
considering a private Bill? Ie there sametbing bebind It that It Ie flot desired to
bave exposed bere? Talk about IobbyIng.
I know that nny measure will be lobbxed,
perhaps flot ln tbe House, or In the committee, but it will be lobbied, and as long
as human nature Is wbat it is, you wIll find
Influences braught to bear on memnbers.
Those wha are oppasing the motion appear
to me to be Indicating a deslre flot to have
everytbing examined by the liglit of day,
and to try to prevent the seercbligbt bein.I arn strangly
turncd on these matters.
ln favour of the motion of the bon, gentleI belleve it le
man tram Saskatchewan.
I believe we have
honeet, just and riglit.
ample tlme and opportunity to consider any
Bill ln Committee of the Wbole House, and
I shahl vote against il the amendments
proposed.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Do you want a
poetmortem held on every Bill?

Igentleman speaking.
speak now.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE--Thougli I am iii
favour of giving ample opportunity to have
every Bill tboroughly cxamined, 1 am n ot
preparcil to put the wbolc Houee ln the
bands of two membere, notwitbstanding the
fact that I have the greatest confidence ln
every member of the House.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It le alrcady donc.

H-e lias the rigbt ta

Tbe SPEAKER-That pointlias not been
raised.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-In closing thc debate, I
may say that thc reniarks of tbe lion. mcmber from Grandvlle (Mr. Choquette) bave
clcared Uic grundHon. Mr. POWER-I risc ta a point of orThe bon. gentleman spoke on my
der.
amendment, and be bas no rîglit ta spcak
again.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I have a rigbt ta close
thc debate.
Tbe SPEAKER-The bon. gentleman
spoke on Uic amenduient ta refer thc question ta the Standing Ordere Committee, and
lie le dcbarrcd fram spcaking again.
Han. Mr. BERNIER-H as be not a right
to aseent ta Uic proposai that is miade ?
The SPEAKE R-Hle certainly can say
that lie is ready ta agree ta Uic suggestion
made.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Tbat ie wbat I was doing wbcn I was calcd ta order.
The SPEAKER-Wbh8a be bas stated that
fact, be bas exbaustcd bis rigbt ta spcak,
and wbcn thc amendmcnts arc disposcd of,
a furtbcr amcndmcnt can be mavcd by
somebody cisc, ta alter tbe word ' two'
and make It read 1five.'

Hon. Mr. OHIOQUETTE-No, not exactly.
I rather acccpt thc motion of the bon. genHon. M~r. DAVIS-If that will satisfy Uic
tleman from De Salaberry ; but I would
House, with Uic consent of tic Senate I
suggest to my bon. friends to make it live
will acccpt tbat suggestion, making It five
Members Instead of two.
instcad of 'twa.'
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, hear.
Tbe ycae and nays being called for.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Wliat is the difTbe SPEAKER-Call ln tbe members.
ference In thc principle ?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I want ta know frani
ýHan. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Because th(
flic chair If I can ask a guestian..
House Ie already ln tic bande of ôfve mcm.
Han. Mr. POWER-No, fia.
bers wbcn a BillIsl sent to the committec.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I Uiink tiiat would per- 1Tbe SPEAKER-Na, Uic debate is closed,
hben the members are called ln.
haps clcar Uic ground.
Haon. Mr. CLORAN-The ex-Speaker
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbe lion. gentleman
ebsould not talk sa mucb.
cannot amend bie motion now.
Han. Mr. POIRIER-Ail Uic bon. gentleHon. -Mr. DAVIS-If Uic Hause wotild
man can do is ta sing a sang.
consentThe House dhvided on Uic sub-amendmcnt
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I do flot tbink ban.
praposed by the bon. gentleman from Halimembers bave a riglit ta abject ta thelin
27J

SEINATE
fax, which w-as carried on the following divi$ion :
CONTENTS:
The Honourahie Messieurs
Legris,
iBaird,
Lougheed,
Baker,
Macdonald <Victoria),
B6îque,
MoGregor,
Bostock,
McMillanl,
Campbell,
McMullen,
Cartwright
Poirier,
(Sir Richard),
Power,
]David,
Riley,
Derbyshire,
Robertson,
Dessaulles,
Ross (Middlesex),
Ellis,
Scott,
Fiset,
Sullivan,
Forget,
Tessier,
Frost,
Thompson,
Gibson,
Wood,
Godbout,
Yeo.-34.
Jaffray,
]Kerr,
NON-CONTENTS :
The Honourable Messieurs
McKay <Truro),
Belcourt,
McLaren,
Bernier,
Merner,
Choquett e,
Montplaisir,
Cioran,
Russ (Halifax),
Davis,
Roy,
Douglas,
Talbot,
Ferguson
Wilson.-17.
Landry,
McDonal il (C.B.),
EXTENSION 0F LIMITS 0F MANITOBA,
ONTARIO AND QUEBEC.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY moved:
That in the opinion of the Senate the limits
of Manitoba, Ontario and Quebec should be
extended to the isorth se that each of those
provinces be, bounded north by at least the
sixtieth degree of latitude.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think the announcement was made in the Speech frem the
Tlirone that a Bill would be introduced on
that subject.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I risc te a point of
order. I do flot think this motion is i
order, owing to the decision given last week.
The hon. Speaker decided on a motion sioilar to this that it -%as out of order, and I
tlink I was the gentleman that had to reýsume my seat ou the question of order.
When a matter is announced lu the Speech
frein the Throne, this honourable House
cannot anticipate discussion thereon or take
any action in regard to it. 1 think the hon.
Speaker should npply his decision of last
week to this motion.

H-on. Mr. I)AVIS-1 rise te a question
My resolution last iveek was
of order.
ruled eut of order on the ground tlîat it
w-as dealt witlj lu tue speech f rein the
This inatter is inientionect in the
Threne.
speech froin the Thronie.
The SPEAKER-There cannot bc twvo
The point ralsed
similar points ef erder.
by the lion. gentleman frein Victoria Division is the first point raised, and the bon.
gentleman frein Saskatchewan canuet raise
He cau support the point.
the saine peint.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Inasnuchi as, judging frem appearances, tliere will he n verv
protracted discussion on the question of
order, perhaps the hion, gentleman would
net object te having it stand over tii! after
the adjourninent.
Hon. 'Mr. LANDIIY-I have postpened. it
f rom day te day at the request of hion.
1 thiink %ve should proc,,ed
gentlemen.
%vitbit te-day, and If it is neot decided. we
willl pestpene it te another day; but we
I amn
mnight commence the discussion.
merely gaing te speak on the peint of
erder, and 1 wvill net be as long -as hon.
gentlemen iny think w-ho anticipate a
The point 0f order is thnt
long debate.
the subject matter of this motion having
been announced lu the speech frein the
Threne, the motion itself Is ont of order,
Withi ail
because it anticipates a debate.
deference te the peint that bas been decided already, 1 wîll subinit a few autherities, which will show that tie conaitlons
that are generally required fer a decîsien
of that kind are wanting lu regard te this
What would be the
particular subject.
ensequence if miy motion w-ere rnled eut ef
order? Take the metaphysical aspect 0f the
The consequence ivould be that
question.
any question whatsoever that mighit arise
fer discussion could be choked off by the
simple anneuncement lu the speech frein
the Throue that the gevernment bas the
intention te hring down a Bill on such a
In this way ail discussions on
subject.
the public departinents may he debarred,
if it happenied te be the intention of the
governiment, announced la the speech from
the Throne, te hring down a measure on
public w-ork-s, a mensure on fishierles, a
measure on inlaiud revenue or agriculture,

FEBRLT AIY 27, 1908
on, anly one orfitle Inîtilie questions that interest tile Domlinion it large. That would
l)e tlic consequence, and the nbsurdity of
the consequences prove the absurdity etfltie
premises. .if the conisequences are so absurd as that, the premises are naturally
absurd, nui this is one of the reasons why
this point of order shouid iiot lie sustained.
But what is our practice, whnt is our procedure on sucli n natter?

froni the Tbironie lu the session of 1900-7,
we find that in thiat speech Ocire were promises given to ilicrease the representationi
of Alberta and Saskatchewan, of a Bill to,
amend. the Custouis Act, to ratify the
treaty with Japan, to nmend the Electoral
Act, the Post Office Act. the Dominion
Lands Act, Canadian Food Produe 'ts, Patent Medicines Act, and Juvenile DelluH'ýre are nine promises made la
quents.
the speech of last session, three of whlcii
Nothlng was doue to
were flot fulflled.
Nothing was
amend the Electoral Act.
done for the Dominion Lands Act nor tlue
Patent 'Medicine Act. Those two mnensures
were withdrawn, and the Electoral Act was
flot presented nt ail.

The SPEAKER-I beg to notify thec lion.
gentiemail that the reason given by the
lion. ineinbcr wlio lias r:îised the point of
order is not the decision of the Chair. The
reasoni givenl by the hion. gentleman froin
Victoria, tlint the lion. member ivould lie
precluded froin inaking thîis miotion, mnasmucli ns notice of legisiation ou this subi.on. Mr. POWER-With respect to the
ject lias been given In ftic speech fronm the Bill regarding iusolvency, wns objection
I say it lias to be implhŽmented taken to that?
Thronie.
Was a question of order
b)y a notice fromn tlîe governient.
You caniiot judge of It if n quesraised?
That Bill
I w-il! take tion of order was not raised.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes.
ffhat is our practice and ivas lxtroduced some years ago.
tlint point also.
lurocedure ? Every year w'e have speeches
Hon. '-%r. LANI)RY-I said nothing about
froi the Tlirone conltainiug solenu. proalways fulflled, and the insolvency law. It Is the representation
mises, whiclî are not
If you look of Alberta. the Customis Act the treaty
for good reasons somietimes.
the Post
at the speech fromn the Thronie during tlie wlh Japan, the Electoral Act.
session of 1906, deliî-ered on the Stli Mardi Office Act. Dominion Lands Act, Canaof that year, von fluîd that ia It a promise dian food products, patent medicines
I rewas made that a Bill iould be submltted and the Crirninal Code to whlcli
ferred. I did not speak of an lnsolvency
for consideration, enipowering tie governnment to sot npart forest reserves of lands law. Out of the nine mensures promised,
three *were
under its control. and also legisiation for six were broughlt down and
antic Lord's Day, legisiation for the amend- lgnored, and thougli the government
nouî'ced In the speech froni the Throne that
ment of the Raiiway Act, -for the F~ruit
amena the electoral law, Mr.
Marks Act, an Act rcspecting Usury, and they would
McDonald-you wlll flnd It at page 16C0 of
Out of those
the Dominion Elections Act.
Proceedings of the House of
six subjects, w-e find tint five of the pro- the Votes and
Comnions-proposed a Bill to amend the
but no Bill was
mises were fulfilcd,
He introduced Bill 16 'Au
broughit down before tlie commons la re- electoral laNv.
Act to amend the Dominion Elections Act'
gard to the Domuinion Elections Act, as profirst time ànd orderThere Is an Instance 1900,' whlch was read a
mised in the speech.
ed for a second reading at the next Sitting
wlicre tic promises in tlie speech wcre not
of the House. -Noobjection was taken at ail
Nevertheless, ln the session of
fulfilled.
thoughi it bad been mentloned in the speech
1906, ait page 28 of the Journals of the
fromn the Throne. '.%r. Borden introduced a
House, we find tinit ',%r. Borden, of CarieBill on the 25th January, 1907, to, amend the
ton, brought Ini n Bill to further amend
Criminal Code, altbough the government lied
the Dominion Conitroverted Elections Act.
promised a measure of that description.
Here is au Act which has been amended,
MJr. Âylesworth himef presented two other
or on whici n Bill lias been presented by
Bis on two different subjects, but botb
a private inember, notwithstanding the prothe govmise of tie government to bring in their amending the Criminal'Code, which
amendment. If we now take the speech crament had promised to amend.
own

SEINATE
tien of which he has given notice, that resolution could not be proceeded with.
It must be a Bill on the order paper flxed
for a certain date. Another decision is the
te
the aunouncement lu the speech from
It was a case
other day.
Throne of a certain measure Is sufficient te one clted the
n which arose on a motion for the adjournpreveut a certain member from presenting
HEou. Mr. DAVID-The hon,

gentleman

was speakiug on the assuniption that the
bon. Speaker of thls flouse had decided that

Bill of the same nature, but I uuderstand ment of the flouse:*
Mr. LOUGH (Islington, West). I beg to
that tee decision of the Speaker was not lia
ask leave to move t he adjourument of the
lune.
that
flouse in order te eal attention to a definiaite
of urgent importance-namnely, the dearn not snying that. matter
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I
termination of Ilis Majesty's ministers to
the
1 am taking tee point of order as raised by spend publie money in connection with sancthe
The Speaker Jhas )not Brusseis Sugar Convention without
my hon. friend.
tion of parliamient.
given bis decision, and 1 arn not referring to
Mr. SPEAKER. I don not think I ean aea
by the Speaker
the decision given last week
the motion, because as I understand,
cept is already down upon that subjeot, aud
at ail. 1 amn taking tee point of order raised Bill,.
the matter can corne on for discussion then.
by my hon. friend fromn Victoria division.
1 am reviewing tee point of order as raised
Mr. LLOYD-GEORGE. It is not on the
by hlm. 1 have given wbat Is our pro- order book.
Mr. SPEAKER. Notice bas been given te
cedure; but wuat le tee practice as laid
A motion the flouse by the goverument.
down by British precedeuts?
Several Hon. MEMBERS. No.
to anticlpate a debate must corne in
Can we be prevented
Mr. BUCHANAN.
with a notice fromn discussing this moction because of a mere
reality lu confiict, wlth a Bill,
of motion or somethlng teat le on the order verbal promise to introduce a Bi dealiug
not yet on the order book?
paper, and not merely wlth a -verbal promise with a subjeet
Mr. SPEAKER. Aithougli my statement
by tee goverument, as lu tee speech lias been eontradicted, I may point out that
given
It must lie a motion notice of a Bill to enable the government tu
froin tee Throne.
carry into efleet the convention is on the order
That ls te
on tee order paper.
entered
there many weeks.
Eng- book, and bas been
practice which has been snnctioned lu
It was for that reason that lie decided
land. Tbe firet decision I shall cite was
given in 1888. It wilI be found on page It would be anticipating the debate, because
1411 of 1Hansard' for that year. The cita- there was a motion on the order paper given
by the goverument and it bad been there for
tion is as foiiows
some weeks. I find the following at pige
Mr. PARNELL. I beg, sir. W ask leave to
move the ajournmnent of tb;e flouse a defi- 915 of the 'Hansard ' 1875:
nite question of urgent public importanceMr. SPEAKER. In reference to the motion
namely, the statement that we bave just beard of the bon. member for Swansea (Mr. Diiiaud the position
from the rt. bon. gentleman,
wyn) wbich stands next upon the paper, 1
wbich he bas assigned to this most important have to state, for the information of the
motion.
flouse, that by the miles of the flouse, it is
Mr. SPEAKER. Order, 'order; I am sorry irregular to propose any motion which anticimember, but that would pates discussion of a matter already appointta interrupt the hon.
be a violation of the ruies of the flouse. Lt ed for consideration by the House. Those
would be sntieipating the discussion of a Bill ruies May apv with some severity to the
standing on the notice paper. The hon. gent- hon. mnember for Swansea, because he was the
leman would be quite ont of order in moving first member of the flouse during the pretbe adjourument of the flouse, antioipsting sent session to propose any motion with refa discussion on a question already on the erence to the exclusion of strangers; but the
order paper.
cireumstances of the case are such as to preelude the hon. mnember from making a moI find lu 1874 anoteer decision given by tion inasmueh as the motion of which the hou.
member has eiven notice is substantiaily the
tee Speaker at teat time as follows:
samne as one of the motions submitted to the
RadMr. SPEAKER. In answer to the hon. flouse by the noble lord the member forwbich
member for North Warwickshire I may state nor (The Marquess of Hartînryton) and
to take into considerthat the practice of the flouse is this--If tbe the flouse bas appointed
flouse sbould order a Bil1 relating te a cer- ation on Monday next.
On the 4th May the noble lord the memaber
tain subi ect te be read a second time on a
given day it will not; anticipate the discussion for Radnor baving given notice of three resothe
on the matter, wbich it bas so ordered, by a lutions, proceeded to subrmit them to thesemotion on the saine subjeet. And, therefore, flouse, Hie argued in support of ail thei
if the hon. member postpones the second read- resolutions, and was prepared to submit first
ing of the Bui to a lter day than the resolu- successiveiy to the flouse, but when the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

'FEBRUARY 27, 1908

4c

resolution was praposed a debate arase, and
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It was, and It is
was adjourned. That debate was adjourned referred ta later la another speech made
from tirne ta time, and now stands for Monday next. When that debate cornes on the la 1893 by Mfr. Chamberlain, la which lie
first resolutian will be proposed in due course, speaks of that question. He saye:
and when that has been disposed of the other
I confess I do not want ta anticipate in any
two resolutions of the noble lord 'will be put
f ram the Chair and disposed of, farming part way the discussion on the Home Rule Bil.,
of the samne order of the day. Thus if theý This is a general principle of palicy; when
motion of the hon. gentleman for Swansea the Home Rule Bill às bron;ht before us it
were now ta be put ta the House, the debate will then be aur duty ta consider how far you
on Mondav next must necessarily be antici- have been able ta carry out your intentions,
pated, and that inconvenience would arise but at present we only ask what is your abwhich it is the abject of the Hanse ta prevent. ject and intention. I must confess that ta my
mind the -matter is- one af such cardinal inIn 'Hansard' 23rd of June, 1871, nt page partance that I have thouglit of bringing it
500, we find that Mr. Brady rose ta cal] ta the test o! propasing an ameadment ta the
out o! arder.) Sudh
ottention ta the unequal enforcenient of the nddress. <An hon. member: have been out af
an ameadment would not
Lord's Day Observance Act, and w-as pro- order, as an hon. member says, who does nat
ceedlng ta speak upon bis motion w-heu the appear ta be acquainted with the procedure o!
the Hanse; because an ameudment of a simiSpeaker sald:
1er character which miglit be assnrned ta have
Â notice has been given by an bon. member some connection with the propasal in the
(Mfr. P. A. Taylor> of his intention ta pro.' Queen's speech was moved in 1881 by Mfr. Parpose on the lSth of July the repeal af the Act nell and annther amendment was rnoved in
the 29th of Charles II., and that notice hav- the saine way by another Irish member.
ing been given far same days ago the hon. Therefore there was a precedent for the course
mnember fromn Leitrim wishes now ta move( I proposed ta take.
that this Hanse deprecates the atternpt ta -put
On the Oth o! May, 1891, page 307, 1Hanthe Act of Charles Il. in force, and that it is
the opinion of the Hanse that the said Act sard,' -1 find the following :
should be repealed. Now there is a rule of
Mfr. REID (Dumfries) rose, pursuant ta
the Hanse that when a matter has beea ex- notice, to mave the following resolution:
pressly set down for consideration, no hon.
That in the on)inian o! this House n mensure
inember can anticipate it by raising a dis- is nrgentlv needed enabling to*a councils and
cussion on the subject. I think the course pur- county councils in England and Scotland ta
sued 1»- the hon, gentleman would be an ini- acouire b-r agr-eement or compnlsorily, on fair
frinizement of that rule.
ternis and by simple and inexpensive machinery. such land withîn or adjoiniarf their sev1 now corne ta a case w-hidi occurred iii eral districts, as may in their judgment be
th(e session of 1881. in the Speech froin the needed for the requirements of the inhabi-tants.
Throne that year, the sixth paragrapli was
Mfr. SPEAKER, interposing, said: I arn
ns follows
bound ta point ont ta the hon. and learned
A measure will be submitted ta you for the gentleman what I have had an op portunîty of
establishment of county government in Ire- pointing ont ta him îin private befare, that
land founded upon representative principles, the motion which hie proposes ta introduce
and frarned with the double aim o! confirm- anticipates discussion of the subjets dealt
iag popular contrai over expenditure and ai with in two measures that are already besnpplying a yet more serions want by extend- fore the Hanse. 1 refer ta the Bill standing
inst the formation of habits o! local self-gov- in -the naine o! the hon. member for the
Leith district-local nuthorities (Scotland).
ernment.
Acquisition of lands-and ta another standing
Thaugli this bad been announced by the in the narne of the hon, gentleman for Forfar
government of the day, on the 7th of Janu- -Land purchase and division (Scotland). Aihough I arn unwilling ta put any impediment
ary, the day following Mr. Parnell moved i in the way o! the hon. and learned gentleman,
the following resolution:
I do nat see how lie cen mnake any statement
At the end o! paragraph 9, ta add the word3 swithout in!ringing on the principles contain' but we humblv assure Her Majesty that we ed in these two measures.
J. MORLEY. Thea I presume that if
are convinced that the peace and tranquillity TMr.
of Ireland cannot be prompted by suspendim mv hon. and learned !riend were ta withdraw
any o! the constitutional riglits of the Irish 3the wards 'and Scotland' f romn his motion he
would be in order.
people.'
Mr. SPEAKER- I made that suggestion ta
The- debate w-eut on upon that motion the hon. and iearned gentleman, but, hie, seeli ing that lie represeats a Scottish canstituency,
though the government bad announced
It
the speech f romn the Throne that tbey wouk Iappeared unwilling ta make the alteration.and
is a inatter for the discretion of the hon.
bring down a ineasure ta settie that question iearned member. If lie is willing ta withdraw
the words 'and Scotland ' f!rom his motion,
The SPEAKER-Was thnt motion a! Mfr that appears ta me ta remove the objection.
Parnell's in nendment ta the Speech fron If these wards were omitted the hon. and
learned gentleman wonld be in order.
the Throne ?~

SENATE
future day, aise
There is another case of thse kind in 18%1. aii amandnrient set down for a notice has been
any matter of which public
Lt w-i be found nt page 1636 of 'Hansard.' given in the Hanse when notices are givenl,
There w-as before the House of Commons or a notice of motion for which. no special
day has been fixed on the notice paper, a
four local veto Bis, one for England, one motion for leave to bring in a Bill that infor Scotland and one for cludes the matter to be proposed by the mofor Wales, one
Ireland. '-%r. Lea nsked w-hether a resolu- tion, or a bill appointed for - consideration."
With these few remarks I have treated the
tien was Ia order applicable In its terms to
the four countries, and w-hether it should point whichl ls before us, that a mere Intimaneot be confined to England, the local veto tion given by the goverilment In the speech
Bill for England having been -wlthdrawn. froni the Throne Is nlot sufficlent to debar
.
Thse Speaker decided :
us f rom the right to discuss the questions
The resoiutiois as drawn is in very general ieutioned.
terras and as it stands it applies to the whole
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Even w-heu confirmued
of the United Kingdom-England, Scotland,
Wales and Ireland. * A few days ago there by a representative of the goverument?
were four local veto Bis before the House,
Hou. 'Mr. LANDRY-Evefl w-hen coubut the Bill for England has been withdrawn
so as to enabie the hon, gentlemnan te proceed firmied by a representsltive of the goverilwith bis motion. As the resolution stands,
however, if affirmed by the House, it would ment, because they are not obliged to fulfil
prejudice the consideration of other Buis, and that promise. They may promise legisiatiou
especially of the Irish measure;. It would
the Throne, but niay
therefore be convenient if the hon. member lIn the speech from
were to confine the terms of hîs resolution to neyer Introduce the Bill promised. If w-e
England, and this may be done by the inser- rend the speech f rom the Throne dellvered
tion of the words 'iii England.'
here last year wvc tind it contains the folTise suggestion -as accepted, the motion lowing:
w-as amiended accordingly and discussed.
In accordance with the announceinent made
On the 4th of Mareli, 1903 ('Hansard,' page in a previous session you wiii be asked to
1427), '.%r. Bell, on a point of order, deslred consider a Bill for the revision of the customs tariff.
to know w-hether a motion w-ould be In
Hlere we have a promise that legislntiOD
order, seeing that there w-as a Bill dow-n for
accordance w-ith a proa future day dealing w-uth tise same subject. will be introdUCed in
mise giv.en the year before, and is it reasonThe Speaker saîd :
from disHe was about to cali the hon. member's at- able that w-e should be debarred
tention to the fact that there were severai' eussing the customs tariff because of a
Bills on this subject and as the motion was promise made two sessions before? If so,
couched in wide ternis he was about to ask
the hon. meniber what matters outside the the goverament could, If they w-lsh to do
scope of these Bis he proposed to discuss, so, choke off discussion on any subject
and whether he would modify bis motion so simply by mentlonîng It la the speech from
as not to include their subject matter.
the Throne wlthout .any Intention of bringThis decision la Important, because It
ing in the legisiation mentioned.
even if a motion
setties this question that
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Whien my hon. friend
Is made ou a subject, we may discusa that
question if It la not identically the subject- fis-st rose to speak, 1 made tlue announIcematter of a Bill. The discussion w-ent on, ment that the government would have a Bill
and sometimes thse Speaker thought they on the subject. 1 now formally state that
-were encroaching a littie ln the w-ny of the Bill w-i be broughit before this Chananticipatiîsg a debate, and he brought theni ber, and it w-ill be rather unfortuntite If tise
These few decisions, I Senate should be cnlled upon to express 111
back to order.
think, setties the question upon thnt point. opinion on a question w-hidi May have to
We have the doctrine laid dow-n at page b'e cousidered fromi anotiser standpoint. Hou1.
278 May, that a msotion niust not antidipate gentlemen w-ould be committiflg themiselves,
a matter alrendy appointed for considera- to certain prînciples which might be very
tien by tie House; but It must be a motion, einbarrassing and. Inconsistent afterî*ards
not merely a promise or intention. 'Now thse and therefore 1 mnake that announceflieuit
mile ag-ainat hnticipating In thse A. B. C. posîtively that thse Bill w-ili be brought ln.
of parliamientary procedure is as follows:
Hlon. Mr. LAINDIIY-We are speaking of
A motion is out of order which anticipates
os-der. This is another quesanj order of the day, a notice of motion, or tlic question of
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

FEBRUARY 9,7, 1908
tien altogether. The governineuît iii this
Hlouse bas a majority, and is able-to coU-ý
trQl the majority, and if it is liot good poflcy
to bring Up that question it eau be suppressed easily. We are speaking now of a
matter of right, and I say that until the
government puts a notice on the order paper,
ainy member has a right to discuss a question nnd it is nlot axîticipating a debate.
The SPEAKER-As this question bas
been se exbaustively treated . by the hou.
senator from Stadaconi, it would be better
perhaps that I should adjourn iny decision
onî the point of order raised. Ail tlue saine,
1 mfay state just now that the decision rendered the other day covered the notice given
by a member of the cabiet that a Bill
would be broughit down as intiinnted in tlie
speech from the Throue. The difficulty in
applying the raIes which govera the British
House of Commons to our own House is
that al Bis in the British House of Comnions, lis weIl as in our Conîmons, are prefaced by a notice of motion w'Yhicli goes on
the' order pnper and w-hidi blocks the wIIy
to any similar motion being ralsed covering
the sanie subject. I find froin two of the
decisions cited by the hon. gentleman, that
ia 1890 an aniendment to a paragraph in the
Speech f rom the Tbrone w-as ruled out of
order because there was a notice of a Bill.
-as
mentloned in the speech from the Throne,
on the order paper.

42ý

îîresentativ-e of the cabinet ini this Flouîse
that a Biil is before the other 'House, and iil
be submitted to the !Senate, ls this a sufficient notice to conform, to the precedents
which govera the British House of Commons ? As we are about to adjourn for a
fewv days I will put down my opinion lu
w-ritlîîg duriag this recess.
At six ô'clock the Speaker .left the chair.

After Recess.

ITALLAN IMMIGRATION.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN rose to caîl Vie ai.tention
To the deplorable condition of thiugs that
obtain in the city of Montreal. and in other
parts of the Dominion of Canada, regarding
the respect and safety of human life, which
.is in daily jeopardy, owing to the entry aud
presence of an undesirable class of immigrants in Canada; and wiIl inquire what measures the goverament intends to take to prevent the further influx into Canada of suei
enemies of life, law and order?
-He said :I beg to direct the attention
of this bonourable body to a condition o!
tluings that exists iii mnîy parts of CanIt la not ouly an honour to me under
ada.
the circumstances, but 1 miy plainly tell
the House that it bias become a duty for
I
me to direct attention to this question.
do nlot wishi ln this motion to air any personni views in rega~rd to wlîat I have to
say on tue question; but I desire through
the medium of the Senate te caîl the attention of the government of the day to a
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, hear.
condition of things that must not be aiThe SPEAKER-I could not find tbe lowed to exlst aay longer, and to ask the
notice of the Bill on the order paper, but 1 government to take effective measures.. to
find five or six days nfterwards a motion of put an end to it as soon as possible. .As
Sir Michael Hlcks-Beach.
'in expression of opinion in regard to the
I suppose, although I dîd not find any ,natter, I may say ln the first place that
such notice when look-iug through 'Han.- 11e people of Montreal are somewhat alarmsard' of the days precedlng, there must ed over the condition of things. that obi do not ask this honhave been a notice on the paper, and al- tains la that city.
though this Bill brought la five or six dnys ourabie House to take the statement on
after the decision, and ruling out the snid my assertion, but I desire very briefly to
amendmnent a few days afterwards, the min- rend a few lunes from one or two papers
ister had not yet drafted bis Bill, but bis of that city, to show whnt anxiety exists
notice of motion ha4I effectively blocked and what diagrace bas been le! t on the
The
the way to auy discussion on the subject communlty in the city of Montreal.
as ail Bills com- articles are somewhat longbut I will only
o! bis Bill. 'Now inasmnuch
ing before this Chamber come without *quote sufficient to indicate what the people
notice, passing mostly throughi the hands of of Montreal think, and I am golng to add
the Speaker with a message from the HoasE farther on w-bat other sectionîs of the comof Commons. if a notice is given by the re- *munity think, nud further on what the con-

SENATE
tilent think of the present condition of
things.
Talce for Instance tire AMontreal
'Daily Wltness ' of Monday last, which
publishes the followlng staternent:
If the Italian murder mania is not soon
ended or rnended there will inevitably before
lout begin an agitation to exclude certain
classes of that nationality from this continent. The matter grows worse instead of better. In Montreal last week there were two of
sucli murders, one by a atiletto and the other
h- inistol shots, and in the big cities of the
United States'hardly a day passes, without
the commission of similar crimes. One thing
is clear, whatever else is done or 1sf t undone,
the Italian labourer should not be allowed to
carry murderous weapons, as he almost invariaby seems to do. There should le a thor.
ough system of searching instituted. Weapons
when found shonld ho confiscated and destroy.
.d, and those found carrying thern should be
Punished severely. One very grave feat'sre
of these assassinations, both in the UnitVed
States and Canada, is the frequency witli
which the assassins escape Justice. Through
fear on the part of many, and through activi
sympathy on the p art of confederates, the
mnurderers are hidden away from the police
by throir compatriots, and helped by underground means to slink off to other cities,
where they. are hidden again. Is there not
tiome way in which the respectable Italians
Of this continent, who infinitely outnumber
their murderous countrymen, could band
themselves together and assist the authorities
to remove tliis great reproach upon Italian
reputation, frein which they must ail more or
less suifer? A movement of thîs sort has been
started in New York and would aeem to be
nleeded in Montreal and other cities. Present
'conditions are intolerable.
That cornes from ail organ of public opin[OU which is never unduly exercised lu
regard to public danger or nover unduly
exercised In regard to questions of public
safety.
Anothier case from the Montreal
'Hernll,' and it says under the beadiug of
'The Rec~ord of Italian Crime'
It 'is impossible to contemplate withont a
shudder the appalling record of serions crimes
committed. bS' persons of Italian nationality
hitre within the past few months.
Hon. Mr. -SULLIVAN-I risc to a point
of order.
1 should lilce to know If the
hon, gentleman ezn attnck, a whole nation
$il the way In wbhrh lie la doing. I thini,
It la very wrong and ln very bad taste,
ond should not be allowed in thec Soniate. If
1 kept silent, and perrn'tted that to go on,
T mlight be accused of a tacit ondorsement
of these sentiments, and, t'iorofore, I think
the hon. gentleman should not brlng the
inatter up In this Chamber. Those things
'siight oven embroil the country- lu trouble,
ftnd I would ask the hon. Speaker whether
Hon. M. CLORAN.

the bon. gentleman is in order lu using the
language lie doos against a whole nation,
whlch ls one of the most courteouq' and
most polite, and wblch bas contrIbuted
more to the civilization"of Europe than a'iy
ather?
TIse SPEÂKER-The hon. gentleman does
not maise a question of order.
MIon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Yes, I want to
knuow whiether the bon. gentleman is lu order
la using these abusive epithots agalnst the
Itniiaii people.
Hon. Mr. BDRNIER-He does not attack
thse Italian people. He attacks the Italialis
lu Montresil.
The SPEAKER-I do
ls 'well taken.

flot

thlnk the point

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I thought the point
of order belonged to the other side, but I
aRn afraidHon. Mr. McKAY
the speech.

(Truro)-Go on witli

Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-I will go on with the
speech when I get through with the point
of ordor. I arn in hearty accord with the
decis ion of thc chair that the point of order
la not woll taken. I xvas about quoting froml
another organ of public opinion to show that,
as I have stated in openlng, I arn not puttlng
forth any personal views whntever lu the
inatter. 1 amn slmply bere voicing the sentimonta and feelings of the constituency that
I represont, and I further hope of mau3people throughout the Dominion of Canada.
The sentiments that 1 have read to the
HIouse are not rnine. They are the echo of
the fears and the anxietles of the whole clty
0f Montreal and of othier centres throughout the Dominion, and where the bon. gentleman could find ground upon whlch to,
base a point osf order ls more than I could
undorstand, notwithistanding his brilliant
talent for observation. I wlsh to quote now
Erorn other organs osf public opinion lu regard to this question, and I will simply
rend two or three lines. I quote frorn 'La
Patrie' and 'La Preâse' and others. 'La
Patrie' says:
La criminalité italienne dans notre ville
prend véritablement des proportions alarmantes. En moins de deux mois, depuis le
commencement de l'année 1908, nous avons
déjà eu h enregistrer cinq assassinats commis
par les fils de l'Italie. Deux meurtres vien-

FEBRUARY 27, 1908
nent d'être perpétrés coup sur coup -de yen- vhlereby to escape. The one who murders
dredi à samedi.
i
ulyadteoewosilshmI
ulyadteoewosilshml
Nous ne croyons pas que notre population i
s'habitue jamais à ces moeurs violentes, et il stifl more guilty, because the one who
est temps que nous prenions des mesures pour shields hlm gives hlmi a chance to go elsenous en préserver.
wbere and commit simîlar crimes. This
of Vie article reads as crime, so far as we can find out-we prove
Then another part
it fromi our police authorities-is a frequent
follows :
Mais quelle mesure faut-il prendre pour en- one. No later tian lat Saturd'ay an Immirayer ce fléau grandissant? La première chose gat
nnýnt
h
oie
asce
à faire n'est-elle pas d'amender notre systèmegrnnnontViplcemaare
That man freely
d&immigration. Dans notre désir de peupler one of bis own natlenallty.
rapidement notre vaste pays, nous offrons une wnlked Vie streets of Vie clty of M~ontreal
hospitalité trop large à toutes sortes d'indifor four dnys, althougb the police, were
vidus.
Sans discernement aucun, nous accueillons looking for hlm. Tbey could not put their
0ifra
eas
Et comme résul.îadInhm
tous ceux qui se prése.ntent. aujourd'hui débor- bnso
oIfra
eas
i.Wy b?
fat, nos grandes villes sont
lie de faubourgs de Londres, de tion was forthcomflng to the police to identify
dés par la
Naples ou de Palermne. La plup)art des crimes Vie man, and wbat happened? The victiml
gui ont été commis depuis assez longtemps l'ont
h
a
sasntdwsbogtt
h
asbogtote
eté par des immigrants de bas étage auxquels whwaasslned
parish priest of
nous n'aurions jamais dû ouvrir nor portes. churcli, and Vie Itallan
Il faudrait un système d'inspection sévère qui Montreal states Viat the money Viat was
fVa
permette d'opérer un triage aux divers ports cletdfrtefnrlepne
fta
cletdfrtefnrlepne
d'immigration.
poor victlm, assassinated la cold blood, was
gentleman wants te kno
If Vie hon.
wbat Vint mens la Euglish, I can translate used to shlp bis murdprer to Vie United
States. 1 received information Just before
it.
comlng te this Hlouse to-nigbt tbat bie bas
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I do flot want Il been arrested la Syracuse. The guilt does
flot lie alene wii Vie murderer ; It lies
transiated, certnlnly net.
Hon. Mr. CLOLIAN-These are only & also witi the community wbo protect Vie
few of Vie expression§ of publie opinion îý assassin, and that la what we bave to guard
the city of Moatreal. I may slly that Vie agalust. Lt ls not only tbe indîvidual muropinion whlch exists in Vie city of IMontreal derer, but it la Vie -wbole community we
ln regard to Vint cass of Immigrants lu bave to protect ourselves against. 1 could
endorsed by every large centre througbout quote dozens of instances, but 1 am cltliig
Vie Dominion of Canada. No inter Vian Vie last case Viat occurred, only four or five
last nlgbt Vie mnayor of Winnipeg wah days ago, ln Vie city or Montreal. TheY go
tbreatened by Vie Black Hland Society -with out oni Vie streets with their stilettes and
Vie blowlng up of bis residence, himself revolvers and shoot, stab and wound our
and bis famlly, If hie did flot plnnk down a Icitizens.
Hon. Mr. 0HOQUETTE-Bad place,
Viousand dollars. That Is Vils evenlng's
news. If Vis were a local matter, I 'would Montreal.
not take up Vie time of Vie Senate la regard
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-If Quebec were a
to it, and I am flot attacking the Italian
Immigrants s0 far as Montreal Is concerned. little larger, Viey would have more Italians;
I am attncklng Viem now as a class, not but it la se smali a place Viey do not have
The hon. gentleman from Kingston
only la Vis country, but Virougbiout the any.
continent ; we have assassînations nd mur- stated Vint I was maklng an attack on Vie
Now it la f ar f rom me to
ders perpetrated by these people *wbo are Itallan race.
it la make an attack on the Italian people.
very aeldom punisbed. I arn told Vint
only Vie criminal eues wbo commit murder. Years and years ago, wben I was a student
Ln the city of Montreal to-day an Itallan car, 1 iearned te admire their sculpture, to rend
murder two, Viree, four or live, or a wbolt their poete' work, and stand amazed ,before
household, ln their quarters, as tbey have Vieir palntings and other works of art.
doue, and there Is not one eut of Vie 200 No, I de net attack the Italian people, and
in Vie block who wlill give any Information the hon, gentleman was a littie premature
te Vie police. They shield and protect Vie la trying to maise a point cf order on Vint
Italy bas given too much to the
murderer. TheY provide hlm 'witb means score.

SENATE
civilized world.

Itaiy lias given too mucli

to the Christian world, for me or anybody

else to stand on the floor of parliament and
No snch Intention ever entered
attack it.
îny mmid, and the hon. senator did flot do
i
mue justice In imagiuing that It did.
bave respect for the Italian people. 1 bave
respect for what they bave gîven to the
human race la tile way of science, flot only
I
ln literature, but in art of ail kinds.
bave respect for the Italian people for wbat
tbey have given te Cliristianity iu the shiape
No, 1 do flot
of theologlans and saints.
What 1 want
attack the Italian people.
to do is simply to call thie attention of the
governmeut to this tact, tbat conditions
bave cbanged lu the history of Italy w-lthIn the past thirty years, and where there
was one a Christian people recognizing a
God and observing law, to-day we bave too
many factions in that unfortunate country.
who recognize no divinity, wbo bow to no
man Iu law, wbose owu persoual wiili is
their ]aw, the MsIfitansd the Black Hand
aud other eleanents that are disorganizing
a nation %,%hich bas shed such lustre over
These
the history of [the Christian world.
are elements that we bave to protect ourselves agaiust, just the samne as the Italian
In the
government bas to protect itself.
past, that people recognized a suprenie
ruler, recognlzed that the law of the land
shouid be their guidance and [beir protecin public affairs, and iu their relations
-tion
one witli the other; but to-day, as in mauy
other countries. there are large sections of
[bat conntry which have departed froni the
ways of Cbristiaulty, and those principles
whlch make for the safety of buman if e
to-day in civilized contries. The influence
wbich ruled over tbem and wbich guided
theni having been taken fromi them you
have as the resuit that many of [hemi have
no compunction whatever lu sacrificing the
'They carry
lite of thetr tehlow citizens.
dally and nightly In their pockets or bldden In their clothes ail kiuds of weapons
whereby [o take human life, and for no
Yesterday our chief proother purpose.
vincial detective of Qnebec nt out on the
streets of M3ontreal, and lu one hour lie
secured a carniage ioad of stilettoes, revolvers and othier deadly instruments, ail]
Every second man lie met
meaut [o kili.
ia an Itallan cohony carried these w-eapons.
Hon. M,. ('LORAN.

[s thait a condition of things to be tolerated
1 rnay lie told ln this
iii this, country?
House ' But let the rnnnicipality look after
that. Let themn look after their criminals.'
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Hear, bear.
Hon. '.%r. CLORAN-SUCi) a suiggestion
would flot lie fair to tlie mniicipaiities of
They are flot responsible
this Dominion.
for the dumping %vithintheir lirnits of criaiinais of whoaa they know nothing. W'e are
asked by the Italianl consul to appoint a
force of Italian detectives. Why should the
city of 3-lontreal, or the ûity of Quelîec. or'
amy other mletropolis or large centre of the
Dominion lie compelled to establisli a spe-.
cial police and detective foi-ce for a certain class of immigrants ? The thing is abisurd. It is the province of this goverinînent
to take precautions agailist the entry of
these people. 1 arn far from. saying that the
governmlelit ls responsîble for the preselice
of that class of immigrants in ('anada-l'nr
fromi doing se, because I kinow as n fact that
the gov'ernment does not encourage Italin

immiiigration iinto Canada. 'ihey have not a
single agent ln ltaly. But il' the government does flot encourage them, corporations
do, and these corporations are finding. naucili
to their dissatisfaction, mucli to their own
aunoyance and mucli to their own loss that
tlic importation of these people is not profitable, even fromn a labour point of view.
They are the inost untractable mnen you con
get on a systemi of works. 1 have seen them
inyself on the construction of the Transcoatintal Railway last year. There is aao
way to conciliate tbem. Once they take it:
Into their heads to leave Nvork and the contructor they depart and I arn told to-day
tbey demand that the foreilan. whoù controis their labour shall le of their nationality, and what is the resuit. The resuit is
thiat contractors to-day have put forty or
fifty men in a gang, on work that could be
doue by ten or fifteen, and 1 have seen
it with my owu eyes. This is the class of
people that bas been bronght in, flot by the
goverument,

but

by

great

corporations,

thinking they would get their cbeap labour.
Lt may have been profitable the first few
years but to-day these people are turninig
ou the corporations, and thiey are always a
source of trouble and rnisery to the people

FEBRUAIIY 2-4,1908

,who employ them.

I amn not saying it of

ail, but of too many of tbem. Now that weJ
have them, what are we going to do ? The
cehief of our police systemi lu the city of
Miontreal says that there is only one way
to cope witb the situation, an.d that is to
prevent their furtber entry into the couutry. He says that owing to their habits,
owing to tlieir present modern education, under the system wblch they are brought up
now, that lie can place no reliance on tbem.
«Chief Carpenter, of Moittreal, is not alone lu
tlue statenieni. One of the Iargest and mnost
efficient, police bodies in the world, apart
fromi London, Is the New York police, and
wbat does the chief commissioner tbere say?
FIe declares under the respousibility of bis
,office that he Is unabie to cope with theeriminality of that class and that is why the
from wvhich I have
Montreal .'Witness,'
quoted, bias said that this miatter is not
only a Canadian question but it will be
necessary to put if on a continental basis
and sec whbat caui he done. Wby, from Denver to WVInnipeg, from Montreal to New
York or to -New Orleans wberever this
class exists, there Is crime and crime of
the worst description--crime enougbi to
maL-e men shudder. A crime wvas committed last Sunday ln Denver that sent a tbrill
throughout the whole of Christendomi,
where a man, Infamous ln bis revenge, lnfamous in bis appetite for blood went to the
chnrch and pierced the heart of a priest
celebrating mass ut the altar. Such crimes
are abominable, and are 'not local ; they
are gemerai, and I hold with the press of
this country. and with the police authorities of this country, and with the press
and police authorities of the United States,
that severe and rigid action should be taken
to prevent the further influx of such a
class of immigrants into this country. What
mieans sbould we take ? That is for the
administration of the day to formulate and
to execute. If our laws are not efficient and
effective eaough lu their drafting as tbey
stand on the statute books, then let the administration make them efficient and
have effective -ork doue la regard to this
niatter. I 'say that this question is one that
should mppeal f0 the goverument immediatethat; this parliament should
ly.
Lt is omme

it is our duty as representatives of the people to safeguard the 11f e of our fellow-citizeus.
It is the duty of parliament to, enact laws
be
tibat %%-Il effective ln preventing, 1 cannot
sur tbe presence of these people--they are
liere 110W and we must do the best we can
with tbem-but ln preventing these crimes.
We are flot hiere to oppose Italian Immigratlon as a wbole. There are many noble
citizens among tbem. I believe the vast
majority of our Italian community are just
as good as we are. We are lot protesting
agalilst their presence, but we bave a rigbt
to protest against the admission and the
presence of the criminal classes that overflow our borders. till I have ln vlew is the
welfare and safeguarding of the lives of our
people. It ls to put a stop to tbese dangerous examples of brute force. It is terrifyln,to rend the reports whichi corne la constant]y la regard to these people. Therefore, I
Say, with ail due respect to that grand old
nation, notwithstanding the respect and
admiration I have for tbem. that the goverument should take.effective measures to
prevent the entering of the criminal classes
lnto this country.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Italians bave flot
corne here at the Invitation of the goverument. They corne and go in ahl countries
freely, and I know of no0 reason why we
sbould interdict tbem here.
We have
Itallans ln the city of Ottawa who are lawabiding and iadustrious and give us no
trouble, because we put our laws ln force.
There are Itallans in1 ail the cities of Canada. The reason wby tbey are considered
a dangerous element in Montreal is plain.
It Is because the police officers are absolutely indifferent in their duty, and because
Montreai abounds with drinking bouses,
both legal and Illegal-more than any other
place in Canada. Some time ago I called
the attention of the House to the sad commeutary that Montreal had more drunken
men ln proportion to population than nny
other place lu Canada, owing to, the abundance of taverns ln the city. The police
have made no attempt to stem the tide of
criinality as they sbould have done. 1
saw a month or two ugo that some fifty
men had been hauled up for selling liquor.
Were they punlsbed? No ; the chief offiçer
not lose siglut of and if our immigration asked tbem encli to contribute $5 to a fund,
laws are not able f0 meet tlic situation, and they were ail ]et off. That Is the con-

SENATE
difion iii M-ontreal, and fuis Is flic cousequence of if. Hnd the police donc their
duty in M-\on:tieal, those murders -would nof
bave becu committcd, and lad flieY closed
up a number of flie drinking bouses fIat
-,vould bave put a stop f0 It Wlat la the
opinion of Uic Ifalian pricat ln Montreal,
who bas chiarge of that parlali? He says :
The police and the magistrates are far too
lenient ou some of these offenders. If the,.VI
are fouud with a concealed weapon they are
offered the option of a fine, which they pay at
once, takiug it for granted that it will not
be difficuit for them to 'collet ' the money
from some other Italian. This systcm of ' col]ecting' is carried on exteusively, and I have
knowu instances where good, industrions men
had to give so mixch in aid of a worthless
Italian who had got in trouble with the police. They do this because they arc afraid'
of some of these men, and they know fIat revenge would surely visit them if they did not
yield to the dem ands for money.
I eau give you an instance. Yesterday and
the day before, a collection was made amoug
,he Italiaus to defrav flic funeral expenses of
Antonio Di Lucca, the man who was stabbed
to death by Vitto Macoli. This was the reasou given, but I have cogent reasons for statiug that part of the mouey was to help the
guiltv to escape from the couutry and go to
the States.
I canuot uuderstand why the police have
net yet arrested that Vitto. UcHwas seen on
St. Catherine street yesterday noon, and
there are at least a huadrcd men who kunow
perfectly well where he is.
Why no one interferes? That's easily answered. They kuow that if fhey inform the
police will give their nameg away and that
thec frieuds of the accused will make their
life not worth living. That is the reason they
do flot tell ail they know aud often refuse t
talk at aIl.
Then lie mentions thc Incident wbicb was
quoted by fthe lion, gentleman, and lic goca
on to say lie wouders -wby Uic police did nof
arrest flis man, because lie was seen for
daya afferwards.
Hou. '.%r. CLORAN-By Itallans, not by
tlie police.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-lie w-as scen there. and
flic police made no attcmpt f0 arresf hlm.
This goverument cannot be respousible for
carryiug ouf Uic crimîlnal laws la thaf city.
New York lias over 800,000 Italian inliabifauta, yet you do not licar of sucli murders
being commifted there, slmply because flic
nuthorities are acting vigorously ; but if
you bave a body of police la Montreal wlio
commute crime for $5 or any other aum,
1
it la an Inducement f0 commit crime.
fhink flic police authorities made a miatake
wben thcy did not acf upon Uic suggestion
IIça. Mr. SCOTT.

of the Italian consul to select a certain filmber of Italiaus to act as detectives. That
would be thie only way of defeating thie
action of fliese men. I presume there are Dot
more than a dozen men lu Montreal who are
implicated ln these crimes whlcli bave been
deacribed so floridly by the bon. gentleman,
and yet lie blames all these crimes committed lu Montreal on tbe Italian luliabitants of fliat clty. In other cities, wbcrc flic
la abunpolice enforce fthc Iaw, and thl ]a
dantly strong for the purpose, the criminals
are kept ln subjection. The goverument of
Canada are la no way responsîble for IL.
The responsîbility la nîtogether on the City
of Monfreal.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Wbat does the City
Clerk say to that?
THIRD READING.
Bill (44) Au Acf f0 incorporate the Alberta Northern Railway Company.-(Hlon.
Mr. Talbot.)
SECOND READING.
Bill (21) Au Act respecting flie British
Yukon RnIlIWay Comnpauy.-(H-on. Mr. Belcourt.)
TUE GEORGIAN BAY CANAL.

DEBATE CONTINUED.
The Order of the Day being called
Resuming the adjourued debate en the motion of the Hon. Mr. Casgrain, that ho will
rail the attention of the Sonate to the importance to Canada of the early construotion of
the Georgian Bay Canal, and will inquire of
the Governement if the report of the survey
m~ade of that waterway will lie laid before the
Senate during the present session?
Hon. à1r. BELCOURT-Tlie question Of
transportation is to-day the greatesf and
most momentous question, and if constitutes the beavicat and moaf urgent task
to whicli Canadian energy and Canadian
ambition eau and sbould be mainly direcfcd.
This question la of paramount Importance
ta every nation 'whicli la seeking greatness,
but no'çvlerc is it of greafer-I miglit say of
as great Importance, as it is ln Canada, because fthc Canadian people have in fiaeir own
banda fthe solution of flic transportation
question, not only ia so far as their own.
dominons are concerned, but very Iargely
for thc greatest part of tlic Northi American

FEBRUAR!Y 27, 1908
This language
The very large national areu, M%1ontreal and Quebec.
continent.
the great forests, the fislberies, tbe rich mines, may seem exaggerated and perfervid,
It Is arnpiy Justified
and especially the vast and fertile wheat I do flot tbink it is.
fields of the Dominion, make It absolutely and it la made, so far as 1 amn concerned,
necessary that transportation shahl be given advisedly and la cold and sober sense, wlth
iii Canada the greatest possible develop- a full appreciation of ail tbat it Impiies and
the consciousness that It la susceptible of
ment.
But tbere Is an additional reason be- compiete denionstration. It is suffcient to
yond present resources and needa, and be- giance at the map of North America, to
yond future developments and posaibilities analyze its -geograpbical and topographical
-tbat reason Is that, owlng to its geograpb- conditions, to sean the 'work of Providence
Ical situation, tbe solution of the transporta- and acrutinize hier designs and to apply the
tion question of the North American conti- lessons wblcb experience bias taugbt mannient la largely lu tbe bands of Canadians. kind to prove the absolute correctucas of
The St. Lawrence, the Ottawa and tbe otber this conclusion, a conclusion to wbicb everynoble Canadian streanis constitute, witb our one bas been driven wbo bas given the subsbare in tbe great lakes, tbe buik of Oaa- Ject proper and unpreJudiced consideration.
It Is proven by the recorded opinions of
ada's great beritage, and stand firat and
moat valu- those best qualified to speak on the subject,
foremiost on the llst of Canada's
able assets. Tbere ls not nnywbere la the flot only la Canada and la Englaad, but
wlde worid a greater, or as great a natural also in the United States of America, wbere
commercial route as tbat formed by tbe St. there would be s0 many strong reasons for
Lawrence and the Ottawa rivera. Tbougb entertaining and propagating an entlrely
Canada bas done a great deal to improç-e different opinion. And how la this to be
ber transportation facilities, I arn one of accomplisbed 2 Priucipally, and first of ail,
those wbo thiuk that we bave not doue MI by perfectiag the navigation of the Ottawa
tbiat we should, not as well as we could, cer- and French rivers froni Georgian bay to
taiuly not as well as we bave doue witb Montreal. Until quite recently, tbe advomnny otber brancbes of national activity. cates of tbis project ln parliament and in
It*la probably because tbere wus s0 much the public press of the country, bave been
more to, be donc la the way of trans- largely recrulted from the representatives
portation than tbere was ln reference 10o and journalista living In the Ottawa valley.
otber matters, owing largely to the vastass It la wltb considerable gratification and enof our territory and its slow development couragement to those wbo bave for many
To-day tbe great bulk of tbe barveat of tbe years-and 1 amn one of tbem-strenuously
Nortbwest Intended for forelgu markets la advocated tbe construction of this watersblpped by Way of Buffalo to New York or way, that tbe project ls no longer looked
sorne other United States port, and tbe cou- upon as one of mereiy local lnterest to, the
trol of at least four-fiftbs of the vast and people inbablting the Ottawa valiey; but
ever-growlng trade of tbe great lakes la la ln tbe ligbt of the truiy great national unthe banda of our nelghbours. And yet It la may be permitted to do rio bere, I appeai
la tbe power of the Canadian people to coin- to the publie men of the great cities of
pletely reverse tbe situation, and to carry Moatreai and Quebec especially for tbeir
througb Canadian cbannels and la Cana- assistance and support so as to secure tbe
dian veasels the wbole of the products of our realization of this ail important undertbrougb Canadian channels and la Canadian taking, to my mind tbe greateat and most
veasels the whoie of the producta of our own Important of Canada's enterprises. I wlsb
soli, and la addition absoluteiy control tbe to make an appeai to ail the business men
trade of the lnland seas of North Ameri-ca. la this parliarnent and out of it, fron aI
Nature bas given Canada tbe means of solv- tbe provinces of Canada, to corne to the
ing and controilitig thc transportation ques- assistance of those wbo are pressing upon
tion of the North Amrean continent. Oaa- tbe Dominion government the undertaklag
adiaus eau, if tbey wisb and wll lt, cause of this work at an early date.
tbe sceptre of commercial supremacy to
The Georglan Bay canai is feasibie pbypass froni New York and Boston to s1cally, financiaily and commercially. There

43-2

SENATE

are w) engineering difficulties that cannot be
Psucess,-fully ami easiiy overcome, and the
cost of so doing is flot unreasonable. nnr iq
it beyond Canada's financial resources. Coinmercialiy Its success is assured; it is Canada's greatest national necessity, in the Interest *0f transportation. 1 shall not, touigbt, say much with reference to the
physicai and financial aspects of the undertaking, but shall confine my remarks very
largely to Its commercial aspects and to
w-bat I deem, and to wbat 1 bave no hesitation lu asserting. is the great and urgent
neeessity of this wvaterivay. The route lias
been so orteil descrlbed tlîat I shall not
troub)le tbe House wltli, aur attellpt at
furtber describing It to-night. W-e had the
other day, fl tbe very Instructive and interestlng speech of our hon. friend froin
DeLanaudière (MIr. Casgraîn), a comiplete
andi detailed description of the waterway,
es-pecially froin an engineering point of
view. and I was very inuch gritlfled indeed
to listen to the stroug argument of -the
lion, gentleman ail the more so hecause I
believe lie bas not aiwnys been in favour of
the Georgiau Bay canal. 1 w-ns the more
leised, because be spoke fromi bis owni
ibersonal experience aud knowledge as a
professional mnan; and w-e ail know that In
speaklng of tbe engineering possibilities and
diticulties of this scbeme be w-ns eminently
qnaified to do so. 1 welcome him to the
ranks of those wbo advocate tbe construction of this canai, and bave no doubt that
be w-i continue to press the matter on the
attention of tbe governinent.
I w-ouid
merely remlnd the House that the total
length of the waterway Is 425 miles, nearly
400 of w-hlch are in deep stretches requlring
only suitable Improvements here and tbere,
nd noue at nIl iu many places; only 29
miles of artificial canal require to be made,
and 27 iocks of n total aggregate lengtb of
four miles. Tbat there are no engineering
ahstacles bas been frequently and amply
denionstrated by the reports of sucli emilient and practical engineers as 'Messrs.
Walter Sbianley, T. 1M.Clarke, Marcus Smiith
and others.' We have had severai reports
miade by officers of the Public Works
Department of Canada, and especîaliy one
whicb w-as made only three 3er ag-on
the 24tb of 31arcb, 1905.
Then w-e have the opinion, lu respect of
Honi. Mr. BELCOURT.

the possibility of the uudertaking, of one
of the nîost competent engineers of the
present day on the subject of waterw-ays
and irrigation, Mr-. Geo. Y. Wîsner, wbo
speut bis wbole life lu scientific Investigation and practical w-vork on transportation
ivliose know-ledge and experience wvere probnbly greater than that of any of bis
contemporaries, '.%r. Wisuer dled about a
year ago. Mr. Wisner, It wiil be remembered probably by most hon, gentlemen of
this 'House, w-as ouie of a commission of
tliree appointed by President Roosevelt
for the purpose of looklng into and reporting upon tbe deep w-aterways of the
American Republic, for une purpose of
fiuding out where a deep waterway could
be constructed to connect tbe lakes with
the seaboard, for the purpose of securlng
for the United States tbe conitrol of the
v'ast traffic of tbe great lakes. Another
miember or tbis commission was Senator
Newland. 1 bave forgotten the namne of the
third. Tbese commissioniers made a tborough
examination of the continent and, after
their examination, made a report to the
President of tbe UJnited States lu whlcb
they did not advocate nny particular route
-u fact the report, If you rend through
the lhues, amounits to an admission that
thiere w-as no place in the Amierican Republic w-bere sucb a waterwny couid be constructed. Mfr. Wisner w-ent over the Ottaw-a and Georgian Bay route froin end to
eud. and after making bis examination and
iooking at the plans and estinintes prepared, stated that It w-as not the United
States of American, but the Dominion of
Canada that had the means of constructing
a deep waterway to tbe seaboard. He appeared before the Royal Commission on
transportation on the lSth June, 1904, and
tlien sud tbere expressed bis opinion most
emphaticaiiy lu the w-ny 1 have just ludicated.
Then we bave tbe report o! tbe Department o! Public Works, made lu November, 1907, wblch bas been submltted to
parliament quite recentiy, and which deals
more particularîr with the navigation of
that portion of *the canal -which extends from the mnontb of the French
river to ;North Bay. The engineering
difficulties are there referred to, and
the engîneer in charge reports that navi-

FEBRUARY 27, 1908

gation providlng for a 20-foot draft can
be bad from Georgian Bay to North Bay
nt a cost of $13,000,000. The Department
of Publie Works bas also completed a comprehensive and exhaustive examination
and survey of the whole route f rom Montreal to Georgian Bay, and a complete report of this survey 15 promised for the end
of Mardi. The report of the engineer lni
charge will be laid on the table of the
House, and 1 have It from the chie! engineer of the survey himself, that the report w-iil positively assert that there are no
engineering difficulties or obstacles lu the
way 0f conipleting a twenty-two foot
waterway from Lake Huron to Montreal.
Some years ago the Engineering News of
New York made the followlng statement
as to the engineering difficulties of the proposed canal:
From an engineering point of view, disre-

433

St. Laurent, chief engineer lu charge of the
survey, whose report we are promlsed wltbln a very few weeks-and I bave the figures
from himseif,-ls $90,000,000. There 1s oniy
a diff erence of $5,000,000 between the estimate of Mr. Wlsner and the estimate of
Mr. St. Laurent. This estimate Is for a
2>2-foot canal whlcb wlll aliow for at least
20 feet of navigation. Mr. St. Laurent's
estimate Includes the cost of buoylug and
lightlng the wliole route, of providlng elec-

tric plant, wharfs, docks, &c., and ail damages for floodlng lands taken, &c., aud the
cost as well of acqulring ail the water-

po-wers whicb have been disposed of. If
we take Mr. St. Laurent's figures, $90,000,000, aud assume that we cau borrow .maney
at the rate of four per cent, whicb I tbink
Canada can unquestionably do, and prob-

ably do better, we wili bave an annual
expenditure for the payment of the interest
garding for the moment political boundaries, on the cost of $3,(M0,000. The cost of mainthere cau be no doubt that the Ottawa route tenance bas been placed by Mr. Wisner
is by far the best for a deep waterway tram
the upper lakes to the sea. So far as'export aud othersut one million dollars, so you will
traffic f rom the Northwest to Europe is con- bave an annual expenditure 0f $4,600,000. 15
verned, it offers hy far the shortest possible
route, and practically its only drawback-is that beyond Canadian financiai resources?
the dangers of navigation of the St. Lawrence No one would for a momlent question aur

Gulf.
ability to provide thîs sulu for such a purLet me quote an expression of opinion pose. But the question Is flot as to Our
on this point from the late Mr. Wlsner. ability, but rather as to the justification
whIch 1 find embodied in an article which to provide for such an expenditure.
appeared in the Ottawa 'Citizen' on the
I for one venture to assert that If the cost
20th June, 1901. Mr. Wlsner said:
of maklng and malntalnlng this waterway
There is absoluteiy no question as to the were to, be provlded wholly out of the nafeasibility of the project. if the whole terri- tional treasury, as It would be If bulIt and
tory were under the United States control, the
operated by thse goverument, and the canal
work would be gone on with very quickly.
were made free of tails (as It would likely
So mucli for the physical posslbllty or be in the latter contingency) It wouid
be a
feasibiiity of the canal. Let me now say a wvise and amply justlfied expenditure in
word as to the financlal side of the ques- vlew of the Immense commercial benefits
tion. According to Mr. Wlsner's estimates, whlch would be derlved from it. But the
and tbey were based on an actual examina- annual expeuditure would not be wbolly
tion of the whole route from French river pravlded for by tie govérnment even if
to, Montreal, aud after a careful examina- the canal Is bult and operated hy
tion of the plans prepared by the engineers the government, and tie waterway kept
of the Georgian Bay Canal Compauy, who entirely free of ail tolls. Assumlng that
spent a couple of years ut the work, he the goverument -wii not recelve one cent
estimated that the cost would be $85,- of direct revenue from thse operation of the
000,000.

canal, there is lu sigbt about $5,000,000 0f
Indirect revenue for the national excbequer.

Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-Does the hon. gen- In completlng this waterwny,
there wili
tleman men $85,000,000 for ail] the Georgian be developed and lmmediateiy avallable for
Bay canal ?
generai use Immense

water-powers.

The

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Yes, from Geor- estimates as to thse amount 0f horse-power
gian Bay ta Moutreal. The estimate of Mr. ta be developed vary fromn 8W0,000 ta 2,2s
REVI5JFD EDITION

SENATE
000,000. Now, taking the lowest testimate,
800,000 horse-power, and putting the ]owest
figure of value upon it, $6 per horse-power,
which to-day the government is In receipt of
for power on the St. Lawrence canais, we
would have an annual revenue of $4,800,000, so that the canal when completed would
even if opcrated by the government, and entlrely free of tolls, be self-sustaining. 1
say, therefore, it Is no exaggeration to assert Uiat this niagnificent waterway cau
be securcd and operated ut practically no
,expense to the country. -Wbilst dealing with
this, I sbould caîl thc attention of thc
House to a statement nmade recently by1
the President of the United States in addressing the commission appointed to investigate the national inland waterways of
the United States, Mr. Roosevelt among
other things said :the
StilI another fundamentally important question is that of waterpower. Its significance
in the future develapmnent of aur whole
country, and especially of the west, is just
beginning ta be understood. The plan of the
city of Los Angeles, for example, ta bring
water for its use a distance of nearly 2,50
miies-perhaps the boldest project of the kind
in modern times-promises not only to achieve
its purpose, but in addition to produce a
water power sufliciently valuable ta pay large
interest on the investment of over $23,000,000.
Hitherta such opportunities for using water
ta double purpose have not always been seized.
Thus it has recently been shown that water
enough is flowing unused over goverument
dams, built to, improve navigation, ta produce
many hundreds of thousands of horse-power.
It is computed that the annual value of the
available but unused water power of the
United States exceeds the annual value of the
products of ail aur mines. Furthermore, it is
calcuiated that under judicious handling the
poawer af our streams may be made ta pay
for ail the works required for the complote
develapment and cantrol cf aur inlaud waterways.

is to be found ail the way along this route,
and for numerous other articles. Then the
power would be used in operating electric
railways, and in the opinion of some, in
the operation of railways now worked by
steaul. Lt bas been stated by an expert
that the Canadian Pacifie Railway, running paralici and alongside of this great
waterway, is bound ln a short time to be
operated by hydro-electric energy and no0
longer by steamn. It will be needcd in thc
large cities. It will be needed in MiNontreal,
as was'sa cieqrly pointed out by the hon.
gentleman froni DeLanaudière thc other
day; aud wvith the increase in Uic price of
coal it Is going to be used -largely for
long transmîission. It was only last week
that Uic newspapers stnted that Mackenzie
and 'Mann bad acquired a portion of
power nt Niagara and other waterpowers througbout Canada, wîth a view of
electrifying at least a portion of their road.
That is bciug donc to-day, and lu future
it will be donc much more. Naw, with this
water-powcr aîong the route and avaliable
in the way I have stated, it Is surely ail
going to be required at an early date. I

may say with considerable assurance that
before the canal is cornpleted, say seven or
ei"ht years-because I assume it will take
that iang-tiat the wbole of this power
wili be lu absolute demand. The St. Lawrence canais cost about four million dollars
annually. and certainly it cannot be said
bave materially diverted the
thtthey
ta
grain trade of thc West . nto Canadian
channels. Oniy a small share of Uic ad-

vanta ges eau be claimed for the St. Lawrence which the Ottawa route ofiers; and
lu this respect I wlsh ta read ta the
those words, truc, House what was stated by the New York
LIt seems ta me that
no doubt with reference to thc United " Herald " quite recently. 1 fiud an article
States, arc stili much more truc wli res- in the New York "Hcrald" copied into the
pect ta, Canada, and more cspecially with Ottawa " Evening Journal'" which in part
reference ta this particular waterway. It reads as follows:
The results expected from the construction
may be doubted whetber there will be a
of the fourteen foot navigation on the St.
hc
demand for ail this water-pwrtt, wichLawrence river-namneiy, to divert the water
-powr
1 Uiink, and wîth con- borne export grain trade f rom Buffalo ta,
1 have referred.
Montreai-have not been realîzed.
siderable assurance, that that power, wiî
The hope that this route cau ever effeet this
The general
immediately, and it wilI Ildiversion must be abandaned.
be required almast
be utllized In the manufacture of lumber, character of the lake traffie, the enormaug
opportunities
aperandsize of the vessels, coupled with in Amnerican
nd
ulp
In te mkingof
aperandfor abtaining return cargoes
nd
ulp
lu te mking0f
various woaden and other goods; for smelt- parts on Lake Erie, more than set off the disthe transarisiug
lng purposes; for the manufacture of Part- advantages ta the from the cost of Buffalo as
seaboard froni
portation
land cernent, the material for making whicb against transport in bulk by the rival CanHan. Mr. BELCOURT.

FEBRUARY 27, 1908
adian ail water route in the amailer vessels.
But the struggle is not yet over. Âdmittedly,
the limit of size of lake shipping lias now
heen reached, and this limit fnally exhaut
the advantages of the cheapest Âmerican route
via Buffalo ta the seabord.
Canada holds in reserve, liowever, a trump
card in the proposed Georgian Bay canal.

435

It has been said that because we have
spent eighty millions on the 8t. Lawrence
canais, or rather one hundred millions, because thse actual cost la about eighty millions and we have expenses In operation
and miaintenance since o! about twenty millions more, and because tbe St. Lawrence
canais cost four millions annually, and they
bave net accompiished the utojeet lu viewthat is, dlverted trade ta Canadien channeis-that we shouid not go on and lueur
the expense lnvolved la this great undertaking. But the moment we are farced ta
admit that the St. Lawrence canais have
not realized thse object which the Canadian
goverument had la enlarging them,. it seems
to me that very reason is thse reason why
this route, If It can be demonstrated that
It will secure that object, sbould be con-

I migbt malie n digression here to say
th-at 1 have In my citations to, the House
seiected, aimost aitogether, opinions from
United States sources. I have done this for
two reasons; first of ail because I wish to
offer to the House something which bas flot
been said before In the way of outside
opinion, and, ns must be obvious because
the opinions of United States people on
this subject must carry a very great deal
of weight, ns tbey are ta say the least, dis
2nterested. The nrticle proceeds:
She means and is preparing ta play it. By structed.
this route, which utilizes the French river'
I shall say no mare about eitber the phyLake Nipissîng and the Ottawa river, a
twenty foot navigation can be established sici or filancial feasibility of thse sciseme,
through to Montreal without breaking bulk, but wili now devote my remarks to thse
L.e., lake navigation conditions through ta tidewater. Tis line is also 450 miles shorter
than the present ail water route by St.
Lawrence river to Montreai. The estimated
cost of the new lime, is £12,000,000.
No effective competition with this route appears in any wav possible. When in operation
the Buffalo route wili be hopelessl.v outclassed,
and the St. Lawrence will then soive and contrai the transportation conditions of the continent. On this point the following considerations appear to be final.
I wish to draw the attention of the
House ta the statement o! the New

York ' HeraId'1 that the St. La'wrence route
contrais the transportation conditions of
this continent, as the justification for the
language whicb I have used In regard to
tb'is matter. There Is an opinion also here

other aspect of tise matter-ita commercial
advantages?
And la this respect 1 arn

going- ta, quote thse opinion of others. I
sbould like ta reind tbe House o! thse opinion-I w'iil nat read it, because it ls familiar
ta, every lian, gentleman In tbis House-expressed by Sir Win. Van Horne at the time
of the inqulry by thse specini committee of
tne Senate of Canada la thse year 1898. 1
sbould like ta remind tisis House aiso of
tise opinion given by Mr. Win. Whyte, one
of the vice-presidents af thse Canadian
Pacifie Rnlway. Very interesting la thse
opinion o! that eminent engineer ta whom
1 bave already referred, Mm. Waltem Shanley,
ln the report pinted ln 1900. 1 find on

a! n Caundian journal, one of thle very few page 10 o! that report thse following:

which I have to quate, but whicb I wili ask
the permission of the House ta refer to. It
It is not my intention ta array grea.t
is from the 'Trade Bulletin,' and 1 find i columns of statistics ta show what tlie possiquated lu the Ottawa 'Citizen' on the lat ble trade from tlie west ta the seaboard may
be some ten years hence, prithin which period
of June, 1906. It le as foilows :
sucli a navigation as is above foreshadowed
After ail, the construction of the Georgijan may become a reality. The increase of popuBay canai is not so much a mnatter of cost, as lation and commerce in the western States and
an absolute necessity in meeting transporta- western cities has invariably outstripped the
are pro! the thenrists
tion requirements to cope if with a rapidly- anticipations ta continue to do andfor a long9
s0
expanding trade, whicli,
neglected, may fectIv certain
..asily degenerate into a national caiamity. series of years.
Cost? 0 f course it will need a good round
It woufd be almost in vain then ta specusumn to compiete the canal; and it might not late on what the next ten years of progress
be unwise ta calculate upon its costing a few should bring forth, but it may b. a fairly
millions more than the above estimate, but asserted tbat producing powers in *tlie west,
Canada is good. for it. It is the best national and demand for its products in the east are
investmnent she could make far lier future increasine in such rapid ratio that any proprosperity, the returns fromi which will make ject which sliould have for its end ta dimihier glad.
nisli space and incrense the facilities of trans28J

SENATE
port by water carniage wiIl find such favor
in the eyes of the mercantile community that
the restless spirit of commerce will nieither
slumber nor sleep while a possibility remains
o! effecting some radical imiprovement in the
the Great
water communication between
Lakes ports of 'the interior and the seaports
of the Atlantic Coast. Millions will be f reely
contributed and freely expended for the
furtherance of. such a purpose ere another decade has passed away.
The natural outiet of ail that fertile region
east of the Mississippi, which. drains into the
Great Lakes, is of course their outlet, the St.
Lawrence, and the preponderance of the trade
of that immense area, as it assumes dimensions proportioiied to the vastness, of the
river, will settie into that channel. as a matter of destiny. No wholl.v artificial avenue
can keeip pace in increaàing capacity with the
gigantic commerce which is growilg up to
the west of Lake Michigan. and which ýwill
force us Canadians into bolder -undertakings
titan any we have yet embarked in. Canada
lies directly across the leading route from
the far west to the Atlantic Seaboard, and
over seime portion of our territory the great
tide of western traffic must forever rol.

prise completedl, you would be able to send
ahl your wheat from the head of Lake Superior
t) Quebec for three cents a bushel. By paying
six or sevea cents from the prairies te the
lakes, the cost of the transport of wheat te
Liverpool will be reduced to a minimum.
Addressing the Canadian club at Ottawa,
about two years ago, Mr. Hill expressed
very mucb the samne view, but 1 shal nlot
trouble the Hlouse by reading it now.
Let us see for* a moment wbat the Erie
canal bas done for the state of New York.
have seen it stated on good authorlty that
the Erie canal bas put into the treasury
of New York State twenty million dollars
more tlian Its cost. It bas caused to be expended in New 'York State $350,00,000 pnid
.In as freight. Lt bias bult up towns and
Lt bias more
cîties aIl along the canal.
than anytblng else made the grent port af
New York the most Important one on t]ais
continent. if this smnall canal, tbe Erie dltcb
ns it bias been called, bas produced such
results, cau we not venture to tblnk wbat
this magnificent waterway would do for
Canada, for northern Ontario and Quebec,
for our shipping industry and for our natural
ports? Sometimes we *have unfavoumable
opinions about the Georgiau Bay canal
from gentlemen who live la the western
part of the province of Ontario. We know
that la the clty of Toronto, for Instance,
it bas nlot meeeived a very warm support,
and from some other places along the St.
Lawrence canais lt does not receive very
much encouragement, but I am glad to be
able to quote one of the Toronto newspapers on the subject, tbe Toronto 'News.'
La eferring to the Ottawa and Georgian

I have another quotation from the 'New
York Herald,' wblch rends as follows.
The Georgian Bay Surveys.
The Canadian government has been s0 impressed with the economic advantages; and
possibilities of titis Georgian Bay and Ottawa
canal route that it is an open secret that it
will construct the works jtself and corne to
somne arrangement with the present charter
holders. The final aad detailed surveys of
the first section of the canal from Lake Huron
vin French River te North Bay on Lake
Nipissing have been hurried forward and
should be complete ere now. The present rapid
settlement of Western Canada and the construction of the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway
can only serve te hasten the early completion
of Canada's new water route. Cereal production in the prairie regions is advancing with
giant strides. It threatens te anticipate the
capacity of the existing and prospective outlets. The f utility of enlarging the hopper
without enlarging its spout is obvious, and Bay route, that paper said:
thA interest shown by the authorities in grappling with this and similar measures of relief
The question may be solved by the conis therefore most commendable. Incidentally, struction of the Grand Trunk Pacifie but this
this particular undertaking to benefit
aiso,
Between times the
will be in the future.
'water transport would promote, the develop- great commercial artery of Canada must be
rient of the enormous water powers which partly by rail and partly by water, and the
occur ail along the canal route in a region Georgian Bay offers in this respect excepfull of natural resources, and so give mise tional advintages equally large in ail caFes as
to an industrial situation of the first magni- Buffalo. The exportation of Canadian wheat
tude.
cannot help but be increased and besides
the exportation of American wheat is alMr. Jas. J. Hill put hlmself on record in ready diminishing.
Consequently, we mnust
and Georgian
-connection with this waterway wben he utilize our ports on Lake Huron
Bay.
sald, among other tbings :
This should be the method of putting a stop
which are beiigNature has done everything it can for you ti the ceaseless complaints of traffic on the
when it divided the continent by the St. Law- made about the congestion into coasideration
rencei the Ottawa river and the lakes, you railways, without taking rising on the shores
cities
ïrnust do your share to utilize this great that we should seeand Georgian Bay.
The
natural route. It would be easy to have .a of Lake HuronBuffalo would net have been
deveiopment of
waterway 24 feet deep from Quebec or Montreal to the head of Lake Superior. This enter- acomplished otherwise, &c.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT.

FEBRUARY 27, 1908
But the great ndvantage of this water- nnerclil possibilities? Who can doubt that
way is that the time for carryîag and deliv- s uch an enornxous advantage over the New
ering freight froin the great iakes to the ' irork route would cause sucb a diversion
seaboard would be reduced by at least 48 )f the trade of the Great Lakes as to coinhours, and perhaps 72 heurs, and the pietely reverse the present situation and
cost of doing- that wouid be reduced cause the control of that trade to pass froîn
twIce over. Let me prove it. The t he United States to Canada? Let me ask,
distance froin Chicago to Buffalo by i s there a single shiipper of grain in Chicago,
the lakes is 900 miles. Chicago to Montreal D~uluth or 'Milwaukee who would make !ls
via Georgfian Bay and Ottawa river, 905 ghipments by Buffalo and New York if lie
miles. The cost 0f.transporting wbaiat from could make them, by Montreal for one-haif
Chicago to Buffalo is one and a hailf cents; or one-tliird less? Ei-en a quarter or an
Buffalo to New York It la at lenst three nndE elght of a cent below prescrit -charges per
a linif cents and possibly four cents, but far bushel wouid be sufficient to cause this
the purpose of my argument I am puttingE diversion, and 1 have here I think concluIt at thrae, and you have there a total cost sive proof of that. lu the month of March,
of at laast four and n haîf cents froin the 1901, the Armour people of Chicago wrote
What would be as follows
lakes to the seaboard.
You are right in assuming that we think
the cost along this route? The cost of
to drop their
transporting- tue grain froin the lakes to the new route would only haverates, in order
rate j to j cent below present
Montreai would be one and a haîf cents. to obtain a good share of the business, and
Amn 1 not justified in saying that the cost any such rate as that you quote-3 cents per
hushel from Chicago to Montreal-would
of transporting wheat from the lakes to, throw as much business via that route as it
New York is two bundred per cent could possibly handle, the ail-rail lines via
any
comnpete
able
higlier than It would be by the Ottawa Buffalo not being course,to thjs wouidwith with
be
suob figure. 0f
waterway. To any mmnd that ïs the the uaderstanding that ocean rates f rom
the
strougest argument to be advanced in fa- Quebec to Montreal would remain on with
saine parity as they now are, compared
vour of this waterway. It is an argument New York and Boston.
which, to, my mind, cannet ba controverted,
1 couid quote many other opinions sintand which alone would justify the large exthis lar to this to show what a very siight reducpenditure which the construction of
tion la the cost of transportatian would
canal would entail, and I am assuming that
If the cause this great trade to come our way.
the canal would be free of toits.
tliat trade is cold-biooded.
canal were handed over to n conpany to We ail know
to the There is no sentiment in trade. Armour and
buld, and at, no expanse whatevar
the
national treasury. and If this company did Company, Swift and Comnpany, and ail
would still be grat shippers of Duluth, Chicago and Milcollect toîl on the canal, we
able, with the tol added, to, transport grain waukee, are no)t going to ship their grain
from the lakas to, Montreal for one-third and products througli United etates chanlass than it is baing tran.oported to-day to neis If they can ship them through Canadian
New York. The toil which the eompany or other channels nt a iesser rate. That
would collect would be another cent and a argument is irrespective.
I should like for oaa moment to give some
haîf. You would carry the grain from the
lakes with the toli includad for thu-ea cents figures to show the Immensity of the trade
to, the Canadian seaboard, whereas it cost of the great lakes. Let me remind tha House
now four and a haîf cents at least to brlag that the trade extends over an *araa of
duced by nt least two thirds of the canal agricultural and industriai activity of over
were built by the governmeut, and by one- 2,000,000 square miles, with a population
third if the canal were built by the com- of 25,000,000, and the present grain proIf chaap trans- duction of over 8,000,000,000 busheis. In
pany and toil coliected.
portation means anything, uniess ail past this area, two-thirds of the total Iron proexperience is a delusion and a snare, who duction of the United States is manufacIs thera bold enough to, say that, with such tured. The freight traffic of the lakes is
a resuit, this waterway doas not offer Can- estimated at 100 million tons annually.
ada the graatest and most important com- in 1906, there passed Detroit to and

SENATE
fromi the Great Lakes, 70,000,000 tons of
freight; 25,000 vessels passed Detroit in a
season of 230 days. A sbip passed every
tbfrteen minutes, and 200 tons of freight
per minute. The Soo (kmerican and Canadian), in 1906, had a total traffie of 51,751,080 tons, carried in 22,155 boats, and this
traffic was valued at the enormous sum of.
$600,000,000. In 1907, tbe year following,,
the trade pnssing through the United States
and Canadian Soo canais, increased. from
51,751,080 tons to 58,217,214 tons. Through
the American Soo canal la 1906, there
passed la round figures, 45,000,000 tons.
Through the Canadian Soo there passed six
and a bal! million tons, making the
total wblch I have given of fifty-one
million odd. Now, hon. gentlemenl %ill see
the proportion that passed through the
Canadian Soo as agninst the American Soo.
It ls Just one to seven, and I do not thînk
the figures show exactly what did occur
after ail, because it is well known that
the American Soo Ls so mucli more busy,
having so many more ships to accommodate, the Canadian Soo biaving far less,
that many American vessels pass through
by way of the Canadian Soo canal.
Compare these figures wlth what passed
tbrough the St. Lawrence canais ln
the samne year of 1906; we bave 51,000,000 tons. passing tbrough the Soo
canal while ln the saine ycttr oniy 1,700,000
tons passed tbrough tbe St. Lawrence
canaIs, and yet that includes not only the
trade coming from the Great Lakes but
also the local trade plcked up by these
boats ail along the St. Lawrence and the
lakes east of the IlSoo." Let us see the
amount of grain that was carried in 1906.
The quantity carried by rail and water to
Montreal was 792,000 tons, or about 25,000,000 bushels. Ia the saine year lie quantity carried by rail and water to New York
was 4,300,000 tons, or nenrly 150,000,00.0
bushels, about la the same proportion as lie
trafflc passlng tbrougb the Soo canaIs 'that
la, one to six- The St. Lawrence canais
carrled 405,000 tons, or 13,500,000 bushels;
while the 'smali Erie canal carried
295,000 tons, or nearly 10,000,000 bushels.
The Erie canal did only one-third less 'business lin the whole o! lie ýSt. Lawrence
system. Our ralways carried only one-sixtb
o! the grain trade handled by the New York
Hlon. Mr. BElCý,IOURT.

state railways. In 1900 there were shipped
from Port Arthur and Fort William by rail
and water over 70,000,000 bushels of Canadian grain, and yet, to say nothiag of the
large shipments from Ontario, less than 25,000,000 bushels or about one-third, reached
Montreal. Now, where did the rest go? It
went to New York on United States vessels
aad railways and througli United States
canais. Of our 70,000,000 bushels of grain,
two-thirds went tbrough United States channels to be shipped from United States ports.
The wheat crop of Manitoba, Saskatchewan
and Alberti in 1906 was sligbtly over one
liuudred million bushels. 0f this 75 per
cent, as 1 have shown, was shlpped to
eastern Canada and United States and
across the Atlantic. Less than 25,000,000
bushels fromn ail parts of Canada reached
Montreal, so that in 1906 we failed to
carry at ]east two-thirds of our own wflent
export trade alone. Howilong is this going
to continue? Are we content to, let the
Amnericaiis do not only the business whicb
by rîghit belongs to them, but are we going
to let tbem continue to carry two-thirds of
our export grain trade also? To give
another idea of wbat ihis trade niecans, let
me reinind the House tbat two-thirds of the
whole iron lndustry of lie American nation to-day originates in the lakes region
and the lake country furnishes over onethird of the world's total supply of iron.
Our nickel mines alone would afford an Immense trade to the waterway. A United
States expert flot very long ago estimated
that the nickel deposits at Sudbury contained 025,000,000 tons of ore ln sight, and
large discoveries have since been made.
There is an immense quantity of nickel ore,
a large portion of which must be transported.
Quite recently one of tie ricbest iron mines
of the North Ainerican continent bas been
opened up, and I am glad to say that It is
ia Canada. It bas been sald in the past
that- Canada possesses no large iron deposits. The Moose Mounitain iron mine
which is only eigbty miles north of Key
harbour, near the mouth or French river,
bas been sbown by tests to contain 42,000,000 tons of ore ln signt averaging 58
per cent of iron. It ls a sheer wall of rock
150 feet bigh-black solid ore drilied to
deptîl of 500 feet. For a distance of baîf a
mile in one direction, and one and one-

FEBRUARY 27. 1908
haif miles la another, one outcrop after place la tea, twelve or twenty years, but
anotiier. The drill showed that 150 feet there are certain estimates that one eau
below a drift of sand on the hillside the make wlth safety. As I have pointed out,
ore was just as good as it is nearer t11e the first indirect commercial advaentage of
the opening up of the Ottawa canal would
surface.
'Chat the Moose Mountain deposit is one be the development of the immense water
of the best and blggest ia the world was powers from which a revenue of nearly
admitted by ail the members of the Amerl- $5,000,000 a year would be derlved. But It
caa, lstitute of Mining Engineers wlio would aise lmmediately increase the value
vlted it three months ago. John W. of the land la the vicinlty of the route. It
Gates of New York, is president of a coin- bas been estimated. that there are several
million acres of land along the waterway
pany -who own 4,700 acres of land, and wl
and which, to-day, are soid at 50 cents per acre,
next y&ar be shipping to Cleveland
other coal-handling ports. Preparations the value of which would Increase at once
belng made for smeling and iron works at. to eight or ten dollars per acre-land whilb
Toroato that wl eventualiy empioy 15,000 is quite as good and fertile as any lands la
inen-will be the biggest metalic lndustry the province of Ontario. Ia that respect
Rail'and the most convenient to ]Pennsylvania let me quote the opinion o! the
way and Shlpping World.. 1 take the folcoal that Canada possesses.
With this Immense quantity of iron ore iowing from an article which appeared la
to be shipped to smeiters, there wouid be that publication on the 13th August, 1898:
The increase in value of these alone, owîng
given for this waterway a traffic of at least
being &Sought on a main line of
2,000,000 tons a year, aad there would ho to their
traffic, should repay the entîre cost of openthe total annual img navigation, lands now«held at 50 cents
contributed one-fifth of
at least
acre
cost on the construction as well as main- an times becoming immediately worth alone is
that sum. Sturgeon Falls
10
we said to be the shippiag point for forests estimtenance of this water route. When
look at the figures which have beea ated to contain about 2,000,000 cords of sprues.
this f rom $1 to $2 would
every
given of the Amerîcan iadustry on the On saved tocord of
the producers as the direct resait
be
lakes, we see that this alone wouid afford of the opening of the waterways. About the
northward is
sufficient traffie to justify the.construction head of the Teniiskaming and saine material
an inexhaustible supply of the
of thé~ canal. I sbould like to quote again tributqry to the Ottawa river. The manuMfr. Wisner's evîdence bef ore the transporta- facture of this kind should employ numerous
Waterpower is abundant.
tion commission, but as bis evidence la mills.
The savlng of duty alone on Nova Scotia
avallable I would refer bon. gentlemen to
would, by means of thîs canai,
the publishied report. Mr. Wisner has made con), whichi
be afforded a nket la the interlor of the
an estimate that if the canal were coinpieted to-day it would at once command continent 'abere the United States coal
a traffic of eiglit to ten million tons. Is now used excluslvely, bas been estiOur total carrylng trade by rail and ipated by an bon. gentleman la the other
water to M.Nontreai, la 1906, amounted to less Ilouse-n bon. gentleman who has sat
than 800.000 tons ; so the Georgian Bay tliere rnany years, and is a man o! great
pay onecanal would at once give us a carryiag trade experience, would be sufficlent to
at least ten times larger than it is to-day. hia)! the interest on the cost of construction,
That would
These figures of course are based on the and maintenance of the route:'
present traffic, but with the marvellous de- imen an qnnual saving to the mine owners
the
velopment now going on la the west it will of Nova Scotia o! $2,500,000 a year. If
powers
apparent how these figures will waterway were bulIt, and water
be at once
grow ia the near future, and wbat en- deveioped, a great deal o! the cost of minormous proportions thiat western trade Ing and smelting minerai ores would be
wlll soon assume. Now, a word about saved. They could be smelted at or near the
would
the indirect commercial advantages which mines and the cost of tra..sportntioa
be materially reduced. There would aise
would flow from the opening up of this
route. 0f course it is difficult to estimate be a saving on the transportation o! lumon
la dollars and cents ail these advantages.' ber. It could be cut and manufactured
say exactly what will take -tlie spot wlth the power produced at varlous
it is difficuit to

SENATE
points on the route, inistead of being floated
dowui the Ottawa and manufactured there.
It woul-aud this is a very important matter-at once give a string stimulus to, the
sbipbuilding industry on the lake ports. It
is a well known fact that four-fifts of the
trade and sbiipping on the great lakes is lu'
the hands of the Amnericans. If we had
our own waterway and transportation of
liot only our own products, but also of a portion of the products of the Northwestern
States, the shippiug industry woulçl receive
a new birthi.
But great as these advantages would
be, eogent ns tliese reasons are, there
As
another. and, to my mmnd, greater
and ni-re convinceing reason for the iinmediate construction of this waterway.
1 venture the opinion that it bas become
an absolutely national necessity not ouly
to our future development, but to Our preseut needs. The cost of the canal is flot
only a means to ceeper transportation-as
water transportation always affords-as
against more expensive transportation-as
rallway transportation always and everywbere means, the advantage of belng five or
even six tîmes lu favouro0fwater routes; but
lt Ls a question of a means
of
portation as against no mens of transtransportation, as far, at ail] eveuts, as concerus
our northwest harvests, to say nothing
of the vast trade of the great lakes, whLcb
by riglit belongs to Canada. Uniess we are
l)rel)ared to forego the advautage of carryIng our fast increasiug production of wheat
nnd grain, to Say uothlng of the rest of our
carrying trade. nay, unless we are golng
to allow our neiglibours to handle Our present production, we shall have to ut once
î>roceed. with the construction of tis waterway. We sbould not forget that transp)ortation meaus sometblng more than transportation-lt is a species of production. In
belug transported, goods are increased lu
value iii proportion to the cost of their
transportation. You add on to the value
of every bushel of grain carried from
the lakes ut least six or seven cents value,
and wheu 1 say we should not allow the
Americaus to do our transportation, it impiles that w-e shiould not allow them to do
our production. Lot us see the position to-day.
in the west. Wýe ha.ve now under wheat in
the prairie provinces over 5,000,000 acres,
Honi. '\r. BELCOIJRT.

yielding about 100.000,000 bushels of wheat.
Iu the tive years fromn 1900 to 1905 the acreage bas cousiderably more than doubled
and so bas tbe productiou. This increase
is more than llkeiy to be repeated within
the next five years, so that lu 1910
or 1912 we shall bave a crop of at least
200,000,000 bushels of whent, to say nothing
of the coarser grains. At least 75 per cent
of that wbeat, that is 150,000,000 bushels,
wvill have to be carried as far as Montreal
or across the Atlantic. We shall have as
mnucli, if not more, of coarser grain to transport to, the seaboard, tbat is, 150,000,000
bushels. We shall therefore have in 1910
or 1912 nearly 300,000,000 bushels of grain
to transport fromn the west to the seahourd.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-Does the bon, gentleman men Lu two years?
Hou. Mr. BELCOURT-Yes, lu 1910 or
at the latest 1912. The average bas doubled
since 1905 and the production lias in that
period more than doubled. We can fairly
estimate thut by 1910 or 1912, that is two
or four years from 110w, the production of
the North West will be 200.000,000 bushels
of wheat, of which 75 per cent will have to
be transported.
Hon. Mr.

POIRIER-But

not aIl

ex-

ported.

Hou. Mr. BLLCOURT-Not ail, but it wihI
have to be carried down to the lakes and to
Moutreal. The proof of Lt is that iu 1906
we produced 100,000,000 bushels, and of thut
quuntity -15,000,000 busheis were curried
to Fort William and to Port Arthur
to be shipped to, the east and to be exported. I am therefore right iu sayiug that
75 per cent of the wbeat produced ia the
North West must be trunsported to enstera
markets. Withiu the time 1 have stated if
the developmeut which bas tak-en place la
the lust ive years continues, as Lt is likely
it wLU. we shall bave 300,000,000 bushels of
grain to be truusported to the markets or
the ports of the east. Now, how is thut going
to be doue? -Can it be carried. by the Canadian ruilways? Can it be curried by the Canadian rallways, aud the St. Lawrence canais
combinied? Is it going to be doue by the
railways even if they double their presýeDt

FEBIRU-ARI 27, 1908
capacity? If the Canadian Pacitic Railway
were te double Its tracks to Fort Wý%illiam,
and the Grand Trnnk Pacifie and the Canadian Northern and other ruilways 'were
fully equirrned and in operation and a railway built to Hudson Bay could thiey transport thiat enormous output of grain? They
cannot possibly do IL
Hon. Mr. SULiLIVAN-Hlow long wvill it
take to bulld the Georgian Bay canal?
Ho.M.BELCOURT-At least seven or
eight years. What better proof of my assertion is required than the ligures I bave
given? The railways and canal combined
lu 1906 could only carry to Montreal for
use there and for expert 25,000,000 bushels
ont of 70,000,000 bushels-less than onetwelfth of what wl! have to be carrIed: lu
a few years. MViIl the railways or canais,
or both, be able to carry 300,000,000 bushels
of grain lu three or four years from now,
when they could not carry more than 25,000,000 bushels of the hurvest of 1906? And
yet, to-day, there le ut Winnipeg a large
p>art of the crop of 1906 awaing shipment.
Hon. '.%r. SULLIVAN-The Americans
complain of the Canad-ians tuking away
their trade.
Hon. 'Mr. BELCOURT-I think they are
crying for the loss of very littie wool, because
we have tuken very littIe of their trade.
Lt mlght be said that r have plcked ont a
year which *would be favourable to my
argument ; but 1906 is just the other way.
Lt was the best yeax lu the transportation
business lu the history of Canada. The Iucreuse thut yeax lu the quantlty carrled by
the canais was over 2,000,000 bushels and
of the quuntity carried by rail nearly 8,000,000 bushels, so that In 1906 the rallways and
canais carried 10,000,000l bushels more than
were carried before or have been carried
since. I think It le safe to say, therefore,
that lu less than- five years It will tax the
combined cupacity of ail the railwuys to
move the grain crop to the termilials on the
la:kes, and thut they will be unable to take
more thun a small part of it to the senbourd. The St. Lawrence canais, lu 1906,
notwithstandiag their cheuper rates, and
the removal of tells, curried less than là,
000,000 bushels to the seubourd. They have
been able to secure only a small portion of

441

the expert of our own grain ; wiIl they be
able to carr- any. consideruble quantity of
the 300,000,000 bushels which we will be ln
a position to expert by 1910, or, at latest, lu
1912? 1 subinit with absolute confidence
that there is but one solution to the problem, but one way to meet the exîgenciesi lor
the future, and It wl! be found lu perfecting
the navigation of the French and Ottawa
rivers to the maximum depth of the navigation to the great lakes, namely 20 feet.
Otherwise It wl! go the way it bas been
going, largely throughi United Statep channels.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL-1 think the hion.
gentleman sa!d thut 150,000,000 bushiels of
grain went to Buffalo; how much or tbat
wans exported?
Hon. Mr. BEIiCOURT-I cannot say; I
have not those figures. The figures I have
are that 4,300,000 tons, which is about 150,000,000 bushels, went to New York.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBFELL-I think you wll
find that a large portion of that wus Dot
exported at al,.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I dure say. Some
hon, gentlemen are disposed to question
my statement tbut the railwuys cannot and
will net carry this trade. I should like to
quote somne, to my mind, very convincing
authorities on that point; aud first I ýshalI
quote the remarks of Sir Thomas Shaughnessy. He is reported ln the Toronto
'Globe' of January 19tb. 1904, as follows:
lo-ws:
Waterways cannot be ignored.
Riaving discussed the development of the
,west to its present etate. Sir Thomas proceeded to consider the methods of transportation east of Port Arthur. When the articles
of production reach the head of Lake Superior what, he asked, are we going to
d-) with them P How is it going to be arranged
that such portion of the production of that
important territory s'est of Lake Superior as
niust leave the country should pass through
Canadian channels to Canadian ports for export? I t was his firm conviction that we canrnot and *must not discuss the question of
transportation east of Fort William without
ging every consideration to -our waterways
through the St. Law!V-pplause)-which
rence canais, upon which we have spent millions, furnish a direct waterway from Fort
William to the ship's side at Montreal, and
tlere is no cheaper means of transportation
than water transportation. Lt is of course
slower and more cumbersome, and by reason
of climutic conditions the canal season is
shorter than the lake season.

SENATE

449

But the Canadian canal system should be
utilized to a greater extent than it is at the
present time. The distance from Fort William to Montreal is, in round figures, 1,000
miles. The distance from the east end of
Lake Nipissing-that is, North Bay-to Montreal is 365 miles;, the distance from Midland
to Montreal. can be made 860 miles. Wheat
or four, or anything else in the nature of
coarse produots, can be oarried by water
at one-quarter the cost from Fort William
to Midland or to North Bay that it will cost
to carry the samne trafic nearly 650 miles over
the railway. Now, what sane man, said Sir
Thomas, will assert that with that enormous
difference in cost against rail transportation
ve should neglect our waterways?

inight possibly bie suspected of having some
interest la expressing different opinions,
because they are connected with rival transportation routes; but the proposition la so
evideat that It cannot be galnsayed. I
could go and quote Mr. Roosevelt, wbose
expressions on that matter would carry
great welght. While speaking on the subject of waterways generally, Jet me also
say that to-day In the United Kingdom, in
France, Belgium, Holland, Germany, Russia and the United States there are being
expended iu the work of making water-

A fat salary begging.
1I know," said Sir Thomas, --that a great
many gentlemen who have given the snbject
a considerable amount of attention are of
opinion that aIl rail transportation from
Winnipeg to the seabord is quite feasible;
that over a line properly built traffic can bo
handled s0 as to make it a feasible tailway
proposai. Some of them argue from wrong
premises. I think 1 can say 1 know a railway
company that will be glad to pay haîf a million dollars a year for. the service of some
individual if the figures they quote can be
Con(Laughter and applause.)
realized."
tinuing, ho saîd that while hie would not be
understood as saying one word in criticism
of a project that will resuit in opening up
a vast new territory and wiil be a factor
in colonization, hie was convinced that in
connection with such project or in addition
to it or apart froin it, as may be thouglit
best, if we are to get the beist and most economical results in transportation, we must
utilize these great stretches of water which
Providence has provided.

1 mentioned
ways- probably $,OO,000,000.
these figures to show that the area of

canaIs is now fnlly at band.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Does that include the
Panama canal?
Hon. Mr. BELOOURT-I think it does.

Whlst on that subject, I want to speak of
sometbing 1 omitted. Senator Newlandis of
Nevada lntroduced just a few days ago
In the Senate of the United States a Bill
lnvolving $5ff0,OO0,OO for the construction
of a canal parallellng the shores of the
Atlantic aud the Gulf of Mexico, In order
to brîng trade -to the Gulf of Mexico.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-That
Florida, is it not?

la

through

Hon. Mr. BEIjCOURT-Yes, partly. It
bere is has been urged that instead of constructing
what Sir Wmn. Van Horne, who is no less this waterway. the St. Lawrence canais
an authorlty than Sir Thomas himself, should be deepened. Pemsonally I have no
objection to the St. Lawrence canais being
says:
west deepened. Not only that, but I believe, the
Neyer will the grain of the Canadian
be hauled to the Atlantic seabord voluntarily day Is not far distant. when they will bie
byany Canadian railway by a rail route deepened. I belleve the dity is niot far disalone. No railway will do it nnless forced
to do so. The harvest of the Canadian west tant when it wll require the St. Lawrence
will neyer be brouglit to the Atlantic sea- canais and the Ottawa waterway to handle
board by an ail-rail route voluntarily, and 1 the traffic of the Northwest.
But I think
say this confideatly and for publication.
the first thing- that should be done should
On another occasion Sir William ex- bie the construction of the waterway, bepressed bimself this way:
cause the expenditure will be one-baîf less.
I hope that in carrying out its big railway Because the cost of this waterway will be
scheme, the Goverament will not forget the $lOO,OOO,OOO. Mr. Wisner and other experts
two most important things affecting its transportation interests. One is the rail and water have given their opinions on the cost of
route via (jeorgian Bay to tide water. The deepening the St. Lawrence, and they state
other, and by far the most important, is oui that it -would mequire $200,000,000 at least.
ocean ferriage, which involves among othoi
things the improvement and safe-guarding ol 1 have r-ead their evidence given befome the
the St. Lawrence route.
commission. One can readily accept these
are the views of gentlemen whc figures, Iu the Welland canal alone there
These
are not only the most competenlt to ex are 27 locks to build over agnin, and on this
press an opinion on the subject, but wh( route we only have twenty-seven altogether,
Now, on

the

saine question,

Hon. Mr. BELOOURT.

FEBRUARY 27, 1908
extraordinary development. Lt will
and the advantages of *the Ottawa water a very
in Its favour. The cause the commercial supremacy to pass
route wouid be conclusive
New York and Boston
advantage In time vi& Vie Ottawa wateriyay f:rom the ports of
hours over the other, and pos- tio those of the St Lawrence.
la forty-elght
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Ho w many locks
sibly 72 hours. I have Vie figures of iMr.
*Shanly and Mr. Wisuer as weli aâ tu Lais.n re there on Vie St. Lawrence canais and
The deepening of the St Lawrence wouldh ow many locks on the Ottawa and Geornot offer the Immense indirect adntages 9 Ian Bay route?
to which 1 have referred. The territory
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-There are 47 or
aiong the St. Lawrence is aettled. The -9 on Vie St. Lawrence route, and 27 on Vie
Ottawa waterway wouid open up a very vhole of the Ottawa waterway.
large tract of land wbich Is uasettled. Lt
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-There are seven
would open up niorViern 0O*utario and north- nore large locks on Vie Georgian Bay route
ern Quebec, and facilitate Vie great mlning han on Vie other.
and lumber Industries ia that vast reglon t
Hon. Mr. BELCDOURT-I have no doubt
and would permit of Vie utillzation
ny hon. f riend wiUl demoiish me when I
of Immense wnter-powers. The deepening
tirough:; but I would rather he would
of the St. Lawrence canais would -not do ï tu
of the lefer the execution tili 1 have concluded.
Vint. Another argument lu faveur
it would produce an extenOttawa waterway as against the other la ks to Ontario,
inland, sive colonization, and would facilitate Vie
thiat Vie Ottawa waterway is well
and protected. Lt does not run alongside developmnent of Vie ricli minerai districts
nnd paraliel to the United States boundary, in Cobalt and elsewhere. Lt would estaband Vils is no mere fanciful objection. Lt lish new towns and new Industrial centres.
This waterway could nlot be of any
was dramatically iilustrated not long ago.
We ail remember that a f ew years ago serlous detriment to the St. Lawrence
somne miscreant attempted to destroy the canais which could always count on Vie
value of the St Lawrence canais by putting trafflc of eastern Ontario and a good share
of
dynamite lu one of Vie Welland locks. Wý%e the trade of Vie great lakes, and s0 far
have Viat fact. Se that it Is nlot a mere as western Ontario, I do not Viink it should
fanciful objection that I am making. The be indifferent to Vis watervay. Ânything
Georgian Bay route la shorter, better, that wili add to Vie population of Vie provcheaper aind easler, and lesa exposed than Ince and Its agriculture and Industrial deThen in a velopment, Is going to benefit Vie city of
the St. Lawrence route.
will be plenty of Toronto. If Vie population of Ontario was
very short time there
there
trafflc for both. Soine people lu the country increased by 500,000 or one million
as sectional. will be s0 many more people to be served,
have looked upon thia project
Some have not enlarged their vision saffi- and s0 many more people to whom goods
ciently t6 see in it a truly national under- wvill be sold, and Vie large wholesale dealers
taking; but if they will only consIder for and manufacturers wvill find an lncreased
Vie
a moment Vint there la flot one single pro- market for their product. Therefore,
other Ontario
vince 0f Canada that wouid not benefit by clty of Toronto and Vie
be indifferent
it, they would reaiize Viat It is truly a western cities ought n1 ot to
On
national undertaking. Now let us sec. The to the construction of Vis waterway.
a larger Vie contrary, it seems to me Viey should
Maritime Provinces would have
business wlth their ports. Lt would increase heip It. Sa far as Manitoba, Saskatchethe watertheir traffic and sbipplng Industry. Lt would wan and Alberta are concerned,
If they are
benefit their fishing trade. Lt would very way is an absolute necessity.
benefit out
largely benefit their coal mines. I need not going to get the best profit and
they
to Quebec, because the effect on Que- of their immense agricultural jndustry,
point
must have somne mens of transporting their
bec Ia seif-evident. The large cities 0f
Possibly
Montreal, Three Rivera and Quebec would produce cheaply to the seaboard.
Vie only province wliich will not derive
have a very large Increase lu their traffic.
be British ColThe northerti portions of Quebec and- On- a large beneflt from it wvlll
umbia.
tario wouid, as I have pointed out, receive

SENATE
Hon. Mr. 1'OIL-IIill-What about Prince it is ten or twelve millions ia twenty years,
hoxv are existing transportation facilities
Edward Island ?
Mon. Mr. BELCOURT-They 'will have going to serve the interests of that large
their fishing iiâdustry benefited. by having section of the country? Not the railways,
new facilities for shipplng supplied. Evexi as I have stated, and flot the St. Lawrence
British Columbia would derive some benefit. canais. If we start building this -waterIt would derive that benefit to 'whicb I have way 110w, lt will take at least seven or
just alluded with reference to the western eight years before It is completed, posslbly
cilles of Ontario. Another objection bas ten.
1
I sbould like before ciosing-and I arn
been raised to miaking the expenditure necesabout dolng so--to refer to an argument
sitated by this wnterway is that we are
now engaged In the construction of the which was advanced the other day by the
Transcontinental Ralway. I voted la the hon, gentleman from -DeLanaudière. My
other House in support of tbat project. I lion. friend thougbt tbat a difficuity prefeit at the time that It: was an absolute sented itseif witli reference to the jurlsdicnecessity, and the conviction bas grown lion and the ownership of the water powers
on everybody since, and it Is now nlong the Ottaw~a river, and according to
unîversal that it was an absolute neces- hilm the contention may be raised that these
-sity; but to my mind the construction water-powers are the property of the proof this waterway 15, to say the ieast of vinces, and tbat they may be a serions
lt, of equal Importance snd necessity with obstacle to the Dominion governmient makthe construction of the National Transcon- ing this canal n federai undertaking. I do
tinental. It Is true the Transcontinental is not thlnk il is a serious difficulty. 1 do not
going to open up a large section of think there Is nny difficulty at ail. The
river,
,country and wilfaclitate the transporta- Ottawa river ls a mavigable
tion of the products of the Northwest to and under the provisions of the British
the terminais ; but It: is going to do but North America Act the jurîsdiction iu
very littIe in the transportation of products the navigable rivers Is placed under federai
from the west to, the seaboard. 1 have not power. Then again, under the British
America
Act the trade
and
the slightest doubt that In a very few years North
it will tax the full capacity of our railways commerce shipping and navigation are
to handie tbe crop of the Northwest and of placed exclusiveiy wlthin the jurisdiction of
Manitoba, and to bring it to the terminais, the federai parliament. The construction of
let alone the transporting of it to the sea- a water way would be a necessary Incident
board, and there is oniy one way it can be to, the exercise of that power, and It bas
done, and that Is by a waterway. It can- been held over and over again by the Privy
flot be done by the St. Lawrence canais. Council tbat wbere the exercise of a federal
The fallure to do it bas been estab- jurlsdictlon lInvolves interference witb a prolshed. It cau neyer be doue as long vincial jurisdiction-in other words where
ns those canais remnain a 14-foot waterway- the jurisdiction say 'in the matter of railWe are either going to do It by the ways, involved a matter of property and
Ottawa and Georgian Bay route or ailow civil rights, If that matter were merely a
the United States people to secure It ilecessary incident of the exercise of a fedfor ever. We aI know îvhat bas taken eral power, the federai parliament wns fuliy
place in the developijient of 'Montana, clothed with sufficient jurisdiction to deal
Minnesota, Dakota and Wisconsin la the wlth the whole subject; but there is
]ast few years. The country west of more than that la this case. The Ottawa
the -Mississippi was 'colonizeýd ln that time river, during the time whben the two
with 200,000,000 and yet they have a provinces might have made objection, if
soul not so fertile as ours. What will be our they were so inciined-that is, when
population ia twenty years 'i It is a matter Ontario and Quebec were united-under
of guess and speculation; but it is fre- the union the parliament of the proquentiy stated that the population of Mani- vince of Canada voted time and again large
toba and the two new provinces will be sums of money for the purposes of thîs
In other words, tbe province of
withia that time ten or twelve millions. If canal.
Hon. Mr. BELCOIJRT.

FEBRUARY 27, 1908
Canada, the predccessor in titie. of the
Dominion of Canada, dedicated this river
for the purposes of a canal. Between five
and six bundred thousand dollars were expenlded alone between Ottaiva and the Chats
lakes for the purpose of making a canal,
There has been a complete dedication of
the Ottawa river for federal purposes.
So
that, to My mi, no serious question can
arise as to the jurisdictlon.
Then, under
section 10S of the British North America
Act, the title to ail the Inke and river linprovements made by the province of Canada was declared by the Act o! Confederatior to be with the Domiuion, so that these
works which biave been built along the Ottawa river, the Grenville canal, the Carillon
canal, the Chats canal, and works done at
Ottawa, bave aIl been placed by the two
provinces, when they were united, under
federal jurisdiction, and by the Act of Confederation these works bave Passed to the
Dominion Government.
To refer again to tbe commercial advantages o! this route aad to whiat this trade
means, let me here point out whnt it would
mean to Canada to have the transportation
of 800,000,000 bushiels of wheat, which 1 expect we shial hiave to do in a very few
years. At thiree cents a bushel, it would
men a revenue of nine million dollars. If
we build tbose waterways la a very short
turne. Canada shahl receive as a direct advantage froin this waterway, nine million
dollars lu the way of transportation alone.
And it does flot men that alone. It mens
that a very much larger sum. will be expended la Canada on ships, on machinery, on
conl, on wages and in transportation business generally. Now that le not any part of
the trade of the United States. That is our
own trade. Thiose figures are based only on
our own trade. If, as I shahl point out ln a
moment, we eau secure a grent deni of the
United States trade besides, bow ranch
more will these figures be Increased? Let
us remember that the State of New York is
now spendlng $100,000,000 ln deepening by
a few feet the Erle canal; that la froin
fine to twelve feet, so as to permit of ten
or fifteen hundred ton barges being utllzed.
On the Ottawa waterway we shahl have
vessels carrying eight or ten thousnnd tons.
It simply means that the railways bave
fniled with us, to carry that trade. Now,

in order to show that I am not romnncing
when I say that we are going to get a large
portion of this trade from the United
States, I shall rend a few letters, originals,
which have been 'writteu to, the secretary o!
the Georgian Bay Canal Company. I have
one here froin the Plankinton Packlng Company, -Milwaukee, Wis. 1 cannot make out
the signature, but that gentleman writes:
We have your favor of February 2nd and
aise maps and description of your proposed
route.
In regaxd to your request for us to f11 out
blank enclosed, would state that it would involve considerable work to do this, and would
state that we shipped during the past year approximately fifteen hundred refrigerator carloads of meat for export, worth about two and
a haif million dollars, and possibly the larg.
est part of this could go on a favorable rate
through the gateways you propose opening.
The Calumet Grain and Elevator Comnpany, about the samie turne wrote:
Yours of the l8th inst. received, and contents noted, aad in reply will say that we
shin during the sumnmer months about one
million bushels a month, the volume of which
goes via Buffalo and the St. Lawrence, and
we thiuk a large proportion of this could be
diverted via your route and we henrtily wish
you every success, and we will do ail in our
power to turn the business in your direction
upon its completion.
The American Steel and Wire Company,
write
0f course any estimate of this kind, so f ar

as, we are concerned, would only be approxi.
mgate. 1 should iudge however if freight cars

and ail other conditions were satisfactory, we
could move at leat a minimum quantity
cf ten thousand tons of wire and wire procJucts per annuin via this route.
The North Western Consolidated Milling
Company write as follows :
I amn quite certain that a large portion of
aur tonnage would be so routed, provided
rates are equal. The service via the Georgian
Bay should in my opinion be far superior ta
any of the routes now existing. The time
censumed between Lake Superior and Lake
Michigan ports and the other side could be
greatly reduced. The deinys in transit accidentai ta, shipping via American seabord
ports is, and has been a great detriment to
the flour trade. I should by ail means advocate the completion of the Georgian Bay
route with as littie delay as posible. I amn
suoh a
quite sure that from this route would receive
section.
leral support
Then Swif t nnd Company, a very large
pncking establishment in Chicago, write as
follows:
Will say for your information the freight
charges paid by this company at its western
plants for the year wns ia excess o! ten million dollars. If the canais are built and are

SENATE
available for the kind of traffic we ship, we
shall be very glad to avail ourselves of them.
You can count on us te the extent of doing
all we can for the new route.
Then Armour and Co. say :
This project is of very great interest te us,
and we have no doubt that if this canal were
constructed upon the plan you outline, an
immense amount of business from Lake
Michigan and Lake Superior ports would
Large
unquestionably be controlled by it.
shipments of merchandise and grain, which
whould be the principal tonnage affected;
would, wthout doubt be drawn frem Buffalo
and Erie lake routes, as well as for all-rail
rentes te the Atlantic seaboard and the Gulf
of Mexico. On the present adjustment of
rates between Chicago and the East we are
very close te Gulf comp3tition, and as yon
doubtless well know, the change of a few
eighths of a cent per bushel will divert grain
trom one channel to another, offering practically equal advantagcs. We are therefore
fully satisfied that upon the completion of
the proposed canal its more favorable rates,
as compared with other routes will attract
f'ery large amounts of tonnage. As you well
knoi, there is a total absence of sentiment
in this business. If grain can be carried
over your route one-eighth of a cent par
bushel cheaper than by other routes, you will
assuredly be masters cf the situation. There
i- always a class of freight that cannot avail
itself of water routes, such as high-class merchandise and perishable property which must
necessarily be transported in refrigerator
cars. The goods included in the latter class
are, as yen are aware, transported and handled on passenger train schedules. Regarding
your question as te volume of freight that
be annually moved over the proposed
canal, it is our opinion that the amount
will be solely "dependent upon its capacity.
The new route will demand just as much of
the grain business as it can properly take
care of.
We hope that the above may be of some
value te you and altbough it does net contain specific data as te the actual shipments
cf grain, or other property made by us, or
by others largely engaged in such business,
we are well satisfied that this omission will
be entirely lost sight of the view of the much
larger fact that the entire transportation
business of the Great Lakes, with such slight
exceptions as are noted, will without question
avail itself of the superior advantages ofered
by you.
I have but one or two more quotations
to make, and I have reserved one of them
for the last, because It is, to my mind, a
This is an article,
very significant one.
In a magizine a caled 'The Reader,' pubclladreai-it
agizna
In

tional. His statement that the commerce of
Manhattan is destined te be drawn off from
the rear would carry little weight, perhaps,
even though reinforced by the consideration
that trade is cold-blooded and unpatriotic,
and goes along the line of least expense. The
committee on Railways and Canals of the
Fifty-second Congress, however, had no temptation te overstatement. Listen te what it
aid: "On the day it becomes possible te send
ships direct from the Great Lakes te the
ocean by way of the St. Lawrence river, while
they are unable te go by way of the Hudson,
the scepter of commercial supremacy will begin to pass from New York te Montreal and
the merchant marine of the United States,
which has had a new birth on the lakes, will
receive its deathblow from Canadian competition.
Then further on it says
The farmers of the Mississipi valley find
their hardest competitors in the Canadian
Northwest. Winnipeg is the greatest wheat
market in the world. The scepter passed from
Chicago te Minneapolis, then te Duluth, and
now las gene te the young 'iant of Manitoba.
Last vear Winnipeg exported twenty per cent
more wheat than West Superior and Duluth
combined-and the food of grain from the
new northwest has only begun. One cereal
competes with all the others. The grains of
the Saskatchewan basin will displace the corn
of the Mississippi vailey; and when it goes te
the sea in ships, while ours, if in American
bottoms, must go in barges, shall we not be
indebted te Canadian generosity if we stand
on an equality with Canadian farmers? Let
the Bently congressional report again speak
more strongly than I should dare te speak;
" When we come te compete " it says, " with
men of our own race, with a soil just as productive, and with transportation facilities immeasurably superior, the farmers of our
western states are going te have an arricultural depression such as they never knew before, unles our own nation shall give us a
wav te the sea so that our ships can go and
corne as freely as they do on the ocean." It
is submitted that a barge canal, such às New
York is now building. will net save the situation for either New York or the nation."

lished in January, 1908, entitled 'Inland
Waterways.' It Is a very interesting article,
which, I am sure, every hon. gentleman
would be delighted to read. The languaga
there in relation to this project is equall
as strong as any I have used:
The mere writer has ever before him the
temptation te become perfervid and sensaHon. Mr. BELCOURT.

Mest cf the way is broad, open water. There
are falîs and rapida te pass te be sure, but se
thare were ia the St. Lawrence. Oaa can see
ne reasen why this reute elould net le quickA
er, mile fer mile, than tha present way.
wenld bring saagcing vassels te
ship canal port, througl British territery on
aiar>' lake
short that outgeing vessaIs taking it
a lne
could ha clearad from Mentreal and en the
wa> te the open sea before the Brie Canai

inight

Further on it says :
The real strategic opening out of Lake Huron eastwardly and seawardly is by the projected Georgian Bay ship canal through the
French river and Lake Nipissing-both noble
bodies of water of ample volume. From the
eastrnesoreof Nipissing it is a short portage te the Ottawa, a magnificant stream flowcng rigît te Mentreai witl immense velume.
Te maIe this rente navigable tales lesa actuai
canal construction than Canada las done on
Lake Ontario te
the St Lawrence frcmoni>' twenty-iiine Montmiles.
is given at

FEBRUARY 27, 190847
barge starting at the saine tirne from the
Montreal
samne place. couid reach Cleveland.
The
is as near Liverpool as is New York.
Canadian route would save ail the tirne and
charges of the Eria Canal. the breaking of
bulk twice, and, it would seem, could not fail
to bring that revolution in favour of Canadian ports which the Bently report predicts.
It would seem to be able to put both the Erie
Canal and New York out of business so far
as the great continental commerce is concerned."

.Ind Ottawa rivera and tributaries, and no

iiecessity for pumping.
lion. Mr. GIBSON-That being the case,
I -arn sure it is a matter that should not
be lost sight of by the House until sncb
time as the government take up the matter and some official. report is made that
will be of value to the House and to the
public.
This magnificent waterway, unequalled
lion. Mr. BELCOURT-Thiere was an inanywhere ln the world, to the interior of terirn report mnade by the departmnent, which
this continent 'was blazed three hundred speaks of the feasibility of the route and
years ago by the French pioneers, who left sets that question at rest, but the subsetheir naines, and some of them their blood quent report will, I arn sure, remove any
and their bones as well, ail along the trail. doubt that may exiat on that point.
Is it not time that we followed tlieir examHon. Mr. GIBSON-It is only after the
pie, and in the blazed trail endeavour to ensurveys have been made' and levels takea.
sure, as they did, for Canada and the Emwe can obtain reliable information
pire, the great and ever growlng trade of tli.it
about the route. When the final report
the West and Great Lakes, to which we
down, we shall know whetber the
have every right by reason of our geograph- cornes
route is fensible or not. It strikes me If we
!cal and topographical situation? Is it flot
time that we profited by our incomparable have to resort to the expedient of pumplng
advantagea? Are we prepared to renounce water Into our canal la order to make It
this trade and allow It forever to be held workable, we shiah bave to go slow.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I hope the sugby our rivais across the boundary line? If
not, -let us at once begin the work of coin- gestion of my hon. frlend Is not a case of
pleting at the earliest possible date, the the wish being father to the thought?
Ottawa waterway.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-No, it la not.
Hion. Mr. BELCOURT-I arn g]ad to hear
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I should like to asic
the hion, gentleman one question. I tried to 't
foliow hlm as closely as I could, but I fal
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I panl accord wlth
to understand whether the; project la prac- iny hon. frlend, provlded we have relable
ticabie or not. My bon. friend from Mont- <tata before we start in wlth an undertaking
real proposed as a substitute for lack of of this kind. We are building a rallway
water at the summit that they could puulp whichi wlll coat a hundred million dollars,
water Into the canal.
and aow It la proposed to bulld a canal
amount.
Hon. Mr. BELCOUEIT-There is no occa- whlch will coat the saine
Hon. Mr. FORGET-Plenty of room for
sion for that. My hon. friend need not takre
my opinion. Evidently hie was flot ln the both.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVÂN-I congratulate the
House when 1 first began my repiarks.
hon. gentleman on the fact that he bas reHon. Mr. GIBSON-Yes, I was.
talned bis audience tili this hour, because
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I quoted Wlaner, to-day bas been a very tiresome one. It
the American engineer, who had gone over was particularly tiresome to me, because we
the whole route, and examlned ail the sur- opened the evenlng session wlth a chapter
veys made by the company, and said it was of Horace. It was doubly compllmentary
feasible, and I further quoted the opinion to the hon, gentleman fromn Ottawa to have
of the chief engineer la charge of the sur- ao many tlred members remain In the Chamvey made by the goverument, whose re- ber ail evening. I move the adjourument
port will be laid on the table w!thin a few of the debate until to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to.
days. He absolutely says that there is no
The Senate adjourned tili three o'clock
engineering difficulty. of any kind; that the
necessary water is to be found In the French tomorrow.

SENATE
THE SENATE.

THE QUEBEC BRIDGE AND RÀILWAY

COMPANY.
INQUIRY.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
Hon. Mr* LANDRY inquired:
o'clock.
When does the government think that it will
be able to lay on the table of this House the
Prayers and routine proceedings.
folio wing documents, the production of which
was ordered during the present session, et
BANK OP WINNIPEG JILL.
the dates meutioned hereafter:
(a) The winter and summer tariffs on the
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
latercolonial Railway for the years 1896-7Hon. Mr. DRU31MOND from the Com- 24th January?
(b> The details asked for
mlttee of Banking and Commerce reported the additional subscription on the subject of
of $200,000 to the
Bill (19)' An Act to incorporate the Bank carnital stock of the Quebec Bridge and Railway Company-29th Jannary?
of Winnipeg, with an amendment.
(c)
OTTAWA, ririday, February 28, 1908.

Hon. Mr. 'YOUNG moved that the report
of the committee be concurred in.
He
sald: This is niprely adding another name
to the number of provisional directors. In
the Bill, only four were mentionecl and the
Act requires five.
Hon. '.%r. GIBSON-The House is entltled to a good deal more information
about this Bill. Its objeet is to charter a
new baak,ý and, as evc.y bon. member
knows, the biggest and strongest bank ln
Canada is not any stronger titan the weakest in the aggregatlon.
As ail thte banks
are responsible for titis bank or any other
bank thut starts, ample time should be
given to flnd ont the financial strength of
the promoters of the Bill.
The motion was wlthdrawn and placed
on the orders for Tuesday, the lOtit of
Marcit.

The statement indicating the amounts
paid to Mr. Simeon Delisle-3Oth January?
(d) The stateinent of amounts spent on the
Deschambauit wharf-4th February P
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-I laid on the table
the winter tariff of the Intercolonial Railway.
The others I have inot yet recelved.
I shall make some furtiter lnquiry about
the motion.
BILL INTRODOCED.
Hon. Mr. SCOTýT lutroduced Bill (BB>
An Act to amend the Board of Trade Act.
He said: The object of the Bill is to authorize the formation of boards of trade in
large districts m-here it is shown by the lacrease of population that tniere may be
another board of trade.

The Bill was read thte first tîme.
ITALIAN CRIMINALS

IN

MONTREAL.

A QUESTION 0F PRIVILEGE.

Hou. Mr. CLORAN-Before the orders of
the day are called, and before many of us
leave for the metropolis of Canada,
I
should iike to eall the attention of this
House, on a question of privilege, to a
report of the proceedings of titis House
mittee of Banking and Commerce, reported witich appeurs ln to-day's Montreal 'GazI may say that nlthough thte 'GazBill (Q) An Act to incorporate the London ette.'
and. Lancashire Guarantee and Accident ette' in its report of thte proceedings of
Company of Canada.
He said:
Tite yesterday bas not misrepresented, it may
amendments consist generally in adding to have exaggerated the lmport of the declarathe ameudment requisite before the com- tions made by the leader of titis honourable
pany goes lnto operation, and ail apparent- House lu regard to the condition of titings

LONDON AND LANCASHIRE GUARANTEE AND ACCIDENT COMPANY'S
BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
Hon. Mr. DRUMIMOND, from the Com-

ly lu the direction of securing the interests
of the public.

Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex) moved that
the amendments be taken into consîderation on the litit Marcit.
The motion was agreed to.

iu Montreal.

I will rend whnt thte public

press of the country has given to tbe people
of Canada in regard to tite city of Montreal.
i
The SPEAKER-Will the
bon. gentleman state what bis question of privilege
is?

FEBRUARY 28, 1908

449

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That the M~ontreal House or outside of It; but I do deny them
' Gazette' bas eitber misrepresented or ex- the right to exaggerate or misrepresent,
aggerated the statements made on the and wben 1 rose it was simply to ascertain
from the hon. the leader of this House If
floor of this House yesterday.
statements were exaggerated or miarehtktheis
COTTI donot
Hon.Mr.
We were oniy a few lni the
te presented.
eag T- tdo lot thai
Hon.tt MrbsC
eaggratd l th slghtstHouse last night when these statemeats
'Gaett' bs
We have flot yet received
were made.
degree.
edition of the bon. gentleman's
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-The House will de- the revised
statements. We cannot quote the unrecide when I read IL
vised edîtion, as the hon. gentleman bas a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It la flot for the chance to eitber cnt out bis speech or correct it; but here la a statemeat that goes
House to decide.
Mr. CLORÂN-The 'Gazette' before the entire civiiizcd world, that MontHon.
Is flot able to put down crime, because
saysreal
the city Is given te drunkenness, because
Hon. Mr. POWER-I rise to a point of the city Issues too many icenses, and beorder. This la flot a question of privilege. cause the police do flot enforce the laws.
a representative of the city of MontHon. Mr. CLORÂN-He Is at It again. I, as cannot stand for sncb statements even
real,
Hou. Mr. POWER-Yes, 1 amn at It coming from tbe hon, leader of this House,
The bon. gentleman said, ln and I want hlm to nnderstand that law Io
agaîn.
answer to His Honour the Speaker, that he as much enforced ln the clty of Montreal
brougbt np a question of privilege because sqs lt ls ln the city of Ottawa wlth wbicb
ne said to
the statements of the bon. Secretary of he compared it iast night.
State bas been exaggerated lni the public the people of Montreal, If you enforce your
press. Thbereupon the bon. Secretary of laws the same as they do lni Ottawa, yon
State said that the report ln the ' Gazette' wIli flot have sncb crimes committed. Tbe
did flot exaggerate. Now, 'where la the crimes of wbicb I spoke were of one dlais,
flot tbeft, debanchery, violation of any
question of privilege? There ls flot any.
rights-Il spoke simply of one crime, that
The SPEAKE>R-Of course I take If: for of murder, and the bon. gentleman la evigrantedl that the report ln the newspaper dently flot acqualntedl wltb the situation.
has been taken cognizance of by the hon. He does flot know the character of the men
He sougbt to put
Secretary of State, wbo bas lnformed the I spoke of yesterday.
House that It la flot exaugerated; s0 that down my throat tbat I denousnced the
The Itallan people. Neyer have I done so, and
thia puts an end to the question.
Tne Itallan nation
bon. gentleman can only put a question as neyer shahl I do so.
to the correctness of the report He bas like ail civilized people, has ail that la good
and great ta uplift the human race, but
done so, and bas had bis answer.
accept the decis- amongst tbem as amongst others It bas
Hon. Mr. OLORÂN-I
proIon of the chair, and, [n order to put my- classes against whom society bas to
and the coun- telct itself. What Is the experlence of
self right before the Hanse
ln
try, I move the adjournment of the House. Europe and other parts of the world
go wlthout rais- regard to Immigration from Canada? Do
It la s0 easy to let thIngs
ing points of order, but when wlsdom reeka, we send thleves, thugs and assassins to the
French
as the bon. senator from Saskatchewan said United States In the persons of our
No, we
yesterday, from. an bon. member of tbla Canadian people wbo go there?
a
House it Is bard to stop the leakage.. The send peaceable and Industrious citizens,
report ln the 'Gazette' ls one wbich does clasa who are 'willing to observe the laws
a
Infinite discredit to the clty of Montreal, of the country to which tbey go to seek
That ls the position, and wben
and It la based on statements made ln thîs living.
honourable House. 1 do flot deny the rlght I ask tais goverfimetit to take measures to
a
ef the Mantreal 'Gazette, or any other prevent tbe influx Into this country of
ln this criminal class of any nationality, the hon.
paper to state what bas happened
29
REVISED EDITION

SENATE

450

Hon. Mr. OLORÂN-Because our parialeader of this House, as a member of the
government, lias no rigît to tlirow Jute ment has nlot made the law suificiently
the face of the metropois of the Dominion stringent to aiiow the police authorities
the right to searcli. 1 amn surprised that
tliat wethe hon. member from Britishi Coumbla,
The SPEAKER-The lion. gentleman Is who lias been dlrecting legisiation la this
Hle lias no riglit on a motion House for the last 40 years, does nlot know
out of order.
of adjournment to discuss a previous de- that.
Is lie nlot aware of the tact tliat
bate.
you must have a warrant signed by a
Is lie nlot
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Past lilstory does magistrate to searcli a bouse?
aware of tlie tact that a policeman cannot
i
flot evidently count with the Senate.
and searcli hlm
accept the decision o! the cliair; -but 1 tell stop a citizen on the street
experlence
the House and the Speaker that these de- without a warrant? This la the
0f the past, that, under the decision of
cisions will rankle In tlie minds of memif His Honour the Speaker, I amrnft aliowed
bers of this House for many a day.
When the chief detective
we cannot compare tlie situation to-day to ailude to.
with the past, where shall we get liglit? of the province of Quebec and tlie chie! dethe
We look to the past for liglit. and the chair tective of tlie clty of Montreai went to
we cannot refer to past judges ln the city of Montreal to ask perlias decided tliat
Then what la the use of living? mission to searcli these people, what was
events.
That tlie
Wliat lo the use of venerable senators liere the answer they received?
judges couid not authorize the searcliing
If we cannot refer to their past records
Have we to rely on of people, because the law dld nlot provide
and experience?
for It. But tliey said, and I beileve tliey
young kids that come to tlie Senate?
are riglit, the suprerne iaw Is the safety of
Some lion. MEMBERS-Order, order.
the people, and the detectives undertook on
own responslbiiity to go Jnte the
Hon. Mfr. CLORAN-Hlave we to rely on their
suspected
senator streets of! Montreal and search
scii a new member as the hon.
Within an hour, as 1 sald
cliaracters.
from Middlesex (Hon. Mr. Ross) thie Hon.
1 should flot allude to a
I accept the last niglit-thougli
Mr. Derbyshire and others?
past discussion-they confiscated a cart ioad
I shall not allude
decision of the chair.
of stIlettoes, revolvers and other weapons.
to the debates of the past I shall let the
Tlie resuit was that, yesterclay, six Itallans
dead bury their dead, and a good many
were brought before the courts and tried
lving'ought to be buried aise.
on the charge o! carrylng conceaied weapPive of them were condemned to
ons.
Hon. Mfr. BERNIER--Chloroformed.
the f ull penalty o! the iaw, a fine o! $50
Hon.. Mr. CLORAN-The hon. member and Imprisoument for one month. To show
from St. Boniface, who is a disciple of Dr. the equity and justice that prevail ln our
OsIer, says they ought to be chiloro- courts, tlie sixth was let off, aithougi lie
formed. But I shall not Insist upon that, carried a deadly weapon on bis ptrrson.
because the day may corne when I will Wliy was lie let off ?
Because lie had
wear a crown witli a sIlver rim; but 1I shahl wlth lis razor a piece of soap and a strop,
then know enougli not to Impede the im- and lis iawyer urged that lie carried the
I razor for shaving and not for kllling purpetuosity of youth, If you cali It so.
But I amn poses.
wIll let tliem have their fllng.
That was sufficient for the magîsnot prepared to endorse the suggestion trate to let hlm go scott-free, showlng tliat
made by the lion. senator from St. Boni- wlierever an opportunity. occurred to ad1 believe It minister justice, the court was prepared to
face,.to chloroform anybody.
is against naturai Iaw and Divine law.
do so. Now what was the resuit o! these
As these men were leaving tlie
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.t.)-I should trials?
tlireatened
to ask the hou, gentleman why does dock, one of them lmmediate]y
Ilke
to taire the 11f e o! the recorder, and wat*
the city of Montreal aliow a murderous
class to go about the city without disarm- about to do so when the police got word of
it and made a rush to get the man; but
ing them?
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN.

FEBRUARY 28, 1908
tjhere were too maany Italians ln the court
and the ruffian escaped, as tbey 'escape
now, flot through any negligence un the
part of the police as was stated by the
hon. leader of the HouseHon. Mr. SOOTT-Wby did they flot do
that ten days ago, and there would have
been no murders?
Hon. Mr. <JLORÂN-They have
committing murders there for years.

been

Hon. Mr. EOOTT-The police did nothlng
ln the -meantime.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂ.N-I shall not, as a citizen of Montreal, allow our police and civic
authorities to remain under the stigma that
tbey are derelct lni tbeir duty and that they
commute crimes for $5 apiece.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-That le true.
Hon. Mr. OLORÂN-Wbat the hon. gentleman saidThe SPEAKER-The hon, gentleman bas
no right to refer to a past statement made
by the hon. Secretary o! State.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-The hon. Secretary
of State said it just now.
The SPEAKER-He was answerlng an
affirmation made by the bon. gentleman
lust nnw but the hon. senator has no rigbt
to refer to the debate o! last evenlng.
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-The debate o! yesterdny la dead, and now the statement is
made that the police of Montreal comrnuted crime for $5 a head, and that is a
calumny and slander upon the police of
Montreal.
The SPEÂKER-T'he bon. gentleman
He bas
sbould withdraw that statement.
ue tat trm.It
no rghtto
ue tat trm.statement
no rghtto
Hon. Mr. OLORÂN-The debate o! yesterday is dead; but I can refer to any stateI want
ment that Is made here to-day.
to keep wlthin the rules of order which
are very severe against free discussion. I
say any statement that la made that the
police of Montreal commute crimes for $5
It ls againat the
a head la not a f act
!act and It ls a slander agalnst the police
1 do flot say that
department o! Montreal.

451

such a statement le made, but I say that
any statement .to that effect is a calumny.
When a statement is made that the police
commuted crimes for $5 per head and that
the money le contributed to a fund, 1 say
I say
it Is flot ln accordance wlth fact.
that there is no sucb money contrlbuted to,
Wben a case Io settled ont of
a fund.
court ln Montreal the money le collected to,
liquldate the costs of the case and la not
put into a fund, which anybody would
Infer was a fund for the protection of
I regret very much
the criminal classes.
the decisions of this honourable chair will
not only have a bearing upon this discussion, but will for evermore have a 'bearing
on ail discussions, limiting a public man to
the discussion of one tact,Some hon. MEMBERS-Order, order.
The 8PEÂKER-The hon, gentleman la
entltled, by our regulatIons, to be Informed
If he
o! what I base my decision upon.
will refer to Bourinot page 467, he will -find
the followlug:
But even this practice (moving the adjournment of the House>, which is liable to abuse,
hss its limitation. No member viill ho permitted, on snch a motion, ta diseuse an order
of the day. or a notice of motion on the paper
or a motion which was dropped owing ta a
count out, or what has taken place in a fordebate.
This ls the practice on whlch we go.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I am trying to keep
I arn tryaway from the former debate.
Ing to put the nome o! Montreal ln a fair
position bef are the Dominion of Canada.
The press of this country bas announiced
that Montreal ls governed by dissolute men
who do not enforce the law and who oel
their responsIility for $5. It la put down
to the bad management of the hotels and
restaurants of the city of Montreal. Now,
la well known that what gave rise to a
of that kind i the paper to-day
The Italians are
is not !ounded on fact.
Tbey are not
not frequenters of hotels.
The Italians are
men who get drunk.
They are not
men who kili In cold blood.
men wbo contribute one cent to the revenue
They are men who
of the hotel keeper.
and amuse themselves ln
gather together
their own way, and ln their own way terminate thelr amusement by outrages whlch
kshock humanity. The Italians do not as-

SENA.TE
sassinate when tbey are under the influThey are too cute for
-ence of liquor.
Xhat they have too mucli care for their
'own skîns, because If tbey were drunk
they would neot be able to escape, when
kiliing citizens lu Montreal aud elseWben they threaten the lives of
where.
our judges, mayors and contractors, wben
tbey kl one another on public works, when
they kIli people on the public streets of
Miontreal, ls it nlot tine- to caîl attention
te thes facts and to ask this honourable
House flot to belleve that because Montreal
bas four or five hundred litensed batels that
inurder la rife there, and nlot to beileve
that the police are a purchasable body fori
Now, I do nlot want such satements
$5.
to stand uucontradicted on tbe records of
I do flot want ta have It
our country.
said that our city la any more disrespectful
of law and order than any other comWe have a population unparalmunity.
leled ln Canada, coniposed of citizens or al
nations, classes and creeds, and we have
led, as far as public Ilfe goes, a virtuons
We have been. a peaceful people,
life.
but for the past two or three years this
crimninal elernent owlng, nlot ta the action
of the goverument lu bringing tbern here
or soliciting their coming, but owlng to the
needs of large corporations wbo wauted
labour five or six years ago-owlng ta their
needs I wlll nlot say their greed-brought
lu thousandsansd thousands of Itallana
without any inquiry as te their character
or standing lu their owu country; wltbout
knowlng whetber. they had been furnates of
penitentiarles of their own land, and today those contractors are obliged ta disrniss
Why? Because they are
rnany of tbem.
Intractable; because they will not render
service thet ls expected of them ln rnany
cases, and the resuit le tbat Montreal, Winnipeg and Toronto have Italien quarters.
There are nat many Italiens ln Ottawa, aud
It le ensy to enforce the law here where
there are few; but lu cities where tbey congregate lu thousauds, they are a permanent
menace to society. 1 hold it is the duty of
the governmeut to take measures, and enact
laws If the laws are nlot sufficient as they
exist, to prevent the further Influx of these
1 amn not speaklng of
crimînal classes.
the Itallans as a race, because the Italian
people tbemselves suifer as mucb at the
Hon. Mr. CLORA N.

bauds of their criminals as we do; but wbat
I ask la that the goverunent enaet iaws
to prevent the further Influx of this murderous class, and that the governuient,
tbraugh its leaders, do not asperse the
good name and the reputation o! the city
of Montreai.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Hallfax)-The hon. gentleman la repeating bis speech of yesterday. The Influence of the goverumeut la
lnvoked ta put down crime lu the city of
If the city of Montreal bas
Montrent.
the moat euligbtened population of Canada
wlth eullghtened laws, It le their own fauit
that they do flot enforce tbem.. In one
sentence we bear from the hon. gentleman
the virtues and good qualities of the ItalIn the next breath we bear of the
lans.
vices and crimes of the Itallans lu the city
of Montrent, and that the criminels are
shieided and protected by their own people.
Tihe hon, gentleman made one statement
'which surrlsed me, uamely, that the
jiudges cannot give authorlty te search
If se, the law lu Montreal differs
rouses.
rrom the law lu Halifax, because tbe police
of Halifax eau enter auy bouse lu the clty
and searcb to ascertain whether liquor le
sald there witbout license, and such places
are entered every day, sud the offendera
are ilned If found gullty. If the people of
Montreal wlsh ta preserve law aud order,
there ougbt ta be sufficient authorlty lu
tlie city ta put dawn crime If it la more
ramipant there than lu other citles of the
Dominion; the same crlmInal law prevails.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-In vlew of the position wh.lch I hold, I wlsh ta make a few
remarks. The bon. Secretary of State bad
fin absolute right ta de! end the goverument
aud show that they are not responsIbie for
eveî ytblng that happens Ini Canada, and
especially In Montreal sud ta say that it la
n (luestion for the police; but It waa nlot
neeary, lu defending the goverumeut,
to assail the clty of Montreal.
The SPEAKER-I would ask the hon.
geutleman If hie la referring ta a past debate?
Hon. Mr. DAVID-l amn referrlng ta the
speech whicb the hou. senator from Vietria bas just made, nnd I amn speaking on
the qiuestion of adjournment.

FEBRUARY 28, 1908
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn quite sure I
The SPEAKER-I merely draw the attention of the - on, gentieman to the de- could flot have been reported In a manner
cision I gave Just now, that he caxinot re- s0 absolutely different from what I said.
fer to a prevlous debate or to remarks
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I amn glad the hon.
which cover the debate of yesterdsy.
Secretary of State denies havIng said such
Hon. Mr. DAVID-Speakiug in a generai a thing, because It would be unfaîr and unway, I hope that when a minister feels just to MontreaI.
obliged to defend the government he wll
Hon. Mr. SULLI VAN-I oniy wlsh to
flot fILô It necessary to attack the clty of
say that when I appeaied to His Honour
Montreal, especlally when the attack la unthe Speaker to call this gentleman to order,
I have no objection to fixe boni.
inerited
I declare on honour I dld s0 lu the lnterest
Snecary of State saylng that there are
That of the bon, gentleman who, I thougxt, was
too nîany licenses lssued in Montreal.
I
He bas a right transgressing the miles of the House.
Is a ouestion of judgrnent
the administration of Montreal, thought he was attacking the Itallan nation,
to crlWclse
and that I iadt a rIght; to cail hlm to order,
but flot without some speclal reason. The
and If the Speaker had acted upon my sughon. $C-cretary of Statp the other day exgestion and lnslsted on enforclng the rides
cused what hadt been said by another minextent, we would nlot be
ù3ter of the Crown under certain circum- to the fullest
bothered wlth this discussion now.
Etah2ces, on the ground that he did flot
acnow exactiy what to say and wanted to
The SPEAKER-I do not see the bon.
say sometblng, and the Senate came to his gentleman who moved the adjournment of
mImd. and he thought proper to amuse bis the debate lu bis seat
We
audience by attacklng fixe Senate.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The motion cannot be
say la French, when anybody wishes to
person that his lo a good head put If he ls flot here to put lt.
attack some
The hon. Secretary of State beto L.it.
The motion was droppedl.
Ileves that Montreal la a good head to bit.
A CORRECTiON.
A hend which one may strike as mucx as
I was flot here yesterday wben
lie 11k-es.
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-I ask permission
the hon. Secretary of State spoke, but I arn to correct.-the statement whlch I made yesb>bliged to criticlse fixe statement attri- terday. ln the discussion on changing the
buted to hlm that we have a body of rule, I referred a Bill which I had lu
police lIn Montreai who commute crime for charge in 1900 and which was amended, as
$5 and It la an Inducement to commit I tbougbt, lI the Senate.
This statement
crime.
I lxad the
I made la perfect honesty.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon, gentleman la honour of belng chaîrman of the commlttee
I men- that drafted Bill 232, the one In question,
flot statlng at ail what I said.
tioned a circumstance which occurred ln and when lt lef t the committee, the penalty
clause for demurrage was not In the Bill.
Montreal about six months ago.
Hon. Mr. DAVID-The bon. gentleman I have been livlnkg ail these years under
Accusa- the delusion that the penalty clause was
was mlsled by certain papers.
and hence my
tions were wlthdrawn 'which had been introduced In the Senate,
statement of yesterday. Last night I took
made agaat a certain number of taveru
the trouble of looking up the history of both
keepers-Bulis In the Commons and Senate, and I
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I referred to that find that I was ln error, and tbat the clause
fact.
was introduced In fixe Bill In the CoinI makte this explanation which la
Hon. Mr. DAVID-But it la a very dIf- mons.
As to how
thing from what la reported li the due to this honouiable body.
ferent
debates. I see that the bon. Secretary of the clause got into the Bill is a mystery,
State la reported as having sald that for but I merely wlsx now to say that my
the contribution of $5 to a certain fund, statement was made honestly and In ail
sinerlty; but It ls not riglxt that an incorItalians were liberated.

454

SEINATE

rect statement should remain on record *The SPEAKER-I would cahl thc hon.
gentleman's attention to the fact that there
wlthout being corrected.
is a motion to go Into, a Commlttee of the
SECOND READING.
Whole. Doca hie wlsh to speak aow or la
commlttee?
Bill (AA) An Act for the relief of Andrew
Walker.--{Hon. Mr. Prost.)
Hon. Mr. ROSS-I can speak as well la
committee.
GRAND TRUNK PACIFIC BRANOH
The motion was agreed to.
LINES COMPANY'S BIIJL.
(In the Commlttee.)
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. WATSON moved the second
Hou. Mr. ROSS-I wouid ask thc proreadlng of Bill (Y) An Act respectlng the motor of thc Bill. What isto begained by
Grand Trunk Pacific Brandi Lines Com- the proposcd change?
If I wish to pubpany.
hish a book whlch Is copyrighted, whcn I
look at the fly-leaf I find just the stateHon. Mr. POWER- -This is a Bill ns to ment that It Is copyrighted.
I may not bie
whlch we should have some explanation.
famhllar with the usages or thc laws of
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The Bill is very the country, and may not know that copyshort.
It is asking for an extension of'- right Is under the control of thc DepartNow, under thc protime for building branch llnes in connection ment of Agriculture.
with the Grand Trunk Pacific.
Hon, gen- vision la the exlstlng iaw, by refcrriag to
tlemen are aware that a Bill was passed the fly-leaf, I can sec at once that thc copysome two years ago, glving that company right was entered la the Departmcnt of
power to build branch lines.
They have Agriculture.
not bult any branch lmes up to thc preHon. Mr. POWER-I tried to explain
sent tîme.
In fact 1 do flot beleve tfley
at Uic second rcading of the Bill what It
have even commenced the construction of means and why It ivas introduced.
As it
them, and they are now asklng for an ex- is now, every work that Is copyrlghted la
tension of time.
Canada bas gencrally on Uic fly-lenf these
The motion was agreed to, and the 8111 words:
was rend thc second tîme.
Entered according to, Act of the parliament
of Canada in the year
by A.B. at the
COPYRIGHT ACT AMENDMEN1T BILL. Dcpartment of Agriculture.
That is tic hengti of two whole lunes of
IN COMMITTEE.
thus Bill. It la proposed to substitute
Hon. Mr. POWER moved that the House ticrefor tic words 'Copyright, Canada
resolve itself into aC<ommlttee of the Whole 190-by A.B.' Tiat la a hittle more tian
on Bill (_98) Act to amend the Copyright haîf of one lîne. The meanlng of Uic two
An
Act.
things are absolutely the samne. When you
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middesex)-I siould like say 'Copyright, Canada, 190-by A.B.' that
to ask the hon, gentleman ia charge of tic says evcryhing; and why should we use
Bill If thus Is rcaliy an urgent matter.
I tic long, complicated phraseology where a
have had a good dea] to, do with copyright simpler piraseology would do, .1 canaot
matters in my time.
The declaration on understand; and I may say thiat looking
tic fly-leaf of a book Is not a tedious one at a United States work I find that they
to read and It contaîns Information whiclî use iu Wasiington, tic form which it Is
mlght be worth knowlng to tiose wio proposed to use here aow, ' Copyright 19migit be disposed to Infringe on copyright by so and so.'
or to get the privilege of using
cd book.
Under thc old Act
thon was 'Entered accordlng
parliament in the office 0f the
Agriculture, etc.'
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS.

a copyrightHon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-But that is
tic declara- American?
to Act of
Hon. Mr. POWER-Yes.
'Fas est et
Minister of
ab hoste doceri.' If you get a good thlng

MAROH 10, 1908

455

-Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In the meantime, nefrom the enemy take it. I do net approve
of American things always; but I thInk: body wil1 look at the Bill.
this change helps to make the matter
The motion was agreed to.
clearer. It certalnly saves space, and I
BILL INTRODUCED.
assume that the member from soutli Toronte was acting on behaif ef the pubiieliers
Bill (102) An Act to amend the Wlnding
ef Toronto when lie lntroduced tels Bill.
Up Act-(HCon. Mr. Scott)
The clause was adepted.
The Senate adjourned tili Tuesday, the
Hon. Mr. BAKER f rom the commlttee loth Mardi, at 3 p.m.
reported the Bill wlthout amendment
ttJMBELLAND RAIIJWAY AND COAL
THEE SERATE.
COMPANY BILL.
OTTAWA, Tuesday, Mardi 10, 1908
* AMENDMENTS CONCURRED IN.
absence ef Hon.
The SPEAKER toek the Chair at Tliree
Hlon. Mr. YOUNG, lu the
Mr. Casgralu, înoved concurrence In te o'cieck.
amendmeuts made by the Standing CommitPrayers and routine proceedings.
tee on Raiways, Telegraplis and Harbours
te Bill (46) An Act respecting the -Cumber- PRINTING 0F THE KINI'S REGULATIONS.
land Ralway and Ceai Company.
INQUIRY.
The motion was agreed te.
Hon. Mr. LANI>RY inquired:
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I move the suspenTo what dlass of militaryesn in the
sien of rule 24 (b) In order te permit the
Depa tent of MiJitia and Defece appointed
third readlng of this Bill. The hùn, gen- to .makC..gratuitous distribution of the Ârmy
tleman from De Lanaudière asked me te Act and tii. King's regaiations, cf the United
make this motion. The Bill contains some Kingdom P copies in ail cf each of those
How many
In subsection bocks are thus distributed gratuitousiy P
very Important iegilatien.
2 of the Bill, it. refera te tee purcliase of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers to the
lands, timber and coal, and it le of some hon. gentIeLuan 'a questions are as foiiows:
Importance te the company, thut tee Bill
I. The-Manuai of Mllitary Law, containbe passed at the eariiest possible date. lng the Army Act, and the King's RegulaMy attention
That la the oniy urgency.
tions for the Army, are issued to ail offihas aise been calied te a mertgage which cers, warrant officers and staff, non-cernls iegaiized by the proposed legîsiation. The missioned officers of the permanent force.
Bill is of more than ordinary Interest te
2. Eighty copies of the Manuai of Military
tee cempany wlio la askIng fer tels hegis- Law, 1t899 editien (containing Army Act)
Hewever, tee matter le In the
intion.
were Issued gratuitousiy, and forty-one
bauds cf the House.
copies of the Manual Miiitary Law, 1907
Hon. Mr. WILSON-If they are net ask- edition (containlng Army Act) have been lring for unreasonable powers, 1 de net wlsb sued gratuitousiy, and over 350 more copies
te obstruct the measure, but tee mover of are due, for Issue gratultousiy, when reIt lias net shewn any cause fer urgency ceived from Engiand.
teat the Bill sheuld. pass Immediateiy, and
the ruies of tee House suspended se as te CONSTRUCTION 0F A RAILWAY TO
HUDSON BAY.
enabie that course te be taken.
MOTION.
any bon, gentleman
The SPEAKER-If
dissents, tee motion cannot be made.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS moved:
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-1 will object te tlie
motion.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Tlieu I meve teat the
Bill be rend the third trne on Tuesday, the
10th 'March.

That in the opinion of the Sonate the gevernment shouid on account cf the rapid development cf western Canada, and the continued inadequacy cf existing transportation
facilities tae early action towards the. construction of a raiiway te Churchill on Hudscn's bay.

SEINATE
He sald: This resolution lias been standing on the order paper for some weeks, but
it was flot my fault that it remained there
so long.
It la a subjeet on whieh we require Information, whlch 1 bave been endeavouring to obtain, and for that reason
have had to postpone the motion from day
to day. This matter has been discussed ln
the Senate and lna the other House on different occasions-that is, wlth reference to
a route to the Hudson Bay.
For several
years this question has been brought before
the parliament of Canada and before the
legisiature ot Manitoba, and has been discussed largely by public bodies ln the
new provinces of Saskatchewan and Al berta.
We la the west have come to the conclusion tiat a great deal of the Information
wlth reference to. the navigabllty of Hudson bay and straits, furnished Ia years gone
by, was unrellable. I therefore ask the
Indulgence of the House to dlscuss this
question again, because as years go on we
are gettlng new llght upon it. Up to a
short time ago, an Impression prevalled ln
this country that Hudson bay was a great
InIand sea of Ice. The only source of Information until recent years was the Hudson Bay Comipany, who had a complete
monopoly of the Northwest and also of
Hudson bay. For reasons best known to
theinselves, thelr officiais were not anxlous
to furniali correct Information wlth reference to this route, since It, mlght have a
tendency to open It up for transportation
purposes. The saine remark applies to the
prairies of the Northwest.
WhRt are today the three greatest agricultural provinces of the Dominion, and the portion
of Canada bound ln the future to make the
Dominion a great nation, were represented
by the officiais of the -Hudson Bav Company, and others lnterested lia preventina
tbemn fromn becomlng settled, as belig practically uninhabitabie.
They represented
Manitoba, as a linge swamp, and Saskatchewan and Alberta as territorles ln whicli
It was Impossible to grow anythlng, or for
civllized. people to live la. lIn the course
of Uie, explorera entered that country and
their report dlspelled the mlst and let ln
new llght, and we know the resuits. What
were represented to be swamps and plains
Incapable of sustalalng population are today the richest parts of this great country.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

Hluadreds of thousaads of people are settied there and are pi-osperous.
Ten or
tweive years ago Immigration to that country began at the rate of some teli or fifteen thousand per year ; now the stream
of population has Iacreased to two huadred thousaad and is steadily growlng,
s0 that ln a short time the three grent agricultural provinces will become grent hîves
of population. For some years they have
been producîng enormous quantities of
grain la that country. Last year we met
with a very bad season; It was bad flot
oaiy there but tlirougbout the -whole of the
western states, and, lia tact, ail over the
continent. In some parts of eastern Canada, the farmers found the season anythlng
but profitable. There la a wrong Impression about the crop la western Canada last
year. Iu tie part of Vie country lia whlch 1
live, northiern Saskatchewan, we liad a
niagnificent crop. The average yild was
ilot s0 high as la former years, but the
grain was good. WhIle at times, lia the west,
we may have partial fallure, the country
is too vast and too many people are produclng Viere ever to have a general crop
fallure agala. For aine years trafflc has
beea congested every year, and the farmers have heen unable to. get theIr grain
to mark-et. Now, transportation Is somethlng on which Vie welfare and deveiopment of the country depends. Aithougli
transportation routes are belng opened up
lia many directions, Viey are not belng
bulIt fast enougli to keep pace wlh the lnereaslng development of the country. Congestion of traffic xvlll continue just as we
have had It for the last nine years. You
may bulld a few hundred mlles of rallroad
every year sud open up your National
Transcontinental Railway, but wblle you
are doiag that, settiers are pouring Into
the fertile plains of the Northwest Increaslng Vie annual production of grain, and furnlshing freiglit faster Vian facllties can be
provlded to carry it to Vie markets of Vie
world. I venture to say Viat as soon as
the Grand Trunk Pacifie. whlch Is non' under
construction, is completed, It wll bave ail
It can do, and It wll be Impossible for
tbem to carry the products of the country
to the seaboard as rapidly as Vie production Incr(ýases. We have been discussing
the Georgian Bay canal project. That la

MARCH 10, 1908
a very worthy subject o! discussion, and
perhaps, lu the next ten or twenty years
scmething mav be doue lu that direction;
but the cost wll be s0 enormous that 1
thiLùk the people wvt11 pause, particulariy ln
vie'n of the worl, the couutry Is now undertakiug, before they rusb lato that expeat1 iture.
Hou. Mr. ]POWER-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-This is a dilferent proposition altogether.
We are not talkiug
about building a canal tbat is going to cost
two hundred million dollars.
This proposition le simply to build a sinall piece or
raiiway, only 470 miles, from the Pas on
the Saskatchewan river to Hudson Bay, because the Canadian Northern Railway, at
the present time, have their Steel laid to
the Pas, sud it is Just about 470 miles from
there to the Hudson bay. That le not a
great undertaking-not much further than
from Port Arthur to Winnipeg, aud there
are two lines of rallway constructed there,
aud the Canadian Pacific Railway le busily
engaged double-tracklug their line, whlch
wll mean practlcaliy three liues of railway
between Port Arthur aud Winnipeg lu the
near future. So that the 470 miles which
wouid be required from the Pas to Church111 le a amali uudertaklng, and I think I
am able to prove to the House conclusively tiiat the saviug to the farmers
of Western Canada on their crops Inet year
If that route were open, would produce
sufficient mouey to coustruct the road, If
bult as a goverument uudertaking. Some
people may thluk that the westerners are
a little too grasping ln the way of wauting
large undertnkings to be built for their
benefit; but 1 thiuk lu Canada we have ail
got over, or ougbt te have got over that
period Iu wblch sectionallsm-as was the
case lu years gone by- was such a detriment tp the country. Wbatever le doue Is
You Vannot
doue for the public good.
coustruct a railway or any other public
work lu Western Canada witbout doiug
souiethlng to benefit Eastern Canada; sud If
you coustruct a work lu Eastern Canada,
We
you are beuefitting Western Canada.
must put asIde sectionalism, and consIder
these questions from a national standpoint.
Th4s ls n national undertaking, and If we
can prove that the Hudson Bay sud Straits
cau be navigated at lenst four months ln

the year, I think the government of Canada
should take the matter into consideration,
and proceed as rapldly as possible to open
Up and develop that route. As I bave said
before, prosperity lu the west means prosperity lu the east, because If you put the
farmers of the west ln a position that they
are golng to get fifteen cents a bushel more
for their wheat, or eigbt dollars per head
more for their steers, they will have more
money to purchase the manufactured articles
produced ln the east. because we ln the west
manufacture nothiug, and It wIil be years
and years before we become a manufacturlng people.
We are agriculturiats, and
have to depend on the eastern portion of
Canaida for anythlng we obtain lu the way.
of manufactures. There is no question that
the world 1s look-Ing at Western Canada at
The Hudson Bay prothe present time.
ject la not only popular ln our owu country, but It Lq aiso popular lu the United
States, whence we are drawlng a large
part of our Immigration at the present
time. The country to the South le looking
forward to the opening up and development
Chiarters are belng
o! the Hudson Bay.
asked for by corporations lu the TUited
1 see iu some o! those charters
States.
names of representative men wlth consIderable menus, who are nsking the right
to coustruct rallways from tbe Pacific
coast to the Hudson bay. Wben capltiillsts are prepared to put their money
Jute an undertaking as large as that, 1
think tbere should be no hesitation ou the
part of the goverumeut o! Canada lu putting money Into the construction of 470
mlles of road, as an extension from the
point to 'which It is now constructed, to
Hudson bay. It bas been said with reference to Hudson bay, tiiat with OnlY four
montbs of navigation lu the year, lt would
be Impossible to make a rallroad of that
kind pay; that you would ha.ve to store
your grain at Churchill during the winter mouths. But I wish to point ont that
we are storlng grain at Port Arthur at the
present time. The larger portion of the
grain produced lu western Canada to-day
Is stored at the head of take Superlor, at
Port Arthur and Fort William, and bas to
remaîn. there for the wiuter mouths, until
navigation opens. before it can be marketed. So that If some of It had to be
stored at Hudson baY, we would be lu the

SENATE
same position as to winter storage as
we are at the present time on the
great lakes. The only difference is tfiat
at the present time we store grain at the
head of the lakes, a thousand miles f romn
ocean navigation, while If we stored it at
Hudson bay, we would be storing [t at tide
water, where it would be as close to the
markets of Liverpool and the wo'ld as It
would be If we stored it at Montreai or
Quebec. One of the arguments advanced
againet the proposition la that the enormous amount of rolling stock whichi wouid
have to be used durlng the fall and the
latter part of the summer ln movivig the
grain and cattie out of the west, would be
useless ln the wlnter. I venture to say
that If we are going to store our grain at
ail, a great deal of that rolllng stock wll
be used ln hauling grain down to Hudson
bay or to Churchill, just the sanie ns [t la
used [n haulng grain to Port Arthur at the
present time. Then again, supposing we
bad to move the rolllng stock off, any person who knows anythlng about railway
transportation must son that It le fnot a
very serions matter te removo a few trains
of cars 470 miles. We could remove MI the
rolling stock off the Hudson bay branch ln
a day and a night, and put It on the main
Une and use It thero, whatever company Il
was, supposing the Canadian Northern or
the Canadian Pacifie Railway operates the
road ; bocause, after ail, what the people
of the west would prefer la that the gov,erument should bulld the road, but not
operate it.
I would suggest that they
build it and lease It, and gIve running
powers te ail the roads on that 470 miles.
In this way they wouid realize o;tfFiclent
to pay the intorest on the bonds, and aise
probably would roalizo a small amouint to«wards a sinking fund to meet the bonds
when tbey became due. With reference
to the country through whlch this rond
runs, up to a fow years ago the Impression
exlstod that the whole district uiorth of
Baskatthewan was useless. I thlnk that
that Idea bas beon dlspellod by the evi,dence taken bof ore the committee last
year, and by the explanations of the offielals sent out by the Goological Departm ent
to explore the northern part of Saskatchewan. It was found that the country
tylng betwoen the Paq and Hudson bay le
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

not the kind of country that we supposod
it to be. Tiiero la any amount of good
land thero, and minerais and 115h. There la
aise sufficient evidence to prove that a colonlz:ition road would pay; oven If tis 470O
miles were built moroly as a colonization
road, the goverument shouid undertake [t
to open up that portion of the country, spart
from the opening up of a now route to
Europe via the Hudson straits. Wo have
been coliecting evidonce in the last few
years, and I wlll ask the lndulge.nt!e of
flic House to place some of this evionco
on our officiai report. The bep.eflt of the
Hudson bay route ts set forth-in the foilowlng languago :
Canada's greateet inland sea, calied Hudson bay, gives the west tide water lu the meridian of the Mississippi valley. A glance at
the map shows that the shortest route frosu
the centre of Canada's grain fields te the
world'e markets je via the Hudson bay and
strait. Churchil harbour is as near the central point of the wheat area, as the centre of
that area le te the head of lake navigation;
and it is about the samne distance fromn Liverpool as is Montreal.
The ýCanadian Northern Railway je now at
the Pas on the Saskatchewan river, and from
jeome 480 miles. With
there te Churchillis
tat distance spanned, Winnipeg, which, le,
via the Canadian Pacifie Railway, 1,422 miles
frein Mentreal, would be within 9M miles of
Churchill. Brandon is 1,5M5 miles frein Montreal, from Churchill 940. Regina je 1,780
miles f rom Montreal, front Churchill 1,200.
Medicine Hat is 2,082 miles from Montreal,
freim Churchill 1,500. Calgary je 2,262 miles
from Montreai, f rom Churchill 1,682. Prince
Albert is by the shortest rail routes, 1,958 miles
fromt Montreal, froin Churchill seine 717. Edmenton is, bv the shorteet rail routes, 2.247
miles froin Mo[ntx'eal, frem Churchill 1,129.
And these distances by rail te Churchill are
measured over existing railways that were
buiît for carrnage east and west. With a
raiiway froin the Pas to Chu'vchill, roads
would be buiît ever the shortest routes be-

tween important centres and that port. With

a direct connecetion between Regina and the
Pas the distance te Churchil froin that centre would he 774 miles. from Medicine Hat it

would be 1,076, frein Calgary 1,256 miles.
Churchill is 2,946 miles froin Liverpool,
while Montreal is, via Belle Isle, 2,761 and via
Cape Race 2,927, and New York by the northern route, is 3,079.

There can be ne question that, if the route
via the bay and strait be feasible, it should
bz availed of; for its utilization wouid effect
an average shortening of a thousand-miles in
the distance hetween the wheat fields of the
west and the Atlantic seahoard, witheut in-

creasing the ocean distance te the world's marl'et.

It je absoluteiy necessary te the Northwest

for the foliowing reasens:

The average saving in rail transportation
fer Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta, via

MARCH 10, 1908
,Churchill, as against Montreal to Liverpool,
would be 970 miles.
The distance froin Churchill to Liverpool is
2,946 miles. Frein Montreal, via ' Belle Isle,
2,761 miles. Froin Montreal, via Cape Race,
2,927 miles. Froi New York, 8,079 miles.
The freight upon grain from the *hsat belt
to Hudson bay wouid. approximate 10 cente a
bushel, the saine as te Poert Arthur; the additienal- 15 cents froin thers tc the Atlantic
seaboard would be savsd to the fariner, and
this, cf itself, represents a fair profit ta the
wheat grower. Âssuming an export trade cf
20,000,000 cf bushels, which can easily be
handled in two months cf the season by the
proposed railway. the saving of 15 cents a
bushel, being the difference in cost cf freight
frein Port Arthur to the Atlantic seaboard,
would amount te $3,000,000.
A very important feature in cennection with
a railway which secures quick access to the
sea is with relation ta the shipping of eattle to the European markets; this great industry is at present seriously handicappsd in
ccnsequence of the long journey ta be sndnred
under present conditions. It is admitted as
a well rscognized f act, that cattle shipped ta
the Atlantic coast arrive at the shipping port
ila poor condition, emaciated by long days of
rail travel. It is also aditted that on the
sea ]ournsy they gain rather than lose in
flesh, if put on board in good condition. Experience proves that after three day's of rail
travel csttle will deteriorate; that three days
during whichf
is about the limit of the tie
thsy can travel and maintain the condition in
J>aced on board. This being
whc h they are
be transported ta Fart
sc, cattle coul
Churchill wîthout loss in flesh, and the voyage ta Liverpool would iinprove this condition rather than the contrary. Theref are,
this great industry alone would find in the
Fort Churchill route a solution of the difficulty under which those engaged in the business cf cattie shipping naw labeur.
Mr. F. W. Peters, assistant freight traffic
manager of the Canadian Pacific.at Winnipeg,
states that up te the end cf Octaber, over
7:1,000 head of cattle had been shipped ta Livhie expected
erpool froin western Canada, and
a further 10,000 head to be shippsd that sason. The freight rate on these cattle would
be about 60 cents a hundred peunde in car
lcts frein Winnipeg ta Montreal. The rate
frous Calgary ta Fort Churchill would be
atout the saine as ta Winnipeg, and the distance about equal, se that this 60 cents s
hundred pounds could be saved ta the shipper
if he- could put the cattle on board at Hudson bay, and he would also prevent the
shrinkage which wauld atherwise occur. by
réason cf the additional rail jaurney froin
Winnipeg ta Mantreal.
Upan the 82,000 head of cattle shipped ta
Miontreal frein the west during the past season, the saving in freight alone, $6 a head,
oi" in round figures $650,000, wauld be equal
tg about 20 per cent of the selling price.
Now, as a mnatter of fact, that Is uute of
the greatest difficulties that the cattie raisers In the west have te contend 'witb. The
saving of $8 per bead In the cest of sbippliig cattie by the Hudson Bay route over

5

the est cf transportation by any exlstlng
route, does nat represent ail the saving.
There Is a great lese fremin erinkage when
cattie are carried fer days by rail. I have
sbipped cattle myself, and know what I
Wben they are kept on cars
speak of.
for a week or longer the shrinkage amounts
to a consîderable sum, so that Instead ef
saving $8 per head In sbipping by the Hudson Bay route, the cattle raisers of the west
will save about $12 on every head they
send eut by Hudson Bay.
Ta reach this waterway it is necessary only
ta build 480 miles cf railway. That-is net an
extensive undertaking, nor is it in the nature
aga
of an abselutely nsw enterprise. Years rail
Canada eznbarked upon the project cf
communication with the bay. Not only werscharters granDted, but a special provision was
made by parliament for giving a particularly
large land grant in aid cf the construction
of the raad. The grant has been inade in
part, and as a result we have a railway from
Winnipeg te Erwood and beyond, and in
course of construction an extension ta the Pas.
The very purpese of the. grant was tu securs
construction to the bay. There is no justification for stapping at the Pas. Having gene
sa far, and having pai& se libsrally fer the
commencement of the work, we should net
stop within less than five huandred miles of the
point we set out te *attain. Thi policy cf
reaching the Hudson bay waters and utilizing them as a route ta Europe has been entered upon. The questian now is simPlY as ta
the completion of that policy.
Froin the reports that we have of the country between the Pas and Churchill it wauld
appear that there are no unusu-al difficulties
in the way cf railway construction; and that
the territory is not without resourcee.
It would seem that, after the Saskatchewan
a
is spanned at the Pas, the construction cf be
lins of railway to Churchill would not
unusually difficult or expensive. And frein
the reports it would appear that there are in
the intsrvening country stretches of fair timber, andl waters replets with fish; that in a
part cf it whe.at bas been grown, and that
vegetabies commonly thrive.
The total mileage of the route explored is
690 miles. It is estimated that the lsngth of
frein
the lins alo'ng tiie route explored
Churchill to Le Pas for the construction of
a railway would be 474 miles.
From the above exploration I made of the
country, a good railway can be built at a reasanable cost, almost anywhere close by mY
proposed location. What is abselutely neces,ia is good drainage, the country having se
lttie slope; the dloser oe follows the rîvers,
the cheaper the drainage cf the lins will be.
Mr. McInnss stated that he has beau anployed in the Geological Survey since 1883.
The regions in the west with wbdch he is fainiliar, first the district between the Saskatchewan and Split lake on the Nelson, a country
which he was over'last summer, and secondàly,
the region lying betweeu -the west coust of
Hudson bay and the narthernl part of Ontario,
Lake Nipigon and the Lake of the Woods.

460

SEINATE

The vIole region from Split lake to a line
cf about forty miles north cf the Saskatchevan is a dlay covered country.
The witness passed througli this country,
vent by the Burntvood river and came back
by part cf the Grassy river, and made a
number of excursions inland between these
twa rivera. After ieaving Split lake, ascending the river, this dlay covered country shows
absoluteiy ne boulders and no gravel. Even
the shores cf the lakes, until yeu reacli a
heiglit of about 800 feet, showv ne gravel bars
at ail.
There ie absolutely ncthing te interfere vitli
It is a
the cultivation of the soul tiere.
country that lias been burnt over. Witness
a.ssumed that the Burntvood river got its
naine that vay. It lias been subject ta repeated burns. At the present time it is
covered by a very open forest. Grasses* grow
fairly luxuriantly. £rhere are tvo species cf
this, blue joint grass and a vild rye, that are
the prevailing grasses. Ile underptood, thougli
lie is net very familier vith those grasses
himself, from Professer Mecoun, that these
are very excellent mesdov grasses and make
excellent fodder.
Mr. McInnes lef t Norvey House in the
second week cf June and made the circuit and
came eut et the Pas on September 6, se it vas
June, .July and August lie vas there. He sev
ta tvo
,rass groving front eighteen inches
l
the area of thiE
The witness computed
country at about 10,000 square miles. Ile does
*net mean ta say thet ail of thet ten thousand
square miles je good land, but the basin
clieracterized by this deposit cf dlay has an
erea of about ten tlicusand square miles. It
is bounded on the north by the Churchill
river. The witness vas et about the center cf
the basin. The Indiens toid him it extended
ncrth te the basin cf the Churchill river.
Beyond thet, northverds, instead of dlay you
get sand and gravel.
Starting at the Pas and proceeding tovards
Churchill the vitness first passed througli
about 140 miles cf country underleyed by the
RJýe
fiat limestone cf nortliern Menitoba.
of elmost bare
walked for miles over bis
Beyond thatlimestone witli herdly any seil.
that je above the contour lie lied spoken of
wliere this dlay vas deposited, there je about
170 miles te Split lake, possibly in a streiglit
line about as the raîlvey je projected, that is
characterized by these dlay deposits.
Ahl the timber betveen the liead cf the
Little Chiurchill river and Churchill is reserved for fuel purpeses. Tlie pulp vood boit
as estimated belov. begins at Split Lake and
extends ta Le Pas, ten miles in vidth on each
side cf vay proposed ifor route of Hudson Bay
railway. On this area, assumigsg cne-sixth te
bo covered by pulp vood, the balance boîng
river, lakes, ponds, evemps, &c., and assuming 10 corde per acre of an average cf 6 inches
in diameter, there vould be 5,756,660 corde.
1 his je a very 1ev, but sefe estimate.
Mr. MeInnes explained that the forty miles
of limestane lie spoke of as having passed
cver nortli cf the Sasketchewan je an excellent stone for building purpeses. It lias a
large proportion of magnesia, perliape 45 per
cent. But it cocurs in reguler layers and can
he got out in thicknesses from a foot up te
six feet and in blocks cf any size.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

Asked as te the size of the Dubawûit lake.
witness explained that lie travelled around
one side of it for about 150 miles, but the
other shores were not visible from that side.
iNcbody knows the full size of that lake. The
south and east shores, as shown on the map.
Standing on
are just an imaginary sketch.
the hlis on the west shore the witness couid
on
not see the east shore, thougli the his
m~hidi hie stood were several hundred -feet
is a large body of water. The 'map
t
high.
meeyshows the lakes that are known. There
vre thousands of others that ve know notliing of, because nobody has been through
there. Borne of the larger ones are sketched,
in. The witness sketched in many, from the
reports of the Esquimaux, and they stili appear as lie so sketclied them on the map. The
i hole country je studded vith lakes.
South of that again Le a beit o.f forest. That
cYountry is essentially suited for agriculturai
purposes. It etarts on the est between Lake
'Winnipeg and Split lake, and extends westvward along the Churchill river to the AthaLaska river, which is as far as witness kueve.
The eastern side of the tract in question
ould
%% be the Nelson river. He vas not east of
th:e river-with the exception of about 20 or
31? miles. He does not knov the country.
That boit of forest is for the most part excellent agricultural land. As far as the observation nf witness goes, hie beiieved that
tLat country, whule a little harder to settie
up, and not so productive ta settiers who are
going in and looking for farine ready made
snd cleared for tliem and ready to put the
mheat in, that forest beit wiii be as fine an
agriculturai tract of land as there is in the
xiorthwest.
Everywhere in travelling threugh it, the
evîdence of ricli vegetation vas abundant,
and everywhere where gardens or any kind
of agriculture or horticulture liad been attempted iii this forest beit it had been emincntly successful.
It is a forest country, a spruce covered
country, and is southwest of Hudson bay and
the Nelson river, north of the Saskatchewan
river and extends te the Mackenzie and
Athabaska rivers. It would be about 200
miles wide from north te south. Witness
(hd net remember the iength of it. It is
eimilar land te Ontario, except posibly down
in the southern peninsula of Ontario.
The summer is varm. The winter does net
count, because thîngs do not grow in winter.
There is a good rainfaîl. A small part of
the district is park country, haîf wooded. It
i.' a continuation northward of the Saskatchewan counfry.
Mr. Tyrreil said lie lied seen growing in
tlLat. country ail the garden preducts that
tliey grow in Ontario--potatoes, carrots, turnips, cabbage, caulifiowers and ail the ordinary garden produce. He saw excellent potatees in the district around Nelson House.
lie could not say what time they were planted, because lie vas net there.
The Indiens, constantly in hunting, plant
littie patches of potatoes here and there in
the spring and leave them ail summer and go
back in the faîl and dig them up when tliey
go back te their hunting grounds, and use
tliem fer their winter supply. The witness
had gone eut and dug a pail cf beautiful
potatees on several occasions eut of these
littie Indien patches burîed in the voods.

MAROR 10, 1908

4631

warmer than the saine latitude four hundred
miles further euet.'
We are often told of the severity or~ the
winters ln that northern country, but people
forget that we do flot grow anytbing ln the
It la only in the summier
winter monthe.
montbs there is any growth, and while the
season Is shorter there than ln more southern latitudes, the longer days of sunshine
make up the difference. That accounts for
the tact that we can grow grain eso far
Take the experience of last year.
north.
another
North of Lake Winnipeg there is thausand Prince Albert le two hundred and lifty odd
magnificent area of from five ta ten
is grown
as there is in miles north of Regina, and wheat
square miles of as fine country
eigbty mlles north of Prince Albert, grain of
Manitoba, or anywhere else.
That je on the praposed line of the Hudson a better qualitY, 1 venture to say, than le
bay railway. When the witnese carne out growu at Prince Albert
Last year we
there a number ot years aga, after spending
was a rich
a summer there, and said thereLake Winni- produced excellent wheat at Prince Albert
agricuitural country narth of
of Prince Albert, while the wheat
peg. the Hudson bay men and the people of and north
Around Prince
the southern country pooh-poohed the ofidea. at Regina waa f roen.
the.
They said thiey bail been up at the headof goad Albert w. have a country which bas been
lake and mnev there was not a foot stretch settled for sorne Urne and bave been growland there. But there je a magaificent
af cauntry there, and it extends westward ing grain for years. We hhve not hiad frozen
alon«r the. Churchill. These lande north of grain in the last fifteen years.
Âny frost
extension
Lake Winnipeg are dlay lands, an clave.
that we experienced was In the early yeare
as the Manitaba
ot the saine basin
Mr. MeInnes gave panticular attention ta of settiement, but w. have had'no trouble
the question of climate, vhich hie rightiy frorn that source of late.
We have been
ccneidered oft vital importance in conneetien with this region.' He kept a carefui toid that the. climate north of the Sashat-,
record of temperatures, and tnorn the time chewan le s0 severe that people cannot exist
it was ' begun an the 19th June until the
travel
night of the 29th Septemben, vhen the. ther. there ln the wlnter season, yet people
thal
mometer feUl ta 26', there vas no frost nighl up and down between the Pas and Hudson
affected even tender vegetation. On the
Tuls wlnter men with
rlght along.
of the lOth of August the tempenature feUl tci bay
but did net get 1ev enougl Ltheir wives and lîttie children have travelled
the fneezing point,
t> do damnage, at leaet in the valley of Grass3 by nieans of dog trains ail through the.
river, thougii soute of the patate vines on th4
was as cold as w.
the. Pai
summit of the. high ridge north ofconvincec winter. If thie country
He vas
voe slightlY touohed.'
*have been led te believe, that would bie lmthat the 'district is not at ail too coid foi
If you were to talk to any one
generai agriculturai op.ratione. The. longe> possible.
daily duration of sunlight in these high lati Inl Ontario of travelling hundrede of miles
tudes must b. taken inta consideration anc *with women and chlldren in the depth of
comnarison with more sauth
for purposes of yearfy averages of tempera wlnter wlth dog trains between Quebec and
eily localities
ini
ture are of ne value. A region lying year the. Georgian Bay, you would bie told it
higiier latitude, though shoving a iowen thi ewas impossible, yet that sort ot travel goeS
ly average tempenature, mal during
between Hudson
o
groving rnontiis, owing ta its longer heursHi fon ail through the. winter
and thie Saskatchewanl, and no party
euneiiine, have quit. as good an average.'
-Bay
record ehoved that 'duriîn g July the tempera r bas ever been trozen. The mounted police
tare at 6 o'clock p.m. vas equal ta or highe
the Idea
than thie noon temperature on fitteen aye travel through there reguiarly, se
during Auguet on nine days and duringSe
is sucb a cold clirnate that people
that it
tember on eight days, and the. 6 p.m. avene cannot live there tbrough the winter 1e exages for these menthe vere lover than th
neon averages by only 1%, li* and 21 nespe< !_plocled.
tively.
During last January and February ConstaFor the purpase of camparison, Mr. Mcmr L.. ble Seller, of the R.N.W.M. Police, made a
tram the director of thie Meteoi .e ti ip fram Churchill ta Winnipeg. H. follownes iprocured
ooical Service at Torante, an abstract of th Led the ieft bank of the. river for sorne twentYpaetsummr's temperatures at Minnedes d five miles, thea crossed ta the. mouth of the.

in
They iiad neyer been hoed or cultivated the
any way. They are not looked after from
time they are planted in the epriig until
seem
they are dug in the fail. The potatoes down
tobL abi. ta grow enfficiently ta keep
the weeds. As a protection against wiid aniseein
ed on islands. Witnesselhad not actuaîly counwheat, barley and oate grown in that they
evidence that
try. H. lied tainl goad
are grawn there, b ut as far as hie rernembered hie haed net seen any himself. He haed
been told and believed that they grow there.
There ie no daubt whatever that the country described will support quite a thick popu-

onain, Hiilview and Brandon, an d Deer; and alter fallowing that river a short
Ston
coparing thm ith his record hie conclude > distance took a southwest course. strikiag a
that thi. country alang the. route of the. prq large lake.
y
posed raiiway te the bay is 'conspicuousi

SENATE

During the whole trip, the constable reFrom his records
ports 'splendid weather.
of thermometer readin~ it appears to have
January. the dag he
been boteron2nd
ef t barracks at Churchill. On the 5th it
below and on the 7th it was 10*
was 25*
above. The lowest record is for the l7th,
'from 550 to 60*. But the 9th of Febrnary is
noted es warm. The depth of snow for the
firet two hundred miles ws 'hardly eighteen
inohee'; but thence to Norway House 'it was
very deep.'
The view of the Rev. Dr. John McDougall
Rey. Dr. John McDougali, a pioneer misuionary of the west, thus describes the country to the south of Split lake : 'There are but
two seasons there--aummer and winter--each
fittinq into the other with littie or no spring
or fall. This, to a large extent, does away
with the broken 'weather which is so often
emperienced in the east at the changing of the
seasons, and makes the conditions more favourable for settiement. The winter is steady
and pleasant, and although cold, is flot nearli
go severe as is geerally supposed. In fact,
the dlimate is far more moderate than in
scuthern Manitoba, the home of 'No. 1 Bard'
wheat. The summer begins early and the
growth and vegetation are almost of a tropical character. This is attributable to the
longer hours of sunshine that prevail and to
the proximit of streame of living waters
eve ywhere in the district each of which is
conducive te plant nourishment.
There is considerable rock throughout the
section, which indicates in the near future, a
season of development for the minerai prospector, but there are also countless acres of
te yield
can be easily
f ood land which te the farmer, made has been
as
ruitful returns
the case southward in Manitoba and westwarca
iu Saskatchewan and Alberta. The soul is o
élay sub-strata with sandy loam on the surface, and, although wooded te a considerable
extent, is a fan more enticing agricultural
proposition than that which faced the early
settiers on the bush farms of Ontario and
other eastern provinces fifty years ago; and,
with the advent of railways, a botter market
than the eastern settier had would be alwayc
available. The district in which are situated
~Nor'way hous, Cross lake,. Oxford house,
Island lake, Nelsoa house, and Split lake,
covers a vide area, and at each of these places
garden vegetables and grain for personal nequinements have been successfully grown for
a terni of years. Summer frosts are practical unknown and the germination of vegetation, owing te the long hours of siinshîne, is
exceedingly rapid.'
Meteorologicai Office,
Toronto, March 9, 1907.
To J. B. TyrelI, Enoto
The temperature conditions of the district
'between Lake Winnipeg and Split lake in tho
several months, May-September, may be compared with Europe as follows
May--50'-40' with north of Scotland and
southern Norway.
June-56-54*, with Scotland.
July--63-, witb south of England.
August-57 .50 to 55%, with Scotland.
September-50'.45', with northenn Norway
and Sweden.
<Signed) R. F. STUPART.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

The several reports of Dr. Robent Bell,
F.R.S., who spent much time in and about
Hudson bay by making scientific observations, may, in s far as they refer te navigation, be thus su=med up;
Both the bay and srait are remarkably
free from rocks and ehoals. The groups of
islands near the east side of the bay are surrounded by deep water, and a wide channel
The
leads up te the centre of James bay.
main body of the great bay is entîrely without shoals, reef s or islands. The depth is
very uniform over most of the bay, and nowhere does it present any great irregularities.
It avenages about seventy fathoms throughout
deepening te one hundred and upwards in
appnoaching the outlet of Hudson strait;
while in the stre.it itself the eoundinge along
the centre vany from about one hundred te
upwands of three hundred fathoms. The bottom appears to consist almost evenywhere o!
bouldens, dlay and mud. Near the shores a
sitili dlay, affording good holding ground for
anchors, is almost invariably met with.
Along the west coast of the bay the rise,
and faîl at spring tiées amounts te about
eleven or twelve feet, on an average, and is
pretty unifonm, diminishing: somewhat tewards the south. It is greatest at the mouth
of the Nelson river, where it reaches about
fifteen feet. The tides are lower ail alonig the
east side of the baY. In the strait there is a
very goo tide. open ail the year round; and
The.a is
there dose not seem te be munch evidence that
the strait is entirely closed at any season.
The great width and depth of the strait, and
thie strength of its tides, probably keep it open
aUl winter. From ail that he could learn or
observe, thene appeared reason ta bolieve that
the strait and bay might be navigated and the
land appnoaehled by steamships during an
average of over four months each year, or
fnom the middle of June ti-I near the end of
October.
Commander Gardon, who commanded the
expeditiofl5 of 1884 and 189,, which were undertaken by the government with a view to
ascertaining the actual conditions pertaining
te the bay and strait, made two detailed reports from which the foilowing are excerpts:
The ice has been supposed, hitherte, te be
the most formidable bannier te the navigation of the straits, but its terror disappeans
to a great extent, under investigation. The
ice met with on the cruise of the 'Neptunie'
may be divided inte three classes having distinctly sepanate origins. They are- icebergs
from the glaciers of Fox channel; heavy arctic field ice from the channel itself, and what
may be called ondinary field ice, being that
which had been formed on the shores of the
bay and straîts.
The 'Neptune' was, on August 1, at Nachyak bay within 100 miles of the east end of
the straits and on Âugfist 30, had just left
Nottingham island on the west end, s that
the month of Âugust was epent in the straits
region.
The following table gives the weather experienced in HÎudson's bay from the lst to
l6th September.

MARCH 10, 1908

jto

46e

na vigation is when the ice-floos are running
Mean
Temperature. in June and July. I know for a fact, that in
1905 the steamer left Fort Churchill on OctoCape Digges and Marbie Island.
ber 24 and made the. trip te St. John's, New.- Fair weather, light N.E.
Sept.
foundland, in eleven days. Tih. straits were
winds..........430 p.m., with
wide open until that time, and surely witii
cloudy
2.-Fine and
such a short haul the greater part of the.
42
strong N.E. wind.. ......
grain could b. shipped before November 1.
3.-Rainy weather, mcderate
The ha y is open ail the. year round, and was
'o
gale from S.E .. .. ......
open when 1 left thore on January Srd last.'
0ff Churchill.
'The period of safe navigation for ordinary
Sept. 4.-Rainy weather, strong gale 40
iron steamahips through Hudson strait an~d
.4
--.from N.W. ..
across Hudson bay te the. port of Churchill,
5.-Cloudy weather, strong gale
may b. taken to oxtend fromn the. 2Oth of July
40from N.W. .. ............to the lst of Novembor. This perio may b.
6.-Cloudy, ligiit rain, light
week in
increased witiiout much nsbya
N.W.» wind, thjck: weatiier 39.50
the beginning of the. season and by perhaps
At Churchill.
two weeks at the close.'
S.W.
Sept. 7.-Fine weather, light
Walter Dickson, wiio was twenty years in
42*
wind
the service of the company about t he bay and
8.-Fine weatiier, light N.W.
strait, expressed the. bolief that thoy could b.
44and S.W. wind ........
navigat.d for fivo montiis in each year. and
cloudy
weatber,
9.-Fairly
moderato N.B. *wind
.. 41made this statement:
' From wiiat I have observod of the movoYork.
ment of ico in Hudson bay during the sum.- Cloudy weatiier, ligiit nain,
SRept.
mers 1 passed there, I am perfectly assured
moderato S.E. wind .. .- 400
steamer would nover
that an ordinr sce
weather,
moderate
11.-Fain
N.E. -wind .. ......
41have any difficult i.n getting through or round
is usually -met witii in the. bay
tiiat whicii
12.-Fair weatiier, light S.
and strait. The chiof reason why the old
wind............46sailing vessels of the Hudson Bay Company
York te Digges.
ofton met with detentions in tho ice was and
Sept. 13.-Fair weatiier, light N.B.
is that tii. season. when «lo. je je met with
wind..........42tiiere is generally very little wind and sailing
14.-Fog in a.m.; fine p.m., light
N.E. wind ..............
- 35
vessels are consequently as helpless amongst
.1 15.-Fog0
weatiier,
etr,,ng
the ice as they would b. in a dead colin in
341
the centre of the. Atlantic or elsewiiere.
N.W.F wind
16.-Fair weatiier, ligiit N..
The. bay has always been found of easy acwind..........32cess to a good and careful navigator. Fromn
Commander Wakeham, in his summing uP what is known, and the experience already
obtained on the mnbject, there ta every reason
stated :
There <ian ha no question we wero f av- to believe that, were the. Hudson bay thorour.d with an unusually open season, and oughly sunveyed, it would ha found to ha on.
once tii. strait became open on tii 15th July of the saf est of known soas. I have known a
we enoountered MUCii less je than otiiers season wiien the harboiirs were accessible for
have constantly met with.' He quoted Mn. seven months in the year.'
Captain Adams, who had tiiirty-five years'
Stupart, directer of tiie Meteorological Service, ini support of this view. That officer experience in nonthenn waters, gave this opiwrote: 'It -i. very obvions te me that YOU ion - 'Siips may enter the. strait and bay from
iiad tus year a most favourable and open the. 20ti te 25th June s.lmest yearly, and tii.
season, and that the winter weatiier set in strait romains open till the young ice forms
In round numhars the.
later tiian usual. The. most doubtful thing about Octohar 26.
is the force of the. wind. Âccording te the straits are open four months a year, but even
records you had very few gales indeed.' The. wiien open, navigation at the entrance is
sonietimes difficuit, because the current from
Commander continued:
' I now conclude this part of the report by Davis strait carnies ice across the. mouths of
Cumberland and Hudson Straits.'
with Captain
I absolutely
saying thatfixing the. date agv.eethe op.ning of Frobisher, James Heckland was thirty-nine
Captain
for
Gardon in
navigation ln Hudson strai t, for commercial years in tiie eervice cf the Hudson Bay Coinany. He firet navigated the, bay in 1846, and
purposes, by suitable veessels, at from lst to
10tii July. I do not considen that the strait f or y.ars comnizded e schooner that ooasted
can ha successfully navigated in June. Such from York ta Chiurchill. He left Orkney on
ships as the. 'Diana' migiit force a passage the. 22nd June and passed. tiirough the Strait
tiirough, but tiies. vessels would be useless in the. middle of July. Hie saw no ice exoept
He wrote
for commercial purposes. Tiiey have ta b. at -a distance ta the. southward.
so braeed and stnengthened that they are im- 'Tiie strait i. open ail the. year round. Tii.
ice from Fox channel coimes down in July. It
possible fneigiit carriers.'
Mr. Beech, who ha. lived at Churchill for neyer go.. into the. bay, but follows the. curTii. navigation of
return.d tiiere al, rent tiirougii the. strait.
two years and who reoently
the. western end cf the. strait is, tiierefore,
ter a visit to Winnipeg, stated:
'There is a mort erroneous feeling prevail. most interrupted al; that time.'
Ca'ptain Colin Sinclair, wiio wais 'broughit up
I n tiimoughout Canada, witi -regard te the
digeiulty in navigating the. Straits at the. at ortk Factory and wiio navigated tii...
mouth of the bay. It is-my opinion, based nortiiern waters ifor six yeurre, passed tiirougii
on f acts frai aniy sources, that these straitp the strait on a isealing voyage as early as April
neyer freeze over, and that tiie only danger 1and saw no ce. Hie iras confident tint tiiere,

SENATE
He thought they were
was 'no unusual danger or difficulty in the Cape Wolstenholme.
too far sauth -and met the ice, but to the north
navigation cf the bay and strait.'
Captain Silsby, a practical man, engaged for it looked as if they could have liad open water
*many summers in Hudson strait and bay, if they hied kept away frein Cape Wolstenwrots in 1884 : 'My exp~erience telis me that holm. Very heavy ice would not; came very
navigation.by steain is entirely practicable for rnuch earlier than November, because the
four monthe la the year, viz., July, August, Biaffin bay ie would flot; break up sconer.
Altogether ths witnass considered the HudlSeptember and Octahar and in many yeara the
11e saw no reason why son bay route, when it was clear, an even
miocf November.'
clearer one ithan vis the St. Lawrence. Thers
eteamships oould net make excellent spesd an
that course ta and (frota Europe for four is at least two monthe when there is no trouble
monthi certainly ia the year and an open win- f roml ice at aIl, and when you do meet that
loase ice ini the enmer time there ie no
ters for five montba.
the trouble. There would have to be several liglits
Captain Kennedy whoc com'maaded
'Prince Albert,' chartered -to search for the estahlished. There would have to hae liglits at
Franklin expedition, was previoualy in the Nottingham isliand, and probably at Cape
service of the company for soins eight ysare at Digges. Charlatan island would probabiy have
In the emtumn of 1888 hie tra- ta be lit at bath ends, because it is practically
Ungava bay.
vereed the coast freim Chimo river <Kaneabas- in the middle of the channel, and then there
con river) ta George river and ooased that would have to bie lights st Cape Chigney and
shore lins in a 'York boat every year of the on Resolution island. Lighte would also have
eight yeare. He found 'no e alter July :.n to bie placed at the niouth of Churchillilherthe bay and only on one occasion found ice on bour.
Âsked by the Honourable Mr. Ferpuson if
the lat November, and then only sinali piecies
of field ice.' He regarded as very regular the the Hudson Bay Company placsd the information ver y cheerfully at his disposai, witness
currents, which, he wrote, «open up the channels of ingregs end egress into Hudson bay rsplied that the Hudson Bay Company do nlot
and couvert the bay and etrait inta a pathwey like to have fur trade interfered with.
lMr. Tyrreli left Churchill about November
fer commerce.'
Mr. Low again expressed ths opinion thnt 25th or 29th. The bay w.as open then and
frein the latter end of July ta the middle of there were no icebergs. A ship could not g-)
November, f romn three and a hall ta four out end in then. The harbour was closed.
menthe, there was probably sit navigation, The witness arrived st Churchill one year
whsre ordinary -iron tramp steamers could hae frein the north ou October 16, in a canas. lie
used. He did not mean that it was abeolutely oonsidered if hie could travel down the shore
f ree frein ice, but sufficiently free ta make it of Hudson bay in a Peterborough cance, ani
safe navigation. The ice wouid not sink your get ta Churchiill safeiy with it in two succesship or anythinig like that. The ice that la sive years, ons year as late as Octahar 16, and
met up there is rafted up, and sometimes the other year as late as the let, that a eteamIa tas midsummer mnths it er or a well protected boat ought ta bie able
rafted deep.
The ce- ta get through a littie better.
gets warm and more easily brokea.
Dr. Bell, replying ta a question by the Hon.
menting material la practically gone frota it.
You just rua into it and it breaks ta piece, Mr. Tessier, nid it is hard ta eay how many
and you ses four times as inuch as you did bie- months of the ysar steamers oouid pass through
not
the striait. He did not ses why they coi
fore.
pass through et any time in the winter, though
The Hudson bay ships, as a rnis cotas ito
it would ha inconveaient. Neither the bay nor
the-Hudson bay -about the first of August, and
the ahi p frota Churchill cames back ag ain the strait are frozen up any more than the
about the endaof the mnth. It goes ta Fort Atlaatic ocean. He could not conceive a bay
Charmeli. in the Ungava river and generally 600 miles wide, la the saine latitudes as the
British islands, being frozen with the onetearolies there until September.
The strait is navigable f rom about the sad- logical conditions bslng norme.l for their latidis of July until the first day cf November tudes. He might ha told that it ie the inanyway, and a couple of weeks onight be added fluence of the guif streain thst keeps the naviat the end, beoause the le in Hudson bay, the gation open in the saine latitude on the coast
new ice, is of fia oonsequence te a ship until of Europe, but his informant would not kaow
it getse ta be 15 or 18 inches thîck, and not hitaseif ow the guif 6treain wcrks. Hers you
iauch Ice for.ms hafore that date. The Aretic have no Arctic curreat such as you have along
ice that comes down Baffin's bay is serious, b.- the Liabrador cost, nor have you the advancause it is heavy ice and sometimes it is 40 tage od the guif streata; you have just the norfeet thîck. It cames down from the north, mai conditions for their latitudes.
The mouth of the Churchill forme the most
and the witaess expected that at the end of
November and December it ia begiaa.iag ta fil] southera harbour on the west coast for ships
Part of it drawing over twenty-four feet of water. The
the etastera part of the straits.
swees around Resolution island,. and witaess chan.cel of appraach is fairly desp and wide.
had seen heavy las up as far ais Digges island, The tide is pretty uniforta, risiag at its
about the middle aofthe st rai ta, and it is quite mnaximium, on an average, eleven or twelve
a serions thing. That wouid net ha the case f est. At ail its stages the harbour can be
every year. tf-there wsre high westerly winds reached. Mr. Thibaudeau, C.E., made extenit wculd drive that las frein the coast, and it sive soundings last fail. Re reports the depth
at low water at the entrance of the harbour
would pass the straits without coming in.
In the report cf hie tri p in the 'Neptune,' to bie froin eight ta twelve fathoms. Half a
Mr. Low haed spoken of t ha t ship having got mile within the minumum depth is seven
into the ice about July 22, and of having te fathoms. At the head of the harbour there
ram hier way through it. He explained ta the are two shoals over which at low tide there
committee that th-at was coming out of the beiy is from two and a quarter ta two and a haif
They gat in the ice just ofi fathoms of water, and betiveen and around
from Fullerton.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

MARCH 10, 1908
them the depth is from four to four and onehaif fathoms. Wjth modern aids to. navigation aiong the approach, aud docks and elevators in the harbour, Churchill wouid afford
ail the port requirements necessary for coni.ecting the raiiway with the waterway afforded by the bay and straits.
A record kept for seventy years by the
Hudson's Bay company officiais at Churchill
shows that the harbour was open on an average for five months-from June 19 to- November 18. The longest open season was five
ianonths and eigitteen days. That was in
The shortest-four months and eight
1W4.
days--was in 183. The earliest date at which
the harbour opened was June 5, 1863, and the
iatest July 2, 1866. The earliest ou which
it closed. was November 1. 1837, and the latest
December 4, 1861 and 1885.
The harbour can be kept open ail the year
by the employment of ice-breakers. Last year,
1906, the harbour closed between December
5th and lOth. The conditions ini January,
1907, were as follows t-lu the bay at Fort
Churchill the ice' was eleven inches thick.
It extended for a third of a mile f rom the
shore juto the bay. Ice was much thinuer 1in
the bay than in the harbour. There was
soie floating ice about a quarter of a mile
f rom the edge of the bay ice. This is sent
in by a northeriy wind; should the prevailing wiuds blow £romn any other direction,
there would bie no floating ice.
Beyond this floatiug ice there was clear
open water straight away into the bay aud
beyond.
There are plenty of harbours on both sides
of the Hudson strait. One is on the north
side snd east of Digges isiaud, but has not
been properiy examined yet. But there is no0
doubt there ore a number of good harbours
there. On the south side the witness exarnined the coast froin Cape Wolstenholme
te the south part of Ungava bay, and there
are a number of very good harbours along
that coast. Between the end of July and the
end of September when lie was there, the
strait was not quite clear of ice, for some
was floatiug in the strait.
The straits are practically neyer clear, but
the ice that was in there after the middle of
July until November almost would not harm
an ordinry vessel. The great danger in the
nutumu in the navigation of Hudson strait
ir the streain of Ârctic ice that cornes dowu
froi the Ârctic ocean and from Baffin bay.
Then from the end of September snow squalls
are frequent. The navigator is in far more
fear of snow squalle than fog. Late iu Soptomber there is saheavy fog that ises freo the
ivater, broug.ht ou by the excessive cold. When
-the tempemature gets below zero thera is -a continuous fog that rises froin the water, someturnes 100 feet and sometimes 200 feet. You
couid not overcome that by lighting nor with
ailything, except getting on the top of the
niast and looking over it; it is a light fog.
The mouth of Churchill river is an exception to the general character of the Hudson
bay shore. There is at the mouth of the
Ch;urchiil river a rocky hill rising, or at
heast a mass of rock. The remarks about the
shore descending to the bay do uot apply
exactiy to the mouth of the Churchill river.
l'bat is the reasou Churchill is a harbour.
Church ill wouid be a haîbour in low water;

465

it is one of the most maguificent harbours
ia the womld, probably the finest harbour. It
î*s a rcyhill
rising about 100 Leet high
and b,,ow-shajped. Projecting out into the bay
is a rocky knuckle on one side, so thst in entering the harbour ships have to take a
slight curve, but they very. very quickly get
away fromn the influence of the ocean waves.
A( the present time the harbour is about 30
to 40 feet deep, The tide is heavy and rising
fîom nine to sixteen feet at low tide. The
chaunel is the samne width at low and high
tide. The channel ont into the bay from the
harbour is a rock-bonnd channel, probsbly
one hundred or two hundmed f est deep, so
tiiat that channel is clear either at high or
low water. It is wide enough for a couple of
ships to pass, and incur no danger. Tliere is
one rock iu the mouth just a short distance
f rom the point of the projecting rock hoe had
spoken oi, and if that were removed it would
widen the harbour aud about double its
siidth. The width of the harbour is now
about 200 or 300 feet. The entrance is narrowv. It is -a beautiful harbour for the ships
to enter f roiu the ocean. The rock risse procipitateiy ou both sides to one hundred feet.
There is no possibiiity of *a ship getting away
from it. Where the rocks run as they do at
this harbour, it makes a natural slip, about
as snfe a place to enter with a ship as one
could very well imagine. The entrance is
front a quarter to haîf a mile long. Outside
of the harbour is the opeu ocesu with its
deep water.
Mfr. Tyrreil was at Churchill in the f ail
two differeut years, approximately in the
Ha
months of ()ctober and November.
reachc-d there October 15 one year, and he was
theme part of November. ln one of hie reports he purchased a table giving tihe dates of
the opening snd ciosiug of navigation; obtained froin the records of the Hudson Bay
company at Churchil.
Hlon. Mr. FERGIJSON-I wish to point
out to the bon. gentleman from Saskatcbe-

waut that bie bas rend froin Mr. Gordon's
report a statement that icebergs camne down
Fox's channel. In the foliowing year, Mr.
Gordon corrected that statemeut. lu the
later report bie siaid lie was mistak.ýii with
regard to that, nnd states that no Icebergs
came dowu there. They came fromn the
*Atlantic.

Hon. Mfr. DAVIS-I understood tbat tbeY
caine lu on the tide froin the Atlantic. He

gives the weather September S and 0 at
Churchill as being very fiue. On several occasions, wbeu tiis matter was urider discussion in the Senate, it bas been lield up
as a bogey tbat thiere was such benvy and
continuons fog In the straits that If was
impossible to navigate, aud tbat there were
snowstorms, duriug which it was Impossible te navigate. iu order te expiode that
Idea, 1 subinit the foiiowing table :

30
REVISED EDITION

466

SEINATE

Belle Isle Hudson's
Straits. Straits.
Number of days on which fog
is recorded.. .........
13
9
Approximate number àf hours
ce ifog.. .. ..........
220
102
4
Days on which now* feil..*
0
Days on which wind exoeeded
25 miles per hour, but did
flot reach 40...........6
5
Days on which. wîidexceeed
40 miles............2
1
The month of August thus shows f avourably for Hudson's straits, the f og there being
reported on Six days only, as against thirnumber
Belle Ilie; and the
teen days.in fog being respectivelytotal in Hudofhours cf
102
son's straits, and Belle Isle, 220; and if the
duration cf the snew storms in Hudson's
straits, nineteen heurs, be added te the number cf hours cf fog, it still shows favourably.
The number cf gales aise is six at Belle Isle
for five in the straits* and of heavy gales, two
at Belle Isle, and only one in the straits.
The following comparison for September is
between station No. 1, at Cape Chudleigh 'snd
Belle Isle:
Belle Isle Hudson's
Straits. Straits.
Number cf days on which. fog
is recerded.. ..........
7
4
.App)roximate number of hours
0offog............82
84
Days on which snow feul.. 6
3
8
DY.s on which ramn fell..
15
6
D ys on which veiocity of
wind was between 25 and 40
miles per hour.......
à
Days on which velocity cf
wind was 40 miles or over
per heur.. .. ...............
il
8
Days on which any snow fell are put down
as snow days. thougli rain as well as snow
may have fallen on those days.
ln the character of the weather, therefore,
for the two months <Âugust and September)
sa> far as it affects navigation, Hudson's straits
compares favourably with the straits cf Belle
Ilie, there being eleven heavy gales at Belle
Ilie against three in Hudson's straits, and
more t han double the ameunt cf feg.
The mean tempe-rature of the month at Cape
Chudileigh for Âugust was 29%, for Belle Isle,
49.67'; and fer September, Cape Chudleigh,
82.76*; Belle Isle, 43.1*.
The abeve shows one gale lastîng nearly
the ay,.i,
the Srd, 4th and 5th, and
twodas n hih fog occurred. On the l4th
the fog atd
from 9 a.m. te nearly 7 p.m.,
aai early on the morning of
-loingdow
the l5th and ce.ntlnuing thick fog until about
3 V.m.
The temperature of the surface water cff
Belle Isle on 25th July was 41.6' which gradually decreased as we proceeded northward te
84.7' en 4th Âugust, off the entrance te Hudson's Straits.
On the northward voyage these temperatures were :off Hudsens Straits 32.50 on 29th
September, and abrea6t cf Belle Isle, but
some distance te the eastward, 36' on the
9th October.
ln Hudson's straits, the mean surface teroperature as ebtained frem observations taken
when the ship was at sea, was, on the w8stbound voyage, found to be 32.9', the highest
mean of a day's observation was 33.3%, and the
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

lowest 32.60. On the homeward voyage the
lowest da.ily mean was 31.8' eand the highet
33'. Th h
et temperatures were in each
case observe at the eastern and cf the Straits
and the lowest off Nottingham island.
In the bay the surface temperatures varied,
much with the geographical positions, being
39.4O off Marble island, 410 off Cae Churchill,
39.70 about 100 mniles northeast cd York F'sctory, observed whilst steaming across te Cap e
Digges. £nd 86' off the south eud cf Mansfield
island.
1 shall now read te the Hanse a short

compilation of facts and conclusions from
different reports slne 1861, by Captain J.
E. Bernier, commandlng officer of the
C.G.S. ' Arctlc,'1 1908:
17, Capt. Buddington, on
1861.-October
board the 'George Henry' was closed in
Rescue harbour.
1879.-November 4. Capt. Spicer, on board
whaler 'Era' was closed iu New Gummuaite
harbour , just outsîde cf North Foreland.
.- with Adams, who has been in the
régionsCapt. several shipa, during bis experience cf thirty-five years time, says that the
straît cf Hudson is navigable in round numnbers about four mentha per year.
1884 and 1885.-Commander A. R. Gordon,
steamship «Alert,' ia cf the opinion that the'
strait is navigable during four montha sach
year, from July te Octeber inclusively.
1885.-November 4. Capt. Glisby, on board
the whaler ' Era.' was beset in New Gummuite
harbour.
-. Octeber 15. Capt. Charles Smith, cf
Dundee, on board the steamship 'Esquimault,'
left Cumberland Sound, homeward bouud and
he had te go through about 150 miles cf pack
ice which he had met near the headland, before he could shape a course for the north cf
Scotland.
1897.-Octeber 30. Commander Wakeham,
on board the steamer 'Diana,' in the mouth
cf Hudson strait, reports that at this date
the mouth cf the strait was clear cf ice,
but he adds that it was snowing and that the
ice was not far off.
1897.-Capt. E. B. Fisher, states that he bas
visited the strait and the bay several times
on beard cf severai vessels since 1864, and iu
his judgment the strait can be navîgated
from three te tbree and a haîf months
each year by steamers for commercial purposes.
1904 and 1905.-Commander A. P. Low, in
command cf the a. 'Neptune,' sa ysta
h
period cf safe navigation for or naryiron
steamships through Hudson strait and Hudsen
bay te Port Churchill may be taken te extend from July 20 te November 1, this period
may be increased. witbout mucb risk by a
week in the beginaing cf the season and by
perhaps two weeks at the close.
1905 and 190.-Mr. Beach, who bas lived at
Churchill for twc years and wbo has reosntly
returned bers, after a visit te Winnipeg,
states that be kuows for a f act that lu 1905
a steamer left for Churchill on October 24,
and made the trip te St. John's, Newfoundland, in eleven days. The straits were wide
open until that time. The bay is openod ahl
the year round and was stili epened when
he left on January 3.

MARCH 10, 1908
1905, 1906 and 1907.-October 16. CaPt. J. le that Hudson Bay and Straits are navlg.
E. Bernier, of the Canadian governmeflt able for four months of the year, part of
steamer 'Ârctic,/ arrived at Fullerton on this
date, saw no field ice in the strait except a the menti' of July and ail ef August, Septcouple of icebergs. There was no ice in the ember or October and part of November.
bay and the ice in the harbour of Fullerton witli
ormnh
f
aiain
w
w
aiain
e
ots
fu
was only four juches thick. In the spring of
5, and we will be able to carry ail the cattie
1905 we left Fullerton, about JulY
encountered the field ice outside of Churchill, and the bulk of tie grain shipped out
e
heblnec
miles norti', a streng steamer couldoftewsad
sizt
b
heblnecn
etad
Port0fte
have passedl through and enter
jute
When you take
During the menti' of October, stored nt Churchill.
Churchill.
1907, ne ice was visible in the straît at Reso0 consideratlon that the saving ef freight onâ
island, we eaw this place on Octeber
lution
7. Te
aerae dae o th clsing of navi- twenty million bushels is three million dolgation at this place is about November 1. lars, you can at once realize the Importhepdcrsfte
while the opening at Port Churchill is aboutaneothrue
July 15. A shlip could certainly navigate theacefthroetehepdursete
Only
The undertaking la small.
strait while the land ice is stiil firm in the west.
four hundred and seventy miles of rond
bays and harbours.
Deductions.-The average date of the clos- eur
ob
ultruhacutype
hog acutype
eb blt
ing of navigation for the eastern entrance ofeur
Hudson jstrait, when considered ?from thea senting ne serions difficuities, and the cost
above opinions, is about the last days of Octo- should net be more than twenty-five or
ber.
tit
huaddlasaml.
I
h
I h
olasaml.
losn
The resson and cause for the closing oftlt
navigation is due te the pack' ice drifting on gevernment weuld take tie matter up they
the coast at the entrance cf Hudson strait. couîd probably arrange to bave the iua(1
This drift is caused by the northern current
which partly enters the uorthern side of the built te Churchill without muéh ceet te the
The Cauadian Northern has lis
strait and partly closes on the Labrador coast, country.
y
and this tact ie well establishýed by the fillîng line20mlsnarHuonBytn
n
usnByVa
err
ie
5
up with ice cf the northern harbours and
cf the strait other road, and, I suppose wlll be expected
Port Burweil at the entrance
while the western part et the strait and beY te construct the extension f rom the Pas te
are free et ice. It is a well known fact that
We bave given them an
the Hudson bay itself neyer freezes, except a Hudson Bay.
certain margin of ice of a few miles along enermous land grant, and they could go
the land around the bay.
o
n opeetewr
hc hyhv
Port Churchill is often still opened ini the o adi comparete
the
Pas, Ihfc v
they
faastePifVe
November, and could easilynwcreda
first weeks of
be kept open witi' an ice boat, if desired got assistance. The associated boards of
With proper aid te navigation the danger trade for years have strongly urged
would net; be se great during the fall. And
with wîreless telegraphy in a station at the this preject upon the government. The
entrauce of the entrauce et Hudson the open- people of the three western provinces
ing of navigation could be made in the first
week jof July, by inferming the steamers are unlted In demanding that Vie work
I mupwhich side efthVe strait te pass on te fid be undertaken- without delay.
clear navigable water. In this way muchpoetervicstmels
udbud
eveculbil
first partpoetervicste
detention would be saved in Vie
of the menti' ot July. There is ne doubt that the rond, but tlxey regard It as a great nathe strait is navigable during four menthe et tional undertaking, and thInk It should be
the year with euitable steamers, sud that carrîed on by the people ef Canada as a
Hudson bay je navigable for a menth 'longer,
There is some jealousy 1 know ta
thougi' there is a large field et ice in the bay, whole.
the output et the land ice, Vie ice is ot the the eIder provinces ef Canada, some people
year'e formation, and a suitable steamer
would have te pass through te reach Port thinking that Vis route wIll divert traffie
They uhould
from the establiehed routes.
Churchill.
J. B. BERNIER,
remember that we cannot have aIl Vie
Commanding Officer Canadian
trade ef the country passing Virougi' our
Government steamer 'Ârctic.'
We should mulest
Catan
Tha l Brner' rpor, nd heown baci' yards. routes irrespective efupon
any
Tha leCapainBerie's epot, nd iebavîng Vie beet
latest report we have.
It la made up te other ceneideration, and I submit Viat Vie
the present year ef grace, and he Is ef opin-. Hudson Bay route, when you take Inte, conIon, atter passiug two years in there, Vint sideration Vie tact that It will be net only
nestfud Strats n be agteHuso
a transportation route but a colonization
Bay adSriseub
aiae.rond,
deserves favourable consideration
Now, it le unnecesssry'for me te pile up freom the People of Canada, and I hope Viat
Mll we dlaIm the goverument will sc te It that somemore evidence on that peint.
30j

468

SENATE

tbing ls doue ln the near future ta carry
out the project.
Hoa. Mr. FERGUSON-I do flot intend
ta add much ta the observations made by
my hon. f riend f rom Prince Albert, for ta
enter et any lengtb tt the discusslin ur
this question.
We haed It Up last yeur lu
the House.
It was then Introduced by
myseif, and I ruade sorte extended remarks
upon It.
I do flot propose ta add anything
ta the views which I then laid before the
House, furtber than ta eall attention toan
correspoudence with reference to this question, which hnd Its origin witb Ris Excellency the Governor Genieral, and ln connection with wliich I have permission ta use
his uarne.
Dnring the progress of the discussion. His Excellency sent some copies of
the debate wljich tool, pince ln this Hanse
toan very wealthy shlp building Cirm liu
Newcastle on Tyne.
The hend of that firrn
nt the tirne wns the late Sir John D. Milburu.
His Excellency received a reply
froin Sir John Milburn, and as I hnd tnken
aL promineut part ln the discussion of this
qubject ln this House, It was sent ta me
with His FExcellency's permission ta use bis
name if I entered Into a correspondence
with Sir John Milburn on tbis subjeet.
I
shah] read my letter ta Sir John sud lits
replv.
Tliey are as follows:
Tnlloch avenue,
M-%arshfield, Prince Edward Tslaitd.
May 13, 1907.
Dear Sir .Tohn Miliurn.-Ris Exceileucy the
Governor General of Canada ha-s commuaicated ta me the substance of your recent lotter to him respecting the navigation of Hudson bav and has very kindly suggested the
use of bis name in introducing myself ta you.
As Ris Excellency iuforms me that you are
enigaged in a Baltie shippine trade in which'
it is necessary to use steamers specially con5tructed to battle with ice, your experience
wouid undoubtedlv be most valuable in cousidering the mneans tu be talion in developing
a grain and cattle trade with Great Britain,
through Hudson bey and straits.
Would von consider the shortness of the
season of navigation-three tu four monthsor the presence of detached and unpacked ice
in portions of lhe straits. during that season,
as presentine insuperable difficulties in the
estimation of owners of steamships.
Brieflv I mav sav that explorinrf steamers
sent ont blv the Canadian government in various years have experienced no delay on nccount of ice dnring the season I have montioned.
A railwav starting in any centrai part of
our- grpat Canadian wheat beit which extends,
from Winnipeg ta Vermillion on the Peace
river would rach the harbour of Churchill
in about 800 miles.
Haon. Mfr. DAVIq.

A line ta conuet the eastern end of the
isheat country with Churchill is alreadybhut
about half way.
There is no doubt about the feasibiiity of
railway construction as ail the lands to be
traversedl are more or less ialuable for agriculture and forestry, except less than 100 miles
nearest tu Churchill. The harbour at the latter place is excellent. while the possibilities
of the hinterland in the production of cereals
and cattle are simply enormous.
This great problema hangs upon the practicabilitv of the navigation of Hudson straits.
1 will greatlv appreciate any. information
which you will be trood enough tu furnish.
I arn faithfullv yours,
S(Sgd.> D. FERGUSON.
Milburn Hanse, Newcastle upon Tyne,
June 20, 1907.
Dear Mr. F-erguson,-Will you kixsdly excuse the delay in repl1in tu your letter of
the lSth ultimo, but Y ha've ben a little rua
down and left home for change and rest.
I lad the pleasure of seeing the Governor
General when he receutly mnade a hurried
visit ta this country. 1 amn cuite in sympýathy
with you in Yaur endeavours ta open out what
must be the moist direct and the most economical route for western prodnce. I have had
the advantage likewise of perusing certain debates iu the Canadian Senate on the subject
f the Hudson bay route and this matter, 1
amn glad ta see was introduced by yourself.
Lord Grey, moreover, has been kind enough
ta furnish mue 'with an interesiing book detailing the snrveys in Hudson bay and strait.
Coming ta the question which you put ta
mue, I may say briefy that cargo-carrying
steamers are nowadays constructed differentiy
ta the earlier type, which was in use in the
eariier days of steam navigation. Iu those
days of iron, the plates were considerable
thicker than are those of steel, and we steamship owners thought nothing cf getfing aur
vessels blocked up bv ice lu a Baltie part,
notably et Cronstadt, and relying upon aur
vessels tu force their way through the ice, one
vessel giving assistance tu the other by shootiog a few yards in advance through fairly
thick ice. I arn of opinion, however, fIat to
do flue naw with modemn steel bujît steamers
witîout the assistance cf ice-breakers, if wonld
be necessary ta introduce some strengthening
in the stem plates and fit danblîag plates fram
the s'emn ta a certain distance along the huil.
The forepeak likewise should be short, and
filled with some light composition such as
bitumastic cernent or caoutchouc. This wauld
flot entail a serions cost and it would practically render the steamers' bow imperviaus ta
leakage throurh collision with a moderate
thickness cf ice. I take it, however, that before the navigation of Hudson bay can be
made a commercial success it would be necessary ta arrange with underwriters rates of
insurance an cargo. Witîout some recagnifiou cf the safety cf the route by underwriters, fIe alternative would be a demand for
hieler rates cf ocean freighf ia order ta meef
exfraordinery risks and charges. 1 amn of the
opinion that the underwriters affer perusing
the snrvey reports cf fhe Hudson bay and
stmait wanld stand more in dread of the fogF
and rocks-which are in facf a dangerous
enemy ta navigation on the seaward eo-ist-

MIAROHE 10, 1908
than any risks of ice. Personally, I arn al
firm behiever in the Hudson bay~ route, and
look forward to the time-not long distant 1
Canada
immense
hope-when the into Europewealth of this, its
through
wlbepoured
naturel channel.
I arn pieased te be in correspondence with
you and shaIl be very pleased te hear that
events sre progressing towards accomplishment.
Behieve me,
Yours sinderely,
(Sgd.> JOHN D. MILBURN.
Bon. D. Ferguson,
Tullocli avenue. Marshfield, Prince Edward
Island.
I may just add the observatiou, that
nome three weeks after the writing ef this
letter, Sir John Milburn died. In the letter
be spoke of being run down, and havIng
been away taking a rest, and died a f ew
weeks inter. I think that le a mubject of
very great regret, for I arn informed on
undoubted authority that hîs firrn Is one of
the rnost weaitby and one of the most eucceseful in the navigation ef thse northern
waters of Europe, and that bis attention
was directed very earnestly towards the
navigation of Hudson bay, and, furthermore, that whatever ies firm may now do,
he was ready te have taken up practically
the carrying of thse produce of thse west
thrcugh Hudson bay straits to Europe, had
he Iived.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I move that the debate be adJourned till Friday next
The motion was ngreed te.
ROYAL GRAIN COMMISSION.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY inquIred ef the gevernment :
Thse date the Royal Grain Commission
started. work and thse date they finished work.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The first sitting wab
held August 29, 1906. The last Instalment
cf the report and evidence was rcceived
on December 6. 1907.
QUEBEC BRIDGE AND RAILNWAY
COMPANY STOCK.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY Inquired:
When does the government think that it
will be able te hay on the table cf this House
the following documents, thse production of

ii

which was ordered durimg the present session,
at the dates mentioned hereaiter:
(a) The details asked. for on the subi ect cf
the additionai subscription of $200,000 to the
capital stock of the Quebse Bridge and Railway Company-29th January P>
(b) The statement indicating the amounts
paid to Mr. Simeon Deliale-SOth January?
(c) The statement of amounts spent on the
Deschiambault wharf-4th February?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn advised that thse
Department cf Finance are preparing the
return asked for ln paragraph A, and that
It la flot Ilkely te be ready for a week or
ten days.
As to the second question, I have uo Information that I could give the hou, gentleman. Answers have been received from
the Auditor General, Marine and Fisheries,
and sme of the departments. As 'te (c),
a portion cf the papers te completp the return are ln the hands cf the Piiblic Accounts Committee cf the House of Gommons. It Is, therefore, Impossible te bring
down this return until the papers are returned to the Department cf Public Works.
GOLD AND -SILVER MARKING ACT
AMENDMENT BILL.
FIRST READING.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT luitroduced Bill (00) An Act te amend the
Gold and Silver Marking Act
He sald: I should. Ilke te explain te my
hon. frlends opposite that this Bill uirply
proposes te entend the Urne at which thia
Act Ie te be brought Into operation, and
that as that trne la very close nt hand
under the original Act, I propose, to-merrow, wheu the Bill wilI be printed and in
the hands cf the House, te aît fer a suspension ef the rules. I may addi that the
cause cf this is that ln the firet Instance,
the varlous parties who are affected
apparently had ail agreed te the Act
which was passed hast year. Siace that
tirne, and before thse Act bas beeu put
ln operation, certain dîfficulties have presented themsehves te their minds, and they
ask that a number of amendments be made.
Under these clrcumstances, it appears te
be desirable lnx the Interests of thse traite,
botis manufacturers, wholesale dealers a.nd
retailers, thut time should be given te conaider these amendrnents, whlch, I amn told,
are numereus, and for that reason the geverument will ask that the Act be suspended.

470û

SENATE

This la the sole object of the Bill. The sus- (a, b and c), and Rule 63, ln order that the
pension will probably extend for ýanother 1Bill may be read the second tirne to-moryear.
row.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Can my bon
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My recoliection. ta
friend say whetber It is the Intention oi rthat the Bill was passed two years ago ln
the government to Introduce another Bil Ithis House. It was before tbe Hlouse last
with regard to the arnendments referred t( year, and an effort was made te make sorne
during the present session?
change with reference to the degree of
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIG-HT-Ii finenees of a carat of goid. -rite Bill went
la, If the parties can be got to agree.
Thi to the House of Commons, and I understand
original Act, as 1 amn advised, was Intro it was discussedl at very great length there,
duced on the supposition that ail the par. and ultirnateiy the compromise tbat was arties concerned were agreed, and I think Il rlved at tbere was that tbe Act wouid not
was on those representations thaï It waE go into effect until this year, and, with tbat
compromise, the Bill was allowed to go.
passed through the two Houses.
Now those wbo are strongly opposing the
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-They knew therE principal features
of the Bill are evidently
was a disagreernent?
brInglng infuence to beur, their objeet beHon. Sir RICHARD (lJAftTWR1GHT- *Iug, I presurne, to flght the battie ail over
They finally came to know It. I arn rere- *again.
I arn not going to, oppose it, but I
Iy stating what I arn advised by the de- thlnk that l8 likeiy to be the exact position.
partment which bas this matter ln charge
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
At the present moment, parties are desirous arn
advlsed that ail tbe parties concernedof having certain arnendrnents, and the govby wblch I menu the manufacturing Intererument are anious to consider thern, and ests and
tbe retail and wholesaie interests,
tbereafter, if they can arrive at a certain are
ail agreed that some amendment should
conclusion, they wlll introduce arndments
be made. They are not entirely agreed as
to the Act.
In the meantime, ail tbat Is to the chai-acter
of the arndment, but tbey
asked la to suspend the Act so as to leave are
aIl agreed sorne amendrnents should be
the matter as It la at the present moment.
made before the Act goes lnto effect.
It bas neyer corne Into force.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I might be permltted
Hon. Mr. LOUGHBED-It cornes into
to say a word lu regard to this measure,
force by order ln council..
because I had charge of the amendrnent
Hon. Sir RICHARD OARTWRI;HT-It proposed a year ago, and rny bon. friend
was to corne Into force by proclamation, I frorn Prince Edward Island is qui-te right ln
understand?
brInglng the motter to the attention of tbe
It was carried frorn this Hlouse to
Hon. Mr. S(X)TT-The Act passed last House.
session was to corne into force on the l3tb the House of Gommons, and, as the bon.
Mardi, 1908.
It was presurned that before gentleman frorn Marshfleid very well rethat date sorne legisiation wouid bave taken marlred, several days' discussion took place
place.
That legislation cannot take place there with the object of bringing about a
just now ln time, and, therefore, It ta pro- solution of the difficuity. Fiaaliy, as the
posed to extend this period for a certain bon, gentleman says, It was decided that the
time longer.
Ia the meantime, during this Bill shouid not corne Into operntion; It was
session, or next session, a Bill rnay be ln- postponed until the date mentioned by the
Secretary of State, tbe 13th of this month.
troduced.
A cornmittee representlng the wholesale peoHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It pie, a committee representIng tbe rnanufacls flot likely that anytbing con be done this turers, and a comrnittee representing
the resession.
tail trade were appoiuted by the several
divisions of the trade, and they havA arrived
Tbe Bill was.read the flrst time.
at a conclusion.
It lias been settled so far
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHIT-I as I arn Informed, with
one exceptionmove tbe suspension 0f Rules 23 (f), 24 tbat ls as to whether the standard
shnll be
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

MAROH 19, -1908

471

because It antlclpated a Bill to be brought
down by the goverument, as announced ln
the speech from the Throne.
Mhe hon. gentleman f rom Stadacona (Hon.
Mr. Landry) cited a number of precedents
trom the British House of Commons' reports which go to establish that under the
ruies of that HEouse no such point of order
can be raised when there 18 flot already a
motion or a notice on the order paper.
This fairly states the practIce of that
rules are to ba
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What
House.
suspended?
The Senate, however, when it bas no mile
Hlon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- of its own governing a matter, bas to fali
Ruie 23 f, 24 a, b and c, and 63.
back upon the rules or practice of the House
The House of Lords has no
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-Rule 24 c bas noth- of Lords.
to a rule on this subject and I have found no
That la referring
ing to do witb It.
I understand we are to sus- precedent from that source.
private Bill.
Our practlce governing the bringing ln
pend the rule to permit tue Bill to ba read
of Bils'is different to that of the British
a second time to-morrow.
House of Commons, and to that of our own
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- Commons where Buis cau only ue introYes.
duced upon a notice of motion for leave to
The SPEAKER-There lu no need of sus- present a Bill, and sncb notice being given
pending any mile except 23 f for the tîrne stops any other member from raising a
Does the bon, gentleman desire to debate upon the matter covered by said
being.
The miles of the Senate
suspend ail the other mIles for future pro- Bill or notice.
are different: Bis oniy appear on our order
ceedings?
paper when down for a second reading.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTSince the vaut majority of public Bills
Suspend ahl ruies that whll stand lIn the way are Initiated. ln the House of Commons snd
of the Bill passing through ail Its stages.
oniy reach our order paper wben Inscribed
mule for a second reading, would It be the true
The SPbIAKER-I suppose If this
ls suspended for the purpose of perrnitting doctrine to assert that the subject motter
a second reading to-morrow, the motion to of the BUis golng through the House of
suspend the other rules can be made to- Commons could be debated before those
Buis are properiy before the Senate?
morrow If necessary.
Would It be a correct form to allow of disHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- cussions anticipating the most Important
Yes. .Then 1 move that Raie 23 f be sus- legisiation annonced ln the speech from
pended, s0 tar as it relates to this BIil
the Throne and officiaily promised býy members of the Privy Councill7 I do not beThe motion was agreed to.
Ileve It.
As Bills are brought ln witbout notice
A POINT 0F ORDER.
and as the majority of them only*reach us
after baving passed the Commons, In the
THE SPEÂIKER'S DECISION.
later period of the session, I amn of opinion
The SPEAKER-On the motion made by that an officiai statement from a Minister
the hou. gentleman from Stadacu.".
of the Crown that a Bill wlll be brought
That in the opinion of the Senate the limits down should be a compiete estoppel for
of Manitoba, Ontario and Quebec should ho the time being.
Marsbali's A B C of
extended ta the north so that each of those
provinces be bounded north by at least the Parliamentary Procedure, cited by the bon.
sixtieth degree of latitude.
gentleman from Stadacona, seems to be of
.The bon. gentleman from Victoria raised that opinion when be states that: 'A motion
the point that said motion was not ln order is out of order which anticipates any
During the time this
fine or tan carats.
Bill bas been lu abeyance these gentlemen
have been worklng very bard, and the time
is now s0 short It wili be Impossible to
bring lu an amended Bill, and the right: hon.
MInJster of Trade and Commerce has certaily asked for an extension of the Urne,
so that the Bill rnay remain ln statuts quo
1 tbink it lo due to the
for another year.
House that I sbould make this expianation.

472

SE1NÂTE

matter o! which public notice has been
given ln the House when notices are given.
or a notice of motion for whlcb no specl
day has been fixed on the notice paper.'
I must nevertbeless confess that havlng
found no precedents lu the House o! Lords
nor In our own practice, I amn somewhat
adverse to establlsh a bard and fast ruie
on his subJect-the need o! which has seldom, If ever, been felt, since 1867.
I declded. on Vie lSth o! February iast
that when a minister of the Growa declames that a Bill promlsed lu the speech
troni Vie Throne wll be brought down, a
motion covering Vie same matter sbould be
dropped or adjourned.
I arn stîlI o! Vie
sme opinion; but I Vhink that It is more
appropriate for the Senate to deal ltseif
wlth Viese questions and-to adjouru sncb
motions or debates, whlch wouid necessarily
anticîpate a forthcomlng Bill, at is own
free wIll and convenlence.
For these reasons I over-rule the point o!
order.

cident wlth regard to the bridge nt Quebec
'will be laid on thé table ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It bas been laid on
the table of the House of Gommons. I do
not know If they have another copy or not.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wouid It be asklng
too much for me to suggest that we shall
be fuished.wlth a copy ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It bas not been printed, and I fancy there Is only one copy.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose- it wll
be prlnted at once ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-As soon as possible,
no doubt, lt wiil be prlnted and copies wll
be suppled.
TH:IRD READINGS.
Bill (28) An Act to amend the Copyright
Act-Hlon. Mr. Power.)
Bill (46) An Act respectlng the Gumiberland Itailm-ay and Goal Company, as arnended.-(Hon. Mr. Power.)

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-WiVi regard to Vie
rulng of Vie Chair, I Vhink Vie notice o! NATURALIZATION ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
motion sbould appear ln Vie order paper,
sud Vie House could takte whatever posiIN COMMITTEE.
tion was Viought proper when the motion
The House resoived itsehf Into Commlttee
came up In the megular course. My notice
of motion appears ln our minutes of pro- of the Whole on Bill (W) An Act to amend
ceedings o! January 27. Now Vint Vie hon. the Naturallzatlon Act
Speaker bas given Vis decîsion, I suppose
(In Vie Gommlttee.)
It wlll not kîi my motion. It wli be
On clause 1,.
placed Iu Vie proper position on Vie orders
of the day for to-mormow.
Hon. Mr. SGOTT-The fIrst clause of Vils
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have no desîre to Bill Is Just ln harmony wlth what parliaexpress any opinion on Vie subject.
1 ment lntended by Vie exlsting Act.
hope Vie House wll deal wlth It !ndoepenHou. Mr. MAGDONALD (B.C.)-Wil ndently of anytbing I may have saild.
turalization be open to ail classes of peoHon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not want to ple In Vie country ? Near Alberta, Japanbrlng It Up as a matter o! discusslon-just ese have gone in and bought large tracts
of land for beef-ralslng. Perhaps they wili
as a inatter o! procedure.
petition for naturalization papers to become
The SPEAKER-I Vhink Vie notice o! British subjectsý. A case occurred lu Vanmotion shouhd have remalned on Vie order couver 'where thirteen Japanese went up
paper; so Vint it whhh be revived to-morrow for naturalization, and were refused by
among Vie notices o! motion.
the officer. Whether he had a rlght to
refuse or not, I do not know, but It Is an
QUEBEC BRIDGE REPORT.
Important question. Then agaîn, cati DoukHon. Mr. IA NDRY-Before Vie orders of obors be naturalized? If a dozen DoukVie day are caihed, I should like to know obors came up to the officer, stark naked,
froui Vie govemument If Vie report of Vie and asked to be naturallzed, what would
Commission appolnted to Investigate the ac- happen them ?
The SPEAKER.

MÂROR 10, 1908
Hon. Mr. POWER-They should be arHou. Mr. BERNIER-It may not be material to the object of the Bill, but the
reated for lndecent exposure.
county courts are sltting regulariy.
Their
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The law has beexi for terme are fixed.
many years that a resident ln Canada for
Hon. Mr. GIBSON from the commlttee rea certain time, three years, on taking the
oath of aliegiance can become a 'British ported that they had made some progress
aubject. It applies to ail nationaitles. If .wlth the Bill and aaked leave to ait agaîn.
a Chinaman pays fIve hundred dollars and
lives here three years, he can become nat- WATFER CÂRRIÂGE 0-F GOODS BI-LL.
uralied, If he chooses to take the oath.
SECOND READING.
The clause was adopted.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL moved Vie second
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Now we propose to readlng of Bill (Z) An Act relatlng to the
change the Act as it exista In Manitoba, lni water carrnage of goods.
order to give a wlder range to It. I give
Hle sald: The object of his Bill la to ennotice that when the Senate la again ln deavour to overcome some of the difficulties
Committee of the Whole on (Bill W) An that shippers of Canadian produets have to
Act to amend the Naturalization Act, I shahl contend agninat by reason of Vie most unmove the following aiendment:
just and unreasonable clauses that have
Court of King's been Inserted for a number of yeara ln
ta the
(Il during its sittings in the Judicial DisBencohIn Manitoba,
ocean buis of lading, by which the vessels
trict within which -the alien resides; to a are relleved from aill reaponsibllity as to
Judge of the Court of King'e Bench, sitting in
Court; or to the County Court during its the proper carniage of those goods, tie saf e
sittings in the division within which the alien custody of them, and the proper delivery of
resides.
Viem ln the old country.
For some tlme
We are substltutlng the Court of Klng's past, Viere have been a great many comBench for the County Court, as the County plaints from Vie recelvers of our gooda ln
Court does flot sit regularly.
Great Brltain agalnst Canadian shippers acHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would suggest ceptlng bis of ladlng contalnlng Viose
It has been Impossible for Vie
to my hon. frlend. that he lay that proposed clauses.
amendment upon the table, and move that shippers, although representationa and prothe committee arisé and report progress, s0 as tests bave been made, to eff ect any lmThe federation of steamaship
to permit hon, gentlemen to examine the provement.
proposed amendment before deaing with It companies have refused or neglected to remove any of those objectionable clauses.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, I w111 do that. I
and, consequentiy, It bas been tiought wlse
recelved a letter from the firm of Metcalfe,
Viat an Act should be passed by parliament
Sharpe and Stagpole, glving certain reasons"
forbldding: them to insert Viose clauses in
for this charge.
I shall poatpone the
their buis of iadlng. For Instance, I may
amendment tIl to-morrow, so that my hon.
state some of the clauses whlch are obfriend can look Into It, and I shall also lay
jected to. I have before me now a blank
thia letter on the table of the House so that
form of Vie Dominion Une, and I may say
bon. gentlemen 'will be able to see the reathat Vie Leland Une and ail the other steamsons that are given for the change.
shlp companles have buis of ladlng IdentiHEon. Mr. BERNIF>R-I would like to cail caliy Vie same as Vis, and containlng Vie
attention to the fact that the Couuty Court same objectionable clauses. One clause to
in Manitoba ls hield regularly.
The ait- whlch great, objection la taken reads as foltings are fted by Vie government of Mani- Iowa:
toba and they are regular.
That the steamship oompany shahl net be
from
responsible fer
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This letter from Met- books, storage orbock marks, or injuryCEf
contact with or 2mei
evacalfe, Sharpe and Stagpole la wrltten to Vie poration from any other goods or from live
Minister of Justice, and he concurs ln their atock or their excretions however caused.
Now, it wouid seem to me Viat a steamsuggestion. I was requested to ask his
ship company that wouid take butter,
ameudment.
-

SENATE
ciieese, flour or any of our goods and de- courts-so I arn inforined-in Englanit, that
Uiberately stow them ln a filthy part of no matter what clauses are inserted in a
their vessel or ln contact with the exere- Bill of lading, If the shipper agrees and
tions of cattie, wbereby they would be in- ship§ bis goods under that bil of lading,
jured, should be responsible for that dam- then the receiver ln England must -accept
age; but under this clause tuey are perfectly that bill of ladlng with aIl those clauses
free from ail loss or damage done to the ln it. Therefore, It is very Important that
goods by reason of their own neligence. the law of Canada should prevail, Canada
Another very objectionable clause Is that being the place from which. the goods are
they shall fot be responsible for the decrip- shlpped, and not the law of Eugland.
tion of welght or measure, or the condition There are several other objectlonable
of brand of the goods they receive. In other clauses, but I do not wish to take up the
words, If a party ships a thousand bags of time of the Hlouse ln goiag over them. 1
flour or packages of butter or cheese he ai- have pointed out oniy a few that I tbink
ways describes them as of a certain brand. need remedying. I may say that this Bill
Âlthough thus described ln the bill of lading, 15 largely copied-in fact almost llterally
the common carrier can, under this clause, copled-from an Âct passed by the Âustradeliver to the recelver ln the old country hian commonwealth a few years ago to
sorne other brand, and yet flot be respon- overcome the same difficulties of whlch we
sîble. There is another clause that 18 par- have been complainIng. The United States
ticularly objectionable, and to whlch 1 caîl also passed a Bill almost identical, word
the attention of hon, gentlemen, rnany ef for word, a few years ago, known as the
whom are lnterested In our financial Instl- Harter Act forbidding under penalty of a
tutlons: It Is a clause which 1 arn sure will severe fine, any vessel from inserting clauses
appeal to them ln a very great degree. As la bis of ladlng such as those I have alluded
everybody knows, goods shlpped to the old to. I have in my hand now a copy of a
country are generally sent ta the order of bill of ladlng of the Cosmopoiltan Shlpplng
a bank.
A bill of exchange Io made pay- Company of Boston, PhIladelphia and Rotable at sight or at thirty days or sixty days terdam; and also a bill of iading of the New
after the arrivai of the goods, as the case York Central and Hudson River Rallway,
may be, and any bank with whlch the cus- and I ffnd la those bis of lading no such
tomer lu dealiug will generally buy that objectionable clauses as are to be found
bil of exchauge because the bill of lading ln the buis of lading Issued by our federasays that the goods are sent to the order of* tion o! steamships. On the contrary, I
the bank, and the receiver cannot get the find this clause :
goods ln England wlthou.t paying tbe bill
And it ie ealso -mutually agreed that this
of excbange; but one of the clauses ln thls shipment is 6ubject to ail the .terms snd provisions, -and ail the exemptions for liability
form makes the following provision:
contained in the Act of Congrens of the United
But nevertheless the goods may be delivered Sbates approved on Fébruary 13, 1893, and ento the oonsignee namned therein without the titled 'An Act relating ta the Nevigating of
bill of lading, and Vessels.'
production of en endorsed the meeter, owners
.uch deivery shall f ree
Now, It Is a strange thing that If a
and agents, from ail liability to deliver to any
other persan.
shipper ln Milwaukee or Chicago were ta
That practically makes our bils ot ladlng send a hundred boxes of cheese or a quanof no value at ail, because under this tity of butter or flour by any Canadian
clause the vessel can, If the company see route, say over the Canadian Pacific Railfit, deliver the goods to the party wlthout way and by steamer from Montreal to Eugthe Bihl of lading. The result Is that our land, and an Ontario shipper were to sead
banks and financial institutions will not a similar quantity of the same classes of
advauce money upon these worthless bis goods on the same vessel, the Canadian
of lading, because there Is no securlty shipper would have to pay a considprably
that the goods will be held for payment higher rate of Insurance than the United
Then ar&other States Ahipper, because the goods from the
of the bills of exchange.
clause is that the law of England shali pre- United States would be carried under, the
val, and it bas been decided by the higher Harter Act, iýpd wouhd be exempted from
Hlon. Mr. CAMPBELL.

3IARCH 10, 1908

4.

many clauses which appear lu our Canadian carried in or by the ship ;or
(b) eny obligaions of the owner or cherbills of lading. At this pRticular time,'
due diligence,
of! any ship ta
wben the 'United States and the great comn- terer ta properly man, exercise and aupply the
equl p
largest and and ta meke and ta keep the ship seaworthy,
monwealth of Australia are our
ship,
fiercest competitors for the samne pro- aud o make and keep the shiplis iiold, refrîgand cool chamibers, n ail other parts
ducts jrb the old country, and whlle we are eratingahi inêwhich goods are -carried, -fit anl
of the
endeavouring to establsh a very profitable sa.fe for their reception, carriage and preserweahened or
trade wlth the old country, a trade that le vation, are in suy wise lessened,
avaided ; or
by year, and will ere long
growing year
(c) the obligations of the master, afficere,
to
amount to very large dimensions, It is the agents, or servants of ûny shipcars carefully
for, preand stow goods. and te
government and of parliament handle and praperly deliver them, are in auy
duty of the
serve,1
to gee that obstacles and difficulties should wise lessened, weakened ar avaided ;
covenant or agreement eh-ail be
be removed, and that our Canadian ship- th-at clause, and void, and of na effeet.
iliegal, null
pers should be placed ou an equal
That provides that If tuey do flot keep
footing with those of the United States,
or If tfley do not proand the great Australlan commonwealth. the ship seaworthy,
In these perly stow and deliver, or If their officers
Another objectionable clause
the haudling of the goods,
bills of lading 1s that mne ship shall are negligent Iu
to any the ship shahl be hiable for the loss sustalaed
flot be hiable for any damage
I do flot think there la anytlxing
goods, however caused, which ls capable thereby.
50 unreasonable In that. A shlp should be Iu
of being covered by Insurance.
the railways occupy
that If a ship throws the goods sround, the saine position that
Our railways carry these products
it la now.
destroys the flour or cheese or butter,
of the Dominion to the
not Uiable because that loas could have been from the Interlor
seaboard and are responsible to the shiplnsured. Well, It la true the shippers can
sustained while the
lusure their goods under what le known as per for loss or damage
goods are ln their possession, and this clause
the ahh-risk clause, but they have to pay
steamer shall be
for it If the Insurance company haça to psy only provides that the
Then clause 6 proequally hiable.
the loss and not the steamship, because the mnade
steaxuship la the one that does the dqtmage, vides for certain exemptions:
and It comes back on the shîpper lxv the
6. In every bill of lading with respect ta
long run, because the Insurauce compiinies goods a *wrranty shail be ixaplied that the
shaîl be, at the begiuniug of the voyage,
charge higher rates. That la one reason ship
seaworthy in ail respectsand properly manit
of those pro- ued, equilpped end eulied.
why jUnited States shîppers
2. In every bill of ading with respeatt
can get thelr goods lnsured for a goads, uniss the contrary intention eppeare, a
ducts
very much lower rate than can CaDadian clause ehail be înrplied whereby, if the shix' is
of the voyage eeaworthy in
mhîippers. So that I thluk the Bill, notwith- at the hbeginning pro.perly mansd, equipped.
of aU . respectsansu
standing the efforts of the Department
and suppiied, neîther the ahip uer the owuer,
Trade and Commerce, who have been hiav- chsrterer, master, or agent, aliail be respanfor. damage ta or hase 0! the goode resuItlng thls matter Up with the federation o! sible froming
owners and no redress has yet
steamshlp
(a) faults or errors -in navigation,
(b) perils o! the sa or navigable waters.
been obtained, -will be accepted by this
(c) acte of Gad or the Kiug's enemies,
only way we can obtan reHouse. The
(d) the iuhereut defeot, quality or vie of
thE
dress la by passing a Bil somewhat on
inesfficiency of package of the goods.
lines of the Australian Act and aiso the Ac, t the
fthe seizure of the goods under legal propassed by the Congresa of the United States, ceas,
<g) auy act of omission af the ahipper or
The fourth clause of this Bill provides:
agent or representaor docume:î t awner of the cods, hie
4. Where anu bili of lading
tîve,
containa ûny clause, -covenant or agreeme.i
(fi) eaving or attempting ta save life or prowherebyt perty et ses,
owner, charterer, master, or agen j(i)
(a) the
any deviation lu saving or attem.pting ta
save life or property at ses.
ci any ship, or the ahi p itself, is relieve
<rom. liability îfor loss or ammage to gaods ariE
ing Irom the harin(ful. or improper conditib: e This amply provIdes everythiug that a
of the ship's hold, or any other part o! th g ship sbouhd be free fromn.
Iu fact, the
sh.ip in which gmode 'are carried, or arisin
only provides that the ship shaîl be
<romn negligence, tault, or failure in the propec rBill
loading, stowage, custody, care-.or delivery

476

SENATE

careful iu tlxe bandllug, stowing snd delivery
of these goods, and that in nlo case shall
the goods be delivered until the billa of ladlng are surrendered by the receiver In the
I commend the Bill to your
old country.
I belleve it wlll receive
caretul attention.
the approbation of every shipper of produets, numerous as they are, and Increasing as tbey are ali over thîs vast Dominion.
It will relieve shippers of the grievous burden whlcb thxey have to bear, and remove
one of the diffiduities ln the forwarding of
Canadlan tra de.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It is not my intention to take exception to thxe generai
principle of the Bill or to criticise It In
any way, but It seems to be a Bill eminently fitted for Introduction In this House by
the government whlch bas been peculiarly
entrusted wltb the sblpping Interests of the
This la certainly a very radical
Dominion.
Bill. It woild mean a general upheaval In
the law affectlng contracta for the shipment
of goods by water carniage, and It la one
which sbouhd not be passed without the attention of the shipping Interests of the Dominion being directed to IL 1 rose to ask
thýe goverument, and particularly my rIght
honourable friend who presides over the
Department of Trade and Commerce, If the
attention of tbe department or of thxe goverument bas been directed to the provisions
of tbe Bill? The naturai tendency of ail
consignera of goods la to at once take exception to thé contract usualhy embodled
In a bill of ladIng. The Impression usually
prevails amongat shippers of goods that
they sbould be protected In every conceivOne ta
able way as against tbe carrier.
not, therefore, surprlsed to find the shippers of gooda askIng for protection of tais
On the other baud, this cbam ber
nature.
bas to take lnto consideration what are tbe
general Interests of ownera of bouts and tbe
sbipping Intereats generally of fixe DominIon. Possibiy my rigbt hon. frlend cun say
wbetber tbe attention of bis departmeut bas
been dlrected to, this Bill? I may say that
the fact of such legislation buving been
pusaed by tbe Commonwealth of Australla
does not necessunihy lmply thut the interests
of thîs Dominion llkewise cal! for the passage of a slmilar Bill.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRI GHTMy bon. frIe.nd Ia quite right In calling the
Non. Mr. CAMPBELL.

attention of the House to the fact thut there
are two interesta to be considered In tbis
The attention of my department
matter.
bas been called to the stipulations contalned
lu certain of these bills of lading, and the
matter la even now under our examination.
1 think, however, that tbere could be no
objection, and it la quite withln my bon.
frlend's rigbt to introduce any Bill that be
pieuses on thîs subject and without committing ourselves further tbat it would be
of advantage if this Bill were allowed to go
to tbe Committee on Banking and Commerce wbere both aides of this question
couhd be Ixeard. .This would be a subi ect
emlnently fit for tbat committee to con0f course my bon. friend and this
aider.
House know that it la not an Infrequent
tbiug, botb lu bills of luding and contracta
of insurance and other mutters o! tbe klnd,
for conditions to be lnserted whîcb 1 take
UnIt tbe courts would hurdly enfonce.
less my menaory la entinely at fauit, 1 tbink
botb English courts and our own courts
bave pructically put their pen through a
good muny clauses In some contracta, particularly contracta of Insurance. I think I
am rigbt lu that, arn 1 not?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I- tbink so.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CÀ-RTWRIG-HTJudglng from wbat I heax4dà from my bon.
fnîend and one or two mutters that came
under my notice, I am nather lnclined to
tbink that smre of the clauses at uny rate
are clausea which are so directiy opposed
to the reasonable obligations o! common
carriers that tbe courts wvould hardly enforce them; but It wouhd be decidedly of
udvantage to have the wbole matter Investigated by a competent committee sucb
as our Committee on Bunking and Com1 would reserve tbe rigbt to Mymerce.
self and the House would reserve the rlgbt
to themaehves of considering-tbough we
would aend it to the Committee on BankIug and Commerce-that they are not committed to tbe Bill as It stands, bowever desîrable it msy be that the subject sbonid be
Would my hon.
discusssed und ventihuted.
friend bave any objection to huving thîs
Bill sent to the Committee on Banking and
Commerce?
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELIE-L intended. to
makze that motion utter thxe second reading.

MARCIEL 10, 1908
négiHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-If o ut of bis obligation witb regard to
it goes to that committee, T do flot think 9~ence or anything that can be really traced
the government could bave any objection t o negligence on the part of the carrier
to have the matter discussed and considered. 0*r bis employees; and It is more In conLection with these conditions than others
Hon. Mr FERGUSON-My attelti.*n was bat would be upbeld. by the courts, that
not called to thiEr Bill until a few moments lie trouble cornes In, because when combefore my bon.' frIend rose to inake is non carriers lasert conditions lu bis of
observations regarding it. Siace then 1 have ading, thougli tbey would flot be upheld
looked It over, and I think it is. oue of the iy the courts, they nevertheless effect the
nîost Important measures we have had under >bject just the samie, because tbey serve
our consideration for a very long lime, and is a bluff on the part of the shipowner
1 agree witb may hon. friend from Calgary igainst the shipper who Is flot informed as to
that the measure should be in the liands ils legni rigbts, and would be lnclined to let
of the goverument. I cannot think it pos- natters take their course-let tbe common
sible tbat In tbe bands of a private mein- carriers bave their way without seekIng a
ber this Bill can be successfally navlgated fair measure of redress. If tben with retbroughi parliament, particuiarly as ;t comes gard to this ciass of conditions we have a
In somewhat late In the session. There wili measure put on our statute-book that Inbe, I bave not the slightest doubt, very sertiug such a coi-dltion In a bill of lading
strong bostility to the passing of this Bill is an offence punlsbable by a beavy peuon the part of the S.S Coys. 1 must, alty, It would preveut common carriers puthowever, compliment -the bon. gentleman tlng such provisions ln bis of ladlng as a
on introducing this Bill. It contains sonie bluff. I bave not had the Bill under my
vcry valuable provisions. 1 ag-ree witiî eye except for a few minutes, but it is a
my right hon. friend, the Miînister of Trade very Important measure, and I would
aud Commerce, that many of these condi- strongly Impress on my rlgbt hon. frleud
tions Iuserted In bis of lading bave iiot the Minister of Trade and Commerce that
been upheld by the courts. That Is truc lie sbould take It Up seriously and either
not ouly with regard to bis of lading for adopt a Bil or Iu some form introduce luto
water carrnage, but also bis of lading is- parliament and, with the power and insued by the railways, aud 1 may say also. fluence of the government, pass Into law
messages taken by telegraph companiles. If some mensure on tbls subject. I tbink It
you look at the conditions in the forai on rathen a neglect on the part of parlamnent
ivhlcb you are sending a telegraphile mes- that we have not a Canadian law deallng
sage, vou are miakiug a contract under x-ith this subject. Tbe clause wbich Is to
w-hich the company contracts itself out of 1 lie found lIn this BIII-I caunot exactîr
its obligations. I am quite confident that turn up the clause now-wblch provides
the majority of the conditions that areaut-j that the settling of disputes as to buis of
tached to ocean bis of lading, nud many shipment in Canada sball be lu Caijadian
of those that are to be fouud cotiuccted courts, or the courts of tbe country from
witb buis of lading for railway tiapsporta- Nvieh the sblpment Is made, seems to me
tion. are not sucb as any court would up- to be eminently rlgbt, because If shîppers
bold.
have recourse onîy, as ut us now la many
H on. 'Mr. CAMPBEL-I amn advised cases, to the law of England, they bave
that the courts of England bave decided great difficulty lu assertiug their rights In
that if these clauses are inserted lu a bill the Britisb court, and tbey know so littie
of lading and tbe shipper accepts tbem, as about the law on tbat subject, thiat In rnost
lie does, that the receiver In Englaud must cases the shippers will let the matter go
rather tban assert thoir rlghts lu the courts.
goyerned by tbem.
bce
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL,-That is cia use 5.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There moy bc. a
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-M,%y hon. frieud
statute law la Eagland which goverus that,
proposes that thene shaîl be a penalty
and in thait case there would be no question at aIl about It; but, under common law, against tue carriers If they lasert an IlI
no comnon carrier cau coutract himself legal provision ln their bis of ladlug.

SENATE
I hope
think that is a good enactinent.,
the Minister of Trade and Commerce wll
look into the matter, and if the department considers that legishation on this subjeet Is neceesary, the goverament wil latroduce ameasure perbape not altogether la
the form la wbicb my bon. friend bas it ln
this. Bil, but ln sncb a way as will not lnfilet .any wrong on the carriers, and will at
the sanie time protect the shippers f rom imI hope my hon. friend will take
position.
it up and deal with It effectually during
thîs session of panliament.
Hon. Mr. D)ERBYSHIR-I arn sure we
ail feel satisfied with the way the Bill1 bas
It is an
been introduced Ia the House.
old question, and one that for years bas
been taken Up by the council of the Montreal Board of Trade and other centres of
For Instance, the Montreal council
traffic.
of the Board of Trade ln last year's report
brought this wbole matter before the Railway Commission witb the hope that tbey
could secure bille of lading that would be
equal to the bille of lading issued by other
A bill of lading given at Chicountries.
cago will insure a cheaper rate of freigbt
and also cheaper rate of Insurance on account of lts provisions, than one Issued lin
Wben we have ouilt these roads
Canada.
and furnished the bonuses, and done the work
we certainly sbould have as good a bill of
lading from them as tbey give to, a foreign
country. 1 compliment the bon. gentleman
frorn York for. Introducing this Bill, and
upon bis address ln explanation of It. The
Montreal Board of Trade a year ago brouglit
this matter before the Raihway Commission
and, sp2aking generally, they say the terms
and conditions of carniage as affixed to a
bill of lading should be drafted ln accordauce wlth the law governing common carriers, and that railways should not be ah]ou-ed to escape any lhahilty placed upon
them hy the present law on this subject
Tbey represent:
Thiat, without being fansiliar with ail the
obligations pîaeed. upon eommon carriers by
the ha.w, the following eriticisflms of the draft
terns seem reasonable, in view of the necessity of protecting merchants shipping goods by

the various railway companies, 'particularly as
the approval of the Board of Ra.ilway Cernmissioners of a set of ternis «ud conditions of
carniage will make 6uch effective in spite of
the provisions of common law on this question.
Cleuse 1 should st-ate clearly who is to be
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

considered a duly authorized agent of the company. At cartage stations the teamnster shouid
be considered as a duly authorized agent of
the company.
.Clause 2. -The company havn acetd
goods for carniage shonld nlot b elvd
any of its responeibility with respect thereto,
.i_ py because suçh goods have not been rated
in tîh. published .classification or a special contract entered into for their carniage. If the
company's cliassificaition is not coipiete *t
shouid ne made ao if IlOcessary, or a epecial
contract should b. required by the company,
but the falure ci the company te take oither
of these courses should net prejudice the r.ights
of the owfLer or shipper to recover damages in
case of loas, provided h. has properly described
the goods.
You see by this report that the carriers
should be responsible for these goode, and
should Issue bille of iading that would
The Councîl of
make themn responsible.
the Montreai Board of Trade communicated
that report to the Board of Railway Cernniesioners with a letter stating that wbule
the council approved of these recommendations, it dld not consider that the bill of
iading, even If thus amended, would b.
satisfactory, the council being strongly of
opinion that railways and other carriers
sbould not be allowed to relieve themselves
by such documents of their iiability as
common carriers ; that a bill of lading sbouid be a simple document, and
that its provisions should conform to a common law.
1Vhat we want le a bill of lading that will
mnake tbe railways and steamship companies
hiable for the safe delivery of goods sbipped
through theni to the ultimate market, and
we hope that this Bil1l will receive soch. consideration and be perfected ln committee so
that Canadian ebippers can have as good a
bill of lading la regard to goods sbipped
froni Canada as they have in other parts
I think it is a very Importof the world.
ant ineasure.« and sometbing that ls In the
interest of the whole country, and the relief
of these companies from such obligations
should not be allowed any longer.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I wish to highly
commend the bou. senator froma York for
baving the Initiative to Introduce thie
I desire also to express my want of
Bill1.
sympatby with the vlews of the hon. leader
of the opposition and my hon. friend froni
Marshfield ia regard to the Bill stating that
it should be a miatter that *would lie within
the purview of ministerial supervision and
1 cannot agree wlth that.
ministration.

MKRCH 10, 1908
A mensure that bas flot ministerial Influence over it. le more iikely ,to be fully discussed in ail Its detali n parliament. The
Io
matter whtch Ie Involved ln this Bilile ot
one that le strlctiy or necessarlly ministFriaI, or tixat strlctly applies to government
Therefore I arn heartily In accord
action.
with the bon. gentleman from York In aekIng thia honourable Ilouse to paso judgment
I disagree entlrely
upon this mensure.
with the suggestion made by the hon. leader of the opposition and the bon. senator
from Richmond that membere should not
undertake to discuse or Introduce questions
This le one of
of such serions Importance.
the occasions In which the Senate can maire
itself useful witheut having to watt for
This le an occasminieterial Instructions.
Ion-and I hope there will be many others
-where senators wiii Introduce measures
on their own responsibility pertaining to the
welfare of Canada and the proper minietraWe ail know that toLion of Its affaire.
day the government bas a great deal to do.
The departments are overworked, and no
doubt are not able ta meet ail the demande
of the country. Therefore, when an hon.
senator Introduces measures relatlng ta
matters of public concetn, which are net
strictiy ministerial, which are flot politicai,
which are net administrative, from the gevernment point of view, he sbeuld be encouraged, and other senaters, should be encouraged te do Iikew!ee.
.The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second time.

479

posing severe penalties, and white it tg no
deubt for the general advantage, yet whem
ail the observations made by my hon.
friend from Brockviile refer ta rallways and
net ta vesselsHon. Mr. DERBYSHIIR-It meaue the
same for veseels.
Hon. Mfr. ELLIS-I think ample Urne
should be allowed the boards of trade to
conelder ItL
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-And that ample
notice be given ta ail parties' interested.
There ls an association in Canada that has
brought many matters before the Roilway
Commission; I tbink it la the Freight Association o! Canada, and tbey probably would
be prepared te sendl men who coutl expiain
the matter from their point of view. I
thiuk tliiet we should net merely hear one
aide. but tliat those who are supporting
the Bill as well as those who are opposing
it shoi.Id be heard before the commIttee.
The motion wae agreed ta, and the Bill
was read the second tUme.

SECOND READING.
Bill (S) An Act respocting the Pacifie and
Atlantic Rai]way Company.-{Hon. Mr.
Kerr.)
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-I
give notice that I saol move to-morrow
for the suspension of such rules as mlght
prevent the immediate consideration of the
Bill to nmex'd the Gold and Silver Marking
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL moved that the Bill Act.
be referred ta the Committee on Banking
The SPEÂKER-The clerk wilI note ln
And Commerce.
the motion the rules required ta be susHon. Mr. ELLIS--I do not know how my pended.
constituents may regard this Bill, and
BILLS INTRODUCED.
I should like ta have them Informed
of it. The Bill-has passed the Heuse with
Bil (5) An Act respectlng cooperation.the understanding that it shonld go te n (Hon. Mfr. Scott.)
committee for consideration, and lt is underAn
Bill (Z25) Act respecting the Hamîlton
stoed that the House le not fully committed
Radial Eiectric Railway Company.--(Hen.
ta It.
Mr. Gibsen.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hear. hear.
Bill (47) An Act respecting the Montreal,
Hon. _Mr. ELLIS-And there shou]d be Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal Company.
ample time allowed ta the boards 'if trade --(Hon. Mfr. Kerr.)
Bill (50) An Act respecting the Dominion
of the varieus provinces to cousier the
measure before it le taken Up by the com- Atlantic RaiIlvay Company.-(Hou. Mrmittee. It le an Important meastire, lin- Power.)

SENATE
Bill (51) An Act respecting the Erie,
London and Tilsonburg Railway Com'pany.
-(Hon. Mr. Wilson.)
Bill (57) An Act respecting a certain convention between His Majesty and the President of the Frenchi Republic.-Hon. Sir
Richard Cartwright.)
Bill (67) An Act respecting the Canadian
Northern Ontario Railway Company.--(Hon.
Mr. Gibson.)
Bill (73) An Act respecting the Quebec
Railway Light and Power Company.-ffHon.
Mr. Choquette.)
Bill (74) An Act respeeting the Ottawa,
Brockvilie and St. Lawrence Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr. Derbyshire.)
Bill (76) An Act respectlng the Interprovincial Railway Bridge Company of New
Brunswick.--(Hon. Mr. Costigan.)
Bill (77) An Act respecting the Canadian
Northern Quebec Raflway Company.-(Hon.
Mr. Tessier.)
Bill (81) An Act respecting the Canadian
Northieru Raiway Company.--(Hen. Mr.
Young.)
Bill (83) An Act respecting the Owven
Sound and Meaford Raiiway Coinpony.(Hon. Mr. McIMullen)
Bill (87) An Act to Incorporate the Van.
couver Island and Eastern Raihvay Cernpany.-(Hon. Mr. Bostock.)
Bill (111) An Act respecting the National
Battlefild at Quebec.--(Hon. Sir Rtichard
Cftrt-%right-)
The Senate adjourned tili three p.m. tomorrov.

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA,

Wednesday, March 11, 1908.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
C'elock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
BRITISHI YUKON RAILWAY COMPANY
BILL.
REPORTED FROM COMý%MITTEE.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN, f rom the Cernmlttee on Railways, Telegraplis and Harbours, reperted Bill (21) An Act respectiflg
The SPEAKER.

--- z

the Yukon Railway Company, and moved
that the report .be adopted.
The SPEAKER-I bave exarned the
practice ln the past and fInd that we decided as late as last session that there need
be no motion to receive or adopt a report
ef committee wben there Io no arnendment.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN moved that the Bill
be read the third tîme to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to.
RESTRICTION 0F HINDOO IMMIGRATION.
MOTION WITHDRAW-N.
The Order of the Day being called:
That it is expedient that the immigration
of natives of British India should be limited
to the smallest possible number, if not entirai y prohibited. That the goverament of
the Dominion should at an early day invoke
the aid and counsel of the imperial goverament to mitigate the present and prospective influx of se undesirable a class of people.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I had
prepared the notice of motion which appears
on the paper under my name before I saw
the report ln Vie papers Viat the government was sending the Deputy Minister of
Labour te England to confer with the Imperial governent in regard to, the question
ef restriction of Asiatic Immigration into
the country. 1 know Vie question is surrounded with great difficulties. We go te
India and mile there, and no doubt these
people will consider it a hardship If they
are prevented from coming to Canada; but
the danger is great. Tbey are not the ciss
of citizens we want. They corne te our
shores; every steamer brlngs ln a certain
nmrber of East Indians who wlll net go
into thie country districts, but remain about
the towns, starving and begging for food,
badhy chad, and entirely undesirable.
We know Hiere is nothing te prevent a
million peeple a year coming ln from that
country, where famine Is staring tbemn ln
the face, and where piague and pestilence
prevail, and where abie-bodied men receive
about ten cents a day -when tiey get work,
b)ut there is net always werk for thern te
do. If they are net at once stopped frorn
cemiî'g te our shores, ln time they wil
corne hike a fleck of hocusts and destroy
the country. 1 arn net speaklng lu the ln-

MARORI 11, 1908

481

terests of white labour. 1 think white la- very impertinent and become a great ofI do flot know what
bour la going taa far, and takes verY good fence to everybody.
care of Itself. I arn speaking ln the Inte- the goveranent can do la the rnatter, but If
resta of the wvhoIe country. I knnw that It ls true that the Deputy Minister or Labthe people ln the eastern part of Canada our la goiag to England to consult with the
do flot feel apprehensive about this matter Imperial autharities an -thla question, it ls
at present An article ln the Montreal 'Ga- highly commendable, and I hope he wlll be
zette'1 the other day referred ta thls as a able to corne to sorne arrangement by which
party question. 1 do flot see how any edi- this Influx of undesirable Immigrants can
tor could describe it as a party question, be stopped.
because the goverament at present ln power
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon. gentlernus
In this country are flot responsible for this
Immigration; but I hope they will do al observations Indicate that he fuliy apprecithey can to prevent it. If negotiations are ates the ernbarrasstng nature of a subWet of
going on with the imperil gavernimeut. we this kind. The natives of India at preBritons one
k.uow it wili take a very long time, and we sent are British subjecta.
shall have those people caming in uncheck- hundred and 'fifty years ago dtd flot aak
ed during the whale summer. I do flot permission of the peopie ut India to go la
know whether it ta possible for the Domi- and absorb their country, and it becomes a
uion goverament to pasa an Act with re- very difficuit question to make the East
gard to, the shlpplng campantes accepting Indians apprectate that whtte ]ýritish subpassengers of that claas. If an Act were jects have a right to go Into India, the
passed to prevent any ship bringlng more natives o! India have na rtght to go Into
tban one Immigrant to a tbousand tons, It Canada and other parts of the empire. The
might be very salutary, and la the mean- problem. la one that la exceedingly difficult
You can quite appreciate the
time very useful. These people are alsa ta salve.
under a great disadvantage If they do flot view taken o! the question by the Imperial
Naturally they cannat apcorne into Canada'under the Immigration authorittes.
Our
regulattons of the Canadian government. If preciate the view that we take.
they do not corne direct frorn a port ln opinions are grounded, fia daubt, as the hon.
their own country, they are deported. .If gentleman has observed, on the fact that
they go to Hon Kong, Singapore or Shan- the Hindoos are nat suited ta thla country;
ghai and corne on to Canada from there, that even la their own beat Interest tbey
they are not alawed to, land, because they wauld flot be a success i British Columbia
have flot corne direct from a port lu their 1 presume they are flot given ta farrning
Tbey flack to the towns and
own country.
industry.
difficulty for these cities and engage la smail enterprIses. The
That la one very great
poor people, and we cannot help feeling for aniy way we couid properly bring the subthern, wben, after selling out their goods and ject ta the notice o! the Brttsh Gaverament
spendlng their rnoney, and taktng the long la by sending acrasa the Atlantic a gentlevoyage to our country, they are turned man who la farnillar with the conditions,
back. It la a question full of difficulties who bas recently been la British Columbia
and one where a great deal of humanity and noted the ernbarrassrnent that the
It la a very remark- presence of natives of India was causlng
should be exerclsed.
My hon.
when these people corne ta *the people of British Columbia.
able thlng that
our shores they are at once lmbued witb frlend la now aware that Mr. Mackenzie
the spirit of freedom that prevails la tht. King bas gone ta England for the purpose
They will flot loob of personally explalning the conditions la
part of the world.
at arnali wages; they want the hlghesi British Columbia. I arn unable ta say what
that are pald, and people will flot ernpIoý the resuit will be, but the British Governthern because they are flot skilled la any* *ment have already had their attention cailed
thing. They cannot work ln the mines, th( ta It, and are qulte aware of the embarrassfisherles or the forest or anythlng. of thal tment caused on thla aide by large bodies of
sort, and the consequence ls they go arounÈi the natives of India comlng Itt Brittsh
fram door to door begglug, and they ar4 ?Columbia.
si
REVISED

EDITION

SENATE
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It muight not bie
Inopportune to point out to my hou. friend
the linconsistency la the attitude of the
government wlth respect to the Natal Act.
Up to iast session of the British Columbia
legisiature the attitu"de of this government
was manifestiy la favour of the dlsaiiowance
of that Act. True, the goverument did not disailow the Act, but It was on account of the
understanding whlch apparentiy obtalned
between the lieutenant governor of that province and this government that he wouid
Expreswithhoid bis assent to this Act.
sions whlch recently fell from my hon.
frlend Indicated that this government wouid
bie prepared to disallow the Act, but apparentiy a way of escape presented Itseif recently, so that the goverument Is not caiied
upon to assume the onus. of disaliowance,
and the convictions whlch were made
agalnst the Japanese, who were arrested
under the Act havlng been quashed, of
course, the goverament bas not been called
upon to act at the lmmediate moment But
it mlght bie polnted out to my hon. friend
that the course pursued by the government
lu permlttlug the courts of British Columbia
to Intervene wll not affect the Immigration
The argument
of the Hindoo population.
presented to the court ln the Japanese case
would not hoe tenable wlth respect to the
Hîndoos, the conviction having been quashed on account of the treaty between CanThe quesada and the empire of Japan.
tion la so important and far reaching as to
become of Imperlal sîgnîficance, whether
thîs government wli permît tbe Natal Act
to go Into force and thus prohîbit Hîndoos
having free access to the shores of Cainada.
0f course If this government will permît
the Act to go into operation it wili have
its bearing on the population of India.
Tt seorna to me to bie ont of the question
for the imperiai government to Intervene
and say to any section of the population of
India, 'You shahl uot go beyond the shores
of India-you shall fot go Into any other
part of the empire?' ln view of the restless.
ness whlch exista la India, judging from
press reports recelved from time to time.
A grave responsiblllty now resta on thîs
goverument to declare wbat this poiicy will
bo with reforence to the Natal Act, whetber
it Is to go luto force or to ho dlsallowed.
Tion.

Mnr.

SCOTT.

Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-I feel tree to speak
on this subjeet, having llved for some time
arnong these people and knowiug soiiiethiiig
of their habits of litfe. There are varions
reasons wbhy we need flot bie greatly exercised about their comlng to Canada aud
settling here ln great numbers. In the
first place, constltutionaliy they are flot
fitted for the climate, then secondlv tijeir
religious habits and laws stand very much
ln the way of their immigration to forelgn
countries. My own opinion la tha-t the
governimeut of Canada need flot bie greatly
exercised about them. It seems to nie that
if they are to bie deait with at ail It la the
part of the imperiai government to take
any action they may see fit to prevent them
from comIng to our shores; but 1 amn satisfied that the evi, If It bie an evi, wll cure
itseif nt no distant day, and that IIt wili
require no legîsiation on the part of the federal government. They will soon flud that
tbey cannot maintain themselves In a climate sucb ns ours. I amn astonlshed at wbat
has been said by the hon. member from
Victoria, that these people remain la the
cities and that they are objectionable ln
My own Impression and
appearance.
knowledge are very much agalnst this.
The people of the lower classes are given
and are diligent and
to ,agriculture
active. The better classes prefer llterary
work and are very expert la officiai work.
A large body of people lu India now have
a refined education and flnd It exceedlngly
difflcuIt to get empioyment under the British government. la connection wlth railways or otherwise, and they are discontented and seek to improve their condition
by looking elsewhere. They are a higli class
of people, eininently fitted for officiil work.
Many a time I have heard British oticlals
state that Do graduate of Oxford or Cambridge could accomplisb the samne amotint
ýor 'wbvrk ln the isame time, especially lu
figures. In calculations they are always necuirate, having their own methods. 1 have
not the siightest anxlety about the Hindoos
giving us rnuch trouble. They are flot a
people given to wanderlng or to vlsiting
foreigu countries, just because they -ire almost sure to break caste and get the,'aseives
and their familles Into great trouble on
their return. From what lias been qtated

MARCU 11, 1908
bere to-day, I arn sure that these people selves to arrest for Hindoos to corne into
wili be severeiy punisbed by their caste that province. The question is, wbat does
iaws on thieir return to their own country. the Dominion goverurnent proposp to do
If I bad auy advice to give, I would say under tbose circumatances ? If I underthat the governrnent miglit very well allow stand tbe worklng of tbat Act, It applies
the thing to subside without taklng any particularly to this class of Immigrant and
not to the Japanese, because under the
action fromn a Candian standpoint.
treaty wltb Japan, the Japanese have a
Hon. Mr. POWER-While I do flot un- rigbt to enter any Britisb possession, and,
dertake to differ frorn the hon. gentleman as polnted out by my hon. frlend from Calwivo bas just taken bis seat, there is one gary a few moments ago, It Is very Imporpoint as to wbich I shouid Ilke to bave tant for the people of this country to know
birn auswer. I have no doubt that the wbat position the governent Intend to
climate of British Columbia wilI flot suit take lu reference to allowlng the Natal
Hlindoos, and there may be a good deai Act to remain upon the statute-book of
of force ln wbat tbe hon. gentleman says British Columbia. Wben that Ia decided
to tbe effect that no large number of tbern then there rnay be otber steps takeu tr
wiii corne to British Columbia or persist prevent the Importation Into this 'eonntry,
in rernaining tbere; but the bon, gentle- If I may cali It Importation, of undesirable
man made a statement to the effect tbat Immigrants. My own view Is that there
Hindoos did not care to leave their own ls a great dent of force ln tbe remark ot
country and were flot likely to do ';o lu my bon. frlend from tbe west wbo bas
nny considerabie numbers. I wish to di- just spoken, in regard to this. Wheli in
rect tbe bon. gentleman's attention to the British Columbia a couple of years ago, I
fact tbat tbere are very considerahie nurn- pald sorne littie attention to the Immigrabers of Hindoos ln Britisb Gulana srnd sorne tion of that class of people. I watcbed
of tbe West India Islands, and ln otber them attentlvely, n-bile crossing thé, con tiportions of tbe neigbbourbood. of tbe Carib- nent, lu tbeir working upon the rnll1ways,
bean Sea, and also tbat there are very con- and I came to the conclusion then tbat
siderable numbers of Hindoos lu Soutb lias been expressed by my bon. frlend bere
Africa. I tbink. these facts do not seem wbo bas bad a number of years experlence
to be consistent witb the doctrine the bon. lu British Columbia, that they were totally
gentleman bas laid down, and I sbouid Ilke unfit for this country; that men coming
to bear bis statement.
frorn n serni-tropical country like theirs,
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-The dilmate to for working witb a sbovel lu a snowwbich you refer Is entirely different from storm tbey were of very littie use, eltber
to tbemselves or the rallway companles
tliat of British Columbia and Canada.
wbo ernployed thern. I arn not golug to
Hon. Mr. POWER-I sald tbere was tbat discuss that question now. What I sliould.
dîfference-that tbat would probably bin- like to know, and wbat I tbink thte counder tbern from remalnlng lu large nuînbers *try bught to kuow, la wbat benefat does
lu this country ; but tbe other point was tbe'government expeet to derîve from sendthat they did not care to wander, and. their ing the Deputy Miulster of Labour to Engcaste iaws Nvould prevent them from golng land to try to induce the Imperlal goverfiabroad. I slmply point out that tbcy have ment to prevent Britisb subjects living lu
gone abroad, and I sbould like to have some one portion of the empire from travelling
explanation.
to another? Ail who bave pald any attenHlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It tion to the pollcy of Great Britain lu dealseerns to mue the dlfficuity that presenta lng wlth questions of this klnd, wlil corne
ltself ln dealing witb a question of this to tbe conclusion that any attempts to prekind pertains more to, Britisb Columbia vent subjects of His Majesty emigratingtliau It does to other parts of the Dominion frorn one part of the empire to anotber,
or to England. As long as tbe Natal Act wll prove abortive. Comiug back to where
remains upon the statute-book, it would I started :can the representatives of the"
be impossible, witbout subjecting them- goveruneut ln tbis House give us any ln-

SENATE
forrnation as to their intention, or what
they propose to do with the statute as It
now stands upon the Statute-book in British Columbia ? Are we to understand that
In referrlng lt to the iaw courts that they
expect the Judges of British Columibia to
declare that Act ultra vires. They might
do so, If It were exclusively deRhivg wlth
the Japanese Immigrants who corne to tbîs
couatiy, baslng their judgmeat upon the
treaty tliat exists between Great Britain
and Japan. But what do tbey propose to
do wvlth the Act as it applies to the
Hindoos ? Every one of theni w-ho lands
on our sbores iu British Columibia is subject to be arrested and sent to jail. Is It
the intention of the government to allow
that Act to remain on the statute-book,
and If they do lntend to allow It, lu what
position wili they place theniselves la regard to the relations we hold to the British
government ?

Columbia, wholly apart froua cliînatic couditions.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Act is just now
before the courts, and the govenament do
flot propose to foreshadow what their policy
wll be until the question before the courts
Is dlsposed of. It is not usual for governments to defrne what they are going to do
ln the future, as my hon. friend is very weIl
aware.

FRENCH EDITION 0F THE REVISED
STATUTES.

Hon. )Ir. MACDONALD (B.C.)-I ctid not
quite gather what the hon. ESecretary of
State said with regard to the Deputy M.%inlster of Labour going to England.
Hou. Mn. SCOTT-I said that Mr. King
having been so recently in British Columbia,
and havlng been brought Into contact wlth
thue foreigu population now enterlng that
province, lncluding the Hindoos, that he is
so famulian wlth the conditions there that
he could explain te members of the British
government, If necessany, the conditions
that prevail te outsiders who have not
thought the subject over thoroughly. Some
features that have been mentioned by the
hon, gentlemen fromi the Nonthwest are
very Important partlcularly the difficulty
of gettlng Hîndoos te wonk with other
classes of labourers on account of the question of caste. Two of a diff erent caste,
evena arnongst theniselves, wll not unîte te
work in one gang. There are naany reasons
why these people are unsuitable in British
LIon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELT,

Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-It bas
flot been decided that Mr. King is golng
home.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--Ob yes, lt Is.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-In that
case I withdraw rny resolution. There Is
no occasion for It. Many difficulties .wll
arise under the Natal Act. Chinamen who
pay five hundred dollars tax go to China
periodically to see their friends, and after
this act bas been passed, when they corne
back, wUll they be Eable under the Natal
Act, after tbey have once paid their tax ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Not If they corne back
withln one year. The statute Is perfectly
plain. They are entitled to return withln
a year.
The motion was witbdrawn.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the Orders
of the Day are called, I sbould Uie to know
froin the government when we shall have
the French edition of the Revised Statutes.
We were promlsed a year ago that we
would have it la January.
Hon. MNr. SCOTT-It is ail the fouît of
the translator. Lt mighit have been issued
six naonths ago. Lt is entirely bis fault.
Hon. 31r. LA.NDIY-That doils Dot
ainsw,-er Mny
question. I arn asking whben
-we shall receive IL.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The translator is an
officiai of the House of Commous. 1 bave
brought the subject before the governiment,
and personally before Sir Wilfrid Laurler,
and I think they ought to deal wlth lt.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-So do I.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Who controis the
transIators? Has nobody any control over
tbem7
Hon. Mn. BEIQUE,-I have had
French edition of the statutes.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-How
rnany volurnes ?
Mr. BEIQUE-Three volumes.

MARCH il, 1908
Hoin. 23fr. LANDRY-The feurti is not
printed yet.
. Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Some time agn the
translator caused a new translation to be
made of Acts that are Incorporated lu tbe
fourth volume.
Hon. Mr. LAXDRY-The consfittutional
Acts.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, the Britisi~North
.Anerica and otber Acts, and he made a
new translation differing lu many particulars from the recoguized translation wblch
bas existed since coufederation. The Klng's
Printer came to me sud asked ni. about
It, aud I said 'It Is very improper tn have
two translations of tbe Britisb North America Act aud the otber Acts relating te tbe
We bave one translation
constitution.
n blicb bas been approved o! for thirty years,
and tbat is the only on'e that can be lnserted lu the fourtb volume.' Tbe transistor bas been obstinate about it, aud refuses
te take the old translation. 1 caiied the
attention of the goverliment to tbe course
be wus taking. and certaily Dr. Dawson
would not be warrauted lu having a new
translation of Acts lu force and recognized
for se long a period.
Hou. -Mr. LANDRY-I suppose tixat difficuity bas been settled now ?
Heu. '-%r. SCOTT-It bias been settled
tbat he must accept the translatlon as
given.
Hon. 3fr. IANDRY-T shaîl remind the
bon. gentleman of this matter from tiine
te time.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-According te the
remark e! the bon. gentleman, tbat Is a
mere translation we wli get of the Revised Statutes.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It does net rest witb
me, or it would bave beau finislied long
ago.

485

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not know Who
gave the information. I neyer understood
tbat. 1 neyer received a copy.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-The bon. gentleman
does not need a copy.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-1 bee that the bon.
gentleman from De Salaberry bas received
a copy.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I atu under the Impression that 1 have a copy lu Montreal.
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY-Weli it Is a bad Impression, because %ve have not reeived it
yet.
A QUESTION 0F PRIVILEGE.

Hou. Mr. CLORAN-I wish to rise to a
question of privilege and shall deai wltb It
very briefly. I had occasion to state certain
tbings ln discussion in tbis bonourable House,
and 1 find that the bon. Secretary of State
lias ln a very lengthy letter published lu
the press on the same subjeet placed me ln
a position wbicb I do net consider fair or
accordlng to the facts. He bas made me
say tblngs wbichi 1 did not say.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-That la absolutely untrue, unless the bon, gentleman bas been
badly reported. 1 took. the officiai report.
Hou. Mr. CLORAN-The bon. gentleman
says It Is net true. I am quoting bis own
correspendence. He sald:
When thus chalienged I could not remain
sulent, and have thereby admitted that the
federal government was at fault.
That Is not ln answer to auytbing pubIished' lu the press, but It Is in answer to
what 1 said on the floor of tbis bonourable House, nnd wbicb stili remains ln
the Senate Debates; but as publisbed iu
the press, I said tbis, aud It Is verbatixu
Debates' :
according to tbe report lu tbe 'I
Why should the city of Montrc il, or the
city of Quebec, or any other met ropolis or
large centre of the Dominion be compelled
to establish a special police ani detective
F'RENOH EDITION 0F THE RULES 0F force for a certain css of immigrants?1of The
the
thiug is absurd. It is the provin1ce
THE SENATE.
goverameut te talce precaution against the
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-I would lîke te know- entry of these people.
Hou. Sir MAÀC1<NZIE BOWELI-MIght:
wben the French edition of the Rules and
Regulations of the Senate wili be flisbed? I ask tbe bon. gentleman If be bas a copy
of State
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thought they were of the letter sent by tbe Secretary
giving an
filkisbed long- ago. 1 understood they were te the city council of 'Montreai,
explanatien of the speech that be deiivered
distributed long ugo.

SENATE
here ? I think it wouid be well before we
Hon. M.Nr.
SCOTT-Did I quote the hon.
discuss tilat question that we should have gentleman's w-ords correctly? I quoted them
the whoie of the facts before the House.
exactiy as J found them lu the officiai reHon Mr. CLORAN-I arn not aware of port, and I stand by them.
any letter having been sent to the city
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-My words lu the
councl of Montreai by the Secretary of
Senate Debates are as folIows:
State or anybody else ; but what I hold in
my hand Is correspondence signed by the
I may be told in thia House 'but let the
Hon. R. W. Scott, dated Ottawa, March mnicipality look after that. Let themn look
after their criminals.'
3rd, ia whlch the matter is discussed and
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Hear, hear.
threshed out In full, as far as the hon.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Such a suggestion
Secretary of State is concerned, but flot to, would not be fair to the inunicipalities of
this Dominion. They are not responsible for
the satisfaction of a great many people, of
the dumping within their limita of criminals
whom I arn one.
of whom they know nothing. We are asked
appoint
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Read by the Italian consul to should a force of
Italian detectives. Why
the city of
Montreal, or the city of Quebec, or any other
the letter.
metropolis or large centre of the Dominion
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-No, I shalI not. It be compelled te estabiish a special police and
detective force for a certain class of imniiis too long.
grants ?
The SPEAKER-I would advlse the hon.
gentleman to limit his remarks to, exactiy
what Is persoai to himself.

That la practically

word for word.

It

is a littie stronger in my favour. All I
wish to point out lu regard to this matter,
as a question of priviiege, la that I have
not challenged the goveraiment poiicy. It
w-il! be tiane enough to challenge the policy-

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That la what 1 w-as
doing. 1 w-il! simply cail attention to one
or two facts whIch concern myseif personaily. After quoting whiat I said la the of the governanent when they are la the
discussion on Februa9r.% 27th, the hon. Sec- wrong. I do not want to stand before the
retary of State w-rites as follows In the country as chailenging the policy of the
govertiment wlaen they are not responsible.
letter referred to:
When thus challenged I could not rem ain Wben I feit It my duty to discuss the matsilent, and have thereby admitted that the ter, I did so on the floor of tliis Huse.
federal goveramont was et fault.
That la the position I want to, bti placed
If the hon. gentleman had simpiy added la. I have no time to, write letters to the
the following llnes to the quotation he made press to correct their errors. I let thxer
from my speech, he w-ould have been able go as the w-lad, but as it la a matter whlch
to publish la the press, the following:
affects me la my own home I thought 1 had
It is the province of this government to a rîght to state my case Ia regard to, that
take precaution against the entry of these attnck and prove from the documents thenipeople.
I arn far frein saying that the government selves, and the 'Debates' that my position
is responsible for the presence of that class
of immnigrants ia Canada-far fromn doing se,
because I know as a f act that the goi-ernment does not encourage Italian immigration into Canada. They have not a single
akgent in Italy. But if the government does
iiot encourage them, corporations do, and
these corporations are finding, much to their
dissatisfactioa, much to their owna annoyance
end much to their own los,; that the importation of these people is not profitable, eveni

is the contrarv to w-bat the hon. Secretary of
State has wrltten. The statement is made

aiso that I fnrnished evidence as to tihe
iaxity of the Montrea] police. If there w'ns
anythiagl lu my speech It was n clear defence 0f the police agalnst that charge. I
sure]y did nlot offer any evIdence as stated.
Another statement wlth regard to myself,
from a labour point of view.
ia presence of ail that evidence, part o! It
supplied by the senators themselves.
That la as flat a contradiction as cn
be given to the statement made by the lion.
Was I not warranted therefore iii cailinSecretarv of State. in his letter that I %vi îittention to the apparent laxity of the city
to place the responsibiiitv for this eondition
of things on the shiouiders of thie government.
Bon. Sir MACKEN;ZTE BOWELL.

I wish to disavom- that. I furn1shed no
evidence whatever that the police, w-ere

AMARCH- 11, 190S
dereliet in their duty, and it is not fair to
place me lu the lighit o! baiîg said so
hefore my constituents lu the citjy of Montreal. I know their feelings in the matter.
I kuow the statements have exclted strong
feelings In that part o! the country, and
that tbey dld not rellsb what was sald
o! their character elther as citizens or
police.
Tbey are not lu a position to
come bere and state their feelings,
but It la my duty. as their representative,
to press wbat they think aud feel In this
matter, and lt is my rlgbt not to bave my
name placed before the public ln a false
position, and on grounds wblch do flot exist, and wblcb are, not Justifiable.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEBLL-I
sbould like to take this opportuuity of congratulatlng tbe bon. Secretary of State on
baving succeeded lu bringing the Senate
prominently before the country.
The SPEAKER-la the bon, gentleman
spenklng on the question o! prîvilege ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-No,
tis is not a question of privilegc!. I bave
said ail I intended to say. There bas been
a complaint that the press dld not take any
notice of the Senate, and I wnnted to cougratulate the bon. Secretary of State on
bavlng sald somethlng that bas called public
attention to the Sente.
THIRD READINGS.
Bill (23) Au Act respectlug the Ministers'
Wldows' and Orpbnns' Fund o! the Presbyterian Chlircb o! Cannda.-(Hon. Mr.
Mnckay, Aima.)
Bill (AA) An Act for the relief of Audrew
Walker.-(LIon. Mr. Frost.)
GOLD AND SLLVER MARKLNG ACT
AM2%ENDM'%ENT BLLL.

(In the Committee.)
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Has the goverument in any way acted under this law ?
Hon. Sir RIOHARD OARTWRIGHT-No
action wbatever bas been taken.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I notice that a
provision was embodled In the former Act
for the passing of regulations.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTYes, but no regulations bave been passed.
Lt leaves tbe position undlsturbed. týxactly
as It is to-day.
Hon. Mr. DAVID from the committee
reported the Bill wltbout amendment.
The Bill was then rend the third time
and passed.
BOARDS 0F TRADE ACT AMENDMENT
BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readiug of Bill (BB) An Act to amend the
Boards of Trade Act He said: the necesslty for tbls legislation arises frnon the
fact that beretofore boards o! trade were
gh-en very large districts. New towns are
springlng up In the Northwest, and applications are being made for authorlty to
create other boards of trade and thus embarrassment bas arisen. As an Illustration,
nt Battieford there Is a board of trade.
Tbe Battleford district wonld incInde what
is now called New Battieford, wbicb bias
also npplled for a board o! trade. This Bill
is to permit the Governor In Counchl to deal
woith sncb applications.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was rend the second time.
WINDING UP ACT AMFINDMENT BILL.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second rendlng- of Bill (102) An Act to amend tbe Wlndhng Up Act. He sald: The object of this
Bui is, ln the province of Manitoba, to authorize the Court of Appeal to have-cogniThe motion n'as ngreed to.
zance and jurlsdlctlon over tbe wlndlng up
Under suspension of the rules the Hlouse o! companies. As the law stood before, the
resolved itself into a Committee of thoe conditions were made for Ontario and Quebec ouly, ind tlien so fur as ail otlier proWVhole on the Bill.

SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
Hon. Sir RICHIARD CARTWRLGHT
moved the second rending of Bill (CC) An
Act to ameud the Gold and Silver Marking
Act.

SENATE
Han. Mr. SCOTT-Of course It la open
vinces were concerned it was to the Superior Court in banc. Now it la proposed to ta that interpretation, but It cauld be consubstitute ln Manitoba the Court of Appeal. strued ta the court sittlng la the-district.
The motion wvas agreed ta, and the fl11
was read the second tIme.
NATURALIZATION ACT AM.ENDMENT
BILL.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I would point
out that the amendment affecting the provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan provides that the application shall be made
ta the court sitting in the district In which
the allen reaides.

IN COMMITTEE.
The Hanse resumed in Comm-ittee of the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have no objection
Whole in consideration of Bill (W) An Act ta maire It read: 'In the judicial district In
to aiuend the Naturalization Act.
which he resides.'
(In the Commlttee.)

The clause was amended and adopted.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I gave notice that I
would mate the following ameudment when
the Honse waq ln commIttee on this Bill:
Paragrapli (f) of section 16 is repealed, and
the following substituted<J)Ia Manitoba, to the Court of King's
Bench dnring !ts sittings in the Judicial
District within which the alien resides ;ta
a judge of the Court of King's Bench, aitting in court ; or to the Coxinty Court during its sittings in the division within which
the alien resides.
It la for the convenience of tbe alleu. If
parties wlsh ta becorue naturallzed it is
but fair tbat they sbould be allowed ta
attend the court which tg most convenient.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON, fram the committee,
reparted the Bill 'wit an ameudment, whlch
was concurTed ln.

Han. Mr. BERNIER-Wbat change does
this make ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In the existing law,
the application la made lu Manitoba ta
the County Court, or, If there shanld be
noa Caunty Court lu the place, ta the
Co-tnty Court of tbe county nearest ta the
applicant's residence. This is ta Increase
the facilities, because the County Court
does flot ait often enaugh, and It ts found
Inconvenient.
When a higher court ts
nearer ta a man's residence it la easter ta
attend.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Why tg thue
place af residence departed from ? My
bon. friend wll perceive that three conditions are provided for, that ts ta say, he
mnay apply to the Court of ]Klng's Bench
sîtting in the district ln whlch he resides,
ta the Caunty Court holding Its sittlnga lu
the division lu wbich the alieu. resides, or
ta a judge of the Court of King's Bench
sitting ia court. Tbat ta entirely outside
of the district. I do nat knaw of any good
reason why that should be inserted.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

CONSTRUCTION 0F OTTAWA AND
GEORGIAN BAY CANAL.
DEBATE RESUMED.
The order of the day being called:
Resuming the adjourned debate on the
miotion of the Hon. Mr. Casgrain, that he
will cati the attention of the Senate te the
importance to Canada of the early construction of the Georgian Bay canal, and will inquire of the goverament if the repart of the
s.urvey made of that waterway will be laid
befarç the Senate during the preseat
session P
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Canada bas the
finest system of lnland navigation lu thîs
world, notwlthstanding the cold that freezes
Up go many of Its waters lu wlnter. These
They are the words
are not my words.
of the most distinguished hydraulîc engineer
ln the Britishi empire. They are the words
of the gentleman under whase desigas the
great Manchester canal was constructed, the
man who ts naw consulting engîneer on
that work. He spoke, tao, flot lu an Interview or ln an offhand manner, but when
writing a treatise 'for a work, which ts the
mast authorîtative, and most looked up ta
of any work on literature and science. 1
mean the Encyclopaedia Britanrnca and
you will find these wards at page 522 of the
26th volume of the 1Oth edItion. The man
who uttered these words was Sir Edward
Leader Williams, the great hydranhic engineer, and he says that since 1870 the
Canadian system of canaIs bas been sncb
that it apened up a waterway unparahleled
in the worMd. of 2.260 miles, without any

MAROH il, 1908
another ma rked
break from the head of Lake Superlor dowf t reai to the clty of Quebec,
people of
to MNontreal, or to tidewater. That la an iiudication of the enterprise of the
~anada, especiaiiy of the citizens of MonIf there be C
extraordiiiary thlng to say.
the federai
any monument to the people of this country, r eai, with the «aid, I suppose, o!
-overnment. These hon. gentlemen made
to their enterprise, their Intelligence andg
canal, except
thelr devotion to thelr country, besides the rào allusion whatever to this
n a deprecatory way, calculated to lower
faltb and confidence tbey bave ln it, it la the 1:
It, of whlch 1 think
canai systemn. If there be any public work vhat might be said o!
hey mlght have spoken better. They aiI sbouid like to show my frieuds, or any-t
wouid take $200,thing I shouid like to pralse ln Canada, it. 1uded to the fact that It
M0,000 to deepen the St. Lawrence canais.
ls the canais, because their strength andC
If It
the question.
utlity have been trled and flot found want- Why that ls out o!
take $200,000,000 to deepen the St
Ing. I do not give the credit for it to any v'ould
1 do not know how many
particular party. These publie works areI ý,awrence canais,
more than that it would take to
above ail parties. They are the work of millions
which the hon. genthe peopie of Canada, and they are a marki buld the canai system
was advocating.
their Intelligence and enterprise. Hîs-i tliman from De Salaberry
of
To make any parailel between those two la
tory *wili decide to whom this credit may
thue dimensions, the
beiong. I arn sorry that the hon. gentle- unfair, and to compare
power and the possiblillties of a canal
man who preceded me ln this debate, ln a
one which la
very eloquent manner trled to lntroduce twenty-one feet deep with
only 14 feet at the present time, is un! air.
another canal project, whlch I am n ot at ail
we could maire a
opposed to--I wouid be very glad to see It But even on that basis
By eniarging the Welland
comparison.
undertaken If the time were prpitions. Ât
route to what
the same time I could not help but thlnk canai and the St. Lawrence
ought to be, wouid answer not oniy for
that the advocates o! the Georgian Bay route ft
future requireadministered, or wanted to admînister, and the present, but would meet
until we secure reilabie Information
did not care If they adminlstered a crush- ments,
better course to purlng biow to one of the best links o! that about what wouid be a
Hon. gentlemen must remember that
system of which I have been speaking sue.
House to decîde
so highiy. There ls no doubt whatever that It is ont of place in this
and Intricate questions of
n comparison of these two works Is out of any Important
be discussed
the question. We have a conglomerate lot this kmnd which wiii require to
not before the.
of hypothesls on one aide, laying down cer- by specialists ln private and
!rom De
tain dimensions and certain ruies agalnst public. The bon. gentleman
whom I have the hlghest
another system of canais wbich- las done Lanaudlère, for
speech, but
n great service to this country, and which respect, made a very eloquent
lias been obsoiete since 1894. Its history I looked upon It merely as the harbInger
In my ivhoie
lbas always been one of progress, and at of an approaching eiection.
piatform
tliat time It had the same dimensions as It politicai life I neyer beard better
or post-prandiai speeches than those two
bans to-day. It is flot because anythlng is
were flot very parwantlng in the St Lawrence systemn that speeches were, and they
ticular about the exact truth.
they should propose to build another. I
shouid think they ought rather to improve
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, hear.
the ways which we have, and the oniy
Hoa. Mr. SULLIVAN-ehey made à comwav la which we can deni with it ln an
parison of frelght rates, but I wil flot go
economic sense would be either to deepen
here which
the Welland canai and ailow the other can- into that. I have a calculation
thinir would be too intrîcate for hon genais to remain as tbey are-that is one sys- I
me to extem--or deepen ail the canais from the tlemen to understnnd, or for
plain.
]akes until the tide water Is reacbed. Montreai Is 310 ailes nearer to Liverpool than
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Hear, hear.
is New York. Tliere Is another portion of
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-At ail events, it
the canai systern. The shlp clianneIlaI
of three eigbtha; of a
practicaliy a canal from the rity of MNon- makes a difference

SENATE
cent lower rate via the Welland canal thau
on the Georgian Bay route. 1 w-ill probably
exPlain that to bon, gentlemen afterwardýý.
Then in regard to, the lockage of th- canal,
the hon, gentleman from Ottawa stated
that tbere were forty-nine Iocks on the St.
Lawrence route. I did flot go down there
to count tbem, but I can tell the House
from authentic goverument sources that
there are only seveuteen, and If all the
bon. gentleman's statements are as wide of
the mark as that, I think they would flot
have a great deal of value. There are
seventeen locks on the St. Lawrence
and twent-y-six on the Welland canal.
I refer to the St. Lawrence canais and
not to Chambly and otber places further down. Another point In favour of
the Welland is the lockage. If you calculate the hieigbt to, be overcome from tide
watter, yon wlll find In the one case It 18
732«feet that ls on the Ottawa anà Georglau Bay route, and la the other It ls 200
feet less than that-530 something.
At
I events, It Is 200 feet less tban. the 732
feet that I calculate for the Georglan Bay
route. It would require elgbt more of the
locks over twenty-five feet. That omakes a
great dent of difference la the expense and
iu the loss of tinie. 1 suppose niy lion.
friend froin Montreal (Hon. Mr. Forget) can
tell us how slow these boats have to go
in thie canal, both approaching tle loek,
w-hile In the lock and coming ont of lt.
There Is a great deni of tume lost. so that
the speed of the vesse] ln sucb a canal
would be only about four miles an hour. 1
-do flot know at wbat speed the large vessels cau go througb the canal. Tbe-1 there
is another point; that Is, the length of the
season of navigation. The Welland' canal
is open nearly the wbole year. There are
only a few days in the year that vessels
eainnot pass. There would be no use In
passinag vessels tbrough It when the St.
Lawrence canais are not open un'esq tbey
tnerely wlsb to, go to, Lake Ontario. Then
the hon. gentleman from Halifax will un-derstand thnt the duration of the season
of navigation la the Georgian Bay canal
depends on French river. which Is flot
very far aw-ay from the head of Georgian
bay ; and that is frozen at a -very early period and that at the timie you waffl the
-canal open te, carry the harvest )f the
Han. Mr. SUJLLIVAN.

Northwest. It mnust be open during October and Noveniber to accommodate that
tratlic. That is another point wbere the
proposed canal could not compare wlth
the St. Lawrence route. The St Lawrence canaIs are open as long as the port
of Montreal la open. My learned frlend
spoke of the large vessels going down to,
the Atlantic and doing a* coastlng business
during the winter. 1 thlnk that would ho
absurd. They would not be able to do It;
they are not fitted for It. It would be É01111cuit to get boats sulted for botb trades.
That is a matter that would require to be
tried; and then tbere would be a great
loss of time when they wanted to, returul
to, the upper .lakes. Navigation might be
stili closed below Montreal, wheu there
would be no tce la the canais or wvest of
of course when anv of the
Montreal.
strelims on .the Ottawa and Georgian Bay
canal route freeze up tbat ends tbe canal
navigation for that season. A very lmiIt
portant point is tbe water supply.
mlght require a great deal of -water to,
feed the canal. From the bon. gentlemanif's
statemeat. we would Infer that he had
somne dlfflculty la gettlng enough water
supply for this new canal, and one of tue
schemes whiclh was suggested was to punip
water Into It froni Lake Nipissing. Another sciieme to augment the water supply
w-as to divert the course of some streamns
at the suainit. In fact, the bon. gentie
manî used the most potent metiiods pos
sihle.
Hou. Mr. CASGRAIN-I protest agaiuîst
the punlps.
SULLIVAN-Well, he ilarnied
Hlon. M.Nr.
and ponnded when there was not enongli
ivater. He daned the other side.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD
(B.C.)-Too
ilany dams altogether.
Hlon. Mr. SULLIVAN-There w-as enougli
of theni. He did flot stand at trilles. 1
think be placed the drainage area froîîî
whieh the canal wonld be fed at the sunimnit at 600 square miles. As tbe Welland
canal bas the wbole of the great lakes. aud
the proper amount of water secured by
dains. it does not require to niale any
fnrther provision for water supply thin
caniais and locks at proper intervals. That I
thimik is ammotlmeî- pointtlnit oniglttolhe talzen

MARCEI 11, 1908
note of. Then there la the water-power.
There was a great fusa about the' waterpower. If the Georgian Bay Canal Company undertakes to build the canal If the
goverument would let them have the waterpower, by aIl means gîve If to them. The
hon. gentleman from De Lanandlêre calculated that hundreda of thousanda of horsepower o! hydro-electric energy would be
developed. In the construction of this canal,
and lie put a value o! $10 to $15 per horsepower on It. If is only worth $1 per horsepower. 1 wli leave lt to the hon, gentleman
from Lincoln (Hon. Mr. Gibson). He meant
the electricity. It was the electrical horsepower, dlean and pure, Juat the finlahed
article. It le a different thing to give them
the hydraulle energy required to develop the electrlc power. I aaw the great
power houses at Niagara fails last summer,
and I thlnk they oel power there on a suidThey develop 400,000 horseing scale.
power and 'will lease a hundred thousand
horse-power at a dollar per horse-power. The
hon, gentleman fromLlncoln knows ail about
It. There ls a Cataract Company at Hamilton. He ls probably a director o! It. Tliey
take water from the canal and pass If over
the falis at Depew a hundred feet high, and
they only gîve that amount for if, I thînkone dollar per year. The amount o! horsepower on the Ottawa would not be a great
deal more than on the Welland canal. To
compare the drainage basin o! the St. Lawrence above Montreal with that o! the rivera
on the Georgian bay route, you will get a
fair idea of the comparative poasibilities of
both routes for developlng horse-power, and
will fSud that if la Iu the ratio o! five to one
in favour of the St. Lawrence and wlth an
additional advantage In the fact that; YOU
have established industries. There ls another point,. You have establlshed Industrial
centres near at hand to taire the waterpower and pay for It A few objections f0
the Ottawa and Georglan bay acheme that
I mîglit mention are: First, that the Georgian bay la the moat stormy and most dangerous of the lakes. Over and over again,
wben there was more trade comiug f0 Kingston than there la now, I recollect the salors always complainling of the severe storms
in Georgian bay ln the faîl of the year. It
la a very rocky and dangerous place. Then
there are the rock cuittings on the canal

491

route. 1 believe the rock formation up
there la ail granite and hornblende flot at
ail like on the Welland canal, where they
have nothing but limestone, and of course
very otten nothing to excavate but the
earth. -But on the projected. route ît la ail
bard rock excavation. I do flot want to be
too severe on the bon, gentleman from De
Lanaudière, althougi lie explained that this
rock formation was a great advantage. He
explalned that lie could bang the loch gates
on the end of the rock ents and do away
with any expenditure for locks. There
wouid be no expense for masonry or anything of that kind. There la another point
in reference to the rock cuttings, and that
la the dept±i. The depth of the Georgian bay
canal, 21 feet, will not do at ail, because
it wouid flot maire any allowance for the
future. The possibllities of changes that
may occur in connection wlth canais and
bydraulie work la aomethlng astonishing.
In a few years a project of to-day becomes
completely obsole.te. I wlll give you an example of that a littIe later on. I think these
matters ahouid be considered If the goverument are golng to build this canal, whlch I
hope they may, only after they complete
the other project. I thlnk they ahould buiId
the easlest, cbeapest, best and most advantageous one first and then they can
can bulld the other aterwards, but I would
be perfectly satlsfied to leave that to any
Impartial tribunal to decide. The present
Indications are certainly that the dImenslons which they auggest wlll flot be suffidient for future years. To gîve an exampie
of the way in whlch these lake vessels are
cbanglng In aize, In 1904 there was only
one ship from 500 to 600 feet, while in 1906
there were no less than 57 of this class on
the upper lakes. It will probably take from
ten to twenty years f0 construet the Georglan bay canal. I think that la not too long
a tîme to eatimate, and the canal should be
designed to meet the requirements of that
date. Then, supposing the Georgian Bay
Canal were bult, It would reuder the other
canal obsolete. and is It possible that there
is any man, woman or chîld in this country
who would be fooliah enougli to favour
any.attempt to devise anything whicb would
injure that magnificent waterway- which 1
meutioned when I began niy address?
I
trust there may not be. Thîis is -n question

SENATE
that rises above any political party or lecality either. If there is *anything in the
locallty which would interfere, 1 would put
it aside. This canal is to le for ail time,
a monument to the people of Canada, aud
therefore the lest possible seheme for the
purpose should lie decided upon. If we
decide on the Georgian bay, of course the
St Lawrence canais canuot be eularged,
and that affects the whoie systemn clear down
te tidewater below Montreal. If it wvere
a scheme that would not possibly Injure the
otliers, I would not bave very much to say
about it. However, that must be discussed
and the proper economic value given to eacli
of these sclemes. I consider the project
of enlarging the St. Lawrence canais to secommodate the large lakte vessels to be nlot
ut ail impracticable. You would have to
deepen some parts of the Welland canal.
There is a stretcli of 17 miles of the canal
which is on the level of L.ake Erie, and the
wliole canal is on-ly 26 miles. Seventeen
miles of that would only require to be sunk
a few feet. In higli water there la elghteen
or nîneteen feet ln It at present. Part of it
is the new canal. They would only have
to dig out and deepen one side of the old
canal. How under heaven could the Georgian bay scheme ever be equalled la economy to that? Another point is that the
trafice wouid still proceed while they were
constructing this canal. It would not require to be stopped ln any way.
There la another point I wish to speak
about. The lion. member from Ottawa
spoke oif only 13,000,000 bushels of grain
passing tlrougli tlie St. Lawrence canais ln
1906. Why there must be some mistake as
I can give the names of two Kingston forwarders wlio had shipped to Moutreal over
15,000,000 bushels. The best, cheapest and
most satisfactory mode o! forwarding western avd nortbwestern grain of all klnds,
the hnrvest of Canada, from Lake Stuperber,
Port Arthur, Duluth, or other ports is
that which Mr. Richardson, a weli known
shipper of Kingston, who beyond any other
lad studied the subject of tlie northwesterîî
transportation problem, aud whidli le neyer
ceaSed to advocate, uamely, the deepening
of the Welland canal to a depth necessary
to enable the big lakers to continue on to
Kingston with a full cargo of 380,000 busbels liaving a clear passage througli the
Hon. MNr. SULLIVAN.

beautiful water of Lake Ontario at full
steam abead feariess of any obstruction,
or the slip miglit enter the capaclous moutli
of the St. Lawrence and continue on to
Prescott sixty miles distant, being re.ally
the head of river navigation. ÂrrIved at
either Kingston or Prescott, barges of 2,200
ton capacity are in waiting there whlch desire speciai mention. They are of light
draft, are manned by a captain and three
men sometimes. The captain's wife acts
as cook and lie pays them as lie contracts.
He engages for the season at about $90>
per month. The forwarder arranges witli
him and lie only pays tbe sum agreed on.
The captain must arrange with his men.
Each of these barges wiUl carry from 70,000
to 80,000 bushels. The transhipping to
ocean vessels la done rapidly. I forget the
number of hours, but it la doue astonishingly quieck and the big slips are free then for
a returu cargo. In less than twenty hours
from Kingston' the barges are at the aide
of the ocean steamer and the grain," so mucli
benefited by the transhipment as to be advanced a grade, is loaded rapidly for its destination ln Europe. Mfr. Richar *dson 18 an enthusiast on tbls question and convinced nie
that it wIll suffice for many years as being
the quickest, cheapest and moat satlsfactory route for grain or any simflar products of Canadian growth across the occan.
Mfr. Richardson bas forwarded millions of
bushels to Europe by this route withont an
enlarged 'Welland' and bas made It a
success. Knowing the size of vessels lu
the trade and following the route on a map
bion, gentlemen will be of die saine opinion
as Iam.
I have a copy of the ' Engineering News,'
the greatest magazine authority on engineering la the United States, dated the 28th
January. It refers to a report of a meeting and the examînations made by the
Superiatendent of Public Works of the
State of New York. He la a very emInent
man. His name is Stevens and le makes
this report, and it shows bow matters
change ln the lune I was speaking about;
things that were two years ago quite
right aud considered up [o date are now
considered there to be very much.behind.
Hon, gentflemen bave heard of the trouble
the United States had about the Erie canal,
that canal being ouly elght or nine feet

MARCil 11, 1908
draft and carrying sucli a small amnouat of
traffie. The engîneers discussed one or two
plans, and they finally decided on a thonsand-ton barge canal. This was to carry
the small vessels from Buffalo to Albany
on the Hudson. That la found now to be
of no use. The logislature voted $100,000,000 for that purpose, and they gave out
contracts, about twenty ln numbor. Some
of tbom were for threo or four million, but
the inajority of them one million dollar contracts, and I desire to give the cabinet
mînisters a warnlng about the danger of
submuitting large aontracts to tonderers. He
finds tliat ît roquIres from one hundred to
three hundred. thousand dollars to get au
equipment for a contracter to go un -%vith
the work, and «when the contracter ta finishod ho la not sure ho wUl get any further
empîcyment for bis plant. That bas led
hlm to say tliat It would be aIl thrown on
the state afterwards. They are attemptin.g
to find fault with the canal on account of
the inndequncy of. It At ail events tbey
have changed tiîeir design of the barge
canal -%hicb my bon. friend was afraid was
going to muIn us. Ho could not sleep nt
uigbit on account of the dangers wficl
would befaîl the country. 1 want to, tell
hlmi ho can now sleep ln safety, that Canada la solid, that we are abead of the UnIted States as far as we were bofore, and
.as Canada can show, It was alwnys ln adrance of the Uuited States frorn the tine
tbey uudertook to bulld the 'Soo' canal.
Many tbought at tîjat tiie it was a waste
of money and that United States vessels
would nover have occasion te use It, but
the time bas corne when thoy will have to
use it. 1 hope Canada will get lier share
of the traffic, not only ber own share, but
a great doal of the United -States business.
I told the bon, gentleman from Ottawa
MHon. Mr. BElcourt) that tbe United States
people complaiaod that we were taking
away thelr trade. 1 will give you the particulars In a fow quotations. The report ts
conclsely and beautlfully written, and onidently by a gentleman wlio knows wbat ho
la wrlng about. 'The firat allusion ho
makes to Canada la as follows:
The type of the Canadian canal is vory

similar to the proposed barge canal, but they
were found to be unsuited to presont con<litions. and eran before construction wor<
was begun on the barge canal, the Dominion

government had set about to make important
changes in the physical condition of theo kand structures to botter meet the growing
demanda of commerce.
Ho complained of that, but thsit la net
ail. It goes on further to show that nothlng
goos out of date quieker than these desîgus
-they cannot keep pace wlth the progress
of the age. These large canais, sulted for
large shipe. are able to distance the railways altogether, and It la true, as the hon.
senator from De Lanaudlère (Hon. Mr. Casgrain) stated, that thse amaller the canal
the legs able It ts to compote wfth railways.
Wben a canal will accemmodate vessels
carrying ton thousand tons of froight It is
able to outstmip the rallwaya ln the race for
patronage. Speaking of thîs ho Baya :
Suggestions which, ton years ago if mada
would have been credited to thse dreamer, are9
to-day rogarded as eminently practicai. by
men of affaira; but in sucis matters it la the
future that is had ia view, neot yesterday, to.

day or even to-morrow. Hail this plan«beau.
followed in the past, fewer millions would
have been wasted in what to-day are regarded
as useless or praotically useless water higliways.

Ho thouglit tbey miglit koep the trade
for a whlle If the canals were large enugli,

but because the cannîs were nid large
enougli tboy had mecourse to another systom. I want te show how they become obselete.

Ho says:

Thse canais of Ohio have been abandoned its

inadequate.
The Illinois-Mississippi canal
only just oompleted, after fifteen years of construction work, la found to be practically obsolete though this structure has locks 35 foot

wide and 170 foot in length.

Fifteen years

ago this projecet was thought te be anmbitions,

but already the boats which may be operated

on this canal with profit are too large to pasý
throu-gh thse locks.
That gives an Idea of how soon canais go
out of business altogethor. Thon It goes on

to speak about how Canada ts treatlng this
question.

Ho says:

At the inception of thse barge canal the pu,.

pose waa to restoro te New York sta;te the
trafie which had beewq taken away as a rosoît
of a botter system of Canadian canais. The
barge canai may be auited to compote with

tbe present type of Canadian canais, but thée
Dominion goverament has forseen the need
of a different type and has undertaken toi
svply it ln thes. o-called Ottawa-Georgian
Day route. Surveys have been completed and
estimates of the coat for a 21-foot ship canal
have been prepared. connecting Georgian
river by
bay with the St. Lawrence
way of Ottawa and Mattawa rivera. Tise
Dominion parliament ia expected to rnake an
appropriation for the construction cf this

SENATE
cnal during its present session. The Ottawa- this prejeet and eliminates ail cousideration
Georgian Bay canal is planned to provide the cf looality, is thet your henourable body
shortest outlet by water for the grain, forest should witiout delay mernrialize Cengrese
perwiti New Ycrk in naking tiit
and mining products of the great Northwest, to jn
and it i6 potent to ask whether with that tien of the barge canal route from the Hud
route for shipment once open, commerce can son river by way cf the Mohawk river, Onebe changed so as te take the route through ida lake and Oswege river, a ship canal ef
the lower lakes and cross the State of New the type centemplated in the goverument sursuch commerce as i vye cf 1900, and that tus mmorializing ci
York, particularly
Commerce, his- Coagreas shnuld b. feilowed by suds pressure
bound for European ports?
tory tells us, when once lost is difficult te res- from these interests witbin Our state as may
tore. Canada in the race. for commerce must net be ignored, to the end that the plans sugThe conThe simplicity u goeted as mey te aoeompliihed.
be dealt with as a rival.
the Ottawe-Georgian Bay route from the struction of the connecting link between Lak;
and Lake Ontarie could be wsel left tu
standpoint of construction, as viewed by en- Erie
gineers, taken in conjunotion with the meth- the federal geverument fer when t
ods which that government appliies to the provement was once ceneidered, ne etier arsolution of any project looking to enhancing gument, it ceorn te me, weuld te neceeeary te
the glory of the Dominion, threaten, if they acerplieh the neceoeary legsation.
Tus suggestion is net made, and nay net
do not fully ineure the completion of this
waterway before the barge canal under the b. iinestiy construed by any pereen, as a
present system of construction can be com- plan te delay construction werk on the Barge
Tii cent te the etate,
pleted. Commerce once lost under such con- canal now in pregrese.
ditions, if not forever lost, would be hard to il its coupletion ceild b. coneumnated, would
regain. Net only New York, but the whole not te greater than wili be the cent of coinnation is interested in retaining supremacy pleting tie lesser waterways, and the benefits
te result net ouiy immediate but fer the fuin this regard.
What is the ture wili te a hundred-fold.
Here then is the problem.
is undertaken aicng the
If tue enterpr
solution?
I would not for a moment delay
and at once, practiany energy that may be broughit to bear to a linos cf tus sgtion
completion of adequate waterways and a utili- caliy non. cf the mcneye expended er about
zation of the magnificent rivers and lakes and te b. erpended by the state on the Barge
the fejilities which New York State has to canai route named wtU have bean mi-peat.
I this plan could b. brougit te fruition,
offer in this regard to a full utilization of the
Before the barge canal it te my bolief that net only would New York
great lakes traffic.
had been seriously considered, the federnl tat. b. in a commnanding position se far as
government took note of the opportunities of- commercial shipmenta go in the evont cf tie
fered S>yNew York state for the construction compietin by tie Dominion gevernment cf
Careful surveye and the Ottawa-Georgian Bay canal; but it is not
of a deep waterway.
estimates were made by the board of engineers impossible that if the construction cf the
on deep waterways, and submitted in 1900. eiip canai across New York stato were auThe estimate was for a ship canal 21 feet thorized in the near future, the construction
deep, connecting Lake Erie with the tide o the Ottawa-Geergiau Bay canal would b.
waters of the Hudson river, the estimate be. abandened altogotier fer the time bein«. Tii
ing one hundred and ninety-eight million dol- net recuit te the ste wouid be a 21 foot
lars, divided as to that part of the canal con- canai from the Hudson river te Lake Ontario
necting Lake Erie with Lake Ontario, $42, inctead cf a 12 foot canal, with adequate lochs
500,000; and to that p art connecting Lake On- and etier structures, with a possible adi sttario witb the Hudson river tidewatere, by ment of operating expensos faveurable te New
way of Oswego and Mohawk river route, York state, and in addition, a completion at
may be hped fer in the
an earlier day tin
$155,500,000.
He avoids any mention of the Welland case cf the Barge canal as new planned.
cf considernd as
canal route cana rote only reference to thiste
and as uly efeeuc tetusFinally, but net tho least item
water tarif prble
In all the s far as New York is cencerned fer ail time.
Bay-Ottawa route.
Georgian
suggestion I have made, if carried eut
h
refeence whch frind '
references which my hon. friend from Ot-wud nt involve any abandoument cf plans
tawa (Hon. Mr. Belcourt) made to different or the work now undor way for the construcBuffalo te
authorities, the only Canadians he could tien cf a barge canal from canal fromn Oneida
White1.ie or cf the Champlain
quote were Sir Thomas Shaugpnesry
hall te ond
Waterflrd.
t
wahole gist cf that le only a boyuff
Sir Wm. Van Horoe. I think they have an fo
interect lu Norh Bay, apd frcm North Bay ma e men turn more teo te construction
New York State. Hi
dwu th. Canadian Pacfie Rallway runs cf te canal trough
the
ote f
paralel with the prbposed canai.
t s
oe
the
say that tcet ad anythng te do wth
Canada.
but It made them feel a littIe warm fnwnrds te some rivalry te get ahead of
wili, te use a slaug
do net ti in tnt
bthe on.
gentlemaner t p
Untied States phrase, eut much ice with the peepie here.
authetie.
gentianuete
He make n mention cf te Wellend fnnal
route, frem which jndge that the Welland
tbey are afraid cf,
The inevitable conclusion te my mpd, as, I canal is the route tat
believgn it wils b te tm, mwud f every fair
using oe onther for tge
minded men whc mals. a careful studv of pand they re only
Hon. Mr. SceLLIVAN.

ot-The

MARCH 11, 1908
doubt it would be a very desirable tbing for
the country that Vis canal should be constructed, but, as the bon. member from
Kingston indicated, gentlemen wbo promote
schemes of that kind take a rather roseate
view of Vie undertaklng. I would direct Vie
attention of the House to the tacts that a
number of wise men, the wisest men In Vis
country, decided many years ago to spend
several millions of dollars In deepening the
St. Lawrence canaIs, and that practically tliat
deepening bas bad no effect wbatever on the
commerce of the country. As I understand
It, there are no vessels going through Viose
enlarged locks tbat did not go througb the
smali locks thirty odd years ago. We must
bear tbat lu mInd, that no matter how well
Oie thîng may look to-day, twenty years
from this when Vis work Is completed, as
the bon. member from Kingston said, Vie
conditions may be altogether different, and
Vie building of Vis canal may not have
Vie wonderful success whicb Vie hon. gentleman from De Lanaudière supposes. But
my objection to any basty action is not
based so mucb on the ftact that we cannot
tell bow Vhis enterprise wlll ultImately nesuit, but upon Vis fact, Viat Canada for
a country of ber population has at the present time a great many very serious undentakiugs on hand, and It Is the part of prudent men in publie life In dealing wltb public business to exercise a little ordinary prudence sncb as they do In dealing with their
own aif ais. For this country to undertake
to spend anywbere from one hundned to
one hundred and fifty million dollars more,
probably one bundred and fitty, on an undertaking of this kind, wben we have so
much on bnnd already, would be a most
Imprudent tbing. The better n-ny Is to
wait untîl n-e get the National Transcontinental Railway and several otber undertakIngs we have on bond pretty well on towards completion, and If we feel then that
the condition of our finances is such as to
justify us In spending one bundred and fifty
millions of dollars let us go ahead. I mnay
simply advert to the fact Viat our yearly expenditure to-day Io not less Vian one hundred
Hon. Mr. POWER-Witb respect to Vis million dollars. That is a very baudsome suin
question which has been brought before the
for our population. Then there Is another
House by Vie hon, gentleman f romn De Lafeature about Vis undertaking; we have
naudiêre. I con only say that I concur wlth
bult-I say that speaklng broadly-the
ail the other members of the House in thinkCanadian pacific Rnilway nt a cost or about
ing it a qilestion of very great importance. No
.Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN.

purpose or blufing. The othler iway to kcep
abead lu water transportation is flot kuown
to many and I wlll mention It now.
You are aware that ail the colonies are
like a constellation and the one bright star
in that constellation 15 Canada, and It will
continue so long as It lasts whether as
an independent state or as a colony. Mr.
Harold Begbie, a well known journallst,
published a letter recently In the London
'Morning Chronicle,' giving bis views on
Canada after having travelled through It
froin end to end. He sald the Canadians
can neyer be made to model tbemselves
on the British people. Everything is Amenican. the social Ilfe and even the amusements of the people. To Illustrate this, be
mentioned the tact that basebaîl bas superseded cricket, and everything is more Amenican Vian Engllsh, because we thlnk the
Engllsh rather slow; but there is one thing
that he sald whlch la true as gospel, 'those
Canadians wlll neyer become Americans.'
From one end of Canada to the other. take
the two extremes of British Columbia to
Quebec, and tbey would die In Vie last
ditch before consentlng to be alienated from
their allegiance to Britain. If these tlilngs
were known to King Edward at the present time and he knew the 85,000,000 peopie lu Vie neigbbouring country wore determlned to bulld a canal Viat would taire
commerce from Canadian routes, he would
bave spunk enough to say, 1We will not
be beaten by Viem.' If we went to him
and sbowed Vie policy of our nelglibours
and Vie way Viey are helping their canal,
and mmnd you there Is a llttle bit of strategy
about Viat canal-be would be Interested
In our canal system. The Rideau canal was
constructed by the Duke of Wellington as
a n-ar canal, and 1 do not tbiuk thi Canadians ever pnid for lt-lt Is a way tbey
have. I would Ilke the governmeflt to appeal to the King and show what our nelgbbours are dolng for the state of New Yurk,
and let the British government do Vie same
for us, and we will be ahead of them for
ail time.

SE-NATE
lion. '-%r. CASGRAIN-There are no Tees
on the other canais.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The reason why there
ire no Tees on the other canais is that wlthout any Tees the other canais are nlot doing
any business worth speaking about, although
!u order to lnduce shippers to send their
freight by those canais the government tool.
Canadian
off the tolls.

one bundred million dollars. Aithougli we
have not bult the Canadian Northern stili
we have subsidized the varions roads which
constitute the Canadian .Northern systemn te
the tune of several millions of dollars snd
several millions of acres of land which are
worth several millions more of dollarsHon. Mr. FORGET-Not
Northern ?

the

Hon. Mr. POWER-Certainly the Ciinaedian Northern. We are now engaged lu
sî>ending millions of dollars to bulld the
National Transcontinental Rallway. What
is the principie of ail this construction ?
We are spending a very large sum of money
ln addition to what an ordinary road would
cost on the National Transcontinental Railway s0 that the grades on that road shail
be so 10w that the grain of the west may be
transported cheaply ; and if I amrnflt axistaken, durlng the discussions which took
place ln 1903 the ground wns taken that
this rond with its 10w grades would carry
grain as cheaply as water would. We have
spent aIl these millions of dollars chiefly for
the purpose of carrylng the grain of the
west out to tide water, and I want to know
what sort of wlsdom or prudence there is
lu our undertaklng to-day to spend $150,000,000 on another project to compete with
these ronds nlready constructed and lu
course of construction. It is exceedingly
unfair to the companies that have put their
moneys into the ronds, and it is an exceedingly unwise thing on Our part. We are
practically spending a great many millions
ol' dollars to provide metlxods of transportation and spendiiig msny millions more to
render those unprofitable and take the business awny from them. No private lndividual or compnny wouid dream of tnking a
course like that. 1 notice that it was nssumed by both the hon, gentlemen who
spoke ln faveur of this acheme that it wouid
be constructed as a goverament work, and
one of tbem-I thlnk the senator from
De Lanaudlère-expressed the opinion that.
no touls should be charged on thxe canal.
That would make the competition with the
railways stili more unfair. You go into
competition wlth those railways, you put
your government owned canai into compatitien witlx theux and then charge no Tees for
the use of the canal.
Hon. Mr. POWER.

Hon. %Sir31ACKENZIE BOWELL-For
the reason that the Erie canal was obliged
to do ItL
SHon. Mr. POWER-I know the canais are
nlot doing the business; but If the hon. gentieman from De Lanaudière and the hon.
gentleman Trom Ottawa are correct, tlîis
canai would do a tremendous business, and
the Tees might possibly pay a portion of
the interest on the cost. I do not believe
tlxey wouid, but It le bareiy possible they
might . %Myview with respect to this canil
is that it should net be a Dominion work.
The greater part of the canal is ln one province. I think that if the un.dertaking is
a valuable one the provinces Interested ouglit
to do somethlng very handsome by it For
instance, coming from the lower provinces.
I do nlot feel that I have any interest in
the construction of this canal-any appreciable interest-and 1 do nlot think that
tbere should be too much of making the
whole country pay for projects that are not
of general advantage. I do nlot press that.
There is not muchl n it. But .I mention
it. I cal attention to the Tact that in the
United States, a country with a population
more than ten times the population
of Canada, a country whose wealth 1 suppose is at lenet ten times as great as ours.
and a country which gives large sums for
river improvements, appropriations for barbours, and pensions, and so on, yet they do
not do this sort of work. Tbey let the state
do it The United States government do
nlot bulld canais or railways either. TheY
allow the business wants of the communlty
to dictate where canais and railways shall be
buiit, and shlow the enterprise of the Peopie to buiid them. They do not tax the
people of thxe whole country for the purpose of building such works, and 1 do nlot
think we sbould do it cither.
Hon. Mr ELLIS-What about the Panailia canal ?

MARCU 11, 1908
H on. Mr. POWER-I ani flot going to discuss the Panama canal. That stands altogether by ltself. I do not wish any one to
suppose from what I have sald that I shahl
flot be glad to see this canai built. 1 tblnk
the building of the canal would be a very
considerable advantage to the country, but
1 thlnk the rlgbt way Is to do as tbey do ln
the United States, to ailow private enterprise to do the work. I uuderstand that a
company bas been incorporated-in fact I
think a Bill to amend their Act of Incorporation is before the Senate now, and that that
compaay are prepared to go on with the
work of building the Ottawa and Georgian
Bay canai. The proper course to taire is to
let the company proceed wlth tbe work, and
I sbouid have no objection at ail to the parlament of Canada encouraglng the work by
giviug it a reasonable, subsidy, not an excessive subsidy, but a moderate subsidy, and
then If thîs canai came into competition, as it
wouid, wltb the Canadian Pacifie Railway
and the other roads I have mentioned, the
shareholders la these- roads could not complain that the government were competiug
witb them. It would be slmply one private
company competlng with another, and there
would be no uufairness ln It It Is quite
certain that tbis undertaking wfll cost an
Immense sum. I shouid say, althougb tbe
hon. gentleman from De Lanaudière trled to
figure it down to about a hundred million,
that It Is sa!e to cost at least $150,000,000.
Our experience would lead us to believe
that. If the undertaiklag la a promlsing
one, the company wlll proceed wlth it, and
the better plan is to ailow the company to
go on and build it. We have a great many
undertakings on our hands now, and I do
not thik we should add this tremendous
undertaking to our present obligations.
Hon. MLr. OWENS-It is rather a new
phase in reference to this uudertaking, when
It la advocated that the work, should be
done by a private company. Hlowever, If
the government and members of the cabinet were of the same opinion ns the hon.
gentleman who has just resumed bis sent,
tbere need be no hesitation lu reference to
tbat. There is a Bill at present before parliament in reference to tbis canal, and
under tbat Bill a private company is prepared to undertake the work and also to
permit a clause to be lnserted lu that char32

497

ter, by which the government can taire over
the work nt any Urne by paylng the cost of
construction wlth a very small commission
attached to It Therefore, If the majority
of this House and of the government are
favourable to that clause, the work can be
proceeded with very quickly; but the bon.
gentleman from Halifax was advocatlng a
postponement. He wlshed to procrastinate.
It was too soon to take Up the work.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Pardon me, I said it
was too soon for the government to take
It Up as a public work.
Hon. Mr. OWENS-Weil, too soon for
the goverument. If the majorlty ln parliament and the government are i fa±vour of
the work being doue by a company, there
is a way out of It lmmedlately; but ny
impression is that neither the gov,?rnmeut
nor the majority of this House w9aid be
lu favour of n work of that klud being
undertaken and controlied by a private
company. He bas aiso advocated that the
work should be carried on as a personai
work as a provincial work, as It is ln the
United States, by the different states. We
k-now that ail the canais of the United States
are built by the different states, but has that
proven an advantage? No, JUSt the contrary.
The resuit Is that Congreas has no control
over the canais, and the rates of toli are
flot uniform. The difficultY wouid be, for
instance, If we were entering into any Interstate commerce reguiation wIth the
United States Congress could flot arrange
for our use of their canais. Theïr boats
eau corne through our canais under the
Washington treaty, but our boats tire Dot
permitted to enter tbeir canais, shInply because the canais beiong to the different
states. They are not under control of Congress. I do flot thlnk that ls anythiag lu
their favour, and to suggest to-day that this
immense work should be undertaken by
one province appears to me ridiculous, when
lu the past ail such undertakIngs have been
carried on by the federai government. I
do flot tblnk there can be mucli argument
lu favour 0f that. As to the bon. gentleman's argument that we should procrastinate, the article rend by the bon, gentleman from Kingston wouid be the strongest
answer we couid give to that. Here are
the United States people aiready aive to

REVISED EDITION

SENATE
the importance of tliis Georgian Bay canal
acheme, and they are advocating now to go
on and build a twenty-one foot canal to
offset our proposaI. Thcy realize that If
this canal Is bult, their western trade will
be diverted Into Canadian channels. They
are not afrald of the St. Lawrence canal.
1 do not wish to detract from the St. Lawrence canaIs, but It bas been shown that
they have not been able to compete with
the United States canais. I regret that
the hon, gentleman frorn Kingston looks
upon Lt as competîtion. There Is no comnpetition. The St. Lawrence route xv-ll ai.
wvays be fulfilling Its duty as far as brluglng the grain from the southern part o!
Ontario, and bringing down grain and other
frelght to whlch Lt la the natural trlbutary.
But thia great national undertaking we propose te build, the Ottawa and Georgiani
Bay canal, Ia to compete witti the United
States routes, so that the export trade of
Canada will net be diverted to, Uulited
States ports. The United States people realize
that It la for that reason they are suggesting
to build this twenty-one foot barge canal,
and should the Georgian Bay canal be built,
Lt wlll net be such a burden upon the counitry. My hon. friend says our expensea are
already a bundred million dollars. If our
annual expenditure Is one bundred ill]ion,
I do net think It would require anv great
stretch of econorny to reduce that four or
five million, and the Lnterest on the cost
of this canal would be less than five million. The hon, gentleman frorn Halifax
wishes to, flx the cost at $150,0O0,0OO, but
we are not working In the dark as to the
figures. A large amount o! money bas
been spent in surveylng. Money lias~ also
been spent lu surveylng by a private cornpany, capitaliats who intend to put thelr
rnoney in It, the sarne company that bult
the 'Manchaster canal, the wharf s, docks and
other works ln the possessions of Britain,
Bermnuda and other places. These capitalista are willing to Invest their rnoney lu
this project, and before doing so, they have
made aurveys. The estirnate they have
got o! the cost o! this canal is eiglity-five
million. The goverument auring the last
year having expended a large arnount o!
money on surveya, the estirnate fromn thelr
engineers is ninety million, and tijat lucludes, as was stated by the hon. geutleIlon. Mýr. OWENS,

ujan froi Ottawa, the lighting, buoys and
complete equipment. So you see here are
two estimates for that Immense work that
corne almost to the same amount. So .that
we are flot going ln the dark. We kuow
very well as to the approxirnate uniounit.
In reference to the matter of toill, the hou.
gentleman fromi Halifax wished to lay
stress on that. That la a matter the government bas control of. If that canal colleets toils as it should do, the canal wJill
pay a large Interest on the investrnent.
I have ne doubt what led to the suggestion
of taking the tolls off that *canal la be-,
cause the government Is flot Irnposing toill
on any of our canais to-day. As the hon.
senator from Halifax has sald, we have
contrlbuted a. hundred million to the Canadian Pacifie Railway. We are contributing
a large amount of money to, the Canadian
railways. Are we receivlng anY toila
from them? Does the governmient recelve
anything from eltber of these enterprises
iu the way of toîll? Nothing of the kind.
Lt will be purely a business arrangement,
as to, whether the goverurnent lu their wisdom abould Impose tolîs upon these canais
or not. If the goverument build the canal,
and do not impose one dollar of tolls, It
bas been shown very clearly by the hon.
gentleman who Introduced, thia motion, and
by the hon. senator fromn Ottawa Who bas
gone into the matter very carefully, that
the Indirect revenue fromn it woufld more
than offset tbe interest on the cost and certainly the figures tbey tbemselvea give are
very conservative. I arn afraid that uy
hon. friend the senator fromn Kingston bas
been the vlctim, o! some triekster and joker
when they tell hima tbe water-power Ia only
wortb one dollar a year per horse-power. If
the hon. gentleman frorn Kingston will Invest five cents lu the electric car and go to,
Hull where they have one o! the magnificent water-pewers of Canada, hie wlll find
with ahl that water-power that tbey cannot
sell or supply the dernand for that power
at fifteen dollars per horse-power.

Hon.
power.

Mr. SULLIVAN-That la electrlc

Hon. Mr. OWENS-Well, the water power
develops the electric power. This power
is used for rnanufacturing- electric power.

MARCE il, 1908

499

Hon. Mr. BOWELL-We are going to bave, but the best canal tacilîties we cau
obtain te carry the grain from the west
use it.
at a reasonable figure. There lu one thlng
Hon. Mr. OWFENS-We wlll use it ail this canal will do as far as the grain la
over Canada. In a very few years our cencerned. It will confrol the rates to a certrans-Canadian railwayu wHIi use it, wher- tain extent se that our grain producers and
ever we can obtain the power. It lu going farmers In the Northwest will not be charged
to be the motive power of this country. an exorbitant price for brlnging down their
The bon, gentleman from Montreal knows grain. In tact, I may say that when that
well to-day the advantage of hydro-electric canal ls completed, our wheat landu will
power and knows very well that whether it double In value. It requIres very few cents
is generated by steam or by water, they per bushel to give the profit. It coula s0
cannot obtain too much electrlc power In mucb to produce the grain. The margin of
Montreal.
profit for the tarmeru lu nlot s0 very large.
Hon. Mr. FORGFET-They are selling elc- Every cent per bushel that they can obtain
tric power for fourteen dollars and water- over the cout of production and transportspower for four dollars and a li out ot tien la so much profit and when this canai
lu bult, the reduction In freight rates will
the pipe.
enable thern to reap a greater profit from
Hon. Mr. OWENS--We take it as It cornes the farm, and their lands will double their
out of the pipe. It is sold at four dollars present value.
and a haif at Shawinigan Falls as itcornes
Hon. Mr. POWER-Pardon me a moment.
out ot the pipe away back.ln the woods. If
It la worth that there, what wil l t be wortli ls the hon. gentleman bearing In mnd the
at Ottawa and the other great centres tfact that the grain muet corne by rail as
through whlch the canal wiIll un ? You far as Lake Superior ?
cannot belîttle the question of water power.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-That lu right.
It becomes more valuable every year, and
Hon. Mr. OWENS-I do nlot loue sight of
In a very few years It wifl be one of the
the tact that it cornes by rail to the head
valuable asscts of the country, and this
route being opened up through a country of Lake Superior, and that would be an
where there i. any amount of ore, the el- answer to the argument of the hon. gentleectric power wIll be used for smelting, and man that we are going to ruin the railways.
wI enable them to utiiize 10w grade ores It will tax the railways to their full capathat cannot be toucbed to-day. Ail along city to carry the grain fromà the wheat fields
that route there wIll be a great quantity te the head ot Lake Superior.
of ore shipped by water that cannot be carHon. Mr. POIRIER-And they are doublried by rail, and instead of the canal being lng the tracks for that purpose.
In opposition to the Canadian Pacific RailHon. Mr. OWENS-Yes, and it will'tax
way, to which we have advanced money, it them to their full capacity even then to carry
wIll be a great feeder for the Canadian the grain to Lake Superior, and then it can
Pacific Railway. It la going to be bulIt Up lie brought to tidewater at a 10w freight
beslde the Canadian Pacific Railway. The rate. To-day my hon. friend knows the rate
amount of supplies and machinery that will by rail. 1 thlnk trom Fort William to Monbe taken In tiiere during the construction treal the lowest rate 19 fitteen cents a
will be carried by the Canadian Pacific bushel, and this ucheme should bring it
Railway.
down to about a cent and a haîf a bushel.
Hon. Mr. FORGET-The grain cannot be
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-From where?
Hon. Mr. OWEN-Âs far as the grain
le concerned, our hon. rriends frorn the
weut know that that country will produce
more grain than our roada can carry. We
will nlot only require ail the railways we

Hon. Mr. OWENS-Fort William to Montreal. The hon. gentleman whe Introduced
this resolution was endeavouring probably
to Induce capital to go into steamships. He
was figuring a rate of three cents per
bushel, but In doing se he was showing that

500

SENATE

a vessel wonld clear about $6,000 in Èive
days wlth f relght only one way, -wlthont
considerlng the return frelght. If return
freigbt were counted, it would bring it up
to $8,000 or $10,000 a trip, -which wouid
Iacrease largely the number o! vessels on
the lakes. But my hon. fnlend from KingSton anld some other bon. gentlemen have
nsked Vie question: Hlow much shorter is
this route going to be? It is only about
baif of the distance of the route by the St.
Lawrence and Welland canal. It is only
haif the distance from Lake Supenior by
the Georgian bay canal to Montreal Vian
by the other route. I think the distance Is
42-7 miles, and ln ail that distance there Is
only about 25 miles of canal. You may
spend millions upon millions on Vie other
route and yoii cannot bring It down to n
twenty-foot canal. There is too mnch canal.
In this case the canal le built by nature.
There are remarkable stretches of navigable
water. There are only about'25 or 27 miles
of canal and 50 or 55 miles or dredgIng ln the river. We are not speaking ln
the dark in regard to the cost o! the work.
The surveys have been made and quantities
have been estimated. If the Information
Is not before Vie House, it will be In a shor
time. We are not speaking at random, and
w-e have not taken reports o! any foreign
country for it. We have here the facts
ascertained by our own competent engineers.
The hon, gentleman from Halifax stated
Viat none of our Canadians ever advocated
this scheme.
Hon. Mr. POWER-No, the hon. gentleman from Kingston Raid so.
Hon. Mr. OWENS-Weii, we will sa3'
the hion geatleniàn from Kingston, but I
thonglit a great many hon. members would
ngree with me that the words feUl from the
hon. gentleman from Halifax. The hon.
gentleman must have been a Rip Van
Winkle. He must have been asleep for
fifty years or he would realize that
a great many years ago Walter Shanley,
w-ho was one of the most eminent engineers
of bis day, made surveys upon that route.
It w-as oniy for a 14-foot canal, but his
estimates were very 10w compared with the
present estimates. His figure w-as $25,000,000 or $30,000,000 1 think. This would show
IOiat there were no engineering diffieulties
Honi. Nlr. OWENS.

The lion. gentleman spoke
lu the way.
about business men flot taking the mnatter
uî). How many business men, of the country are acquainted with 1t? Sharp business men do flot talk about matters of
whlch they know nothlng. Many of our
business men ln Montreal know the advisntages are la favour of that route and
bave advocated It for years. It Is true thnt
tbey have not been going through the country making stump speeches ln reference to
it, but they have been advocating the route.
and if you look upon the map you see what
a direct route we have. With those magnificent water stretches It Is difficult to realize how that route could have remalned
dormant so long, but the fact was they had
commenced spending money on the St. Lawrence route. They feit they were obliged
to do it. Canada was not always the Canada It Is to-day. When our annual expenditure was for $28,000,000 or $30,000,000 some
of the gentlemen ln parliament to-day heltl
Up their hands hn plous horror at the government and prophesied that we were golng
bankrupt. No wonder the government would
not undertake ln those days snch a proposition as Is before us now. Canada ls to-day a
wealthy nation compared with what It was a
few years ago, and this work will not be of
such very great Importance ln comparison
flc ountry
witli the financial condition ofn
to-day, because even if you take the most
extravagant estimate of its cost the lnterest
upon that money, supposlng there were no
returns from the canal. would be Paid bY
using a very little economy, ont o! our present expenditure; but speaking serlonsiy,
the canal does not require to be a burden
o! one dollar on the country. The revenues
we would receive from water-power and
other sources wonld more than pay the Ia,
terest on the money. It would be oniy fair
that the government should place touls on ail
the canais as far as that is concerned. The
reason they dld not place tolls on the St.
Lawrence canais Is that they could not
compete with the Unitad States canais.
But that argument will not apply to this
canal. They wiil be able to pay toil, and
even then secure the western grain traffic.
The cheapest and best route to New York
wiil be down the Georgian Bay canal,
through the Ottawà river to Montreai and
tlience to New York. For conisumption

31ARCH 12, 1908
in New York city and in the eastern
states, this route would ha adopted
for western produce. When we say
that, bon. gentlemen can Imagine how
little of tbe grain for export would go
througb the United States route. None of
It would go that way. We would carry
It tbrough Canada to Canadian ports. I hope
the hon, gentleman will flot shlow the bugbear cry of the great charge It 'will be on
the country to frigbten them from this
undertaking, because It will flot be a charge.
The savlng la time on the round trip for
vessels runnlng between Port Arthur and
Montreal wUll be at least three days as
compared with the present route, wblch 1s
a very Important factor In decidlng the
value to shîppers of the Ottawa and Georgian Bay canal. Tbe bon, gentleman who
introduced the motion explained it clearly,
I hope the House wUll reaIlze that the subject Is one ' f the most Important that
can be brought before the people of Canada.
It is to the whole Dominion the most important work that can be undertaken, and
I hope- that the government wili take lkold
of the project and carry It to completion.
Hon. M~r. BERNIER moved that the debate be adjourned tIll to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (32) An Act to Incorporate the Bank
of Vancouver.-(Hon. Mr. Bostock.)
Bill (68) An Act respecting the Edmonton
Yukon and Pacific Railway Company.(Hon. Mr. Davis.)
Bill (70) An Act to incorporate the Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Pead'e River and Dawson Railway Company.--(.Hon. Mn. Roy.)'
Bill (99) An Act to amend the Immigration
Act.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)

501

APPOINTMENTS 0F SENATOIIS.
MOTION.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE xnoved:
That the return to an order of the Senate,
dated January 31, 1908, showing the appointments made to tbe Senate from Confederation, with date of appointment, and dates
when they ceased te ha senators, be printed.
He sald : I make this motion wlth a vlew
to baving a public record, whlch I thougbt
would be in the Interests of the friends of
those wbo have passed away and the triends
of those who wIll pass away. I bave the
list in my hand. I find tbe first Is John
Hamilton, the Hon. Roderick Matheson,
John Ross, Samuel MIis, and so on. It 15
not necessary to read ail the names and
they inay be taken as read. I tbink It will
be a v4ry nice tribute to ail these bon.
gentlemen, for most of us are living, we
might say, almost in a fool's paradise. We
ail like honour. We like to have everybody
know wbat we bave been. We lJke to give
publicity to our family records. Sotne of
us have very long ancestries. Perliaps we
are ail related, Inasmucb as we are ail descended from Adam. He was the common
father of us ail, and, therefore, to a certain
degree, we are aIl connected. I was going
to tell a Scotch jokie, but as I observe an
hon, gentleman is laugblng I shall not do
so. Wheu future generations examinue tbe
records of the country tbey will discover
the hon. gentlemen wlio served the couintry with honour, wbo were Weil tbougbt of
Ùy their friends and by the publie nt large.
I tbink there migbt be a record made of It
lu the 'Debates,' and tbe only way to ohtain this record that I can discover la to
make this motion. Tbe naines can go on
the 'Debates'1 and remain there forever.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Why not bave It
prInted as a sessional paper ?
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Yes, but tMIS wilI
The Senate adjourned tilI 3 o'clock toappear on the 'Debates' and sve migbt
morrow.
bave a special document printed, If that
would suit my bon. frlend's views.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot see any use
THE SENATE.
inserting the names lu the *Debates ' If we
bave it as a sessional paper. The sesslonal
OTTAWA, Tbursday, March 12, 1908.
paper wvill be a nice record but the 'DeThe SPEAKER took the Chair nt Three bates' are very voluminous.
o'clock.
lion. Mr. DOMVILL-It will go on thc
Debates.'
Prayers and routine proeeedings.

502

SENATE

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, it wiil be printed
as a sessional paper by Itself.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-And on the 'Debates.'
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, no.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I amn wiliing to
bow to my bon. friend's view. If that is
the wisb of the House, I bave uothing
more to say, except to maire tbe motion
seconded by tbe hon. gentleman from Lauzon (Hon. Mr. Bolduc.)
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If this is an order
given by tbe Senate it should be referred
to the Joint Committee on Printing.
I
arn toid that this return refera only to tbe
Senate; but we print documents brougbt
down In both Houses.
The rule la to submit auch documenta to the Joint* Committee on Printing, who make a ebolce and recommet-d that aucb and such documenta be
printed.
I do not know If tbere la a report
of tbe Joint Cornrittee on Printing dealing
with the document before us.
I arn not
sure that we are not now Interfering 'witb
a matter that Is already before the committee.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-The bon, gentleman
bas bimaelf rnoved tbat thia report be
Printed.
If that be so, I do not see that
the report wilI go to the Printlng Committee; but If it ahould go to the Printing Coinmittee tbey will deal wlth it as they do witii
any paper referred to thern.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want to kuow If
tbat returu bas aiready been before the
cornmittee, or If the committee bas done
anytbing with it?
Hon. Mfr. ELLIS-No.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It Is to avold Interfering wltb the worlç of the comrnIttee.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-This la a paper wbich
bas aiready been laid before the House, and
I presume on motion it would go before the
comrnittee.
The meeting of tbe cornmittee
wlll be to-morrow morning, and posaibly
tbnt document wlll corne before tbem.
SThe motion was agreed to.

1. What is the amouiit of the deposit made
by ' The State Life Insurance cornpany,' of
Indiaaapolis, tJ.S. 1'
2. Has the company filed a report of its
lest year's operations in Canada ?
3. If so, how many contracte are in force
in CanadaP
4. How many contracte have been passed
in Canada since the beginning of the operations of that company ?
5. How many of these contracts have
lapsed, and for what reasons P How rnany
have been cancelled, and how many not issned, and for what reas-ons?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers sent to
me by the department are as follows:
1. The deposit of the State Life Instirance
Comnpany In the bands of the Receiver General consista of securities of the pnr value
of $85,00.
2. Yes.
3. The iast returu made by the cornpany
reports 174 policies as in force at December 31st. 1907; amount insured thereunder,
$1,039,456, exclusive of amounts re-iiisured.
4. The number of contracts issued In
Canada between Marcb, 1904, wben the company was first lcensed, and December 3lst,
1907, was 420.
5. Between Marcb, 1904, and December
31st, 1907, the number of contracts which
were terminated was 246, made up as follows: By death, 4; by surrender, 2; by
being 'flot taken,' 47; by lapse, 170.
The department is not In possession of
specific reasons for such terminations.
TUE HINDOOS AT VANCOUVER.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before the orders of the day are caiied, may I direct the
attention of the leader of the House to a
telegram wbichi appeared in iast night's
Free Pres., It la as follows:
Vancouver, B.C., March 11.-Yesterday afternoon Magistrate, Williams gave jndgment
ia the cases of eighteen Hindus, tried for
failinlg to pass the educational test of the
provincial Natal Act.
They were found
guilty and sentenced to pay the statutory
fine of $500 or twelve months' imprisonment.
The defending counsel intimated that the
appeal would be taken without loss of time.
I need scarce]y point out to my hon.
friend that tbose Hindoos upon their arrivai
In Canada would scarcely be provlded with
STATE LIFE INSURANGE COMPANY 0F $900 each to satisfy this fine. In India,
I presume it would take one of those ImINDIANAPOLIS.
migrants a life time to ean tbat amouint.
INQUIRY.
What I shouci like to ask my hon. friend
Hon. Mfr. CHOQUETTE iniquired of the is: what bas the goverument done, or what
governmient:
will the governrnent do with regard to the
Hon. Mfr. DOMVILLE.

MAROE 12, 1908
prsecution of those Hindoos?
WIII the
government take the saute steps as were
taken witb reference to the Japanese 'who
were arrested under the Natal Act?
On
that occasion tbey instructed counsel- to
defend the Japanese.
If they have done
so ln the case of the Hindoos, what are tbe
Instructions that were glven?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The goverument bas
taken no action at present, and I arn not ln
a position to say wbnt action may be taken.
1 read the telegrarn, but have bad no opportunity of discussing it.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-WiIl the hon.
gentleman be good enougb to furnisbi the
Information to the Obamber ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, nlot unless the governent corne to some decision. They mnay
take no action. The case bas gone to the
Court of Appeal, I understand, and we
wllI ale*w the Court of Appeal to settie ItL
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-In the case of
the Japanese, the government instructed
counsel and assumed the responsibillty of
paying counsel. If it was reasonable to do
sO in the case of aliens, it would be stili
more so ia the case of our fellow subjcts.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The conditionis xere
entirely different. We liad a treaty with
Japan, and the government of Canada ivere
responsible that the Japanese sbould be
protected under that treaty, particularly
as we were then negotiating for a better
uuderstanding witb Japan. Wblle those negotiations were goiug on, it was the duty or
the goverament to protect the Japanese wbo
were belng prosecuted.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I cannot understaud wby the Hindoos are k-ept out of this
country. Why not dlsallow the Act at
once ? At one tirne the British goverument
Imported cargoes of Coolies, as the indoos were then called, Into Demarara, Triaidad and British Gujana. The sagar estates could not bave been worked without
cbeap labour. It is time for us to ronslder
wbether Canada is prepared to bave cbeap
labour, wbetber combines and mouiopolies
are to exist at large, and wbether the
masses are to bave any say on this question. It is not wbat we as judges rnay
tbink, because we are buman and Imperfect and getting sornewbat old and living
ia the past; we ure nlot as briglit as we

50

were thirty years ago, and If -we were to
speak to-day as we would bave spoken
thirty years ago, It would be useless, everythlng Is chaagiag so fast. Instead of playIag witb this question, would It flot be
better to come to some decIsion as te what
should be done. As an integral part of the
Britisb empire, hoistiag tbe union jack and
crying lmperlalism wben it suits us, ationalizlng the plains of Abrabanm nnd assembliag 20,000 troops to commemorate a
glorions eveat la the blstory of thîs country, invitiag the Prince of Wales to corne
out a, a mark of good fellowship, w-ly
sbould we ruIe ont from this country our
feliow subjects la Indla? Do we not require India to work for us if there Is atny
trouble ? Are we not rnaintaiaing ail those
Rajahs with an nrniy under British residents ? And If a general mi~x-Up occurs,
as sometimes bappens, they will bav'e sO
rnany Indian armies that will filht for
thein, stand by tbern, and bold up the Brltislh lag. Now, under those circurntances,
our supporting the Indian princes, and supporting tbe principle that they are a necesslty to the empire, does it nlot seem very
unbritisb that we sbould sbut ont our fel10w British subjects from our shores ? I
would suggest to rny hon. friend that the
Act be disnllowed la so fan as 1t relates
to British subjects. Wben tbe objection Is
takei to Dagoes and tat class of !rnmigrants, tat is another story. We unîte
to keep theni out; but whea it
is «i question of excluding Hindoos,-I do not tblnk
tat ls the rigbt word-Coolies or East
Indians, I tblnk It Is the duty of tuie Senate to consider it, on is merits, untrammelled by any labour Infuence, as Is the case ln
the bluse of Commons, wbere hoth sides
are embanrassed. -Wben it cornes before a:
dellberative body like the Senate, we should
fairly relieve bota sides of politics in the
Commoas, and corne to some decision. If
oun influence is worth anytbiag at all, we
sbould point out that lt would be well to
repeal that Act at once and be donc '%vith It.
The SPEAKER-This discussion bas gone
beyond the range of our practice.
THIRD READINGS.
BIII (21) An Act respecting the British
Yukon Rallway Company.-(ýHou. Mr. Belcourt.)

SENATE
as necessary, our reasons for amending the
Bill, as bas been suggested by the committee to whlch the Bill was referred, or as
thîs House may finally decîde to amead the
Bill. I desire to call your attention at the
outset -to this point: that la virtue of the
Rallway Act, as it was adopted ln 1903, this
parliament created a Board of Rallway
Comnilssloners who are vested wlth ail the
techalcal knowledge possible in the way of
RAILWAY ACT AMENDMIDNT BILL.
engineers and experts, and entrusted that
HOUSE IN COMMITTEE.
board witli the duty of protecting the inThe House resolved itself Jute Commit- terests of the country at large, of protecting
tee of the Wliole on the report of the the commercial Interests, the railway la a
Standing Commlttee on Railways, Tele- fair measure, protectlng tlie public against
graphs and Harbours, to whom was refer- the rallway la a fair measure, and protectred Bill (3) An Act to amend the Railway iag aise human lfe. Under section 30 of
Act.
the Railway Act It was provlded that:
(In the Committee.)
The Board may make orders and regulaThe CHAI RMAN-Bill No. 3 lbas been tions
(a) Limiting the rate of speed at which
referred to a speclal committee, and lias railway trais and locomotives may run in
been reported to the House, and the House aay city, towa or village, or in auy class o!
may.
towns or villages, and
bas by motion referred that report, with cities, sees fit, limoit certain the Board speed
rates of
if it
thie Bill, to a Committee of the Whole, and withia certain prescribed portions of any
I thlnk the question, as thie matter now city, towa or village, and dîfferent rates of
thereof.
stands, ls this: that we take up tue report speed in other portions
Under this clause, power was given to the
of the committee as given to the House.
board to limit the speed of trains as the
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-As against the Bill!
board deemed lt advlsable; but it was
The Billlias deemed advisable to go a step further as reThe CHAIRMAN-No.
been referred to a standing commlttee.
gards thickly peopled portions of cities,
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-With a recommeuda- towns or villages, and au important proIt
vision was embodied. lu section 275.
tien.
was section 227 of the Railway Act of 1903,
The CHAIRMAN-The Standing Coin- but It la section 275 of the Rnilway Act as
mittee lias doue the work ou the Bill aud
1 say thýat the parconsolldated lu 1906.
reported it to the Huse, and the House has
liament went a step further lu this respect:
referred that report to a Committee of the tliat parliament loaded the commission with
Whole.
The main question now is u the the responsibuhity of acting la individual
report of that commlttee.
cases, and udopting a speclal order for lnHon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
dividual cases wlienever a railway traHon. Mr. YOUNG-Is the Bill as well versed any city, town or village, if they
desired, to exceed a speed of teu miles
not referred to the committee?
an bout. lu other words, the Railway Act
The CHIAIPRMAN-I arn speaking of limited te ten miles an liour the speed lu
The question such cases, unless the board decided otherwhat the House lias done.
la shahl the report of tUe committee lie wlse. Parliament did so, because, as I
adopted.
appreliend. it desired to protect bumanlife,
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-As this question is a and wanted to place the responsibility ou
very important one, and bas been made the the Railway Board for special cases of that
subject of several Bis whicli, lu late years, kind, 'where there was presumed to exist a
have been passed by the House of Com- special danger. Tlierefore, section 275 -o!
mons, and rejected by this Chamber, 1 the Railway Act, whlcli was a departure
think It Is proper that we should place oni to a certain extent from section 30 of the
record as concisely as possible, but as fully same Act, was embodied la these termns:
The SPEAKER.

Bill (P) An Act respecting the Quebec and
New Brunswick Rallway Company.--(Hon.
Mr. Costigan.)
Bill (K) An Act respecting the Western
Alberta Rallway Company.-(Hlon. Mr. DeVeber.)
Bill (W) An Act to amend the Naturalizatien Act.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)

MAROHR 19,, 1908
No train shall pass in or through any
thicklv peopled Portion of any cjty, town or
village at a speed greater than ten miles an
kour, unless the track is feaced or properly
protected la the manner prescribed by this
Act, or unless permission is given by sorne
rcgulation or order of the Board.
Hon, gentlemen wiil notice that the speed
Is limited to ten miles an hour in ail these
cases, unless two conditions obtain; aamely,
unless the track Is fenced or properly protected In the manner prescrlbed bv Vis
.Act, or unless permission Is given by soute
regulation or order of Vhe board. This. to
my mmnd, was a wlse provision, and I arn
flot aware that any reason has been given
to do away witb It. 1 amn not aware Vint
railway companles bave complained, and
surely it had the effect of protectlng buman life, by preventing railway trailas from
runnlng at a speed of twenty or tblrty tuiles
an bour in tblckly peopled portionq of Vie
cities, towns or villages, even If the railway was flot feaced. In. The Flouse of
Commons, lu lts desire to deal wili anothei
matter, flot the speed of rallway trains
withln a clty wbere Vie track bad been
fenced la, but la dealing witi bighwsy crossings had this Idea: to repeal section
275 of the Rallway Act, and dld so by
the Bill wblch bas corne before thiq House
on his occasion, as well as by Vie BVils
which came before Vis House on two or
three previous occasions.
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-WIIhlVe bon. gentleman point out In what respect section 275
of the present Railwày Act Is defective?
Hon. Mr. BEIQU-I do flot propose to
take out Vint section. I amrn ft golng to
point out la wbat way It is defective, because I approve of section 275 as far as It
goes, and I waat to leave it, and Vie report
wl.iclx is now before this House is to leave
it as It is, and addiag Viereto a provision,
not-referriag to Vint part of the railway at
ail, but referring solely to bighway crossings. The formn in wblch section 275 of
Vie present Bill came before this Ho use was
tbis
1. Section 275 of the Railway Act is repeaied, and the followiag is substituted
therefor :
275. -No train shaîl pass over any highway
crossing at rail-level in any thickly-peopled
portion of anv citv, town or village at a
greater speed than ten miles an heur, unless
sncb crossing is properly protected, or uuxless

such crossing is constructed and thereafter

duly maintained in accordance with the orders, regulations and directions of the Railway committee of the Privy Council and of
the Board in force with respect thereto. The
Board rnay limit such speed in any case to
uny rate that it deems expedient.
2. The cornpany shall have until the first
day of Jaauary, one thousand aine hundred
and aine, te comply with the provisions of
this section.
For rny part I taire exception to Vie Bill
drafted as I have read It, lirat, because, assumlng to deal with hlghway cr.ossings, it
repeals Vie provisions of 275, whicb limita
the speed to ten miles an hour If the railway Is not properly fenced la. It Is a ditferent subject altogether. For mv part, 1
suggest that section 275 rernaîn la thie Rai.lway Act as it la. Then I take exception
to Vis Bil, as worded, for this addltional
reason: that Iastead of leaving to the
Board Vie decislon as to how In each
case Vie highway crossing shaîl be
protected, It: leaves It to a jury la ail cases,
and la this 1 amn not seeklng to protect the
railway companies; I arn seeklng to protect Vie people at large, because it Is a
question whicli should flot be Ieft open, and
sbould be. settled beforehand. It sbould be
mnade Vie duty of aIl railway companies to
protect Vie bighway crossing and to maire
thern respoasible If It Is nlot protected, as
is deerned advisable by decision of the experts of Vie Railway Commission. If it
were lef t to a jury, of- course it would be
ieft to a jury lui eacb Indîvîdual case. One
jury la one case would decide that sucb a
thIng Is a proper protection, and Vie jury
In another part of Vie country wouild decîde Viat It Is not a proper protection, and
there would be a confusion of derîsions
wIbich siould flot obtala la matters of Vhis
kiad; Vierefore it seerna to me that Vie
extent to wbich Vis jiarliameat qhould go
would be to make it Vie duty of the Railway Board to take up ai Viese inatters
as fast as tbey possibly can, and to prescribe Ia a techaical way and la a wise
manner, bow Vie protection la eacb case
sbould be made. -This Bill Is further defective, because It is sougbt to apply Vie
sane mile to some two Viousand five handred crosslngs that are to be fouad froni
one end of Vie country to Vie other. It Is
sougbt to spply the saine rule to Vie
Nhole tweaty-fotur lîours of the day, wliere-

SENATE
as it is known that a speed which may be
dangerous for twelve hours of the day may
flot be dangerous at other hours at certain
places. It is also defective lni this furtber
respect, that the Bill as drafted wouid not
attain its object, and for thls resisonHon. Mr. YOUNG-You are now speaking
of the Bill as It passed the Hlouse of Commons?
It must cornHon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes.
ply with any one of three conditions; first,'
unless such crossing is properly protected.
That ls a question whlch will be left to the
jury; second, or unless such crosslng le constructed and thereafter duly rnalntained ln
accordauce with the orders, regulations, and
directions of the Raiiway CommIttee of d'e
Privy Councîl and of the board lu force
The third, the board
'with respect thereto.
may limit sucli speed lu any case to any
Let me cal]
rate that It deems expedient.
your attention first of ahl to the fact thut
according to the laet phrase the limltlng
of speed wouId be frorn ten miles down.
The board could not give permission to exceed that limait under any conditions. But
the point to whlch I arn at present dlrectlng
your attention is this, that when ouch a
condition as the followlng la inserted: 'Or
unlese such crossing is constructed and
thereafter duhy maintained. lu accordance
wlth the orders, regulations, and directions
of the Rallw.ay Oommittee of the Prlvy
Council and o! the board ln force wid' respect thereto '-that this condition is flot
lmportlng really a new condition into d'e
Under d'e Railway Act
law as It stands.
o! 1903, as well as under the RaIlway Act
of 1888 it was Incumbeut on ail railway
companies to furnlsh plans to the committee of the Privy Concil and get an order
approvlng of d'e plans, and the plans have
to show ail these crosslngs lu every case.
Therefore, I say that there existe to-day
orders-d'ey are general orders If you like
-coverlng aIl d'ese cases, every crossThey are general orders applying to
lng.
eacb railway, and therefore a railway cernpany, If thle Bill were passed, would be
enabled to show that they have complied
wlth the law and with these regulations,
consequently d'e Bill would not attain its
What we should seek te achieve is
object.
this-to make It the duty e! the Railway
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

Board to Issue an order that will aff ect
That is, it will prevent
every crossing.
the rallway companies from malntainlng
that they are complying wlth the Rallway
Act by complying witb general orders Issued la the past. That Is why I have corne
to the conclusion that the report of the
commlttee la defective ln that respect. The
report was made of course lu a hurrlêd
way, and followed the wording of the origiIt is, for that
nal Bill lu that respect
reason that I move to amend subsection 3
so that II: wlll read as follows:
8. No train shal paes over any highway
erein
t rail-les-el in any tthickly peopled
poto f any city, town or village at a «rent-gthan ten miles an hour, unlees such
er epeed
crossing is oonetructed and tiierea~fter duly
maintained and .protected in accordance withi
an order, regula'tion aud the directions of the
Railway Committee of the Privy Couacil or
of the board in force with respect thereto, or
unleffl permIision je gi en by soîne regulation
or order of the board.v The board may from
time to time fix the speed in any case et any
rate that it deems proper.
In the report whlch you wlll Elnd at page
212 of the Minutes you have this wordlng:
No train shahl pas over any highway crosseopled portion
ng t rail level in ûny thickly greaiter Gpeed
village eit
cîty,.town
of anytan mIle anorhour, unleg a such crossing
than
ie constrncted and thereafter duly maintained
in aecoordance 'with the orders, regulations and
om-Tnittee of the
directions of the Raiiway
Privv Council or of the board in force with
respect thereto.
That le defective, because it says, 1 In
accordance wlth the orders, regulations, and
T
directions of the Railway Committee.'
suggest that it be made to read, 'In accordance with an order, regulation, and the
So
directions of the Rallway Committee.'
that it wlill remove it from these general
orders.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Act would not
operate until an order had been made by
the Rallway Board.
Hlon. Mr. BEIQUE-The speed will be reduced until the board makes an order or
gives permission otherwîse.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Do 1 understand d'e
hon. gentleman to say that the Ralway
Committee would be obliged to pass a
special order for each crossing?
Hon. Mr. BEIQLE-Practically.

MAROII 12, 1908

507

Hon. Mfr. CLORAN-You wiil need to the Bill as brought ta this liouse, that they
had a praper protection, because It wouid
have smre extra commissianers.«
be always open ta the railway companies
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE--The second condition to contend that although they had. not the
In the report of the committee is:
protection prescribed by the Railway
Or unlesa much crossing isaproperly proteet- Board, the rallway crassiug was properiy
ed in aooordanoe with auch orders, regulations protected, and, la that respect, 1 dlai that.
ond directions, or unleas permission is given It is Important ta change the wording la
by morne regulation. or order of the board.
order ta diminIsh as much as possible itiI draw your attention ta this, that this
gation. Before movlng the arndment I
wording Is making a dlfference between wish ta place on record the tacts as I undercrosslngs -1duly maintained ln accordance stand them. The question is of cousiderable
witb the orders, regulations and directions Importance. I think It la conceded that
of the Raiiway Comxittee 1 and ' crossings
there are about twenty-flve hundred railway
properly protected ln accordance witb such
crossings which would be aff ected by this
orders, &e.' It wouid be very confusing, Bill.
and for my part, as a lawyer, I wouid be
Han. Mfr. FERGUSON-Where does ray
at a loas to understand the meaning of the
Act ln xnakiug such a difference. So, tn hon. friend get bis figures ?
the amendment wbich I offer, I make al
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-These are the figures
Jnte one condition so that It wili read :
which were placed before the committee by
the companies concerned. I know that it la
3. No train shall pass over any highway
crossing at rail-level in any thickly peopled not reguiar for me ta refer ta what took
portion of any city, town or village at a great- place in cormlittee, but this being a public
ei- speed than ten miles an hour, unless snob ]Bil, I think It much better ta do %o. The
crossinç is constructed and thereafter duly
maintained and protected in accordance with tacts which were put before-the committee
ai' order, regulation and the directions of the were publisbed the next day ln the 4Free
Railway Committee of the Privy Couneil or
Press'1 and were aima embodied lu the reof the board in force with respect thereto.
port of the Investigation before the Hanse
It la mauch shorter. It bas the advautage of Commons la 1906. They were practiof nlot repeating the sme tbing; it niakes caiiy ta the sme effect. The fact3 were
It much atronger, aud avoids auy question these. Mfr. Chrysler, who appearei for the
being raised If the protection ln one case Grand Trunk Railwayla different from the protection ln others.
Objected that the Bullas passed by the ComThe court and jury wiii have ln each case
mous wonld compel the railways to make
ta decide whetber the crosslng was, at the changes on a very large nuiuber of level crosstime of the accident, protected as decided by ings within a year or have to face the alterthe epeed of their trains.
the Raiiway Board. I t wli be incumbent on native of reducing
He argued 'that the existing .l4w and the
railway company, before they can exceed powers of the Railway Commission gave the
the
It would,
a speed of ten miles an hour at highway public ample protection. protection -moreover,
asked for
be impossible to give the
an order of the Rail- by the Bull withiu the year specified. In many
crossings, ta obtain
way Board prescribiug how that highiway cases the roadway wouid have to be eitered
necessary ta coastruct
it would
crossiug shall be protected, and ta comply becausean overhead be subway terossing. This
or
either
with that order or otherwise be liahie. It would take years. The other alterneative was
with
will be incumbent ou them, failiug their that the companies ishould place gates wonld
watchmen iu charge of them; thaît aleo
being able to comply with that, ta obtain take years e t1o properly.
ln the meantime permission from the RailWould Lengthen Journeys.
way Board ta exceed for a given tirne that
Hle poiated out thet it took two miles te slow
speed eitber for the twenty-four heurs af down a passenger train to ten -miles an heur.
If the Bill were passed in its ipresent foan the
the day or for certain hours of the day. Of result; would be that the time for running the
course the courts or jurles wiil have ta de- night train froin Montreai to Toron"o, and
uow took seven and a haif
cide whether the compauy bas coxnplied vice versa, which increased ta thirteen heurs.
heurs, wanld be
wlth the requiremeuts of the Railway Ânother important point wes that the reducBoard. If they have nlot complled, then tien of speed of f ast trains would deprive the
Canadian roadas of a large quantity of traffic
the raiiway companies cannat fall back ini fresh aneats and -fruiýtq whtch wouid go to
ilpon the wording whIch Is te be folnd ln United States roads. He -pointed eut th-ik

SENATE
ca'ttle trains now wient through te Montreal
in twenty-four heurs.
If the Bill were enforced this would be impossible and the cattle
would have te be taken out of the cars, fed
and watered, with the result that the business
would go te the American roads, which would
not be hampered by similar regulations. The
length of freight trains would aise have te be
reduced.
Means a Big Expenditure.
The Canadian Pacifie Railway had 1,375 and
the Grand Trunk Railway 787 crossings which
would be affected by sthe Bill. The installation of gates cost at least a thousand dollars
a year each te maintain them, se that the problem which the railways had te face wae ipparent. The fact was that the passage of the
Bill would imean an expenditure by the railways of et least $50,000,000.
Mr. Chrysler argued that this was a matter
which should be left te the Railway Commission, a body which knew what it was doing.
In the wett villages had grown up after the
railways bad gone there, and he argued that
in snob cases the municipalities should bear et
least a share of the cost of providing such protection as was required by the Bill.
Senator Davis said that ithe railways had
made ail the money there was te be made out
of the villages by selling lots and warranted
te get some of it
Railway Experts Speak.
Mr. G. A. Mountain, chief engineer of the
Railway Commission, stated that the Commissien was looking into the matter of protection
at railway crossings. In the paet three years
its officers had examined and reported upon
503 crossings and had ordered bells, gates or
subways et most of them.
Te instal a bell
cost about $300; to put in a set of double gates
about $700, while the cost of maintenance was
about $1,000 a year. As an exemple of what
the Bill would involve he cited the case of the
subway et Bank street, in this city, which
cost $75,000.
In the case of all new railways highwty
crossing plans were referred te the municipal
or village authorities and permission was not
given te the railway te construct until the permission of the municipalities had been secured.
More than once municipalities had
appealed against plans, and in several cases
the plans had been modified. With the present staff it would take the commission several
years te examine all the level crossings, but
the number inspected was increasing every
year.
Each crossing ought te be dealt with
on its tmerits.
Mr. Dillinger, traffic officer of the Railwy
Commission, said that te reduce the speed ofi
a passenger train te ten miles an hour meant
a minimum lass of time of three minutes,
while in the case of freight trains it was twiceas much.
With ninety crossings between
Montreal and Toronto the increase in time for
passenger trains would be £rom four te five
heurs.
Would Imperil Imperial Contract.
Mr. Charles Drinkwater, speaking for the
Canadian Pacific Railway, pointed out that his
company hed on the route a fast train, the
Overseas Limited, te compete with the Suez
canal route ta the Orient. This was scheduled
ta make the distance across the continent in,
first, 100 hours, then 84 hours, and now it hnd
been reduced te 72 hours. If thet train were
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

compelled te reduce its speed te ten miles at
crossings it would mean going back t the 100
hour basis, and this would inevitably result
ma the loss of the British mail contract.
These are tacts which were placed before the committee of this House and practically before the House of Commons in

1906. It appears from these tacts that the
question is one of the greatest importance,
not only to the railway companies, but to
the commerce at large and also for the
safety of human life. For my part, I am
net influenced by the expense which this
legislation will Involve. The expense should
be met by the railways, which means
by

the

public

at

large,

It

should

be

met in a reasonable and practical way and
I am satisfied that it cannot be done In
twelve mouths. We have the expert evidence of the chief engineer of the Ra!lway
Commission and other persons that it ls
impossible, that it bas taken over three

years te deal with 503 crossings. and if
they flave 2,500 crossing to deal with surely
they cannot be disposed of In three years.
Therefore, we -should make the Bill as effective as possible, provided we make It
reasonable and practicable, and we should
go te the extent of making it the duty
of the Railway Commission to proceed as

fast as possible lu requiring the railway
companies, te provide as great protection
as is practicable in every case. I therefore
move that subsection 3 be amended to rend
as follows :
3. No -train shall pass over any highway

crosing et rail-level in any thickly peopled
portion of any city, town or village et a greatet speed than ten miles an heur, unless euch
crossing is constructed and thereafter duly
maintained and protected in accordance with
an order, regulation and the directions et the
Railway Committee of the Privy Council or of
the board in torce with respect thereto, or unless permission is given by some regulation or
order of the board.
The board may from
time t time fix the speed in any rate that it
deems proper.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I

agree entirely

with the lion. member from De Salaberry
when he says that if this House proposes to reject a Bill of this kind,
which has been three times deliberately
and unanimously passed by the House of
Commons, we should put our reasons
very fully and strongly before the public
in order that they might weigh whether
our conduct is right or otherwise In thus
setting up the judgment of this flouse

MAROH 12, 1908
against the judgmento th people's repreVe
sentatives ln the House of Commons. And
1 submzt Vint if this House proposes to do
In another way the same thing as to throw
ont the Bill absolutely-that is, by thoroughly emascuiatlng lt, so as to leave it of
no use whatever-it devolves upon them to
give good and sufficient reasons for that
course. Let me say la the inceptIon of my
statement, as I have already intimated, that
this Bill bas passed the House of Commons
three times ln exactly the same forin that
we have now before us, that the question
was submltted to a Select Committee of
the House of (3ommons consisting af the
following gentlemen:-Mr. Lemieux, the present Postmaster General, Mr. Âylesworth,
the present Minîster of Justice, Mr. Emmerson, the former Minister of Raiiways,
Mr. McDonald, Picton, the late Mr. Stockton, and Messrs. Lennox and Lancaster,
seven éminent lawyers, four from one side
of the Hlouse and three from Vhe other; that
they heard as my hon. friend from De Salaherry stated, ail the reasons and arguments
and the facts which my hon. friend bas
been pleased ta eall them, whlcli the railway authorities placed before them, and
that. as a result Vie Bill known as the Lancaster Bill whicli has been passed three
times unanimously la the House of Conimons, was drafted and submitted to the
House.
I moy state further what Is a
tact. that the Bill was prepared as it now
stands, not by Mr. Lancaster, but by tue
Honi. Mr. Emmerson. There were several
drafts, but Mr. Emmerson's was the one necepted, and accepted unaninîously by that
distinguished committee, wlio reported it
two years ago to the House of Commons,
where lt was accepted unanimously by Vie
Hotuse, and it lbas twice since been reenacted, and twlce rejected by Vis Hanse.

H[ouse Of Commons unanimously, in fact
while the Bill was promoted by a vrivate
member it was adopted by the government
and made part of the governmeat Bill in
amenaiment to the Railway Act, but whexî
*t went to the Senate in the last hours of
the session the Senate declined to accept it.
It is not for me to question the jndgment
of the Senate, but it seems to be in the public interest that there should be legislation
of this character.
This was one year after the Bill was flrst
passed by the House of Commoas.
This
year it was again introduced, and after Mr.
Lancaster lad muade a long speech la support of it, the Miaister o! Ralways muade
these remarks:
Now the question of level crossings -and
their dangers is one that will not down iii
this country. The accidents that happen, not
oaly in Canada-because perhaps Canada is

as free as any other country, if not freer

than Borne other countries, in that respectforces this matter on aur consideration.
The question of transportation is one of
great importance, and the methods of rnoving the people to and f ro is one of great
înterest to the people theruselves. But the
paramount interest, ta my mind, is the protection of the lives of the people. This may
lie regarded by soute as a small matter, but
to my mind it is flot a sniall matter. We
have throughout the country districts, leaving ont anything whidli this Bill touches at
ail, many crossings that are very dangerous.

Every member of this Honse cau oall ta
mind Borne crossing in bis own constituency,
the approach to which. is very dangerous ta
the travelling public.
Whule it would lie
rash to go ta the exteirt o! insisting that
somethîng should be done at these crossings
ail et once, I amn in hearty sympathy with

the movement ta approacli the subject gra-

ciually, and take in thickly settled parts,
suri as cities, -towns and villages.
While
sayiag this, I have no desire ta encroach
upon the rights o! the railways. We have
niow a commission and that commission is ta
be enlarged. It has been proved heretofore
that the duties placed upon that commission
have been sa onerous and so numerons that
the members have not been able ta perforru
theru, and if we placed this work upon
that commission with its present number,
we would perhaps burden them unduly. But
'-%r. Emmnerson, a year ago, muade the follow- it is the intention of the government, with
the approval of this Hanse, which 1 beliei-e
Ing observations on Vie subjeet:
n iii lie unanimous ta enlarge this commission and piavide that these complaints shail
We thought it in the publie interest that practically go ta the decision of the comand the orders
there should be some further protection with mission, will lbe iacluded of the aid Privy
as well, ta, avoid
resDect to level crossings, and it seerus to us Couacil
certain injustices that rnight otherwise be
iunder present conditions that no better pro- done.
I do flot wish ta make any further
vision could bie haed than that contained in
this proposed legisiation. No one can fail rç-marks, onlv ta say that I concur in this
to recognize that there are very many ac- Bill, and 1 s'ill consent ta the second readcidents ail over Canada yearly, monthly. ing, without its going ta the Railway comweekly, almost in connection with these rail mittee.
level crossings, and it was considered that
These are the remarks o! the Hon. Mr.
solue provision should be made to obviate
on the
that danger. The committee, therefore muade Grnham, Minister a f Railways,
this proposition, whicli was accepted by the passage of thls Bill; and lie concluded his

510

SENATE

speech by saying that he was entireiy lu
sympatby with the objeet of the measure
and the Bil Itseif, and therefore he would
consent to the Bill being read a second time
without referrIng it to the Railway Committee, and the Bill came to, us ln this way
at the beginuing of the present session.
Now we muet inquire, what le the present
state of the 1mw with regard to this question? 'Mr. Chrysler's argument, which has
been rend to the Hanse, was that the existing iaw and the powers of the commission
gave the public ample protection. My hon.
friend read this evIdently with approvai,
but lie bas stili some amendaient to submit.
Hon. Mr. BEIQITE-No, I
took the position ln my remarks, and by the ameudment
which I bave proposed, and as a party ta
the report of the commIttee, that It was incumbent upon this House to go further
than the law goes at present.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-MY hon. friend
apparently-for I think It
Io only appmrentiY-admits that by his amendaient
we should go a littie further;
but I
tend that he bas flot gone one Inch confurther than we were before.
He is simply
working and twisting and getting us back
Just to the position iln which the law is at
the present time. However, I shall reach
that part of the question a Ilttle Inter. My
hon. friend reàfd section 275 of the Raiiway
Act and made the remark that a mistake
of the House of Gommons was that they
repealed section 275, which Is a very Important provision, and should rernain ln the
law.
If my han. friend wlll turu to seclion 393 of the Act he wIll Eud there a
provision exactly word for word the same
as section 275, with the dIfference that iii
section 275 the penalty of a reduction of
speed ls Imposed, whereas lu M9the penalty
is a çash one of $100 for each Infraction. I
wiil read the portion of 393 that deals with
that. It is as follows:
The company shall incur a penalty of $100
if<c) Âny train of the oompany passes in or
through any tbickly peopled portion of any
city, town or village at a speed greater thani
ten miles en hour, unlees the track is îenced
or properly protected in the manner preqcribed by this Act, or unless permission to
pass at a greater speed is given by some regulation or order of the hoard.
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON.

Here we have the very same provision
as section 275, the only difference being
that In the case of 275 there le a penalty
of reduction of speed attached to, the railway, while ln 393 the penalty ls $100l If
that speed should lie exceeded, ln preciseiy
the same cities, towns or villages.
My
point lu connection with that is that the
repeal of section 275 does not weaken the
Act at mli.
It only takes away one penalty; that ls the reduction of speed lu connectian with the passing of trains, not
over highway crossings, but over the tracks
of rmiiways spart fram the highway crossJugs.
I have no hesitation lu saying that,
when we had this question before us lmst
year, I was decelved.
The Railway Coinmittee was deceived.
We were led to beleve and were taid-I daresay in good faith
I arn not going ta say that my hon.
friend froin De Salaberry, among the rest
of the gentlemen who told us that wms not
speaking lu good falth-that section 275
was an ample protection for the highway
crossIngs.
Thot le what Mr. (Jhrysier told
us when he appeared before the Railway
Committee iast year. He went so far this
year as to say that the present 1mw was full
and ample, together with the powers of the
board, but he did not go so fuliy into that
matter as he did hast yemx.
Han. Mr. BEIQU'E-WIII the bon. gentleman permit me ta, correct bis statement by
saying this: that neither last year nor on
any other occasion did I take any part at
a il with. the Bill either lu cammittee or
otherwise.
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-On the floor of
the Hanse.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-No, I do nat think I
took any part ln the discussion on the floor
of the Hanse.
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-We are ln coinmittee, and I shall not break the thread
of my speech, but I shahl show hon. gentlemen Inter that the han. meniber froin DeSalaherry conteaded that section 275 was
full and ample, and he did say this
on the floor of this Hanse, and I promise my hon. friend I wiii quote the wards,
I shaîl also quate the statement he
made last year that the Lancaster Bill

MARCU 12, 1908
was very badly drafted, that it: w.aq reviving the powers of the Rallway Coinmittee
ofthVe Privy Council, and altbough 1 trled
to convince hlm that that was flot the
effect, 1 was flot a lawyer, and therefore
my views were flot entitled to mucli consideration. He dlsmlssed me with a wave
of bis band and went on witb his own
statement. Now I shall fot offer my own
judgment on that question, but I shall
submit the judgment ofthVe Supremp. Court
of Canada. We bave a judgment nf the
Supreme Court ln tie case ef McKay vs.
Vie Grand Trunk, ln wbieb a very elaborate judgment bas been rendered, and the
case turned upon section 259 of the Act of
1892 whicb corresponds witb 275 of the
Rallway Act. That section reads as follows:
275. No train shall pass in or through any
thickly peopled portion of any city, town or
village et a greater 6peed than ten miles %n
hour unless the track is fenced or Properl?,
proteoted in the manner ýprescrribed by this
Act or unless permission la given by some regulation or order of the board.
I confesa I was misled hast year myseif,
and 1 tbougbt Vils clause bad reference to
bigbway crossings, but it bias no sucb reference, and lu erder tbat I may couvince
bon, gentlemen tbat Vis view Is rIglit, 1
will read an extract from Vie judgmnent or
Vie Supreme Court of Canada dealing -witb
section 1259 ef the Act of 1892 whicli corresponds with 275 of the Railway Act.

In

511

passing through a thickly peopled por.

tion of a city, town or village a railway train
ia not liited to the. maximum 6-peed of six
miles an hour preecribed iby 55 and 56 Vie.
chapter 17, meotion 8, 8o long as the railway
fences on bath aides of the track are mnaintained and turned in and the cattie-guards at
highway crossingea s provided by section 6 of
said Act.
.The court found that clause 259 of the
Act of 1892 wbicb corresponds with 275 ef
tbe Rallway Act of 1903 as It stands In tbe
present case bad na reference te bighway
cressIngs, and tbere was ne limitation on
tbe speed of the train as long as the track
was protected, and as long as the fences
were turned la te the cattie guards. Here
is the judgment read by Sir -Louis Davies
and cencurred la by bis brother judges, Mr.
Justice Girouard dissentlng:
The. manner of fencing 'prescribed by the
Act ' ta by tnrning the fences on bath aides
of the rosn and on both aides of the track
ta the cate-gards.' Unless and -until this
is don. the limitation upon .the spesd at which
the. trains are to cross the. hîghiway namely
six miles en heur p e.
When it is done
the limitatian no lon e xiste. As I have
already dsaid tii... sections neither authorize
nor em.power tiie railway te ~Place fencSe or
gates acros the highway, and their object was
not ta provîde for the. protection cf the. travelling public, wiiich. wes provîded for by the
187 section of the Act but for the.safe passage
of trains and te secure that passage es far as
p ossible the exclusion of animais ifrom the
track either by way of the highwey or from
the. adjoinin.. lands.

Here we bave the flnding or the Supreme
Court that section 259 efthVe Act ef 1892
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-We are ail] agreed
wbich corresponds with 275 of the present
on Viat.
Act, which this House was made te believe
hast year was ample protection fer Vie higliHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I tbank my bon.
friend, but I will take my own way. I way cressings, bad ne relation whatever te
the bighway crossings, but only te Vie
hope we are ai agreed, because we were
not last year, and we were not agreed In fencing of Vie track.
the committee tbis year; but I bope xvwe Hon. Mr. POIRLIER-Tbe cattle were proshahl be agreed before we are through in tected, but net the people.
Vis House. I bave here tbe flnding of
tbe Supreme Court In the case of McHon. Mr. FERGUSON-The cattie were
Kay vs. Vie Grand Trunk. In Forest, In the protected and the people on Vie train migbt
county of Lambton, a man named Angus be protected from accident by the train
McKay was struck by a train on a blgb- runuIng off the track, but tbere was ne
way crossing, and bis wife and two chII. provision la section 275 fer Vie peopin using
dren were killed and bimself badly Injured. the bigbways, and 1 may say tbat Viere Io
He teok tbe case to a jury and won It. The ne provision In Vie Rallway Act from the
-verdict was sustained In Vie Court of Ap. irst section te Vie last, Imposing on the
peal, but was reversed by Vie Supreme rallway campantes or on tbe board a posiCourt of Canada. The following la Vie tive duty In regard te Vie protection of the
finding of the Supreme Court :
railway crossings.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think the hou, gentle- tieman from De Salaberry stated that it
was better to give the power to the board
man will fiud it lu section 238.
and make it the duty of the board. If
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes, a permis- that were done we would be satisfieu. That
sion that they may do 1t; but not an is what we waut; but my hon. f riend lu bis
Imperative provision, and I wll show ameudment leaves it as it was before,
that before I arn done. There la a wlthout any positive duty being imposed on
great deal 0f permissive power given to the board to protect the crossings. There
the board, but If the bon. Secretary of is another point, to show the pitiable belpState w-I follow me tbrough, I will show lessness of the Canadian law lu this regard,
hlm bow the matter stands, and w-bat the I arn going to read another portion from the
rules of the board are lu regard to that sub- judgment of the Supreme Court in McKay
Iu the extract 1
ject, and he will fiud that ne Is labouring vs. the Grand Trunk.
under a mistakze, and that there la no posi- have already quoted, Sir Louis Davies detive enactment in the Railway Act from be- livered the judgment on behaif of hlmself,
ginning to end, elther to impose a daty on Mr. Justice Killam, and MY. Justice TacheBut Mr. Justice Sedgewick, lu a
the railways of protecting their higbiway reau.
judgmeut, elaborated another
crossings, or to impose a positive duty on separate
the Raîlway Board to take up the matter point, and it is so very important that no
of the examination and protection 0f these hon. gentleman In this House who desires
to give an honest vote on this question
crossiugs on railways in operation.
should fal to grasp It. It Is this: that no
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They have the author- matter what miglit be the desire of the
lty to do IL.
companles, they bave not, under our Canadian law, the right or the power to erect
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I know that. As gates ofi the hlghways to protect the crossthe Mfinister of Railways baid, although this iugs w-lthout an amenduient to the Act or
was a goverument measure lu the other au order of the board. Hlere is w-hat Mr.
end of the House, w-heu it cornes here my justice Sedgewiciz said:
hon. frieud shows bis zeal against it from
No person lias a riglit to prev ent auy other
its very inception; but w-bat I ask is a fair
himperson froin driving bis horse, or fromn
opportuuity to place my views before the
elf go.iug up f0 within a foot of a passing
house, and wben my hon. friend bas heard train; and certainly noue bas the right to
preveut auyone goiug upon that part of the
me fully he w-i tben know better whether

my argument is sustained by the la-w and
the facts.

bighway which is opposite to the unoccupied
portion of the railway grounds. -If the railway company without express statutory authority, were to ereot gates opposite t0 its
side fences. and lower these gates at auy

Han. Mr. SCOTT-I merely called atten- time, auy person prevented from driving or
by such
the liue of
tion to the section whicbi gave the board au- walking towardsinterfered withrails his legal
in
gates would be
thority to do It.
common law rights. It must be apparent

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It gives tbem
jurisdiction and permissive powers to
do it ; but 1 have rend the Railway Act
over and over again, and studied it closely,
aud I canuot find one single clause irnposig a positive duty ou the railways
w-itb regard to the protection of their bigliw-uv crossings, beyond bloiig a w-histle
or sounding a bell w-hicb Mr. Chrysier told
the committee w-as not protection but w-arnlng. nor can I fiud auy words imposing such
It
a duty ou the Railway Commission.
may do certain tbings, but there is no positive euactment tînt it shall be its duty
fo protect flic crossin.-s. The lion. genHon. lUr. FERGUSONL-.

then that there must be somne authoritv
given to a railway company before it cau
assumne to ereet gates upon a higlin ay.
The fanding of the court in this caso w-as

that the only statutory obligation :roposed.
upon the railway w-ns to blow the w-hlstle
at the wvhistling- post, and there w-as some
evidence to show that tbat bad been fair]y
done, and there w-as no evidence f0 show
that the accident had resulted from neglect
of that particular duty. The court found
that the railway company were not only
witbout blame, but that they w-ould be
offenders against the law of the country
if they had put up a gate at that place
witbotit the authority of the flillwav Com-

MAIICH 12, 1908

513

mission or the authority of parliament, of being made effective, con if exercised, be
their adequacy
subject to review
and poor Angus McKay, wliose wlfe 1or otherwise by a either as tedo I think that
-jury, for
failure to invoke the exorcise of the powers
and two children liad been killed at tis
railway crossing of the Grand Truak. after is of itef sufficient te take the matter awey,
to which. parliament
procedig cse efor a uryandjurisdictionand Test it in a jury. Ifhas coinwth te
ne such
procedlg cse efor a uryandmitted it,
wtb te
getting a verdict. and the verdict being statutory powers had been given by parliement a jury must ex-necessitate, determine
esustalned by the Court of Appeal, îlost hi
whether

'si a each case as a question of f act
case In the Supreme Court and was sad- with regard ta level foot crossings or
dled with ail the costs by that court. It way crossinge, the proper precautions
hlch regard te speed and warnings had
ponth la,
putt.ha ntepreaton
dpeanfooed
1 amn bound to say in my humble judgnient
The substance cf the judgment ls,
was a correct interpretation. 1 arn net

highwith
been
that

findlng fault wlth the court; I thlnk they parlament, by passing the Railway Act,
ruled properly; but 1 find fauit w1ti. par- and constltutlng the Privy Council, whose
tlrnt they successor le now the Ralway Board, took
lament and tbe government
law in such a weak, and ail these questions from the jurisdiction of
should leave the
helpiese condition, that flot only le tiiere no a jury, and vested them lu the Board, andl
duty lmposed on the rallway companles to If the Board performs Ite functions wltlî
protect thir crossîngs, but we bave left regard to these crossinge, of course tiiere

the law s0 that If they, of their own free
will, erect gates, they can be proseruted
for it. Is that a condition lu whlch to Icave
the law ? Hon. gentlemen will agree wlth
me that It is not a desîrable position lu
whlch to leave It. I wilI read tho3 judgment of the court upon the broad question

is no appeal to a jury, and I sny there
should not be, or need not be, except to
find out If the company had fulfilled the
orders cf the Board. But it goes furtiler and
declares that aithougil these powers are not
exerclsed, parliament took away from the
jury ail these questions, and the man whose

of the llability of the compafly. Sir Louis
Davies read the judgment, and It was concurred in by the chief justice and the other
judges. It reads as follows :

wife and children were kllled at a raflway
crosslng has no remedy. Under the common
law he wouid have a remedy. He could
taire his case before a jury and thAy could

In my judgment parliament has by the
187th section of the RailwaY Act vested in
the Railway committee of the Privy Council
the exclusive power and duty of determinigthe character and extent of the protectièn. which. should be gven ta the public
et p laces where the railay track crosses a
'highway at rail level. The exorcise of such
important powers and duties, requires the
careful consideration of many possible confIicting intereets and the fullest powers ta
enable this committee ta bring ail such interests before them and determine ail ne-cessary facto, are given by the Âct in question. Similar powers ta enable this tribunal
f-ffectively ta enforce any order it may make
ini the promises are vested in the committee.
i
Itqute penta any muxmicipality throg
vhich a railway runs at any time it thinks

we bave appointed thîs Railway Commission and passed a Rallway Act, and by
doing. that the judgment of the court le
that we have taken ail these questions away
from thse jurlsdlctlon of a jury, and the
only point ou whlcb a jury can corne ln
and award a verdict on bebaîf of the farnily of a man who bas been kllled at one
of the highway crossings le, In the event of
tbe railway company not havlng carried
out some order or Instructions of the Board,
or not, havlug fulfilled the existing statutory obligation of blowing the whistle. I
have now deaIt with the statute law, and
I thlnk sny hon, gentleman who wll follcw
me and wlll take up the Act, as I have doue,
wlll find that my interpretation. of It Is

proper, or te an interested persan or corporation, or indeed ta any one cf the travelling public ta invoke the exercise cf this
the triThe composition with which
euridiction. simplicity and ease of
bunal, the
its powers cen be invoked, and the comploteness with whîch it can carry out the inten-

tions of parliament, and the scope and extu-nt af its pawers, ail combine te convince
me that parliament designed ta establish and
bas established a tribunal which, while
guarding the interests of the reilway corporation, would et the came time provide
tbe fullest necessary protection te the trav4elling public. I cannot think that these
powers, s0 full, se complete. and so capable
33

more fully
rigbt, and tiiat wlI become
manlfest as I follow the subject a littie

further. Section 20 of the Rallway Act
rends as follows:
October 26.-The Board shahl have full jurisdiction to inquire into, hear and determine

any application by or on behalf of any party
interested-

REVISED EDITION

SENATE
<a) Complaining that any company or per- exercised by the board under section 2Sson, has failed to do any act, matter or thing The hon, gentleman frein De Salaberry is
required te be done by this Act, or the
shaking is head.
Special Act, &c., &c.
The powers are ample, but thêre Is a
discretion wlth regard to the exercise of
tbem. Tule Board has the full jurisdict1on,
but tlie discretion Ls given lu section 30,
where It says they may make orders and
regulations wltli regard to practicaliy ail
the subjects enumerated ln sectIon
20.
Then we turn to section £8, and when I
flrst looked over the law and found this
provision, I thought that It was amle and
would work out all rigbt. It reads as follows

Hon. Mr. KERR-My hon. friend Is mistaken about tliat.
That only applies te applications by othier parties.
It does net ap)ply to the board acting on the Initiative.
The statute provides for that.
Hon. Mm. FERGUSON-I arn net a lawyer, but I dlaim to bave a Ilttie commonsense. and 1 dlaim that 1 can understand
plain common Englsh Just as well as the
hon, gentleman fromn Toronto.
There are
a great many hon, gentlemen in my hearing
who are not lawyers, whe have commen
sense and who knew a little about the Engllsh ]anguage.
It says: 'Shahl be coinmenced,' net 'may be commenced,I etc.
Hon, gentlemen will understand tliis plain
English, but I will furnish further proof
befere 1 proceed mnch further, whieh wlI
show that my undemstanding of this Ianguage Is the correct ene.
Then we bave la
the schedule te No. 7 of the Rules a feri
of application which shall bè made with
reference te hlghway cmessings. There must
be plans of the track and everything, which
cuts ont evemy private persen unless he is
wealthy frein entering Inte a centest with
the railway company.

28. The Board may, of its own motion, or
shall, upon the request of the minister, inqnire into, hear and determine any matter.
or thing which, under tbis Act, it may inquire into, hear and determine upon application or complaint, and with respect thereto,
shall have the saie pewers as, upon any
application or complaint, are vested in it
by this Act.
Section 26 gives the board jurisdiction on
application.,
Section 28 says the board
may, of Its own motion, do se and so, and
then It uses the word 'shall'-'S5hail upon
the request of the minister do anything
which it can do on application.' We
now turn to the report of the Rallway
Commission.
There we find that they liave
drafted a set of miles governing their proceedings, and iu draftlng these mules, they
84. No. 7-Highway cro-ssings.-Sections 184
Send fte the secretary of the board
regulate the discretion whicb is given to te 191.
with an application, three sets of plans and
thein by section 28.
Rlule 3 meade as fol- profiles of the croseings. Scale--Plan-100 deet
to inch. Profile-ICO0 feet to inch horizontal
lows:
20 ifeet te inch vertical.
3. Every proceeding before the board under
lst set for approval by and filing with the,
this Act shall be commenced by an application board.
2nd asnd Srd sets to be fnrniished to the re:made to it, which shail be in -writiag and -S
signed by the aipplicant or his solicitor; or in pective parties conoerned. with s certifled cop.7
the case of a orpora.te body or com'pany being of the order approving the saine.
The plan and profile shaîl show at -least hrdf
the applicants shal *be signed by their manlager, secretary, or solicitor. It shall contain a mile of 'the raxlway and 200 feet of the higlia clear and concise statement of the facts, the
wa on each side of the crosng.
The a.plicant imust give ten days' notice <f
grounds cf application, the isection of' the Act
to the opposite party and withi
under which the saine îs mrade. and the na- applica.tio
ture of the order applied for, or -the relief or such notice sall serve a copy of the'plan andi
remedy to which. the apphicant dlaimis te ha profile and of the application.
entitled. It shall be divided into paragraphs,
each cf which,' as nearly a~s possible, shall be
New what were we tola- befere the coinconfined to a distinct portion of the subjeet, mittee, as read te this House by the hon.
and everv paragraph ishall be nim-bered couOeotively.
It shall be endorsed *with the senator frein De Salabermy-what he was
namne and addrerss. of the applicant, or if there pleased te caîl facts, whlch I arn serry te
be a solicitor actin.- for hum in the matter,
Mr. Menwith the naine and address of suehi solicitor. say we cannet sccept as such.
The application ehall be ao-cording to the tain said:
forais in sachedule 'No. 1.
The commission w-as looking into the mtter
The board here make this mile which of protection et railway crossings. In the pagt
binds thein, only te hear matters on appli- thrse year6 its oifficers had examined and re-ported on 503 crossin4s and had ordered belîs,
cation, and, therefore, there is no discretien gates, or subways at ducat cf themn. . . .
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

MAIICH 12, 190S

515

Hon. Mfr. CASGRAIN-Tse staternu o!
the conithe level tise hon. gentleman Is very rnisleadiug to,
was iniWe cannot underouglst to some hon, gentlemen.
stand how those protecfed crosaings could
have dlsappeared.
1 amn now reading from thse staternent
made by the expert of the commission
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It la not for mie
before the Railway Comrnittee. Fortu- to, explain It. 1 arn quotlug from thse sworn
xiateiy, we are able to place our hands returna furnlhed by the rallway compaules
on the exact state of protection at highway themselves.
crosslngs wheu the board came into exHou. Mr. CASGRAIN-Would nof subistence, and succeedlng years. We are
siot able f0 carry it down t0 the 31sf Marcis, ways or bridges be subatituted lu some
1907, because of an error ou the part of eases?
the Rallway Departrnent, whlch I arn sure
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I can give statiawas not Intentional. The refurns for 1907
do0 fot contain the information that the tics with 'regard f0 bridgea and subways
Act requires, with regard to the num- and thse hon. gentleman can judge for hlmIn 1904
ber of highway crossings protected or self how far that explains IL
In 1905
ofherwise. Mfr. Payne, the controller, there were 463 overhead bridges.
advises me, sud I know his staternent ia ab- they had lncreased f0 472; but lu 1906 they
solutely correct, that the board thîs year had fallen to 431; so tisere were acfually 32
eudenvoured to assirnilate our returns wlfh leas overhend bridges lu 1906 than there
Then ive corne f0 tise suistbose of the Inter-State Commission of tbe were ln 1904
0f these there were 333 lu 1904.
United States, and that in adoptiug the waya.
United States classification it was neyer They had fallen f0 329 lu 1905, and there
obqerved, until after the l-eturns were were 836 la 1906, an Increase of three subaccepted and had been published, thaf ways lu thsat time, whlle there was a falling
thse law of thse United States did flot pro- away o! 32 overhead bridges. and 34 provide that tbis partidular class of Informa- tected highway crossings. The ungarded
tion should be given, and for that reason crossiaga have also been reduced. In 1904
iu 1907 it dropped ouf of the report of thse there were 13,493; lu 1906 fhey had fallen to,
But we 12,962. 1 amn puttlug before the House the
Railway Department of Canada.
have if for the years 1904-1905 and 1906. sworn returus of thse rallway companies of
We find that ln 1904 there were 289 guard- Canada; If la nof for me f0 explain thern but I
In 1905 there were 222, that fhiuk au explauatiou rnight be furnlshed.
ed crossinga.
la 17 less flian lu the year before; and lui Hlghway crosaluga may have been closed,
190r. there were 205, or 84 less gnarded and we know thaf the railway companles
croasings than there had beeu lu 1904 will close every crosslug they can If they
when the Rallway Commission eutered- get permission frorn thse board, and somneI arn puttlng these facta be- fîmes close thern wltisout permission. The
on Ifs work.
f ore thse House ln order that they may go point 1 want f0 put before tise House la
Mr. 1%ountain sald that 503 crossings
f0 thse country, and If will be for the Icall- this.
way Commission to, make some explanation lhad been examiued la three years and that
1 arn quoflng from tise the board had ordered belis, gafes, bridges
regarding them.
qworil returus of tise railway companles f0, or subways ut moat of thern. I have shown
under the that lu two years ouf of the tlmree lu tise
thse Departmenf of Railways.
Rallwnvy Acf, they are obllged to make re- matter o! gafes, subways, bridgea, etc., thse
fumas sworn to by their officers wlfh regard protection had decreaaed, and I leave if f0
thse otllcers of thse Rallway Commilssion f0
f0 a large variefy of matters affectlng thse
regard f0 Üighway explain whaf becarne of these gates, bridges,
rnilways. aud this wlth
I have explalned bells and subways which lie says were
crossaings la one o! them.
carry that up f0 tise omdemed by thse board to, be installed,
why 1 amn unable f0
Tt lq flot my fauif. but 1 amn when if is found that there weme leas proend of 1907.
able to cover two o! the yeirs in whieh tise tecfed level highway crossings in 1906' thau
there had been ln 1904. thaf the nurnier o!
comiq-si wý,re nt work.

With the present staff it would take
mission several years to examine ail
crossings, but the nu-mber inspected
creasiug every year. Each crossing
be deait with on its own mnert8.

SEi\AIF
overhead bridges bad aise a.iminished, and
that the subways under railway tracks
show the niagnificent Increase or three ln
that Urne.
We bad aise another interesting episode
TJ.he
ln this House and ln the committee.
hon. senator from De Salaberry put a notice
on the order paper asking for a return showing the fatalities and Injuries to persons at
rallway crossings. A return was produced
by the hon. Secretary of State, and laid on
the table of this Heuse witb some commenta.
The moment my eye flashed. on that return,
1 knew that it was not the full statement
of deatha and Injuries at the highway crossings, because I had previously examined the
figures and knew that tbey were miucli
greater than the statement showed, and I
calied the attention cf the House te the
fact.
Mr. Mountain came te the second
-meeting of the committee with this statement, which had. been subxnitted te the
House, lni his handa and rend it te the cernmittee, and said it was a true statement
He said that although the expression 'railway crossings' h ad been used, highway
-crossing was meant. 1 at once sent up te my
xoom and brought dewn the repert of the
Department of Railwaya. 'When Mr. Monntain was doue, 1 asked him te turn te the
last sheet of the document hie had ln his
bande ln which hie would find a return,
which I have befere me, t§nowing that there
were just 50 per cent more accidents at
the highway cressings ln Canada than the
statement wbich hie had been reading frem
showed, and I asked hlm for an explanatien.
It must be thia way hie said: the
Intercelontal Raiiway le included ln tbe
government statement and it la net included
i ours, because we have ne juriedictien
1 at once
over the Intercolonlal Railway.
turned up the government return again, and
there feund that there had been oniy three
persons klled on the Intercelenial Railway
and the Prince Edward Island Railway, and
five injured, ln the iast year, and deducting
these, it weuld only reduce the number to
that extent, and 1 aeked hlm fer an explanatien of the discrepancy cf 29 persons killed
I have had
but hie ceuld net give any.
none from Mr. Meuntain or fremn the officers of the Railway Commission, but I have
dug lnto their reperts and found some things
Let me say that the returns
fer myseif.
Non. Mfr. FERGUSON.

submitted and signed by Mr. Payne, the
Contreller et Railway Statistice, are toinpiled from the sworn returns cf the railway companies themeelves, and Mr. Payne
assures me that 1 may make the etatement
as positively as 1 please that they are absolutely correct, unlees the absurd contention
shouid be set up that the rallway compauies
would swear te a larger number of leutiis
and Injuries at their highway crossings than
had actuaily occurred. The sworn returuis
mnade under section 372 of the Railway Act
by the rallway companies show that there*
were 50 per cent more casualties at those
crossIngs than the report of the Raiiway
In lookIng at the st
Commission shows.
named report 1 found some thiags thiat
surprised me. There le a correct classification In the report of the Railway Department but when I turn te the classification
in the report of the Railway commission I
The law
find a very clumsy one indeed.
requires that ene cf the things that
muet be reported, and repertedl on.oath, la
the number cf persons killed or injured by
being 'struck by englues or trains ut highway crossings,' and the raiiway cernpanies make a return complying with the
Iaw. The Railway Commission have proceeded In Borne clumsy way of their own
and make a table which nebody caua underetand. They speak of level crossings,
which applies te the croslng cf one railway over the track of another as weli ns
the crossing cf a Üiighway, and they put
the number at se much lese than the returne furnished by the goverament. There
le another entry, further dewn, of the nuinber cf trespassera kiled, and the number
le very large; but they do net say, as the
Act requires they should say, where or how
those treepassers were kiiled. Was It at
highway crossings, at the station, or along
the track. By a very strict Interpretation of
the law I suppose every*man killed on the
railway le a trespasser, because any mnan
who is on the track, or that part of it which
crosses the highway, when the train is
scheduled te corne le a trespaseer. It le for the
Raiiway Board te explain whether the large
number they describe as trespassers dees net
include the number killed at rallway crossings, aitheugh they are surnrarily set down
as trespassers. It leoks as if thiere was an
attempt to conceal the number of fatalities

MARCH 12, 1908

at higbway crossings. I amrn ot coinplalnIng of the Department of Rallways. The
Act is falthfully carrled. out by the departuient. but It is extraordlnary to look
at the report of the Raliway Commission,
which does flot show more than 50 per
cent of the number of accidents that nctually occurred. You can take the government
report and tell In a moment how and at
what crossing of any rallway company anyone was killed. The Railwey Commission
sbould have supplled similar Information,
but the Information to wblch I have called
attention wvas what they submltted to the
House. Possibly Mr. Mountain thougbt
the officer who had charge of the accidents
I
branch, had done his duty faithfulUy.
know enough of Mr. Mountain to say that
1 do flot believe he made an Incorrect statement knowlngly. He must have been misled by the officers in charge of the accidents department, who put this very clumsy
and inaccurate information ln his hands.
Now, I amn goiug to compare for a moment
the fatalities at hlghway crossings ln
Canada wlth the fataities at railway crosslngs in the United States. The nelghbouring country has had the reputation 0f
having the worst record wlth regard
I
to their railways of any country k
the world. The followîng statemp.nt'i show
the number of accidents at hlghway crossings ln Canada and the United States :

517

States than ln Canada. I attribute that to,
some different ruie lu making ont the returns. A person very slîghtly injured ln Canada may flot be reported among the Injured,
while ln the United States the mile may be
more strict; but ln the number killed, Caada has the worst reputation of apy clvilized country kn the world.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-How does the mileage ln the countries compare ?

Hon. Msr. FERGUSON-I arn dealing with
the population of the two countrip.s; I did
not work it out the other way. Last year,
leavlng out the Intercolonial Rallway, there
were seventy persons kIlled, on the hlghway crossings of Canada by belng struck
by trains. Financlal experts dlaim that
every Individual belonglng to the country
is worth $1,000. In klllng seventy persons
annually, thue country sustains a loss of
$70,000 wlthout taklng Into accoulnt the
loss to the familles and the sail fact of
so many persons being sent to eternity.
Then there were slxty-nlne injured, and
assumlng that the loss to the country
from these injuries was $500 each,
that would give $84,500 lost to the families
These sums amount
of those injured.
to $104,500. I submit that this large
annual sum would go a long way towards
providing protection at the highway crossluge throughout thls country. You can
hardly take up a paper without readIng of
CANADIAN ACCIDENTS.
Injured some serious accident at highway cro9ssings
tu Canada. A very striking one occurred
67
1905.............59
76
1906.............50
at Sunnyside, near Toronto, about two
74
1907.............73
weeks ago, when a Canadian Pacifie RailUNITED STATES ACCIDENTS.
way train running over the Grand Trunk
Killed Injured Railway track at slxty miles an hour,
1,564
struck a young man named Hansford, kIli1905...........837
1,884
1906...........926
ing hlm. The coroner's jury, after hearHon. Mr. McMILLÂN-Do those figures ing ail the evîdence, found that the engishow the accidents at railway crossings ? neer and offIcers ln charge of the train
were not biameable ln any way whatever;
Hon. '-%r. FERGUSON-At hlghway cmos- but they severely censured the Grand Trunk
both coun- Railway Company. Their fiuding was as
sings. All those are described Inu*
tries as people struck by an englue or train follows
at points where a railway crosses s hlgh We attach no blame to the engineer or crew
way. The surprlslng part of these meturns in charge of the train.
We, the jury also find the Grand Tmunk
is that while the number klled lu Canada
is
la ten per cent greater than the number Railway the to blamne and responsible for the
said Perey Hansford by maintaindeath of
kllled ln the United States, there Ia a very ing such an extremely dangerous crossing.
mucb greater proportion, almoat 50 per cent having a total disregard to the interests of
th Untedthe publie
greaer.of njumd l th Untednumnber of using the same. There is a hirge
ersns
greaer.of njurd i
ersns
passenger trains, thirty-three in

SENATE
Hon. Mr. i'IG
SNN.I
amn subniiitting no figures deaiing %vithlevel crossings wlîere one railway crosses the track
of another.
I arn confining my observations entlrely te the places wvhere railways
I have ùader my band a
The jury recommended that the Grand cross highways.
Trunk Llailway Company should be comn- book ' Haines Restriction Legislation,' repelled to maire good the damages to the cently published frorn which I have some
famlly of this mian. They probably have extracts with regard to statistics of Eurefound out by this time that they bave no peaii countries. After referring te the people
case at ail; that there was no order of the kilied at highway crossiugs la the United
Board witb regard to this crossing. and as States hie says:
the engineer had blown the whistle at the
This cliaes of casualtiesý is almost absent from
wbistllag post, the railway compauny had the statistics cf Eurepeaa countries, where
done ail tbey were required to do, and this highway crossings are aither separatad froni
the tracks or if on a levai are carefuliy
man's famlly wIll go witbout any compen- guarded.
satIon wliatever, altbough from thlrty to
There Is an example for us In ail Eurethlrty-five trains, many of theni running peau couatries, and some of these couatries
at the hlgh speed et sixty miles an liour, are as sparsely settied as our own. There
pass that hlghway crossing every day. is nlmost an entire absence of such fataliI want to submlt figures showing the ties as 1 have been referrlng to, because the
record of the two greatest railways ef laws of those countries compel the ralway
Canada with regard to the matter of deaths comipanles to proteet their crossiags.
The
and Injuries at hlghway crossings. The fol- writer referrlng te Great Britain says:
lowlng ls a statement of persons kllled or
Ia Great Britaia ail raiiroad construction
Injured at highway crossings at rail-level
and operation was held up to a uniformly high
on the followlng rallroads for the ycars aad expensive standard until .1868, when the
desire te previde better facilities for dietricts
1905, 1906 and 1907:
numnber, passing the point at a rate of from
fifty to sixty -miles «n hour, as admitted by
the railway witnesses. The view of the tracks
when travelling soeitherly is initrrupted and
shut out by buildings and cars leift by the
shunting engine.

with but littie traffic induced relaxatioa of
certain requirements as to second tracks, sigaalling apparatus aad highway crossiags in
faveur of a subsidiary class of roads kaown as
' ligbit railways.' Lineis of this character are
oaly allowed to be, operated at law speeds and
with light equipmeat.

'v
'v0
5;Li
Ms

z z
G;unTrn

..

8

Can.Pac
Ry...44

1f

.
,4

8

48791

p OZ

eeey1

5

La Englaad there are, la some parts of
the country that cannot afford the expense

of first class rallways, provisions made for
runnlng light raulways; but they corne un1Gont

nwtatteGand
7816345itvRail7
Trunk..

der the very restrictions w-e want to impose
in Canada with regard to the speed of trains
at highway crossings. I turn now to another
point which lias been raised in this debate
and which w-as contained in. these so-called
tacts te whIch the hon. senator froni De
Salaberry referred and w-hich w-ere laid before a committee of this House by the railway solicitors.
One of these quoted by

way is any more zealous than the Canadian
Pacific Railway Is to allow thlngs te remain as they are; but we have heard their
voice more in our committees than the
voice of any other rallway company lu Canada.
the hon. gentleman was from the argument
ot '.%r. Chrysier before the cornmittee.

Hon. 31r. BEIQUE-Are these only high- was as foilows:
way crossing-s?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-\ý-Highway crossings.

Hon. 'Mr. JiELQUE-It does net inelude
railway crossings?
Hlon. Mr. FEIIGUSON.

Lt

Another important point *was that the reduction of-speed of*fast trains would deprive
the Canadian roads of a large quantity of
traffic in fresh meats, and fruitq which would
le ,pointed out
go to the United States roads.
that cattle trains noiv went through to Mont
If the Bill were,
re-i in twe-.t v-four hoiirs.
enforc"d this ivould he inipossible and the

MARCH 12,1908S
In Penusylvana the
nunicipaiity bas
,cattie wauld have to be taken out of the cars,
fed and watered with the resuit that the busi- power:
nees would go ta the American roadgs which
mwould flot bc hampered by similar regulations.
To require the erection of safety gates ani
at the intersection
placing
I amn surprised that the raiiway com- the railroads of fiag-men streets; ta forbid
with publie
of
panies of Canada would put such words into the obstruction of the said crossings by locorailroad cars, and aise ta
the mouth of Mr. Chrysier-that tihe United motives or regulations concerning the.make
rate
reasonable
States reads are nlot bampered by regula- ai' speed at which locomotives, cars or trains
tions of this kInd. I have taken the trouble shall pass up on or cross the streets within
up portion of the city.
to wade through the laws of somne of the the bujît
The statemtent was
states.
neighbourlng
That la another state through whlch cernmade ln the committee that If these restric- petitive trains would have te pass. I now
tions were imposed on our rallways it wouid turn to the law of Ohio. It rends as folruin the trade between Detroit and Buffalo Io,%vs:
which now passes through Canada because
Sec. 247c. When, in the opinion of the city
Canadian trains would be banipered by
the
city of the
these regulations whule United States ronds counicil of any the public third grade <b> ofthat;
safety requires
second class,
I have taken n gate or gates b. erected and maintained at
would be free from them.
the trouble te rend up the laws of thse four any place where the. public road or street
same level by
states that would be traversed by trains is crossed in . said city at the
any railroad and which crossing has been
running betnreen Detroit and Buffalo and I declared by the said council ta b. a dangerstationed and
find that ln ail of tbem large powers are ous one, or that a fiagman b. crossing, counmaintained at snch dangerous
gîven to thse local authorities to deal with ci! shail give the superintendent, manaThe power is given to ger, or other officer in charge of such railthis very question.
that the same is rewritten
towns or villages ta Insist upon tihe rallway road, a and snch notice
company, person or corporaquired
companies protectlng their highway cross- tion owning or operating snch railroad, shall
within such time
Ings. What would the railway companies erert or station tiie saine prescribe.
thereafter as counicil may
say If we lmposed such legislaof Canada
I corne now to tise Stnte of Michigan, ln
tien upon them here?
wisich tise followlng la the. law:
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-We shouid have the
<3112> Section 6........ aise, te require
ame here.
and compel railroad campanies te keep fiagmen or watchmen at ail railroad crossinga of
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-1 fInd the foliow- the streets and ta give warning of the. apthereat,
lng ln the laws In the State of New York: proach of trains the night and ta light such
; te regulate and
crossings dnring
and
of
thse
Page 1529, Article 3 ; section 88, sub- prescribe trains speedaftreet ail locomotive withrailway cars
and
railroad
section 10.
net b. reThe. municipal corporation may by a two- in thse city ; but such speed shall per hour;
than
thirds vote of ail members of the board, re- qnired ta be less fine of six milesthan fiye or
not less
and ta impose a
quireý railroad companies to ereot gates at
than fifty dollars, upon the. company,
crossings, ta employ competent men ta attend more upon any engineer or conductar violat.
ta the samne and ta employ competent fiag- and any ordinance regulating the speed of
ing
mnen at such crossings.
trains.
It requires a two-thirds vote in New York,
but in other states a majority can do IL. I
find thse following lu thse railrond inw of the
Stnte of New York:
Page 3273, section 33.
Whenever the crossing lby a railroad at
grade of the streets. highways, turnpikes.
plnnk roads or travelled ways of any village
or city having a population by the last state
or federal enumeratian of less than fifty thonsnnd, shaîl be protected by gates with perfous ta open and close the saine, when an
engine or train passes, the local authorities
ef the city or village shall not impose nny
Frnitation, less than 40 miles an hour on the
rate of speed nt which. sucli enigine -or train
shlînl mun.

I hnve now quoted the iaws of thse. four
states denling with hils very question, and
lion, gentlemen will now net wonder at the
report which our Railway CommItte. made
wben Viey isad sucis extraordlnary Information put before them by the railway people.
They stated Viat tise United States roads
were not hnmpered by regulations, 0f Vis
kiud, whereas everyone 'çvio knowa. anytbing of tue United States law must be
nware Vint thse regnîntions ln tisat country
are fam more strict In Vhis matter than anything- we lire pmoposingto dQ In Canada.

S ENA TE
Hon. Mr. YOUiNC,-As it is i10w nearly inove that the Bill be read flue second time
six o'ciock I would siuggest that the comto-iorrw wen the lbon, gentlemain froni
mittee rise and report progress, and the hon. Ottawa wili be bere.
gentleman cnn conclude bis speech wben
The motion was agreed to.
the committee resume consideration of the
Bill.
Whie the bon, gentleman cannot
SECOND READINGS.
huold the floor, still, out of courtesy, ho
Bill (50) An Act respecting the Dominion
sbouid be aliowed to finish hisspeech at
Atlantic Rnhlway Company.-(Hloi. Mr.
the uext sitting of tbe commlttee.
Power.)
Hon. Mr. LANDRY, from the cominttee,
Bill (51) An Act respecting the Erie,
reported that they had miade some progress Londoil and Tlisonburg Railway Compnny.
wlth the Bill, and asked leave te sit again. -(Hoen. Mr. Wilson.)
Bill (67 ' An Act respecting the Cnadian
-,%ONTRLEAL, OTTAWA AND GEORGIAN
Nortbern Ontario Raiiway Company.BAY CANAL COMPANY BILL.
(Hou. Mr. Jones.)
SECOND READING.
Bill (73) An Act respecting the Quebec
Hon. Mr. POWER (in the ahsonce of Raulway, Light and Power Company.Hon. Mr. Belcourt) moved tbe second read- (Hon. Mr. Choquette.)
ing of Bill (47) An Act respecting the MonBill (74) An Act respecting the Ottawa,
treal,
Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canatl Brockviiie and St. Lawrence Railway ComComnpany.
pany.-(Hon. Mr. Derbyshire.)
Bill (76) An Act respecting the InterproHon. Mr. McIMULLEN-Are we going to
renew this charter in face of the discussions vinclal Ilaiiway Bridge Company of New
wich bave taken place Ia this Honse and Brunswick.--(Hon. Mr. Costigan.)
In the other Chamber ? I tbnk we sluould
Bill (77) An Act respecting the Canadian
defer the fnrtber reading of this Bill giv- Northern Quebec Railway Company.-(Hon.
ing a private company the power to pro- Mr. Tessier.)
ceed and construct the canai. I sent for
Bill (81) An Act respecting the Canadian
the Act by which they obtained their In- Nortbern Railway Company.-(Hou. Mr.
corporation In 1894, fourteen years ago, Young.)
and I find that about one-third of the InBill (8-1) An Act respecting the Owen
corporators are dead. I do not think we
Sound and Meaford Railway Conmpay.sbould renew this charter to empower
a (Hon. Mr. McMullen.)
private company to' buiid this canal. I
Bill (87) An Act to Incorporate the Vincertainly should oppose 1t, and I tiîink In
face of the small House that we should couver Island and Eastern Railway Conidefer the consideration of It till to-m9)rrow. pany.-(Hon. Mr. Bostock.)
Hon. Mr. POWER-PrIvate Bills are NATIONAL BATTLEFIELDS 0F QUEnot considered by the House. The Senate
BEC BILL.
does not commit itself to a private BEi by
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
ailowing the second reading to pass, and
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
It is quite clear that the commIttee is
moved the second reading of Bill (111) An
the proper place to consider these quesAct respecting the National Battlefieids or
tions.
Quebec.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I move that the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-At
this late
further consideration of the Bill be posthour I do not ask for any explanation of
poned tili Wednesday next
the Bill, on the understauding that wiieî
.Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I second the mo- we go Into committee my bon. friend wii
tion.
fully explain the purpose of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. POWER-With the permission
of the House, I withdraw the motion, and
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

Hon. Sir RICHARD
Certainly.

CARTWRIG HTr-

%rfA rr

10

lion. Mu-. CHOQUETE-. -as going to
The motion was agreed to, and the Bil
ask the House to suspend the rule aud go
wvas rend tue second time.
into Coinniittee of the WMole to-day. This
is a most pressing matter. The colmisHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-]
siou lias been appointed, but they have no move that the Bill be referred to a Comaut>ority. They were here to-day. Mayor inittee of the Whole to-morrow.
Garneau, of Quebec, was among thein.
The motion was agreed to.
They couid do nothing at ail, and the time
Is very short. The Governor Generail nsked
to bave the Bill passed yesterday If pos- VIOLATING THIE SIX O'CLOCK RULE.
sible.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE B WLshouid like to cail the attention of the
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-My hon. iriend
asks wbat Is extremely unreasonable. Here House to the ruIes under which we are supla a Bill lnvoling the expenditure at once posed to act. The raies declare that at 6
of $300,000, and the appointment of a com- o'clock the Speaker should leave the Chair.
mission vested with extraordinary powers Why should we ait here after six ? I know
so far as reportlng to parliarnent la con- what the practice bas been-we have becuî
cerned, with a view to an expenditur4- wiec lu the habit of vilating the raie.
nlay involve another million dollars. True,
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It la neyer six o'clock
the expenlditure of tliat ainount wouid be until we happen to call
attention to ItL
subject to the voice of parliament, but there
The SPEAKER-Sometimes wben thertla no good reason wby the goverument
should not, at an eariier period of the ses- la something on the order paper whlch cau
sion, have brouglit down a Bill of such Im- be put through ln five minutes, we do flot
portance as the one we are about to con- look at the dlock, but ait a few minutes
aider, and to say that the rule should be after six.
snspended and the Bill passed wlthout any
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWIOLI-1
consideration or discussion and wvithout any
understand that, but I arn caling attention
explanation, it seems to me, would be a reto the raie under which we are aupposed to
flection on the Intelligence of this Chamber.
act,
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETT-I qulte underHon. Mr. YOUNG-We are sapposed ta
stand tbat, but this matter bas been so
meet at three o'ciock, and If my hon. frlend
mnch discussed In the other Chamber and
the public press, that we know ail about wouid inaist on carrylng ont that mule, we
Rt.
The question la a very plain one. The rnlght maire better progreas.
sum of money la voted and everybody
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I have
knows the reason.
So that, under the cir- had It ln rny mind to cail attention to that
cumatances, as the matter is very pressing, tact.
and the tinie to make the necessary preHon. Mr. WATSON--Great minda.
para tions la very short, and, ln vlew of the
commission having been appolnted, -whlch
The Senate adjourned tîi three o'ciock tobas no authority to act, and as rny hou. rnorrow.
frlend knows mast as weli as I do what la
golng to be done wlth this money, It; seems
THE SEKATE.
to me It la flot unreasonable tbat the mIle
sbould be suspended to-day.
OTTÂWÂ, Friday, Mamch 13, 1908.
I should like
to bave the third reading taken to-rnorrow.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
I amn informed that as soon as the Bill la
passod Hîs Excellency the Governor General o'clock.
Prayers and routine proceedinga.
will corne down and sanction ItL I sirnply
place the matter before the House, s0 that
if It la possible to go Into comrnlttee, and
BILL INTRODUCED .
pass the measure, I think the -whoie city of
Bill (DD) An Act respecting the Board of
Quebec wli be ready to at once start pre- the Preabyterian College of
Halfax.-(Hon.
parations for the celebration.
Mr. MeGregor.)

SE-NATE
4CHANGE IN LEASING REGULATIONS
0F COAL LANDS.
INQUIRY.
Hon. '.%r. MACDONALD inquired of the
goverximent:
If the regulations of the Interior Department with respect to the leasing of coal lands
Iave been changed, reduciag the acreage
fi-cm 2,560 acres, which one person was ailowed to lease, to a smaller nuxuber of acres,
and what is the number of acres naow
i'dlowed ?
lion. Mr. SCOTT-Tlhe regulations of the
Interior Department with respect to the
leasing of coal lands have flot been changed.
By an order In councl dated the 4th of
Mardi, 1907, the regulations at that time ln
force for the disposai of coal mlning riglits
These regulawere absolutely rescinded.
tions, however, did not provide for the leaslng of coal mining lands but for the sale
of such lands, ani under the provisions
thereof flot more tisa 320 acres could be
The area of coal
sold to one applcant.
mining lands whicli one applicant migit
purchase was restrlcted to 320 acres since
the regulations of the l7th of September,
1889, came lîito force.
By an order ln council dated the 9th day
of May, 1907, new regulations were approved for the leasing of coal mlnlng rlghts under lands the property of the Crown ln
Manitoba. Saskatchewan, Alberta, the Yu'kon Territory, and that portion of the province of British Columbia belongiag to the
These regulations
federal governiment.
came Into force on the lSth of June last,
-and permit of one applicant obtainlng a
lease of 2,5610 acres of coal minlng riglits
instead of 320 acres, as lieretofore. 1 submit a printed copy of these regulations.

stated against their administration.

My at-

tention lias been called by several people
to statemients made by one who holds a
prominent position in another place and
who lias been described not oniy as one
of the Ieading men of this country but as
the greatest Orangeman la the empire. I
find. tiat lie took occasion In a speech, the
nîght before last, at Mount Forest, to deal
witli the condition of affairs here on au
unfair basis, especially ln regard to nationality and religion, Hie wvent s0 far as to
say that we not oaly duplicated but quadrupled the number 0f pages and messengers
necessary to give attendance on this flouse.
Hon. Mr. CASGRÂIN-WouId It be very
inconvenient to the bion. gentleman to postpone thîs matter until ,Tuesday next?
Some 0f us might like to take part Ia the
discussion. I understnnd that there is a
government Bill on the orders which it Is
very Important we should get tirough today. I therefore would request the hon.
gentleman to postpone this matter until
Tuesday next.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I would most wlllingly accede, and 1 amn at one witli the
bion. gentleman in regard to that matter;

but wlien the viper of untruth is la the
grass you do not know how far it will rua,
and 1 want to catch it before it runs very
far.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-Let It rua.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It will not take
The chairman of the Internai Ecolong.
aomny Committee will settle the question la
But to understand
one or two minutes.
*the nature of these charges, I have to quote
a few of the remarks of the gentleman
The meeting was beld
who made them.
at Mount Forest on March lith, under
QUEST1ON 0F PRIVILEGE.
the auspices of the orange Grand Lodge.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Before the orders of Dr. Sproule Is an eminent statesman and
the da'y are called, I ýwish to afford his prominent la the country.
He was introlionour the Speaker an opportunity to place
the following manner:
duced in

himself in a true ligut as regards tue auinaistration of the affairs of thls lionourable body. I find that lie Is personally charged with extravagance la the administration
of the affairs of thus cliamber, wbich practiI
cally cornes under bis suevsoand
superision
ssuppose lie will liold it as an lionour to
vindicate bimself and the Internai Economly,
('ommiittee. if anything- bas been wrongly
lon. Mr. WATSON.

'I introduce to you the Sovereiga Grand
Master of British North America, the greatest Orangeman of the empire, a member of
the flouse of Commons who does not eara his
$,2,500 by lying arouad saloons,' was the closMr. E. T.
ing sentence of the speech of the Grand Essery,
Orange
Lîondon, Grand M-Naster of
in introducing Dr. T.
Lodge of Ontario West,
the public meeting this
S. Sproule, M.,at
evening in the tewn hall. Dr. Sproule in his
repl- did not refer to this remark, but iim-

59-3

M ARCH 13, 1908

question, but do nlot let hlm read to the
House all the papers of the country %vitb
gious liberty. The order bas been an import- this nonsense.
ent and restraining influence in keeping IreHon. Mr. OLORAN-The bon. gentleman
land united ta the empire. ' When I have
I stated that la
thought it my duty -te etand up in the House la exerclsed over nothing.
of Commons ta say somethiag I considered it order to become selzed of the point and to
my duty to say there were from ten ta flfteen understand the drift of the accusation
F'rench and Irish Roman Catholics jumping
up ta interrupt me, and I regret to say that agalnst the Senate it was necessary to read
Protestants joined in those interrup- a few remarks.
soe
mediately Iaunohed, into a defence of the
Orange Order, claiming that it was the chainpion of free speech, a free press and of raui-

tions.' Hae criticised. the action of thse late
'Mr. Martin, when member for the riding in

which Mount Forest is located, and seime othe'r
vi*embere, who had refnsed ta present ta the
Bocuse ptitions from the Orangemen. Hae declared thatlt Roman Catholics had received an
un due share of appointmente in the. depe.rtmants at Ottawa. The Roman Catholic popualation of Canada was only forty par cent of
the whole, yet in the Printing Bureau there
two years ago 388 Roman Catholics and
%vere
149> Protestants. He was tald that now the
numbers were 525 and 75 respectively. 0f the
7z pages and messengers of the House of Comir.ons, 58 were Roman Catholies and 20 Protetants, and of the 67 pages and messangers
iii the Senate, 42 were Roman Catholicsansd
Re thought it a shame that
25 Prtstns
Christian ministers were net among the

O'range Order in greater numbers, for the
order stood for ail that was best in Christian

work.
Here Is a statesman who la supposed to
know what ha Is talklng about, a member
-of the Dominion parliament, and he shonld
be acqualnted with the counls of his
party.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-I rise to a point
What bas this ta do with us?
of order.
1 amn surprlsed at the bon. gentleman, and
I arn sorry ta see hlm raise a question 0f
this kind whlch does nat affect the Senate.
WVe have
'We should put a stop ta that.
nhost Important measures ta deal ,wlth taday. and I do not know why we sbould take
up this matter. The only answer ta such a
eharge ls ta despise lt, and rernain sulent.
The nction of the hon, genIt Is nonsense.
tleman is givlng publiclty ta al thîs nonsense.
The SPEAKER-I understand the hon.
gentleman wanted ta put a question ta the
ban. chairman of the Interna] Economy
Coxnmittee.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The Speaker underistands the question much hetter than the
bion, gentleman fram MaNlntmagiiy, and apprecites It more.
Ilon. 'Mr. C.HOQUETTE-I rise ta a point
Let the hou, gentleman put the
-of order.

Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-TLhere ls no nccusationi.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Evidently the non.
gentleman la nlot sufficiently acquainted
witli the Engllsh language ta understand
wbat I have sald.
Hon. Mr.
enough.

CHOQUETTE-I understand

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I have cited the
facts, and I desire ta asIc the hon. chairmnan of the Internai Economy Committee If
he has. on bis staff, under his contrai, 67
messengers and pages, 0f whom. 42 are
Cathollcs and the remainder Protestants?
The bon, gentleman trom Montmagny
should not be s0 precipitate, especlally ln a
If he understood the
matter of this klnd.
drif t of this statement, before the people
of the country, he would understand that it
is well ta nip the lie ln the bud.
Hon. Mr. WArSON-Th1e request is not
very serions, and flot bard to answer. WTe
certainly have. nat 67 messengers and pages.
on our staff. The total number o! messengers Is 12, and the pages 4. So far as their
religious proclivltles are concerned, I do not
knaw anything- about It.
THIIRD READINGS.
Bill (Q) An Act to incorporate the London and Lancashire Guarantee Accident
Comupany--(Hon. '.%r. Rass, Middlesex.)
Bill (V) An Act respecting the Dominion
Guarantee Comnpany, Limited.--(Hon. Mdr.
Baker.)
Bill (U) Au Act to chanige the name and
head office o! the Anglo-Canadian Insurance Company.-(IHon. Mr. Ellis.)
Bill (19) An Act te incarparate the Bank
of Winnlpeg. as amended.-(Han. Mr. Watson.)'

SEINATE
NATIONAL

0F QUE- had moreover acquired a prectical suprernncy througb their alliance with tbe Indian
tribea of aIl the territory which lay to the
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
west and nortb of the rivera Ohio and MisaThe bouse resolved itseif into Cornrittee issippi. Ia truth, at one tIme It looked exof the Whole on Bill (111) An Act respecting ceedlngly as If North America would bethe national battlefields of Quebec.
come French rather than British. It la
aomewhiat remarkable that two yenra be(In the Committee.)
fore tie action to which I bave alluded,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- the Marquis of Montcalm was actually
As deslred by my hon. triend, I shall atate threatening Albany and had very nearly
briefly the reasons whlch have Induced tbe succeeded la cutting la two the northeru
governiment to introduce titis measure. The colonies of the United States. But one
Act la one intended to give power to the year before the action la which -be fell he
governeat. under cer-tain regulations which had repuised with very severe loss a large
will be more fully explalned as we go Britiah force. more than double, if my menithrough comrnittee, to acquire certain pro- ory serves me, the force whicd fonghit under
perties nt Quebec, Ia addition to those tbey Wolfe on the Plains oif Abrahamn. Had Wolfe
aiready hold, and to lay these ont la sncb failed on that occasion, and everybody knowvs
fashion as to make a national park on the who bas taken the trouble to examine the
site of the engagement known as the Battie history of thet encounter, that it was a
of the Plains of Abrahamn.
very bazardons and almoat desperate action
As bon. gentlemen are nware, looked on his part-bad he failed on tbat occasion.
at froui one point of view, the encounter iooklng to the tact that there were very
which took place on that occasion nîigbt few more weeks that the British fleet could
be regaRrded radier as a brief buit bloody remain before Quebec, Viere Is very little
skirmish, chlefiy remarkable from the doubt that Canada would have continued
traîgic death of tbe two gallant leaders on to be a dependeacy of Vie Frenchi crowui.
either aide, but there are several other I amn quite certain that bis fallure wvould
aspects froin whicb it may be regarded, flot have been repaired before the abdiand I tbiak I arn fully justified Ia raying cation of the eider Pitt, and we know very
that no action ever took place In Northi well that Pltt's uaworthy successors wouid
America which lnvolved In the uitlinte re- bave been the st persons in Vie world to
suit so many grave issues and hbad sucli have succeeded la the enterprise In which
far reaching effects, as the battle on the lie had failed, whiie, on the other hand, the
]Plains of Abraham. As hon. gentlemen no success of Wolfe meant aothing less
of
the
isolation
Vie absolute
doubt are aware, aithougli the facts of late than
have been somewhat overiooked, the con- forces of old France la Vie colony of Cantest uhieb had been waged In former ada. The capture of Quebec vlrtually cut
years between Great Britain and France off ahl possible communication witm Vie
for the supremnacy in North America, and mother country and made Vie surrender
whieh, 1 may say, was finally decided by of Canada at large an almoat inevitable
this action, was a very long and bitter result. So mucli for -w'at I may <'ail Vie
one, and very muchi more closely balanced immediate resuits of the action, bat, as 1
than people are perbaps aware of. Ie said before, there Is anotber point of view
point of fact. at one tiine there was very f rom whicb it m'ay be regarded, and Viat
little doubt that the odds were rather lu la, Vie very remarkable Issues whicbi were
favour of France than of Great Britain, In involved in the surrender of Canada. If
that great contest. At one time, it was hon, gentlemen have ever read the
welI known, the Frenchi goverament occnpy- letter attributed to tbe Marquis of Monting the province of Jiouisiana on the south calm, said to have been wvritten a short
and the province of Canada on the north turne before bis death, they wilI kno'w Vliat
liad practicelîr surrounded the British col- on that occasion, whilc expressiag great
onies on three sides with a cliain of for- doubt as to the resuit of the action, hoe
tified posts of more or less streugth. anti declared bis firrn conviction timat if lie fell.
Hon.

BATTLEFIELDS
BEC BILL.

MIr. WATSON.

MARCII 13, 190852
and if Canada was lost to the French government, beyond ail doubt one resuit would
be that within a very short time the Arnenican colonies of Great BrItain wouid
quarrel with -the mother country and declare
t.eir independence. That letter may or may
not have been authentie, but there 18 no
doubt other obgervers, who were also thorougbiy qualified. to form an opinion, had corne
to very much the saine conclusion as Montcalm. And there Is llkewise no doubt nt.
ail that the lnk on the Treaty of Paris
was scarceiy dry before the quarrel which
be badl antlpated actually took place between'Great Brîtain and ber coloniei. That
commenced practicaliy ln 1764-65, the treaty
bavlng been concluded ln 1763, and witbln
ten years It had culmlnated in actual civil
It Is not too mucb to say that
war.
on the action of Wolf e, and on the
surrender of Canada hinged the posaibility of the American revointion ln the
flrst place. But It is not perhaps s0 cleanly
known that to a very great extent the
American revolution and Its success operated to produce the famous Frencb revolutlou whlcb followed but a very short
time after the Arnericans had asserted their
Independence.
Beyond ail question, the
apread of democratic ideas caused hy the
American revolution, and moreover the
great injury. to French finances resulting
from their contest wltb Great Britain lu
that war, bad a very powerful effect iln
preeipitatlng the French revolution, nud, at
any rate, caused It ln ail probability to be
conducted ln a very different fashion and
on very different Unes frorn those on wblcb
lt would have been conducted lu the or,
dinary course of affaira. I said just noý%
tA.dL from one point of view this battie mlght
have been regarded as a mere bloody skirrnlsh having reference to the number of
troops engaged and the lusses on either
aide, but luuking at It ln a broader and
langer ligbt it is perfectly clear that the
resuit of the action whicb touk place on
the Plains of Abraham was of sncb a character as to make it in reality a tru'e link
lu the world's history-I mlght almost say,
without exageration, tue hinge on which the
destinies of two continents depended in a
very great measure. Under these clrcumstances, having regard to its pecullar relation to our own history, and bavlng re-

gard also tu the world wlde consequences
wbich resulted frorn the action ln whlch
Wolfe feli, the goveramnent came to tbe
conclusion. that it 'Was highly desirable
that the site on which tlis memorable encounter took place should be preserved as a
public park, sud should be so beauti-fied and
arranged as to Impress ahl pensons who mlght
visît Canada, and Impress the people of
Canada themeelves, with a vlvld recoilection
of the Important events which took place on
that occasion. The details of the measure wll
be dlscussed as we proceed la committee,
and I trust that the Hlouse, as weil as the
people of Canada at large, wll be willlng
to agree tbiat the governeut ln this matter
have showu a reasonabie regard, and not
more than a reasouable regard, to the
position that Canada la assurnlng ln the
world, and that our action wiIl be
fully endorsed, as I believe It bas been lu
the lower flouse, by both aides of this
chamber.
Mon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Whlle one may
confidently say that every bon. gentleman
lu thîs Chamber bas appreciated very much
tbe Iuteresting reaume of the Important
eveuts wbicb took place on the Plains of
Abraham as reviewed by rny right hon.
friend, yet I regret that before slttlng dowu
hie dld not enter more fuIly Into the policy
of the goverument with, neference to the
scheme which ls la view.
We are now to
discuss a Bill lnvolving a very large expenditure.
The policy of the goverument
with refereuce to that, expenditure should
certalnly be more fully explained.
One
besitates to be too censorlous with reference
to the lateness of legIslation whlch characterIses many Important Bis brought before
this flouse. There Is no good reason why
thîs Chamber sbud nut have had before
it for some weeks thîs Bill, su that It might
pass through tbe ordinary stages aud neceive that consideration aften due explanation by the goverument to which such a
Bill la entitied.
Within the last few days,
the flouse of Commons bas passed upon an
estimate of $.300,000 which represents sirnply
an Initial expenditure towarda the carryiug
out of this scheme.
Any one who bas perused the columus of ' Hansard 1 will bave
observed the criticism of the fouse of Commous as tu tbe very meagre deta ils

SEINATE
given by the goverument on the introduction of tixis mneasure. The paucity of
Information wbich we have before us ou
tis very important matter is somethlng
which wiil justify us in severely criticising
thue government on account of Its, 1 cannot
say anything less than negligence, In nlot
putting before this CJhaxnber ail the details
lni connection with this matter.
Now, 1
amrn ft
pronouncing on this scheme, nlot
questioaing the 'wisdom of the action the
government propose to take, but sureiy It
wouid flot be unreasonabie, and it wouid be
nothing more than is due to this Chamber,
that the government shouid have put us ln
possession of those facts days âgo. There
may be a diff erence of opinion as to the
advIsabllity of the federal government enterIng on sncb a large scheme, as to whethier
they should assume the responslbility of
purchasing the Plains of Abraham and expending at least a million dollars lu the
.acquisition of that property and aIl the
must afterwards
incidefital expenses %which
What I would desire
he attached thereto.
to iearn from my rigbt hon. friend la this:
wbat does the government intend to do
witb reference to the acquisition of the proThiere shouid certainly
perty lu question?
be soine Information be«ore us as to how
mucli it wxiii take to purchase this property.
Hon, gentlemen who have looked over this
Bill 'viii observe that it proposes the appDintment of a commission of flve that wili
enter more elabornteiy than the government
lias done into the carrying out of the
It contemplates an expropriation
scheme.
o! the property which was formeriy the
Plains of Abraham, now owned by private
parties, and afterwards maintalinng the
property and carrying the scheme to a sucNow It lias been estimated,
cessful Issue.
se far as 1 can learn from the discussion
'xvich took place elsewhere, that the minimum expenditure for the purpose of acquir.
In.- that property would amount to one milThe $300,OOO already voted,
lion dollars.
1 understand, Is for the purpose practically
o! contributing to or covering the expense
of the tercentenary celebration to take place
That item wiil undoubtedly be
next July.
absorbed by the celebration. and at the next
session of parliament we will doubtless be
confronted witb an application made by

expenses. That la simpiy a small fraction
of thue expenditure contemplated, and yet,
notwithstanding the enormons expenditure
which la ln view, we have no Information
before us.
WhIle 1 bave no desire to olistruct the passage o! this legislation in any
way, It seems to me that It should certainiy
not bie nrged to" a final passage without the
Ohamber being put ln possession of ail the
facts Incident to the carrying 'Otof that
Possibly that information may be
scheme.
elicited as we proceed with the varions
My hon. friend may
clauses 0f the Bill.
be -able to give the Chamber the Information to whicb 1 have referred, but certainiy
It Is owing to this Senate that a measure
of this historical Importance and o! the financial importance whlch must necessarlly
lie attacbed to It, should nlot be railroaded
tbrougb on account of the commission whiclî
is to be or lias been appointed by the government, wbo desire to get possession of
this money for the purpose o! proceediug
I can very well apwith Its expenditure.
preciate the anxlety o! my hon. friend from
Grand Ville to have this legisiation put
His Impatience to have
througb at once.
the rules suspended and to have the Bill become law lias mani!ested itself ln sncb a
way as to do bim credit as a representative
o! the historic city of Qnebec; but wlille the
citizens of Qnebec may have the fuilest
possible knowiedge of the expenditure upon
which we are entering and upon- the scheme
which the goverument has la vlew, yet It
must be that the other portions of the Dominion of Canada have littie or no informaI think as we protion upon the subject.
ceed with the varioxis clauses that this Information sbould be forthcoming.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTWre bad better discuss It clause by clause
and in connection wxith the clauses 1 may bie
able to give my bon. friend ail the Information lie desires.
lon. Mr. SCOTT-I amn somewbat surThe
prised at my bon. friend's position.
opposition are ln full possession of the
facts whicb have corne to the government.
The subject bas been discussed in the press
It
during the hast three or four montbs.
flrst started witb the intended celebration
The govof the tercentenary rit Quebec.
the coimntteýe in charge of that celebration ernament were appealed te to mnake a contriTiîey agreed to inake n contribufor a supplernentîtry grant to cover furtber bution.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

3.ARCll 13,1]90S
tion, subject to the approvai of parliament,
of $300,OOO.
There la flot a word about
any further suin of money.
My hon.
friend draws a deduction leading to millions
more-lt may posslbly be more. The public aIl over Canada have been Invited to
contribute to, this project. It is a national
testimonial, supposed to, be erected for the
benetit of posterity, that they may ever
keep in mind the change that was brouglit
about on this continent by the alliance of
the two foremost nations of the worid. The
goverument have no Information beyoad
iwbat each member of this Hlouse now
possesses, gathered through the public
press.
Perhaps they do not know the
inies of the five members of the commission. 1 think that was given to, the public
the moment the naines were. suggested.
Byron Walker of Toronto, Col. Dennison, Sir
George Drummond, who la a member of thîs
Chamber, 'Mayor Garneau of Quebec and
the Hon. Mr. Turgeon, Minister of Crown
Lands lu Quebec.
An appeal bas been
made, not to the goverament at Ottawa
alone, but to ail the provinces of the Dominion.
Provision la made that any province contributiag more than a certain
amount will be represented on this commission.
The people of Canada of every
class have been asked to, give somethlng towards it, to show their interest In the prol)osal. Even the school chlldren, as a matter of education, have been prompted to subscribe, as they are doing to-day, raising
their five cents or ten cents, or such furtber
mite as they can obtain. I thlnk my hon.
friend's observations are quite unworthy of
hlm, because there la really notblng the
governinent are withholding-nothing whatever.
The governinent do not undertake
to lay down that ail that ls proposed shall
be carried out.
They bave appointed a
non-political board who art to have the control, so far as tbey are concerned, In the
disposai of those moneys.
Public opinion
bas intimated that, at ail events, those
sacred battie fields shall be acquired as a
park for posterlty, that a statue representlng peace shall be erected on the Island of
Orleans.
The idea originated wlth His
Excellency the Governor Genera].
Ail
this bas been a matter of public notoriety
in the press of Canada.
It Is free to
everybody to makze a suggestion as to, how
the tercentenary shalh bcecelebrated. There

s no0 forin or sclieme my lion. f riend can
posslbl3' refer to, ln existence.
Notblng
lias been foreshadowed.
It la ail la chaos
at present.
Those five gentlemen wlhu
have been named are a proper body to on.ginate how this proposition can beat be
carried out.
The general idea ls thiat
there la to be a celebratloa ln Quebe; that
this property la to be acquIred; that some
monuments and testimonials to, the past
and historîcal figures are to be erected la
various places.
It la ail la prospective,
ail open to, suggestions froin my hon. f rlead
or anybody else to say what la best. 1 de
not think the commission have met yet.
They may have had a formai meeting here,
but until the Bill bas been passed and tbey
are put la possession of the funds, they ci
reaily do nothing.
They are powerless toy
maire any move.
Hon. Mr. LOUGREED-I cannot congratulate my hon. friend upon furnishing
the Senate with very much further Information.
In fact hie bas rather beclouded the
inatter.
lion. Mr. SCOTT-I have given you ail I
know about it.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-If my hon. frlend
would look at the Bill, hie would discover
thiat It does not deal with the tercentenary,
except la only the hast clause. The Bill bas a
differeat project la view.
The project of
the Bill Is the celebration next July,
and acqulning of the battiefields la question.
That bas nothing to, do wlth the tercentenary, except posslbly la a sense to mark
the celebration wblch bas been beld.
He
says the goverament knows notbing about
It, practlcally, except what It learned froin
outside sources.
That la what I take exception to.
If the goverament Knuwff
nothlng about it, and the governinent contemplates placlng the machinery in a commission of five, empowering thein to, expropriate property which at least will cost
over a million of money, then I say the
goverament la to be censured for briaging
down an ill-dlgested measure of this kind.
No exception would be takea at the present
stage If the government would confine Itff
action to, the appropriation of $3OO.OOO
for the cehebration about to be beld.
But
that la simphy an incident la comparlson
%vitli the scope of this scheine, and whant
the country wants and wiint this Ilouse ls

SLtSATE
entitled to have, is a wveli digested schemne the Governor'General, do nlot knov what
submitted, wlth the probable cost, se that amount will be at their disposai.
the country may kuow the project upon
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What do the conwhich it ls embarking.
tributions of the Canadian clubs already
Hon. Mr. DÂNDURAND-I have had amount to?
occasion to follow the work wbicb bas
Hon. Mr. DANDURÂND-I cannot say.
beeu initlated towards ralslng a fund for
The Montreal commlttee ls bard at work.
the acquiring of the Plains of Abraham
With the sum to be voted by the city council
aud the fields of 'St. Foye. Already mucb
Montreal wili very Ilkely subscribe lu the
work bas been doue durIng the last two
neighbourhood of $100,0O0. 1 uuderstand tliat
months lu some of the cities of the Dominmany towns and cities have already voted
Ion and more especially lu the city from
or gathered quite respectable sums. EdI do not know that 1 can
wbich I corne.
mouton was one of The firat to be beard
tbrow very much lgbt on the subject ln
It la expected that ail the towns
inquiry as from.
answer to the hon. gentleman's
and cities wili subscribe to this scheme for
My
to wbat wiii be the wbole scheme.
beautifying of the Plains of Abraham
Idea la that the question of the acqulring of the
and the fields of St. Foye and making of
the Plains and of making a national park
them a national park.
wouid aIl depend upon the amount of
money tbat wIil be ralsed. I surmise that
Hon. 8ir RICHARD CÂRTWRIGHTrthe $M000 may aIl go towards Vhe demons- I would cail the attention of my hon. frIend
tration for the celebration of Vie founding to the tact that no purchase of lands can
of Quebec, whlcb was practically the found- be made until it has been approved by parIng of Canada. Wben this commission has liament.
The commission will nlot have a
started its work, and the committees of the f ree hand to iavish the money wlthout
different Canadian clubs from the Atlantic check, by any means.
to the Pacific have been at work gatbering
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-If the object of the
funds, then we shahl be iu a position to
sun of
kuow wbat amount we can count on, and Bill were only to vote a certain
money for the acquisition of the pl.q!ns ns
wbat kind of sebeme can be worked out. We
I do flot think we would
znay have to expropriate a few farms in a national park,
be justified ln giving sucb a large sui
order to link together Vie fields of St Foye
else conwith the Plains of Abraham wltbout touch- for it ; but there Is sometblng
nected with it. There Is the idea of peace
Ing Vie clty of Quebec jal or the Rosa rifle
Incorrect to
Institution, and yet make a very fine park in the Dominion. It is not
say that the pence and union that exists
around Vie city of Quebec, whicb Nvould
Dominion is not yet as
compare favourably wli any park ln ex- in ail places ln the
complete as It should be. It la 'well known
0f course, If
istence to-day lu Vie worid.
by
the Ilberaiity of the people of Canada per- that Vis scheme bas been launched
initted us to roll up a sufficient amount to higb personages ln this land, and as a ineans
union
acquire Vie land and wipe out those two for pavlng- the way for a complete
eyesores, the jail 0f Quebec and the Ross between the two most Important sections
it
rifle institution, we would ail applaud. My of the people of this country. I thlnk
If the furtber million which is a very desirable object and biavitng that
idea ks Vint
probably sncb an expropriation would entail object ln view parliament should not hesiis not fortlicoming from the people of Can- tate for one moment to vote a large sumn,
ada, then the national park wll bave to be double the sum mentioned in the present
Ilnited to whatever area can be acquired Bill If necessary, to accomplisb this most
with the fund then raised. It is quite im- desirable object of havlug compIete peace
possible ut this moment to say exactly what la the country.
form that national park wili bave aud
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-We have that now.
what its cost will be, iuasmuch as the
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-No, we have an excommission which has been named, and the
varions commîttees which have been orga- ample in Manitoba that we have not. Takze
nized, ou the inspiration of His Exceliency the schools th.ere; they do not show a great
Hon. Mr. LOTJGREED.

MAROR 13, 1908
desire to respect other creeds and nationaities. My view is tliat we have flot'as coinplete a peace between the two rnost Important sections of the country as we shouid
have. I for one arn desirous that this
objeet shahI be attained, and having that
object ln view, I repeat that If we can
improve the situation and make a complete union between ail the sections of the
people, parliament wouid be justified ln
voting this large suai of rnoney for the realization of this seheme. Therefore 1 hope
the Bill will pass.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD, (B.C.)-T'he remarks of the hon. Secretary of State indicate that this Bill points to a large expenditure beyond the $300,000. If the hon.
gentleman would read sections 10 and 11,
he would sec that after the property is
secured and converted into a park it is to be
maintained perpetualy. That rnay not entail
a great expense, but it wil be an expense. I
think we should have sorne expianation as
to whant the approximate u'ost wouid be of
buylng out the property required on those
Plains. We do not know what the government could buy the Ross lease for.
Then ln section 10, It is provlded that the
committee, before initiatlng any wo-k, shail
corne before parliament, and tbey rnay corne
before parliament perpetually, year hy year,
nskIng for new grants. I do not object to
the Bill. Its sentirnents are Ideal more
than anything else ; but whle It is blghly
sentimental, yet there is a financlil question which has to be discussed carefully.
I observe that the commissioners are to
work without salary-no provision for any
pnyrnent to the cornrissioners excepting
actuai expenses. I do not know If gentlemen can, be found to carry on the work for
any iength of time without propcr compensation, but I think thîs io Information
we shouid have, particularly as to what
the approximate cost of exproprtatlng the
property would be.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I would not have
taken part In the debate on this project,
wlth which I amn wholly ini sympathy, were
It flot for the statement by the hon. Speaker
of this House, that the founding of Quener
was the foundlng of Canada.
I beg leave
to point to a historical mistake.
We are
ail agreed upon the past and present glorles
24

529

of Quebec.
We ail appreciate the Importance of this move, and know what bearing
the final vlctory by the British over the
French on the Plains of Abraham hadl on
the destiny of Canada, although the battle
of St. Foye a few days after was won by
the French, the hast pitched battis between
the two great nations on the continent. 1
say we are aIl agreed as to the momentous
Importance of that event; but I certainly
do not agree withi the hon. Speaker ln viewIng the founding of Quebec as the founding
of Canada.
Four or five years before Quebec was founded, the same Champlain,
Dumont, Pont-Gravé, and others came over
to New France in search of a location for the
first white settlement ln Canada. There was
ln 1604 ne settlement la Canada; in fact, If 1
remember right-I arn speaking frein meinory-no settlement in North America by
white people except St. Augustine, Fiorida.
The saine Samuel Champlain havlng gone
over where the city of St. John has since
grown up -and developed, went ln with hie
companions to Annapolis Valley, and it was
ln 1605 that the town of Annapolis was
feunded, and that the .first permanent coiony
that was founded la Canada. The founding of Canada dates back te 1604--m
1904 we la the province of 'Nova Scotia
made a simular appeal to that which
has been made s0 successfuliy by our
f riends froin Quebec, and' ls being responded to by the Dominion governinent.
We were listened to with an Indifferent
ear. We went to work, however, and celebrated the true tercentenary of the foundîng
of Canada.
The town of Port Royal-today Annapolis--has Its own history, flot
lacking lni deeds of rnilitary valor. I Mnay
say that the subduing of Port Royal was
attended wlth as much mUlitary glory at
least 'as that o! Quebec.
It took four successive expeditions of Englishmen and colonists to subdue the lîttie town.
The last
siege was conducted by Nicholson who
had under his command more soldiers
to land, whom he did actually land, than
there were souls, flot oniy ln Annapolis
Royal, but ln the wboie of Acadia, and such
n lesson bad the Englinh troops got on three
previons occasions that, notwlthstandlng the
overwheIming army they had at their coinmand that Subercase, who defended Port
Royal, had granted te hlm ail the honore ef

RinTI5ED EDITION

SENATE

530

war. He was aiiowed te evacuate tie fort
wltb bis garrison, a very smali garrison at
tuat with military honora, and if I arn permitted, I might for a few minutes reter te
that historical point. The matters wbich I
arn referrlng to, are matters of Canadian
glery, because wiatever glory redounded at
that tinie to either French or Engliah, to-day
redounds te Canada. Whea Subercase, w-ho
bad only 150 regulars under hlm, capitulated
and these termis were given to hlm bie proposed te Nicholson te seli hlm the cannons
that lie had. Nicholson w-as ready te accept
anythlng, se lie bought fnom Subercase the
cannons of tie font.
Subencase had ne
herses, ne oxen, nothlng te remove the cannons, and the soidiens
were
about six
montha behind witi their pay.
With the
rnoney lie get trom the Englisb general, lie
pald the arreans due te his soldiers.
Port
Royal or Annapois to-day is really the flrst
Tieredlty or town teunded in Canada.
fore it la well that the Bill should state as
it does, I believe, tint this la the tencentenary of the feunding ot Quebec, but net of
Canada.
I amn w-holly la faveur of the
object ef tuis Bill, but I arn aise la
faveur of distributive justice and fain
play.
There la anetien battlefield equally great, equally glonieus, and equalhy
stupendous in Its bearng upon the destiny
of Canada as Quebec, and that is the battie
of Leuiaburg.
Have any ef you gentlemen ever gone te Louisbung?
If yen bave,
and if aise you have heen la the Orient,
and la tiose old Biblical Asiatic tewns, yen
will fiad an air of sohemn similarity between tiern.
The desolation of tbe field
which w-as once the gneatest citadel et New
France, ia fact possibly the greateat citadel
ever but in Arnerica. la a sigit te-day that
Some yeana ago
la desolation te, the eye.
a movemeat w-as set on feot te secune that
field and make it public preperty.
It bas
become se now by pnivate enterprise. Gentlemen from the eld ceuntry, some members ef royahty, are members of tint enterprise.
We have la the maritime provinces
a cemmittee orgaaized. w-iichisl making
efforts towards seuning that battlofiehd.
That battlefiehd bas what the Plains of
Abraham and St. Foye hk~tve net-somre of
the eld casements stili visible, aithough the
ramparts were demolisbed, as those of
Jerusalein w-ere by Titus-demolished hv
lion. Mr. POIRIER.

Amherst, Bescawen and our own General
Wolfe. It la ail wrapt to-day in m:ournful
seiemnity.
Shall we who, with a unanirnity that la
certainly consoling, we of ail races who,
are building a rnigbty nation ia a spiit
flot of irnperialisrn but of Caliadiaîîism,
who take from the public cofiers enoughi
mioney to secure that battlefieid flot for
Shahl we leave
Quebec but for Canada.
unneticed tbe great battlefield ef Lauisburg ? I hope flot. I mnake these remarks simiply to indicate -nvhat I Iliik
wlll be coming before îîarliainent lu the
tonear future. a sixailar movemeîît
wards getting flot $.îOO,OQO or any' large
sum, but a sufficient amnount to hiave
at least a guardian put upon the b>attlefield ef Louisburg In erder to take care ef
v-bat debris remains and keep gacred that
spot, I miglit say that boly spot wliere today Engiisb and Frenchi repose uîîder the
sod without any mark ef coîîsecration of
their common glory visible over their graves.
I submit these few remarks to bon. gentiemnen w-hidi I would flot have made lia< fot
the hon. Speaker made what 1 consitlered
an anarchreaisin ; bat 1 abri<ige thenm la
view of the tact tint my hon. friend froin
Cape Breton la prepared. 1 nifferstand. to
bring Ia a more formiali anner before the
fr1ig" of w-iiI
Senate, a question tli'
hiave slmply touched.
On the first clause:
1. The Governor

in Couacil rnay

appoint

lve cormmissioners, whio shall hold office dur-

ing the pleasiir of the Governor ia Conaceil.
ind w-ho, with any~ additional coinmnîssioiiers
who may be appointed under the authority
of this Act, shali be ai body politie 4iid correrate, under the nameof
HEon. MN. LOUGIEED--Io%-v d9)es the
governon in council intenti te appoint tilese
comnissioners
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe gentlemen te be appointed have been
already narned, I thlnk.
Tlîey are Sir
G~eorge Dnummond, Mn. Byron Walken, president ef the Bank of Commerce; Col. George
Deaiqon. known to famne I dane say. particularly If my bon. friend bas ever been
la the Toronto police court.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I bave flot had
tlie honour yet.

MKRCR 13, 1908
Hon. Sir. RICHARD CARTWRIGHTAnother is the mayor of Quebec, Mr. Garneau; the Hon. Mr. Turgeon, Commisioner
of Crown Lands.

the larger provinces get representation
without contributing anything. The mmaller
Provinces are not iikely to contribute. I
know that a contribution of $10,000 from
Prince Edward Island wouid be regarded
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I have flot a word
to say agalnst the personne! of the com- as a large sumn.
mission. Ail the gentlemen named are
Hon. Sir RICHARD CA.RTWRIGHThighly respectable and eminently sulted for The city and the province o! Quebec
are
the work whlch la laid before them. I contrlbuting $15,000, s0 tbey
would be
cail my hon. friend's attention to the fact clearly entitled to fair representation,
on
that If It la proposed to make this a Can- the Commission, and I bel leve, aithough
adian projeet ln every sense o! the word, I cannot pledge myself to it, thet
the prothe appointments made by the federsi gov- vince of Ontario likewlse proposes to
conernrnient should be Canadian ln character trIbute.
and not iimited to two provinces of CanHon. Mr. FEILGUSON-If we were dealada.
Ing simply wlth the tercentenary celebraHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- tdon, we can all
understand that liberal conSubclause 2, provides :
tributions wiil come from private sources
2. The government of any province which and largely, of course, from the centres of
contributeq a sum not iess than one hundred
tlousand dollars to the purposes of the com- wealth such as Montreal and probably Tomission shall be entitled to appoint a oom- ronto.
But we have to look beyond thbat.
ajissioner, and such commiasioner shall h:oid There are two propositions betore us
which
office during the pleasure o! the governI do not thlnk should be mlxed. The one
ment of the province.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-These two big la the acquisition of the battiefielda at Queprovinces, wlthout contributing anything, bec, to be preserved as a Canadian national
park, and the other is the tercentenary celeget al the appointments.
bration.
Wheu the celebration la over,
Hon. Sir RICHk*RD -CARTWRIGHT - I and we settie down to real business wlth
understand that the province of Quebec regard to the preservation of the battlecontributes $100,000, and the city of Que- fields as a national park the burden wll
ultimately ail come down on this governbec $WO,00.
ment--on Canada as a whole.
If we were
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Anything cortri- only
dealing with the tercentenary, I would
buted that way will be a drop lu the bueket not
have so much fauit to Eind, but ail the
compared with the contributions from the provinces will
be contrIbuting through the
public chest
federal government towards the n«ational
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIG~HT- park, a portion of whatever la placed at
That may or may not be. Anytbing fur- the disposal of the commission.
That ls
ther tha9n the $300,000 wlll have to he ob- one consideration which comes up in connection wlth tris B!11.
We are ail agreetained fronti parliament
lng about the acquisition of the Plains of
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-In the present Abraham.
My hon. friend from Shediac
year o! enthusiasm there are llkely to be (Hon. Mr. Poirier) would probably like
to
contributions, especially from Quebec, include Port Royal.
Certainly Port Royal
wlhere tris great celebration ls to taire bas the advantage lu seniority as the flrst
place; but we know that ultlmately this settlement and of also having been a
will Involve a large expenditure. The pace battlefield.
I mlgbt set up a dlaim for
has been set. Two gentlemen have been Prince Edward Island because It was the
selected from the province of Ontario and first part of Canada to be discovered.
three from the province o! Quebec, and the Perhaps solue of mny French Canadian
mighty west la ieft ont and the maritime friends wouid not assent to that, but It
ls
provinces are not mentioned. True, there well establisbed that Cabot discovered
is a condition that If a province contributed Prince Edward Island.
He made the dis$100,000, it wvili get a commissioner, but covery on St. John's day and gave the namne

532

SENATE

of St. John to the isiand which he discovered. I might dlaim. that Prince Edward
Island should be taken Into, consideration,
ind that the anniversary of the discovery of
Canada by Cabot should be celebrated; but
we are unfortunately a good deal past the
date. We missed a great duty wben we
did flot do 1t, but we cannot recail the date
and go back to It now.
Seriously, I think
that wben we are establishing a Canadian
national park on the Plains of Abraham
and appointlng a commission to permanently managed that park, and as it will ultimatelv have to be maintained at the expense
of the people of Canada, whatever may be
done this year, the -commissioners should
have been selected-with a broader vlew.

Hon. Mr. LOL'GHEED-Is there any of
this land vested In the province of Quebec?
H on. Mfr. CHOQUETTE--A very few
acres.
The jail occuples a part of It but
the building could be used for a museum.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CA'RTWRIGHT-As
I understand, it Ie not the Intention of the
government, except In a very few cases, to
purchase propertles that are occupied by the
cîtizens. It ia the vacant land that they
propose to acquire.
If I remember right,
there are some villas along some of -the
roads which It Ia not Intended to dlaturb;
only the vacant land wlll be acqulred.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Can any of my
hon. frienda from, Quebec say what wouid
be the acreage of vacant lands that may be
On clause 5,
5. The commission may purchase, acquire acquired by expropriation entlrely apart
aLad hold the lands or immovable property from the expense Lnvolved?
iu the city of Quebec, or in the vicinity
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE,-Belonging to
thereof. where the great batties were fought,
or which were occupied by the varions coin- private parties?
tnands of the respective armies upon the
battlefields.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Yes.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-Can my hon.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-VerY little.
1
friend. give me any information as to, how
do not thInk there are any buildings to be
much of thîs land la at present vested In
exproprlated.
the Crown.
The clause was adopted.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What wonld be
the attitude of the government with reference to expropriating the Ross rifle factory?
Very recent]y the government gave the Rosa
Rifle Company nineteen and a fraction acres
of land under lease for ninety-nine years.
Sir Charles Rosa has stated that at least a
million dollars bas been spent In the erection of the factory and tbe works incident
thereto. What would be the attitute of the
Hon. Mfr. CHOQUETTE-Including the prvernment with reference to, the expropriaSt. Foye ground, I suppose, there la about licn of the land leased by the government?
50 acres altogether to, be purchased.
t_. course If that land should be expropriated It would. be necessary to, exproprlate
Hon. Mr. LOUGEED-How -much la
the factory.
owned by the goverument now?
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-There Is a quesHon. Mr. CHOQflETTE-All the Plains tion whether the Rosa rifle factory stands
belong to, the government, but there is an- where the battie took place.
It la not on
other part 0f the ground, what Is called St. the Plains of Abraham, and 1 do not thlnk
Foye, which bas to be expropriated.
It will be neceasary to remove the factory.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-How many acres
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWIIGHT-As
are owned by the Crown at present?
I underatand a very large proportion
Hon. Mr. OHOFQUETTE-About 60 acres of the sum named by Sir Charles Rosa
altogether.
was for the valuable and very expensive
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTSpeRking from recollection, about 150 acres
of the Plains of Abraham were purchased
by us some years ago.
Probably the hon.
gentleman will recollect that there was an
Item In the estimates for that purpose. As
to the quantity to, be purchased, it will depend very Iargely on the aluount of the bub"criptions.

Hon.

Mfr. FERGUSON.

MIARCH 13, 190853
machinery. ln the factory.
*He had not
reference to the mere factory, mucb less to
the valuable ground wbicb badl been leased
to hlm, but to the macbinery whlch ls very
expensive indeed. As to the other question my bon. friend asks, as to what would
be done witb the Ross factory, that bas not
been considered, snd I do not know that it
would corne under the purview of tusa Act
at ail, because what Io proposed to be« done
la to acquire the site of the battlefield.

the government place macbinery ln the
hiands of a commission of this kind, -actuated
by a spirit of loyalty, advantage will be
taken of that commission by private parties,
to get them to acquire at public expense
lands that a business commission wouid flot
purcbase, and it therefore wiil require a
very strong band to be exercised by the
government, to restrain the commission.

ly acquainted witb the locality of Quebec
I
to say exactly whore tbe fighf closed.
should think tbough, from my recollection
o! the ascent f rom the Cove, that it is before
you corne to the Ross factory; but that la a
matter which no doubf tbe commission toi be
appointed will bave f0 care!ully investIgate,
and tbey will have f0 consider, as my bon.
f riend very properly remarke, tbe cost. I
do not think It at ail follows that because
parliarnont pute $300,000 et their disposai
this year fiat fhey are f0 be given carte
blanche.
Thaf is flot our Intention. Later
on, when we corne to clauses 9 and 10, my
bon. f riend wIll see that pretty severe restrictions are put on thern both with regard
to acquiring land and to expenditure. Notiing wIll be done without being thorougbly
criticised in parliament.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Tbe selection is
a good one.
The clause was adoPted.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-As
I arn advised, a very small quantity of priA great
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I tbought It was vate property will be acquired.
understood that the land leased to the Ross deai of the property la aiready ln our bands.
rifle factory was carved ont of the battle- I was under the Impression that It was considerably ln excess of wbat my bon. friend
field?
mentioned, but hie possibly la mucb better
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT- Informed than I arn. My experience, wbich
There bas been some confusion as to that. is pretty extensive, rather Inclines me to
I do not understand that it has been satin- think that snch a commission as we have
factorily ascertained that it ls part of the appointed would be very much less Ilkely
true Plains o! Abraham
to be subject to undue pressure than posa bit of i1L sibly membýers of the government residing
Hon. Mr. OHOQUETTE-Not
lni the Iocality.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEBD-Are not tbe
Hon. Mr. LOUGÈBEFD-I hope n0.
boundaries of fhe battlefield a inatter of
certainty?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CAÂRTWRIGHTMy bon. friend knows the character of Sir
Hon. Sir RICHARD OARTWRIGHT-I
My bon. George Drummond and of two or three of
do not think so by any mens.
I arn lnfriend wlll rernember tuis, that the battle- the other gentlemen appointed.
There clined to tbink tbey will exercise a reasonfield covered a considerable ara.
He will observe that
were some four or five thousand mon on able discrimination.
eltber aide, and they moved about for some tbey are not partisans of ours by any manconsiderable distance. I arn not sufficient- ner of menus.

On clause 7,
7. The commission may,(a) Receive and expend any moneys. whether appropriated by parliarnent or the legislatures or oontributed by any muaicipal
or other body, or private individual, for the.
purposes authorized by this Act;
<b> Remove ail buildings and other structures upon the lands taken or acquired, and
erect a mnseum and suai monuments and
statues or other works as seem. fitting or
-ip roriate; and,
()ay out and construct on or through
the said lands such avenues, drives or patha,
gardens, squares or other works as are, in
the opinion of the commission, desirable for
the improvement; of the grounds and the conversion thereof into, a national park of a
character to commemorate worthuly the
events which happened there.

Hon. Mr, LOUGHIEED-Is if the intenLOUGHEED-No'one wlll apHon. M-Nr.
preciate better than my hon. friend, that If tion of tbe governmenf to maintain timis

SENATE

534

park at Its awn expense for ail time te
.carne, or will the governrnent enter Into a
treaty 'with the province of Quebec. te
maintain It ? It seems ta me It would rotI
be unreasenable, In tact it should be expected that the province ef Quebec shauld
assume a portion et this responaibility.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CÂRTWRIGHT-I
amn net In a* position te state that any
definite agreernent bas been made, but this
1 can say, that the goverament wili be
very glad te make such an arrangement
as my hon. friend suggests.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Weuld It nat
have been much better for the government
te leave that an open question, than te
agree ta maintain this park for all time
ta corne? By passing a clause o! this
kind yen at once take out et your hands
ail the rnachlnery fer negotiatlng with the
province ef Quebec. Yeu at once commit
yourselt ta a policy trern which It rnay be
Immediately yeu, apdifficuit ta recede.
proach thern on the subject they will say,
'yeu conternplated maintalning that park.'
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTWhiat particular clause does the hoil. gentleman find which pravides that we are
bound te maintain the park.
Hon. 3fr. LOUGHEED-It would be by
Implication. Subclause c, of clause 7 ludicates the intention of this goi-ernment
ta maintain the park. 0f course if the
Commission proceeds te lay ont ancl construct avenues, drives, gardens, squares or
other works, the logical sequence o! that
weuld be that the goverument would maintain the work as carried eut by the Commission.

bec to maintain ItL Tbey would liniit their
With the aid
expenditures consIderably.
)f that provisa, I think we migbt trust thern
for the tirne belng.
The clause was agreed to.
On clause 8,
S. The Miniister of Finance is authorized
te pay to the commission, out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund of Canada, for the
purposes authorized by this Act, the sum of
three hundred thousand dollars.
Hon. Mfr. L0UGHEEiD-What Is ta be
the application ef thia expenditure?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CÂRTWIRG HTThe appropriation la iptended in the firet
place for the purchase of the requisite property. They have power however, te appropriate a certain part ef this so -much
as they see fît, ta assist In the celebratien
ef the tercentennial; but the main abject,
as I arn Inforrned, 19 te, place them at once
In the position et being able te acquire the
vecant grounds necessary te caver the site
of the two batties.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHIEED-Has the government any estirnate of what this celebratien wiil cost? I notice under clause 16,
that the Commission wiii assume the responsibiity of carrying out the celebration,
and that Is to be paid eut of the $300,0OO.

Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-I do mot say
se, but the alternative would be abndoning
the park.

Han. Sir RICHARD CARTWRTGHT-I
arn unable ta give a definite answer on that
point, because it wouId depend on the respense et the public at large ta the appeals
We expect,
now belng made for money.
lu addition te tMs $300,000, ta receive
$150,000 fram the pravince and the city af
Quebec, and 1 believe $100,000 Is off ered
or lIkÉely to be affered by the province of
Ontario, and tram Independent and private
sources contributions will be made. Some
ot the ather provinces have signlfied t.heir
intention et cooperating, but have net mentloned a speclfic aurn. On the whole, I
think the contributions wlll be suffictezit te
defray the expense a! the celebration, but
I cannot give any pledge on that point.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThere would be considerable power lu the
bands of the government and the Commissi-on If they couid not carne ta an arrangement wîth the province or the city of Que-

Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-I was undèr tlie
impression that the voluntary contributions
would be applied In the direction of acquiring the Plains of Abraham, and uiot the
caqrrying out of the celébratian.

Hon. Sir RICHIARD CA.RWRIGHT-I
do not think that wauld follow as a matter of legal obligation. I do nat suppose
my han. friend would say so.

Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED.

MARCU 13, 1908
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTSome of them may limit it as tbey please.
If they choose to earmark it for a particular purpose, it muet be applied to that
purpose, but ln the majorlty of cases no
such limitation bas been imposed, I understand.
The clause was agreed to.
On, clause 9,
9. The Governor in Council is authorized
te appropriate for the purposes of the commiesion ail the lande or immovable property
rtow vested in His Majesty for the military
or other pu.rposes of Canada and forming
part of the aforesaid battefields..
Hon. Mr. POWER-I understand that a
considerable portion of the land in question le held by the Dominion government
for military purposes.
I judge that under
this clause the Governor ln Councl could
practically seize ail the mflitary land ln
Quebec and hand it over to the c'ommission.

535

sion except with the previons authority of
parliament, and no expenditure shail be
made bv the commission until it has been
approved by parliament.
2. The commission shail, before entering
upon any work of improvement or construction, or aay other work invoiviag the expenditure of money, upon the lands taken
or acquired under the authority of this Act,
cause to, ha prepared plans of the proposed
works showing locations, and submit the
said plans for the approvai of the Governor
in Council, and the commission shall furnish suchi fnrther descriptions.or information to the Governor in Council as are required; and no sucb works shahl be proceeded with until approved by the Governor in
Council; and in like manner plans of the museum or any building to ha erected within
the park shall ba subject, before the commaencement of the work of building. to the
approval of parliameat.

Hon. Mr. POWER-It seems to me that
thie clause ls llkely to create a dlfficultyý
It says that 'no land or Immovabie property shahl be purcbased or acquired by the
commission-except with the previeus authority of parilament.'
That really ties the
bande of the commission until neit year,
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-All practicaiiy, unlees we pass an Act this year
autborizing the commission to purchase any
on the Plains of Abraham.
lands that tbey may deem aecessary and
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I presume that to make expenditures.
Under this BihI the
ail those lands would be in the bande of commission cannot eitber purchase lands or
the government If they are used for military spead moaey.
purposes.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wby sbould the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHET-A Commission acquire those lands witbout
large part of this was purchased wltbin a submitting the proposition to parliainent ?
very f ew years for tbe purpose of preservlng In the first pince, the acquisition of the
the Plaina of Abraham.
My bon. friend land ls not necessary to the celebration.
perhaps is right la saying tbat ordinance In the second place, the lande can neyer
lands, in the strict sense of the term, wouid be diverted to any other purpose, because
hardly be applicable to this purpose; but the Commission bas power to expropriate
lande that were purchased are applicable. them. Hence the movemeat of the ComHon. Mr. LOUGEEED-I presume the mission need not be of such an expedItious
government could divert those lande to any nature as pointed out by my hon. frIend.
purpose tbey chose?
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD <B.C.)-It is not
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTmerely the land, but the Commission canThere is an understaading about tbemthat flot do anythiag without the consent of
If It interfered with the military defeace of pariameat, w-e will say after parliament
the citadel, I doubt If the goverament would rises In Juiy until it meets again In the
following fail. If tbey want to carry on
be at liberty to divert them.
works and improvements and requIre to
Hon. Mr. POWER-They couid give a spend more morey, they are unable to dlo
lease.
ItL
The clause was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-A certain expenditure
On clause 10,
is authorized.
10 N lucand or
10. No ihand or

immovabie byproperty shýll 1The clause was adopted.
the commisacquired

1SENATE

536

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-May I ask my
hon. frlend for information as to whether
parliament wiil be able to announce to the
public-because Information of that kind
lo very desirable I think-what tbe tercentenary celebration wllI be, and 'when,
and what is the programme?7
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That is the puzzle.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIf any hon, gentleman could give the Commission a number of suggestions, containing a 'welI-devised plan for doing it, he
would relleve the commi.ssioners of a very
laborions and awkward situation. I have
no doubt they wiil spend several sleeples
nights-at any rate their secretarles wiliin grappiing with the question my bon.
frlend bas asked. First of ail, they-would
have to know how much money they would
have to devote to that purpose. That wll
be an essential prellminary, and then, of
course, they will have to ascertain-that I
thlnk they are ascertainixig pretty well at
present-the number of persons and the
character o! the persons who will ssist lu
the celebration. 1 believe the F'rench goverument are going -to send a squadron. I
think: the United States government propose to have some o! their ships there
too, If they are not ail ln the Pacifie ocean,
and o! course the British goverument wWl
have a squadron. My hon. friend ls aware
that the Prince o! Wales has klndly expressed bis Intention of being present at
the tercentenary, and no doubt the diff erent
provinces wiil be represented more or les
numerously on that occasion.
Hon. Mr. LOUGEED-Up to the present time, who bas been charged witb the
carrying out of these preparations ?
Hon. Sîr RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThe Commission and their secreta ries are
the parties to whom the matter has been
referred, and no doubt two or three of the
members of the government ln Quebec
have given it a great deal o! attention and
thought, aud wiil be able to maire very
useful suggestions to the Commission. Wu
had a sort of celebration some years ago
-perhaps the bon. gentleman remnembers.
On clause 16,
16. Wbereas the present year not only wili,

it is hoped, mark the setting apart of the
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT.

battlefields as herein authorized, but is also
the tercentenary of the fonnding of the city
of Quebec and the establishment of French
goverument and civilization upon the shores
of the St Lawirenoe by Samuel de Chamnplain,
and it is desirable that these events be appropriately commemorated :Be it therefore
enacted that the commission may, under the
authority and direction of the Governor iu
Council, arrange for and carry out at a
convenient time a celebration, in every respect worthy and fit, of the teroentenary-o!
the founding o! Quebec by Champlain, and
the dedication of the battlefields to the generai public purposes of Canada as provided
by this Act; aud that the commission may,
subject to the sanction and approval of the
Governor in Counacil, expeud and lay out,
for the purposes of the said celebration, such
portion of the sum of three hundred thousand dollars hereinbefore appropriated as is
authorized bythe commission subject to snch
sanction and approval.
Hon. Mr. POWER-In connectlon with
this clause, I wonld like to make an expianation. I am sorry that the hon, gentleman from Marsbfield Is not here, because
I find on looking at the l6th clause that bis
crIticisin was net Justifled; that the clause
does not say that this Is to be the tercentenary of the founding of Canada. It ýays
it is aise the terceuteuary ef the foundation
o! the clty of Quebec, of the estabishment
of civil government on the shores o! the St.
Lawrence.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The hon. speaker
bas more advanced ideas on that than the
goverumeut seems to have.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I wish to sny further that I quite.agree wltb the hou, gentleman from Acadia, that there was a settlement ln what ls now called Nova Scotia
before the founding of Quebec; but I do not
see that that cornes lu question here.
That hon. gentleman said it was proposed
at some later date to have a further celebration e! the founding e! Port Royal, and
when that time comes, we shahl have
lower province commissioners appolnted.
This is a Commission to celebrate au event
whicb reaily concerns chiefly Old Canada.
It doe not dlrectly concern the lower provinces, and when the celebration to whlch
the hon. gentleman bas re!erred takes place,
I have no doubt the government, whatever
party may be ln power at the time, wiil be
careful te see that commissioners are appoiuted who will represent the lower provinces.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Hear, bear.

ýMAROR 13, 1908

537

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I move that thc Order
of the Day be dlscharged and that it be
placed on the orders of the day for Thursday nent.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHFIED-What does the
hon, gentleman propose to do wlth Lhls Bill
before It reaches its final stages ? la lt to
be sent to the Banklng and Commerce ComHon. Mr. McSWEDENEY-I second that mittee, or to a 'Cornmittee of the Whole?
motion.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It wli go to a QoxuThe amendment was lest.
mittee of the Whole under any clrcumstances, but I think it had better go to tlie
The clause was adopted.
Banklng and Commerce Commlttee first,
Hon. Mr. ROY, from the commIttee re- and afterwards to a Commlttee of the Whole.
ported the Bill wlthout amendment.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-When this Bill
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT was before the House of Commons, it removed the suspension of the rules ln se ceived a good deal of attention. A Select
far as tbey relate tu this Bill.
Comm ittee was appolnted to InquIre into it.
Hon. Mr. POWER-There is a strong The subject Is a novel one ln the sense of
desire to have this Bill assented to Imme- members of thls Chamber not being acdiately, and I gather from the language qualnted wlth the provisions of this BIiL 1
used by the hon. gentleman frorn Grand think the Imperial government appointed a
Ville tbit His Exceliency 'would be only Royal Commission to inquire into a similar
too happy to corne down and eistient to Bill on a former occasion. I therefore sugthe Bill when it is passed. I should res- gest that my hon. frlend give some conpectful]y suggest that the leader of the sideration to the question, of submltting lt
government shouid telephone to Hie Ex- to a committee before whlch wltnesses
cellency and inform hlm that this Bill bas might appear, or before whom explanatious
passed tbrough ail its stages, and tbst we as to the Bill mlght be made.
should be deiigbted to have him corne
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I thlnk-the better way
and assent to it tbis evenlng. Hon. gen- would be to let it go te the Committee on
tlemen may think that is rather an unce- Banking and Commerce, and then to the
remontous way of dealing wlth His Excel- Committee of thc Whole House on their relency; but I remember an occasion some port.
years ago, and the hon. Secretary of State
The motion was agreed to.
wlll probably remember It too, wbcn the
Governor General of that day was just
BOARDS 0F TRADE ACT.
about startlng out from his residence to
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
corne Into the city to prorogue pariament,
The House resolved Itself Into Commitand the leader of this House at that time tee of the Whole on Bill (BB> An Act to
telephoned to Ris Excellency not to corne, amend the Boards of Trade Act.
and he dld net corne. This ls the other
(In the Commlttee.)
way about. Hie Excellency Is rnost anxious
On clause 1,
to assent; to this Bill, and we have a prece1. Section 4 of the Boards of Trade Act.
dent for the use of the telephone.
hatr124 of the Revised Statutes, 1906, ie
heeyamended by adding thereto the folThe motion was agreed to, and the Bill
lnwing subsection
was read the third tirne and passed.
2. Where the district je situate wholly or
partly' within a district for which there je
00-OPERATION BILL.
an existing board of trade, the certificate
shail be accompanied by a statutory declaraSECOND READING POSTPONED.
tion of two or more of the persone signing
the same as ta the facts in that regard ta
The order of the day being called:
the population of the existing district as
Second reading of Bill (5) An Act respect- diminished by the proposed change, and as
ta any facts or 'considerations which. made
lng co-operation.
the eetablishrnent of the new board expedient.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I would suggest
that the words 'The establishment of Frenlch
government and clvîlization upon the shores
of the St. Lawrence be struck out, as It lB
historlcaily Incorrect, because that waq estabIlshed four years previously. The clause
should be made to read 1The foundlng of
the city of Quebec,' &c.

538

SENATE

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The object la to authorize the Governor la Council, when applications are made, to establlsh boards of
trade lu a district where one already exista
I gave as an Il--dividîng the districts.
lustration the establishment of a board of
It La partly
trade ln North Battieford.
included lu the Battieford Board of Trade
district.
The Governor in Council takes
up the question and Invites the existing
board of trade to state If there la auy objection to the proposai.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is it desirable to
provide machinery for coutending boards of
trade, so that they both may exercise tbeir
Influences lu a very narrow scope, to the
detriment of both? It seems to me that ls
the principie enuucated by my hou. friend.
There la a
Take the case of Battleford.
board of trade on each sie of the river.
The board of trade on one aide of the river
practIcaliy deals with matters lu its district, and the board of trade on the opposite
aide Io about to be organized.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-It aeems to be
very undesirable that two boards of trade
should be organlzed for the purpose of attendlug to matters of public interest arisiug
within a very restricted area or terrltory.
May I asir what good purpose can be served
by having a board of trade ou each side
of the Saskatchewan river opposite each
other?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-They are quite rival
towus now, flot workiug together any more
than Fort William and Port Arthur.

that they have been dissolved by naturai
effluxion-

Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Why should the
governmeut lutervene 1
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The administration of
It resta with the governmeut.

There bas

to be n record kept of everythlng that goes
I do not see any objection to it.
ou.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Has any case
arisen where it would be necessary to apply
machluery of thia kind?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-No, 1 do not thiuk so.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEFED--Can my hon.
frieud say what provisions we already have
for wlnding up a board of trade? I am unaware of any.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not thlnk there
are auy.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHIEED-The inerd declaration made by the goverument that a
board of trade le dissolved it seems to me
wouid not be sufficient. There should be
some wludlug- Up machiuery provlded, s0
that the assets of the board, if tbey have
any, may bie distributed, and Its lia±blIies
met, and s0 on.
Hlou. Mr. SCOTT-They neyer have nny
assets.

The clause was adopted.
Hou. Mr-. McKAY (Truro), from the com.
rnittee, reported the Bill wlthout amendinents.
NVINDING UP ACT AMENDMENT BILL.

REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHIEED-That will oniy
lntenslfy the divergence.
The House resolved itself into Coinmittee
of the Whole ou Bill (102) Au Act to aniend
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no.
the Wiudlug Up Act.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 4,
(Lu the Committee.)
4. lJpon its being mnade to appear that a
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The whole objcct of
board of trade has become incapable of ex- the Bill la to declare that the Court of Apercising or has ceased ta exercise its f ranlchises, the Governor in Council Inay, upon peal lu Manitoba is the final Appellate
and suhject to such termas and conditions as Court for the province. At the trne the
hie thinks just and proper, dissolve the board
Act wvas passed there M-as no Court of Âpas a corporation.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-What machluery peal In Manitoba. That is the whoie object
.would be adopted to wind up a board of of thse Bill. It makea no change ln regard
ta the other provinces.
trade such as this?
Hon. Mr. WILSON, fromi the Coin ruittee,
Son. Mr. SCOTT-If the board of trade
'nas really ceased to exist, and it is apparent reported the Bill without ameudme-nt.
Hlon. Mr.' SCOTT.

MARCH 13, 1908

SECOND REÂDINGS.

PRESS SUMMARY 0F DEBATES.

Bill (32) An Act to incorporate the Bank
of Vancouver.-(Hon. Mr. Bostock.)
Bill (25) An Act respecting the Hamilton
Radial Electric Rahlway Company.--(Hou
Mr. Gibson.)

Hon. Mr. F'ERGUSON-Before the House
adjourns, I wlsh to eall attention to an errom whlcb occumred yesterday lu the sumI have no
mary report of the proceedings.
desire to attribute auy iatentional mIarepresentation to our press reporter; but I wieh
to direct attention to a vemy serions. error
I may remark that I
ln his snmmary.
tbink It a mistake for our reporter to makre
If
any comments of his own whatevet.
tbe statemeat bad been mnde ln a speech
by an hou. gentleman, although it would
bave been erroneous, we would have no
rigbt to complain If it appeamed ln the press
report, but whea it le a comment made by

BUI (47) An Act respecting the Montreal,
Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal Company.
-(Hon. Mr. Belconrt.)
EDMONTON,

YUKON

AND

PACIFIC

RAILWÂY COMPANY BILL.
SECOND READING.

Hon. Mr. WILSON (In the absence of
Hon. Mr. Davis) moved the second reading the reporter, and It: la fonnd to be erroneous,
I find
of Bill (68) An Act respectlng the Edtnon- we bave a right to deal witb It.
this statement ln connection with the Lanton, Yukon and Pacific Railway Company.
caster Bill:

Hon. Mr. POWER-Thls seems tu be an
importaint measure. It la supposed tu run
froin tbe Pacifie somewhere flot far from
the Klondike to Hudson Bay, and this
Bill le to give power to bulld a further
lune and do various tblngs, and tbcy do flot
appear to bave done anything yet altbougb
they werp Incorporated ln 1896. I t.hink:
the bon, gentleman sbouid make Fomne explanation to the House.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I move this resolution ln the absence of the promoter of the
Bill, and as I bave been waraed and fore%varned energetIcally time and agalu titat
It was unnecessary to describe or explaln
f tldIy the nature of a Bill on the second
reading, that it was to go to a speclal
coinmittee, wbose duty It la to thoroughiy
consider and analyze and carefully disseet
every clause ln that Bill, tberefore It ls
not necessary to explain, it now. Upon
that condition, I move the second reading
of the Bill. I bave not even tbe Bill ln my
possession at the present time. This la, no
doubt, an important Bill, and 1 arn perfectly ççeIl aware that the hon. senator
froin Halifax bas as good a kno'wledge of
Its provisions as any bon, gentleman ln the
House, and If he fails to deliver tbat knowledge and does not understand tbe nature
of It, I shall spend an bour or two witb
hhn and ln going over It carefully ot'rsclvcs.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
xvis rend the second tinie.

The report
tee ameading
ing crossings
ten Up.
bs the Bill

of the Senate railway committhe Lancaster Bill for v)rotectin settled districts Büh was

left the Commnons it was proposed to mepeal section 75 of the Railway .Âct,
and to substitute a section deciariag that
nc level crossing at more than tea miles an
houm unleas su crossiag was properly prote-cted, or unless it was oonstructed and maintained in accordance with the orders of the
railway commission, that the board had the
authority to limait the speed in any case, and
the act was not to become effective until the
fiist of January next.
Tbat la a suminary by the reporter hlmself, and a correct snmmsary of wbat tbe
I have no fault to
.Lancaster Bill meanis.
find wlth It, but even when It ls correct It
would be better for the reporter to confine
hlmiself to reporting what is said. The report continues:The Senate commitise recommend amecndments by which section 75 would remaia and
a new crossing protection section bie added.
This differed from the Lancaster Bill briefiy
by omitting the first declaration, 'unless
sncb crossing is pmoperly protected,' and
substitutin.

auless sucb crossing is proper-

ly proteedf in accordauce with the railway
commission's orders, regulations, and directions.?
It is correcthy
Now, that la Incorrect.
stated that It le to lenve ont tbe wvortis until sucb crossing Is properly protected, but
it la not correct to Fmy that it substitutes

these other words 'or unhess permission is
given by sorne regulation or order of the
board.' Instead of being a niew crossing
protection. it is a permission to go withont
any protection.

The way it is stated. here

540

SENATE

it mak-es it appear that a new crossing
protection was added, whereas the words
lnserted bere as being put ln substitution
are in the Lancaster BIUl itself. Wbat bas
been done la, by leaving out the words ' unlesa sucb crossing la properly protected '
and Inserting ln lieu thereof ' or unless permission la given by sorne regulation or
order of tbe board.' Therefore the explanation puie the matter altogether ln a wrong
llght and would represent the arnendment
proposed by my bon. frlend Senatar Beique.
as addlng a new protection, whereas It ehlminates the protection which was ln the
law before.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-There are four differMy attention bas not
eut amendments.
been called to the report and I have not
read It; but If I had I should have been
like the rest of the public ln a puzzle, because the whole thing is difficuli ta underYau have ta analyze It ail, even
stand.
with tbe several amendments befare you.
I question If anybody could have made a
better report
Hon. Mfr. FEBGUSON-After ahl tbe conslderation we have given ta this Bill my
bon. frlend surely le not so elernentary
about It as ail that. But it ls flot a report of
what anybody said ln tbis House, but au
explanation by the reporter birnaelf, and
It goes ito the newspapers that bas tbat
suthorlty for it. Instead of substituting the
words ' unlesa sncb crossing la properly pro.
tected ln accordance wltb the Railway
Commissionera' orders,' tbese words are- in
the Lancaster Bill already and are not beIng Introduced now; but tbe words that are
belng introduced are tbe words I have
read-' unlesa permission ls given by some
If these
regulation or arder of the board.'
words bad been put ln, it would bave been
ail rigbt; but the words used give a atrong
argument ln favour of the hon. gentleman' s
arndment wbicb la not based an the facta.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I venture ta say that
not a single IndIvidual excepting rny bon.
frlend bas discovered it.
Hon. 1.fr. FERGUSON-All I have ta say
is ibat it la very deplorable for my hon.
friend heading this House ta get s0 far
astray on a very vital part of the legisiation. He bas no right to speak for any one
except himself.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amrn ot going astray.
I ar n ot talk1 slmpiy say it la a puzzle.
ing about myself, but 1 say as far as the
public le concerued nobody but my hon.
friend would have noticed ItL
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-My hou. frlend
wlll agree wlth me that our press reporter
-and I arn saying this with a kiudly feel-.
ing towards hlm, and admit that he la dolng hls wark fairly well--abould iuonfine
birnself ta reportlng speeches, and flot give
vlews of bis own.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The hou. gentleman
le hypereritical, because ln order that t.he
readers of this summary report should understand whiat they are readlng it was necessary that at any rate the substance of
the varlous arnendrnents should appear ln
the report. It may be that the reporter
did flot use the language that was most
accur*itely suited ta express the arnendment
af the hon, gentleman from De SaIàherry,
but be went pretty near It.
Han. Mr. PERGUSON-He went to the
opposite of It
Hon. Mr. POWER-It le his duty to make
a report whlb the public wili understand,
and be could not do that unleas be gave
the arndmeuts. I do flot thlnk the public
would have been interested any more ln
the amendments if they had been given at
full length. The great point le that the
Senate wiil not be mlsled. We have the
arnendrnents ln aur Minutes, and when we
corne to deal with thern we shahI be ln a
position ta take them up as they are. We
shal flot refer to the ' Citizen' or any other
paper as a guide wben we corne to deal
with this matter.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My bon. frlend
does flot express any opinion as ta the propriety or imprapriety of a tblng of the kind.
It la cxtraordinary that we should bave a
staternent of that kind frorn the bon. gentleman frorn Halifax. Our press reporter ls
here ta report the debates. If sorneone had
made an erroneaus statement and he had reported what was said correctly, nobody
could blurne hlm; but when be describes how
it was proposed ta arnend the Bill, be puts
ln wbat would have been a very credItable
aiendment and made it a respectable Bill,
but leaves out words whlcb should bave
been included. 1 know the reporter did

MARCH 17, 190S
BILLS ASSFINTED TO.
net do it intentionally, but he bas entered
on a line of argument and a fallaclous
The Senate was adjourned durlng pleasargument it la.
ure.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS--The reporter May bave
The Hlonourable the Chief Justice ef CJanmade an errer; we are ail hlable to errer. ada, Deputy to Hia Excellency the Governor
But the bon, gentleman seems to intimate General. being seated ln front of the
tbat a reporter sheuld give a sumniary Ôt Tlirone.
a discussion wltbout using some language
The Honourable the Speaker co mmanded
cf bis own. It appears to me that that ls
utterly Impossible ln a summarized re- the Gentleman Usher et the Black Rod to
The lion, gentleman tg asklng for proceed to the House'of Commons and aeport
quaint that Flouse:
the Impossible.
lit je the. Deputy Governor'a deeire, that
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Surely my bon.
friend dees flot men that the reporter ceuld they attend him immediately in thia Houa.l.'
Wli%7o
belng corne witli their Speaker,
give bis own explanation cf every Bill tliat
cornes before thie Flouse, and then report
The Clerk of the Crown in Chancery read
wbat bon. gentlemen aay arter tba'- -atter the Tities of the Bis to be pasaed, s
be bad explained tbe Bil. Yet tbat le what toliows:
ls dene bere. If lie bail put It correctly lie
An Act respecting the. Canadian Pacifie Railwould bave escaped crlticlsm but ns be way Comnpany.
Au Act reepecting the Niagara, Grand Ilad
happens te bave put it incorrectly, thie criBridge Company..
ttcisrn bad te corne. Hon, gentlemen oppoÂn Act4 repeiz the Lindsay, Bobcaygeon
ailway Company.
site seexn te be quite pleased because the and Pontoo
An Act respecting the. Macleod, Cardaton and
misrepresentatien belpa thelr aide of the Montana Railway Company.
question.
An Act respecting the. South Ontario Pacifie
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-No, but the lion. gen- Railway Company. the Kamloops and YellewAn Âct respecting
tleman la making altogether tee mue.b of It head Pass Railway Company.
An Act respecting
I venture te say tbat not a single mndlvi- and British Columbiathe Edmonton, Dunvegan
Railway Company.
dual would bave discovered any defect lu
An Act respecting the Boundary, Kamloope
and Cariboo Central Railvay Company.
hon. friend.
tbe report exceptIng my
Aýn Act respecting the Calgary and Fernie
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If tbey dld net Railwey Companyr.
An Act respectmng the. Aaheroft, Barkerville
discever It tbey were mlslead by It te
and Fort George Railway Company.
tbla extent, tbat tbe bon. senater frenh De
An Act respecting the Tobique ManufacturSalaberry bad put a positive provision ln ing Company. and te change its name to
bis aRundment whicb dld net appear In ItL 'Fraser Lumber Company, Lîmited.'
An Act reapecting a patent cf Eugène Fràn.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I thlnk haif a dozen gois Giraud.
the Windsor
An
hon, gentlemen weuld rise ln their places Pump Act respecting patents of Limîted.
and FoundryCo»mpany,
and agree wlth me.
An Act te incorporate the Women's AuxilSociety of the Church
inr te the
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-The boa, gentle- ofin-gland Missionary
in Canada.
man is quite satlsfied so long as It imita lisa *An Act respecting patents of the Goodwin
Car Company.
ewn side.
An Act respecting patents cf Montagne Moore
and Thomas James Heekett.
An Act te amtend the Copyright Act.
An Act reepecting the. Surveys of the public
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, but we de net
lande of the Dominion and the Surveyors enmake mountains eut of mole billa.
titled te make snoh Surveys.
An Act respecting the. St Clair and Brie
Hon. Mr. FIDRGUSON--Thefl wby net Ship Canal Company.
israWdw
aos
tàke tbe proper aide of It
An Act respeting the Minitr,
and Orphana' Fund -of the PresbYterian
The Senate adjeurned until Tuesday next Church of Canada.
An Act te incorporate the Alberta and Braat 3 p.rn.
seau River Railway Company.
THE SENATE.
An Act respecting the. British Yukon Rail.
way Company.
OTTÂwA, Tuesday, Mardi 17, 1908.
An Act respecting the National Battiefielàs
Thie SPEAKER teck the Chair at Tliree of Quebec.
An Act respecting the Cumiberlend Railway
o'clock.
and CoaI Company.
Prayers and routine proceedinga.

SEIN AIE
To these Bis the Royal Assent was pronounced by the Clerk of the Senate in the
following words:
In His Majestys namne, His Hri(iir the Deputy (lovernor doth assent to these Bis.
The Commons withdrew and the Senate
resumed.
MINUTES

0F RAILWÂY

COMMITTE.

MOTION.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY moved:
That an Order of this House do issue that
a ccpy of the Minutes of the meeting of the
Standing Committee of the Senate on Railways, Telegraphs and Hlarbours, held on the
2lst and. 22nd of May, 1901, be laid on the
table of this House.
The motion was agreed te.

2. Inspecting engineer cf the Department
cf Railways on June 9, 1907, inspected that
portion cf the Kettle River Valley Rallway
between Grand Forks and the second crosslng cf the ICettIe river and reported that
12 miles cf track was laid up te the abeve
date.
That conveys ne more Information than
the bon. gentleman was lu possession of.
RENEWÂL 0F RAILWAY

CHARTERS.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex) rose te:.
Cali the attention cf the Sonate ta the
repeated renewal of railway charters without
any substantial expenditure upen construction sud that it is desirable that the Senate
b(- informed, if the government bas decided
ta taire any action with a view ta preveut the
continuation of this practice P

GARRISON ÂRTILLERY COMPÂNIES.
MOTION.
Han. Mr. LÂNDRY moved:
He snid: This notice lias been on the
That an order of this House do issue or- Order Paper a leng tinie.
The Senate
to be laid on the table of this House
dering
postponemeuts
me with
a copy of the service:-roîl of the Garrison air- lias Indulged
tillery companies cf Ottawa and Morrisburg, on several occasions, but I propos, ta disgiigthe naines of the militiamen who were
few minutes and
on active service, and whc were in barracks pose cf It new ln a very
at Fort Wellington, Prescott, during the open the way for the discussion of some
months of November and December, 1865. other subject. I do net know that any seand during the months of January, Febmuary, March, April, May and June, 1866; riaus harm bas came ta anybody from the
and also a statement showing what was the frequent reuewal cf railway charters ; yet
daily pay paid te the soldiers of these two
orrps and that whîch the militiamen be- it seems te beceme a habit for previsional
longing to Company No. 2 of the Ottawa directors, or the person or persans who are
Batery recived at the samne time, or holders of rallway charters te rest upon
Fie
that which was received. by other corps of
the military district of Ottawa, which were their cars the moment they secure a charalso cafled ont for active service.
ter from. the parliament of Canada. I do
The motion was agreed te.
net know whetber It is an abuse of the privilege cf getting or holding a charter or
CONSTRUCTION 0F KETTLE RIVER
flot, snd yet there seema ta be something
VALLEY RÂILWÂY.
anomalous lu the fact that a charter can
INQUIRY.
be held by a corporation for fifteen or
Han. Mr. LOUGHLEED lnqulred:
twenty years, without any aigui cf vltallty
Whether the government has any informa- ln the corporation, or withaut anythiug betion as te the number of miles of track laid Ing done.
on the Kettie River Valley Railway during
I notice that in 1906 there were 37 renewals
the calendar year 1907, and if s0 how many
miles were laid and between what points P
of railway charters, or of the charters of
What portions, if any, cf the Kettie River
Valley Railway were inspected by engineers other corporations, *lu 1907 there were 18
of the Department of Railways during 1907 reuewals.
Se far this session we have
or during the current year, asad what mile- had between 20 and 30 rallway cempanies
age cf track they reported as having been
asklng for a renewal of their charters. Now
laid thereonP
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers ta the that seems te be, I will net say anomalous
-I do net know exactly the right word te
hon. gentleman's questions are as follews:
1. The goveriument bas ne Information use, but it seems uecessary that we should
later than June, 1907. Up te that date 12 inquire into those renewals with a good
mlles of track was laid betwee'i Grand deal more care than we have done te inake
I do ilot
Forks and the second crossing of the Ket- sure that tbey are warranted.
1 know that the time cf the Senate should be
tie river.

MAROH 17, 1908
taken up with perfunctory and formai renewals of railway charters.
Soxue good
reason should be given before a renewal la
granted.
Sometimes a charter ia beld by a
board of directors for the purpose of exploiting it to see If some body of men with
the necessary means rnay flot corne forward
and say to the holder of the charter, 'Well,
yon have a right to buiid a rallroad between the points A and B, we are prepared
to off er you some consideration for your
charter.'
I believe that has been dune wlth
regard to charters held flot only fromn is
parliament but froin other legisiatures. The
evil of exploiting rallway charters may be
serious or it rnay flot, but this House should
inquire before renewing a charter whether
the charter is held for that purpose.
Then the holding o! a charter by a body of
rnen authorized so to do may block the way
sometimes of another corporation that ls
prepared to do something substantial. When
a rival corporation cornes before a coinmittee of parliament -for a charter perhaps
over the saine route the holders of the original charter say 'We have a charter for that
route and our rights are o! first consideration' and sometimes representations o! that
kind may have some welght witb the coinmittee.
A charter may be an obstacle
really lu the way of progress lu transportation or sorne other useful purpose.
It will
be within the kuowledge of a good many
members of this House that charters are
sornetimes held for political purposes, that
the holder of a charter may use it to
strengthen is political. Influence ln a ridlng. It Is really a delusion, yet It may be
a snare as welI, so for these tbree or four
reasons we might very well consider whether charters should be reuewcd without
some good reason being kiven. 1 bave sald
that some of these charters have been held
for a good rnany years.
I have a list, and
1 flnd that we have given renewals for
charters, the origluals o! which date as far
back as 1884, 1886l, 1888, 1890 and 1901.
Almost every year for tfle last 24 or 25
years, tbree, four and five reuewals have ln
some Instances been given. There are certain cIrcuxustances under whieh this House
mlght flot object ta renewing a charter. It
is very hard to lay down an arbitrary rule.
I do flot sec how "we couid do so.
The
object of my motion is ta -ive a warning
to the holders o! charters which niay ex-

pire wlthin the next year or two that before they ask for a reuewal they should
show some substantial service, that surveys
have been made, that somethlng has been
donc towards entltllng thern to cie right
to hold that charter any longer.
For Instance I would say where a road is a branch
of a great ralway there need be no object
to renewing the charter. Should the Grand
Trunk Pacifie or the Canadian Pacific -Railway or the Canadian- Northcrn have a charter for a branch to sorne local point, If it
were shown that there was no competitor
for tue construction of -a road between the
points covered by the charters of these
branch Unes, the larger rallways might very
well hold thc ground, because the railway
terrltory covered hy that branch rnight be
Its natural field o! enterprise and commerce, and the holding of that charter
would be ln the Interest perhaps of the
public, because If the road ls built at ail
they might naturally look for its belng
bult ln a short time by thc cornpany that
wanted that branch uine as a feeder. That
is a case where a rencwal rnight be given
for a reasonable number o! Urnes.
Then
la a case lke that o! the Lindsay and
Pontypool Railway a renewal might very
well be given Uic road haviug been partially completed.
About four-fifths of thc
distance covered by the original charter was
actually built and an extension was granted
to thc company ln order to hold their ground
for the cornpletiou of a small portion o! the
original lne.
There could bie no doubt
as to Uic wlsdom o! renewlng a charter ln
a case o! that klnd and where a company
bas been shown to have a good financial
hasts.
The practice ln Ontario, 25 years
ago was to refuse a charter to ail corporators wbo could not show that they had
a financial basis on wbich they could procced wlth reasonable certaiuty. For Instance, It was requtred that a certain
arnount of stock should be subscrlbed and
paid for.
It should be shown that they
had recelved bonuses froxu municipalities te
aid lu the construction o! the road, or sorne
tentative agreernent with Uic trunk uine of
rai]way, whlch was an assurance to Uic
publie that the larger hune o! ratlway, with
Its capital sud resources was at, Uhir disposaI for the construction of the srnaller
line.
That ls a case also where I thtnk a
renewai nced not be rcfuscd.
We are ln

SENATE

544

the habit, however, of granting railway
charters to men who have no financial abllity, to provisional directors supposed
Who that corneto represent somebody.
body Is we are nlot aiways Informed.
Where there la no financial basis, or nothlng
bas been doue lu the way of construction,
or the reuewal E uot ueeded by some maiu
Ue ou behaif of one of Its brauches, this
house shouid be chary about grantIng a reThen I think reuewais need not
newal.
be refused where some reasouable prelimiWhat I
nary work has been carried on.
waut ln case of a renewal la some bona
fide evidence that the corporators are ln
earnest and that they bave put money into
It, made surveys or that the construction of
their road Io guaranteed by some larger
corporation.
Then I thlnk If renewals were not 80
often granted, that the original Incorporators would throw a lîttie more energy Ente,
the work. They seemingly rest upon thelr
oars. They say : «Here we have a charter :
It bas been renewid once or twice or tbree
limes. If we do uot commence construction the parliameut will be generous and
-wlll renew It agalu and agalu.' If there was
a feeling on the part of the Incorporators
that the reuewal would cease very speedlly
unless good falth. was shown by the Encorporators, I thlnk they would proceed wlth
some energy. How are we golng to remedy
It ? I have no suggestion that I consider
conclusive lu regard to the matter. The
only Idea I had ln my mind. was rather
to throw out a warnlug, as I sald before,
to the holders of charters asklng for reuewals, that the lime may corne, unless
they do somethlng, when the privileges
which they hold will be withdrawu. I do
thlnk that perhaps'the Rallway Commlttee
could draw up a set of conditions or regulattons which would be acceptable to the
committee as a basia for the reuewal. That
might be a matter for the cousideration of
the commlttee, or the goverument mlght
say, as It very properly might lu the case
of charters which have been already renewed two or three limes, that no further
renewai would be granted without some
substantial evidence of progress, wlthoiit
some proof that money had been expended
on curveys, or without some proof that
those who hield the charters had doue someHon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

thing, or had the financial abllty to do
somethlng. I am not able to point out any
abuse particularly, nor am I able to say
that charter-mougerlng has become a profession and bas led to graf t, or auy Irregularlty ; yet I thluk thîs Houe should
not be approached, as it appears to have
been, by those who hold rallway charters
and have asked so often for their renewal.
I slmply call attention to the abuse of the
courtesy of this Houce, and an encroacbmeut upon the lime o! thîs House and
upon the Rallway 'Committee lu considering from year to year as Et bas been dolng, the renewal of rallway charters.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The observations of
the hou, gentleman from Middlesex do not
really require auy comment from me. He
bac laid dowu certain sound principles
wbich I recoguize, and he bas hlmseif
pointed out where acceptauce can be made.
ln advance o!
We are ail rather
charters.
times lu getting our
the
[t la very well kuown that ail over this
Dominion there ls a demand for rallway
accommodation and rallway construction.
Enterprlsing men loin together and get a
charter lu the hope of being able to finance
It. Tbey obtalu the charter. In some
cases they succeed and lu some cases tbey
faîl. I do not see that any particular Injury or material harm bas been doue lu
the pact. The matter le kept before the
public. We have been dlscusslug for Instance the project of a rallway to Hudson
bay. lu 1884 parliameut offered a charter
to any compauy tbat would build that road.
I amn not wquite sure-my memory la not to
be relled ou-as to whether there was an
actual charter lu existence. Well, It kept
that project alive, and parties are looklng
forward to the time wheu the road wlll be
constructed, and they will obtalu the advautages polntedl out some twenty-four
years ago. We have lncreased the fees for
one thlng, 'whlch ought to have a deterrent
effeet on parties applylng for renewals. If
tbey get the Bill through they have to pay
for It. I do not thiuk that our lime la s0
unduly taken up by private legisîstion as
to lu any way postpone the termination of
the sessions. I fail at ail times to recognize that private Bill legislation retalus parliament for one day beyoud the time It
would rise If such legislation were less
than it is.

MAROH 17, 1908
SHon. Mr. CÂSGRIN-I would like to
-compliment the bon. gentleman f rom MidI
dlesex on bringing Up this question.
think it Io a very appropriate subject, lndeed. Qulte a few years ago, 1 believe the
Onrt session I had tie honour of holding a
seat ln this House, I lntrcduced a Bill
entitled 'An Act respecting rallway charters,' but tbat Bill did not meet with the
views oif thls House and 1 had to drop it
I was informed that the government were
about remodellag Vie Railway Act, and
probably Viat la Vie Railway Act some
clauses wouid be inserted which would
cover that point. However, Vie Railway
Act was ahi drafted over again, considerably
amended, but notbing was done with respect to renewals of charters. I believe it
would certaLnly be a wise policy for Vis
House to exact, before renewlng any charter, or inost of the charters. Viat something
should be doue. I would not go as far as
Vie hon, gentleman from Middlesex and ask
Viat actual construction sbould be commeuced, because construction begun In earuest, seriously, -by a responsibly party,
would entai raVier a large amount of
money ln advance; but surely some sort of
exploration sbould. be made o! the route ;
surely a company would be able to secure
Vie services of one engineer and a small
party If only to walk over the route to
see wbether the Uine was feasible, and estimate what would be Vie probable cost of
Vie Ue;, so Viat we would not, lu his
House and ln Vie other House, be reuewlng
charters for ronds that were flot feasible.
Then again, as It waà well said, many of
these charters are held by prof essional
charter-mongers.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I repeat, profes.slonal charter-mongers who come here with
no other object ln vie*, who though not
able to build one-quarter o! a mile of railway have tbe audaclty to ask parliament
to grant Viem a charter to buiid a road a
thousand miles lu length, and Vie whole lot
of Viem could not get a bauk ln the country
to guarantee for them tbe construction of
See wbat a different system preone mile.
Take England
vails in other countries.
for Instance : before you can obtaln a charter for a raihway lu Enghand, it Is abso35

545

hutely necessary Viat you arrange lu advance ail Vie right of way ; that i. to say
Viat ail the plans for the rlght of way be
actually made; that Vie municipalities
and Vie large
througb which you go,
land-owners whose property you have
consulted.
aIl been
have
cross
to
,L.very highway crossing bas to be disupon before a
cussed and decided
charter can be obtained. If you are crossing a canal or stream or other railway, al
Vis must be provided for. Then you bave
to show that you are able to l4uild Vie road
If you are granted the charter; Viat you
have the financhal abiiity; some responsible
Institution must guarantee, as far as guarautee is possible ln a thîng o! the future,
that you bave Vie ability; se that when Vie
British public put their money into the
enterprîse they will know that tbere Is a
chance of It beiag expended judiciously and
There is more.
by responsible parties.
You must show to the satisfaction o! Vie
imperial parliament Viat there Is a demaad
for the rond, aud that there Is a probable
Here railway
returu for Vie investment.
Promoters
charters have been gran ied.
bave gone across to Englnnd and have
raised money on Viose charters. They have
issued bonds, and as the Railway Act permits the issuing o! bonds on the railway
bulît or contracted to be built, any one can
pass a bogue contract ; Vien Vie law le complied wli aud Vie bonds are issued. The British public are caught lu this way, Viinking
that royal charters are granted lu Canada
with as much care sud precaution as tbey
are lu England. They thiuk that we have
looked into this matter, tat these roads
can be built, that thé premoters behlnd
Viem bave fulfihled ah Vihe conditions; and
And
the people luveet ln Viese bonds.
The bonds are generwhat is Vie result?
nlly pledged for a certain amount Bonds
for a million dollars are sent across to the
old country and some broker, anxious to
make a commission, takes the bonds, and
when Vie Issue is about to be made, then
word comes back from Canada not to issue
tue bonds immedintely, that the market is
Therefore Vie Issue would
not favourable.
In Vie menbe postponed for a while.
time Vie goverument is going to do wouderfuI Vhilgs in the way o! gîving subsidies,
aud the local government is goiug to give

REVI5ED EDITION

SENATE
grants of land ; and banking institutions are
induced to advance a little money on the
bonds. On the security of .~ million dollars'
wortb of bonds, a few tbousand pounds are
readfly advanced, and once the cornpany
have commenced operutions more and more
lu advanced, and they squeeze as much as
possible out of the holder of the bonds.
Then the promoters return to Canada
and that Is the last jou heur of ItL
The British public bas been in that
way robbed or dispolled of much money.
Before renewing these charters we shiould
require tbat ut least some work bas been
done. Another great objection is that when
big companies like the Grand Trunk and
the Canadian Pacific Rallway wlsh to, buld
branches ln the terrltory covered by such
charters, the bolders who have no Intention
o! building, buttonhole the directors or officers of these big main lunes and say, 'Oh,
don't go to parliament for a charter, for we
wlll seli you our charter.'
And If thd coinpany do not buy the charter, then the public
ha to, wait tîli this branch rond la constructed.
Here la one instance. Thiere Is
a charter.on the east side of Lake Terniscamlng, up the Ottawa.
The people who
hold that charter have prevented the ÀCanadian Paci.fie Rallway Comnpany extending
tbat road Into Ville Marie, an extensive and
prosperous settiement la Quebec, because
they will not give Up their right la this enarter, thereby blocklng construction ln that
direction.
There are many other Instances
I sm sure well wlthin the mind o! many
hon. gentlemen ln this House.
I amn glad
that this question bas been brought ap, and
I belleve It would be a wise thing before
renewing charters that we should Insist on
somethlng being done, and that plans should
be deposited with the rallway department,
uccording to law.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I arn very sorry I
cannot agree wlth the bon. gentleman from
De Lanaudière, wltb reference to this matter. If rny hon. frlend wanted to make a
case, hie should have shown that the country has suffered from the clas o! men hie
calîs charter-mongers. It appears to me that
if we hud adopted such s policy as hie bas outlined, a few years ago, a great many of the
roads now ln existence would not have been
bulît. As a matter of fact, sucb men as
William Mackenzie and D. D. Mann, and
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

mauy other railway me~n who have bult an
enormous mileage of railroad in this country, woald a few years ago, have been
called churter-mongers by my hon. frlend.
As long as we retain the systemn we have
here, of a railway commlttee that grants
speclul Bis to every corporation that cornes
and asks for It I see no reason why a poor
man sbould not get a chartek fromn this
House just as well as some of the large
corporations that my hon. frlend taîks about.
Sorne people Imagine that because a man
is not worth a million, he shoald flot get a
charter for anything. But I want to say
that muny a man worth a millilon to-day,
had flot a million when hie started, and was
probably a promoter just the saine as
sorne of the gentlemen who are asklng for
charters to-day. Before my hon. friend
could muke a case, bu would have to show
that the country huas suffered ln some way
froin the renewal of rallway ehartes
Where are we going to draw thu Ulne ? I
arn a member o! the Railway Comrnittee
thîs yeur, and I find that runewuls are buing granted to the Canadian Paclfic Railway o! charters that had been renuwed
from Urne to time, for years and years, and
I have no doubt thut the Canadian. Pacific Railway la going to bulld those roada
j ust as soon as they can get round to, tbem.
As far as our western country lu concerned,
I know ns a mutter o! fact that there are
rnllroads bullt now ln that territory whlch,
if It had not been for the class o! men my
hon. !riend calîs charter-mongers, would not
have been constructed at ail. It uppears
to me tout If there lu a class of mun who
have bruina to prornote somethlng, we have
no right to crush them out. If they willl
spend their time ln trylng to promote the
construction o! a railway, wby should we
not give thern the privilege ? There was
a tirne, I thlnk ten or twelve years ugo,
when a person could go on and dlaim a
vested rlght If bu held a charter for a railway through certain piece of country. That
is not the case to-day. If the charter has
to be renewed frorn time to time, as long
ns nobody objecta, wby sbould it not be
renewed ? If anybody else carne in prepared to, bud the road and asked for a
charter, and sbowed bis bons fides, parliament would give hlm a charter over the
saine ground.
In the United States, auv-

MYAIROH 17, 1908
body can get a railway charter to build
anywhere by Miing plana. The hon. gentleman from De Lanaudlère cited the practice lu England. That la one country and
this la another. In England you have to
get your plans of the rlght of way croaslngs and everythlng, but I want to draw
my bon. friend'S attention to the fact that
England la like a great big village. If
you wlsh to build a rallway there you mlght
have to tear down the churches and public
buildings. That is a different proposition
from constructlng a railway In ýNew
Ontario or the West. Does anybody believe that a company should be obllged
to make a survey and get a right of
way before coming to parliamnent, wlthont knowing whether they would get a
charter or not ? Are they going to apend
ail that money and take the risk ? As long
as it cannot be shown that the public luterest bas suffered by renewing charters,
I do not see why we ahouid not renew
them.
I desîre to draw the bon. gentleman's attention to the fact that tin Ontario,
the Amherstburg Tunnel Company, under
the Detroit river, was granted a charter
lu 1875 or 1876, and the owners of the
charter did not succeed in aecuring the
capital to buiid the tunnel until two years
ago. They hield their char-ter for yeara
and years aud got it rencwed, and they
kept worklng ail the time ta obtain that
money, and at last aucceeded. I dlaimi that
If there Is a class of enterprialng men aucb
as my hon. friend calts charter-mongers,-I
do not care If he thinks they are chartermongers-who are trylng to get capital In
order to develop the country, give them a
chance, as long as they do nobody any
barm. If von find they are Injuring any
part of the country, cut tbemn off. But to
lay downv the rule that men who corne here
with capital can get what they want, and
that other men who corne bere 'wltb bramas
and no capital, wlll flot be granted a charter, la a very bad princîple to defend In
this House.
Hou. Mr. -'ceMULLEN-I have listened
to the hou, gentleman from Prince Albert,
aud 1 do flot ut alI agree with the views
that he bas expressed. I have sat lu parliarnent for a great many years, nnd I have
watched the course of granting charters
and renevving charters, and I say that a

great deal of evll bas resulted lu this country for granting such legislation indiscrimlnately. I admît that some chartersHon. Mr. DAVIS-Naine one.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I can usme more
than one. I can mention several. A gentleman wbo la one of the chie! heads lu one
of the largeat corporations In this country,
has told me that they 'were serlously crlppied In building their lUne by charters that
had been grantad to apeculators wbo stood
lu the gap. Thay ivould not bulld themselves, and had not the mQney, and they
opposed the application of this company to,
obtain a charter coverlng tha saine grounds.
'lue result was thay had to compromise
witb those men, slmply because they hald
a charter of whlch tbey had sacured ranewala from time to tixna. A great deal of
avil bas rasultad. My bon. friand must
have lu bis mlud'a eye the tact that charters bave been granted ln tha West coupied wlth a land. grant which lockad"up a
large amount of land-towards tbe construction of a certain lina. How can any
company corne hara and gat a charter to
cover the saine rosid? Can tbey gat a
land grant ? No, It bas gone to the man
who bas got the charter, and the rasult
la that they stand lu the gap, and refuse to
let anybody aIse bulld the road. Tbey say:
*We have a charter that covers the saine
ground. We bave a land grant o! 5 or 0 or
10 thousand acres a mile.' That covers this
routa. And wbat do thay do wltb It ? Do
tbey attempt to build the road? Not a
mile; they hawk and peddle their charters
to get the money.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS--Can the hon. gentle-man point to one railway that bas got a
land grant to-day?
Hou. Mr. Mc.MULLEN-Yes, I can. I
kuow a case-I do not wish to mention the
name-where a party holda a land grant for
a charter lu the very section of country
from whlch my hon. friend comas.
He
stands lu the gap and opposes another party
gettlng a charter-why?
Because although
ha made au arrangement witb a company
to build there neyer was a mile of the road
bult, and hec does not want another charter
grnnted. The abuse bas gone on from year
to year, and it is the duty of this House to

548

SENATE

corne to some understanding with regard to
the granting of speculative charters for railways that has been experienced la this
country for twenty years.
I know men
who have speculated in that way-men who
got charters and land grauts and held them
until they dld make money out of them.
.Me charters were taken out for that and
no other purpose.
Parliameat ought nlot
to be a party to anythlng of that kind. We
want railway facilities, but when people
whio get charters corne here for renewal after renewal ln the hope that they wiil get
somebody to buy them, it is the duty of this
House to stand ln the way and prevent that
condition of things continulag.
It Is nlot
ln the iuterest of this country that it shouid
be continued.
The hon. Secretary of State
may be Innocent lu this matter-be may flot
know as much about it as some of us know.
1 agree with the hon. senator from -Montreal tliat when the holders of a charter
corne here asklng for a renewai they shouid
show to the commlttee that they have doue
sometbing towards the construction of the
road-made surveys, purchased part of the
rlght of way or doue somethIng to entitle
the to the .extension; but to grant renewais from period to perlod when not a
dollar bas been spent iu the way of making
surveys or acquiring rlght of way Is only
encouraglag that system of speculation. 1
kuow of a case ia the west where some
parties got a grant of land and money for
a railway scheme although the thiug was
rotteu from top to bottom. We -should flot
encourage these thiags.
We should iusist
that charters shal flot be. beld for the purpose of being hawked about and sold.
Hon. Mr. -MITCHELL-We should flot
be confined lu this parliameut to glvlng
charters to large comapanles.
We should
be prepared to grant a charter to any one
who cornes here and pays his fee.
We
waut rallways badly.
Land grants do nlot
necessarlly go with the charter, and thîs la
not a question of subsidy.
If we were to
refuse charters to any applîcants but large
companles, we would be deprlvIng every one
except a favoùred few of tie right to get
charters.
Hou. Mr. ROSS (Midd]esex.)-What about
renewals?
Hon. Mr. McIMULLEN.

-Hou. Mr. TROMPSON-It is a question
for parliament to decide.
I would say
renew for a amaîl compauy just as we
would renew for a large company. I would
not make a law for one whlch would flot
appiy to aIL
Hon. Mr. KERR-There la a little reason.
on hoth Bides of this question.
One cau
deplore the existence of thiugs by whlch
fraud can be perpetrated, and on the other
haud, lu a young country like this where
local capital cannot be procured for the construction of raIiways but must be obtained
abroad, it mlght nlot be wlse to apply a
very strict mIle agaluat renewing charters.
If we do, it will tend to check enterprise
and the Improvement and development of
our country.
Our practice bas been to
allow two years for the commencement of
construction. from the time of the passIug
of the Act. What has to be doue withiu
that time? You canuot commence a railway until you secure capital te -finish it.
An uufinlshed road Is flot a good lnvestment
for anybody, aad that Is the klnd of case
no doubt that my hon. frlend had lu his
mind when be spoke about tbe sale of bonds
lu advance of the completion o! the railway.
The negotiation for money for the
construction 0f the rallway within that
smort tîme mlght flot be a very easy proposition.
I do nlot know o! very many
raiîways ln thîs country that have been
financed lu such a short time, and, therefore,
would have to make up our minds that we
would flot encourage the building of railways la this country or we would have to
extend the time wîthln which a road should
be commeuced.
If we adopted the latter
plan, it would give an opportunity for making financlal arrangements.
If the hon.
senator from Middlesex had suggested somethIng like that, i would nlot have found fault
wlth any of bis suggestions, but la this Dominion where we require rallways to develop the country and they can only be
bulIt by the use of forelgu capital, we
would be maklng a great mistake If we
drew too close a line with refereuce to extensions of time for the commencement of
construction.
Whlle on the one hand we
may deplore fraud, and should do anythlug
we could to preveat the perpetration of
fraud on eitber local or forelgn capltalists.
on the other baud we should give time to

MAIROR 17, 1908
t.bose whbo set about a public euterprise lu able to take care of themselves than Engthe interest of the country, to carry on their Ilsh capitalists, and if they are sometirnes
Think of the hardship it defrauded lu connection with railways, they
undertaking.
would be to men of llmited means If they are no worse than capitalists who are couwere refused extension oif tirne? i do flot nected with other lunes of business.
know of more than two railways wbIch
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I arn very much
have been constructed by the people to
whom the charters were granted. It la by lncllned. to Join with the bon. senator from
granting charters to men with Initiative Middlesex and say that there should flot
who fiud persons with capital to construct be au abuse of charters. My bou. frlend
the railways that most of our railways have frorn De Lanaudière gave us the benefit of
Think oif the ioss It would be bis experleuce wlth raiiways. Caveat empbeen bult.
At this
to people who started an enterprise and tor Is the law of the business world.
were conducting their negotiations, but had moment, wlth capitallsts looklng towards
faiied to get the necessary capital within Canada and critiling every move made
the time niefitioned in the charter, If we re- here fromn the goverument dowu to the most
0f ordinary member of either House, to anfused to grant an extension of lime.
course the illustrations presented by rny nounce that we are charter-mongers [s flot
hon. friend who spolie about land grants and a ulce thIug to say. 1 hate taklng up
tying up raiiway extension ln a iocality, Engish papers aud reading of ai scandai
have nothing whatever to do with the ques- here snd a scandai there and Imputations
The mis- tbat auythlng doue la this country le wrong.
tion we are dealing with here.
take made la such cases has been ia giving These Engllsh people have been ahl over
the land grant and tylng up the land. That the world aud loaued money la every counis not done by the extension of the charter try and know bow business is doue almost
or the tirne for comrnencing construction. as weli as the bon. senator De Lansudière.
It seerns to me also that the policy whlch No doubt they wlll be glad to read lu our
has been suggested of granting an extension jouruals If they corne across themn that we
oif tirne for building branches to the three are protectiug their luterests. Tbey can
great railway companies inentioned by the look out for tbemseives. I tbink I could
hon. gentleman from Middlesex, would be a prove, If tbls debate were adjourned, that
That wouid be measuriug some parties wbo have taken part la this
great mistake.
out one klnd of Indulgence to powerful corn- discussion aud crlticised the propriety of
poules whlch we would refuse to Indepen- renewiug cbarters--I do flot want to name
dent parties who rnight be trying to interest anybody uuiess 1 arn called upon to do so,
foreiga capîtalists la the construetion oif bave moved to extend the tirne of charThe effect of It ters that bave been iu existence for over
rallways la this country.
wouid be to baud over railway extension to twenty years. I believe the Journals of this
the three great raiiway companies as a Hlouse wlill show it, aud if tbls debate le
rnonopoiy, because by their coutrol of the adjourued, I shall furulsh the proof for
brandi uines they wouid preclude the possi- what I say. I arn not saying that they
billty oif larger and more extensive railway had no rlght: to do so. A few years ago an
construction.
What we wish to prevent le hou, gentleman rnoved for tbe extension oif
speculation In charters, and to exercise sorne a charter that bad been lu existence - for
discrimination with refereuce to, the ex- over twenty years. Perbaps the bon. gentension of lime.
We should do wbat we tleman who did that rnlght be induced to
could to prevent undue opportunities being cuange bis mmnd aud take back some of
given to the holders of charters to defraud the things be bas said. Some hon, gentlecapitaliste abroad. Generaliy speaking thE man may challenge rny statement; If so,
British capitallet le able to take care of perbape It le lu order to move the adjournhimeel! aud to see tbat he bas good se- *meut oif the debate In order that I may
curity.
Re does not advauce money for an *look up the facto.
enterprise without seelng bis way to thE
completion of It, and maklug sure that It IE Hon. Mr. POWER-I thlnk the House
one tbat 'wIll give hlm a returu ou h wlhl readlly accept the bon. gentleman's
money.
I do not know any people bettei statement.

550

SENATE

Hon. Mr. DOMVILIjE-After that nice
way of putting It there is nothing left
for me to do but to let the debate close.
It will not however, prevent me looking Into
the matter, and on a future occasion presenting the facts to the Houà;e. 1 tbank
the hon, gentleman from De Lanaudière
for havlng given us Information as to how
to get money ln Englaud. After the argument lie bas used, and tbe Information hie
bas given, 1 should think that If any EngIlah capitalist Is defrauded througli lnvesting In railway bonds, it wlill be bis own
fauît
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I am. giad that this
discussion lias been brought up, because
some definite poiicy should be pursued wlth
refereuce to this question of rallway charters. There bas been an Impression tn the
country that competition lu rallway charters is not allowed, and that If a charter ls
ln existence for a certain route, for tbat reason when another set of men apply for a
charter to build a rond tbrough tbat saine
country tbey wIll flot get it. In the publie
Interest, we ought to let the country generaliy understand that everybody applying for a
rai]way charter can get one, and that might
do away wltb any particular speculative
value ln a rahlway charter, and we should
prevent the possiblity of the owners of any
charter holding up another set of men who
wanted to huild when they were flot ready
to proceed themselves. If that were doue,
there wouid be no necessity for any question about renewals, because If a charter
la renewed from time to time It could flot affect the Interests of another set of men
coming to parliament, to get a charter over
the ame part of the èountry. Subsidies
granted lu aid of some of these enterprises
seem'at times to have a bad eff eet on the
country. 1 know of a charter in British
Columbia where the compauy has a subsidy
from Vie government and bas worked It ln
such a way that Lt builda enougb road eacb
year to obtain the subsidy. I have not
figured out the length of Vie road. but it
will take severni years before it will be
compieted at Vie rate tiey are going now.
Tbey build about thirty or forty miles a
year. If they bad gone about Vie building of that rond lu a business way, wlthout suhsldy, ]t would have been completed
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK.

by this time; but at the present rate of
progress It wiii take years yet to complete
it. Some action should bie taken to compel them to build a good deal qulcker than
they are dolng. That, of course, Is a matter that lies ln the bands of the goverument
and does not corne up before us bere. The
only other way I can see of deallng wltb
these rallway charters, la to treat them In
the samne way as we treat ordinsiry companies applylng to be Incorporated under
the Act-by passing a generai railway -lct
and maklng any body of men deslrlng to
obtain a railway charter comply w1th certain miles laid down ln the Act and then
It would be known to everybody both ln
this country and throughout the world,
that by complying wlth these rules and
followIng out certain regulations, they can
get a charter. Probably that would be
the best solution of the whole difficultT.
DELAYED RETURNS.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Before the Orders
of the Day are called, I should like to know
from the leader of the House, If any progress has been made ln the compilation of
the returns I asked for some two months
ago.
Hlon. Mr. SOOTT-I ean do no more than
I niave done.
I bave asked several times
to bave them facilitated. The last report
I bad lu connection with one of them was
that it would bie ready within a fortnight.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbe last time, I Inquired, It was oniy ten days. Now It la a
fortnight.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (117) An Act to amend the IntercoloniaI Railway and Prince Edward Island
Raiiway employees Provident Fund Act(H3on. Mr. Scott.)
THEIIRD READINGS.
Bill (BB) An Act to amend the Boards of
Trade Act.-(Hlon. Mr. ecott.)
Bill (102) An Act to amend the Windlagup Act.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
Bill (B) Au Act respecting the Occidental
Pire Insurance Company.--(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
Bill (C) An Act to Incorporate the Standard Accident and Guarautee Company.(Hon. Mr. Kerr.)

MAROR 17, 1908
GAMME

LL

DIVORCE£ CASE.

REPORT 0F COMMITTEE ÂDOPTED.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER moved the
adoption of the second report of tbe Standing Cornmittee on Divorce re Editb Maud
Rosario Gammeil Divorce Bill.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-1 should lîke ta cal
the attention of the cormlittee ta the very
easy manner ln whicb tbey grant divorces.
I tbougbt a very pertinent and fundamentai
question was put by one of the bon. gentlemen on tbat committee ta the petitioxier ln
the case, wbicb would leave ber in a great
measure responsible for tbe condition of
tblngs that bas resulted.
I amrn ot bere
ta advocate tbe cause o! tbe defendant lni
tbe matter; but when the Hon. Mr. Wilson
asked the petitioner If sbe bad madle axiy
efforts ta meet ber husband wben sbe came
She was asked:
ta Canada, sbe sald ' No.,'
?id you make any efforts ta conoiliate with
hlm ?-A. No.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
Wby should sbe?

BOWEL-

Han. Mr. CLORAN-At tbe tîme, she
She
knew notbing about bis conduct.
fouxid ont the fact, and abe put a private
detectIve after blm.
Her busband left
England tbree years ago ta take a position
He was a
on tbe Grand Trunk Pacific.
professional mani, and le! t home wltb tbe
understanding that wben be wauld secure
a position in tbe west be would bring bis
As a niatter of
w1fe and cblldren tbere.
tact, she dld corne over a year andi a balf
ega and went ta Saskatoon ta meet ber
husband.
Sbe was asked:

Q.Did you see him ?-À. Yes.
Q.Did you speak ta him ?-A. No.
Tbat is a very strange position a! matThen a question was put by Mr.
ters.
H-enderson:
The Hon. Seaator is asking if you made
any efforts towards conciliation ?-A. Wel
there was no need of conciliation.
And this is on ber arrivai ln Saskatoon
when she knew notbing as ta bis way of
living. Then tbe Hon. Mr. Wilson asks:

Q. 'You knew oniy from heresay, and yon
made no effort at reconciliation ?-A. I was
advised not ta.

There ls the condition of the married
couple.
I ar n ot saying the maxi bas not
been found out sînce ta be blamewortby. I
believe he was ta blame.
According ta
tbe evidence be was a scoundrel; but at
the time she did not know it.
Sbe came
for the purpose of meeting ber busband,
and tbe least sbe shauld bave done was ta
have madle an effort ta obtaîn conclilation
withbhlm, ta redeem hlm If possible.' But no.
She ieft bim ta go on ln bis ev> way, in
order to drag tbe matter before tbe courts
and parliament.
If she bad dane ber duty
as a wife, and said, II bave came across
tbe seas ta meet you and I want you ta
takre Up home wltb me.
You bave a good
position ta-day, ' But she was advised not
ta do that.
And now sbe cames before
the bigb court of parliament asklng us ta
sanction the breaking of tbe marriage tie
under sncb circumstances. I protest against
the easy way ln wbicb tbe marriage
tie, wblcb is the fauxidatIon of society, and
wbicb, accordlng ta ail religious sects, ail
the Catbollc doctrines and ail the best part
of the Protestant doctrines, stands for the
sacredness of tbe borne and Its perpetnity, Is braken.
The blgbest bisbops lxi bath churcbes In ail Chrîstendom are lxi favour of malntaining
tbe marriage tie and not breaking it, because one of tbe two contractlng parties bas
been at fault lxi one way or axiather, wltbaut
any attempt ta restare the borne lite back ta
This woman ives a wboie year lni
tbem.
Saskatoon, sees- ber busband accasianaily,
neyer speaks ta bim, neyer goes near bim,
but'drags the matter befure the bigb court
af parilament, asking this court ta break
one a! tbe mast salemn laws laid dawxi for
the maintenance and stability of society.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I am. surprised that
my bon. friend arnitted the rnost Important
part of the evidence, and that is tbe part
lxi wblcb the lady, on ber arrivai, notlfied
ber busband tbat she was lni tbe country,
and that sbe gat a telegrarn ln repiy ta
stay wbere sbe was at ber own expense,
Sbe found ber way
on ber own resources.
ta Regina, and there for the first tirne she
discovered bis Ixfidellty, anid she was advised by a solicitor not ta bave axiytbing
ta do wlth hlm. These are the connectlng
links wbicb' my bon. friend makres sncb a
1 tblnk sbe made ail
hullabaioo about.

SENATE

552

She notified hlm on bier
necessary efforts.
arrivai in Toronto, and received the reply
How could she proceed
I bave stated.
agannt bier bnsband merely on the strengtb
of the telegram? She had ta seek evidence,
and she gat evidence enougb that canvlnced.
ber tbere was sometblng wrong between
in and another warnan at Saskatoon, and
sihe foiiawed it up by employing detectives
If my ban.
ta watch the husband's daings.
friend wouid read the evidence as ta what
taok place an the river bank bie would flot
have so mucb ta candernn in the course
taken by the petitioner.
Han. Mr. CLORAN-If tbe lion, gentleman will aliow me, It la easy ta explaixi
nway a case af that klnd.
Some ban. MEMBERS-Order, order.
Han. Mr. ROSS (HaJMfax)-I tblnk my
bon. friend an my rlgbt le aitogether wrong.
Here la a pure woman of the blghest type
of character, and hie euggeets that see
sbouid have ta go and live wltb a scoundrel of a busband, ae hie proved hlmself te
bie. I think that sbe chawed an example
of nobllity by keeplng away tram hlm. My
views an the subject of divorce are pretty
weii known ta tbla House, and 1 cay now,
as I bave said before, that this is the wrong
tribunal for divorce.

.Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I wlsb to add a
word to what bas been so weii said by the
hon. gentleman fromn Lincoln. I thlnk hie
polnted out the leading features lu connection with the evidence. and 1 must say
that I neyer knew any man to mete out ta
bis partner lu 111e more heartless treatment than tbat seoundrel. of a busband-and
it le flot an abusive narne ta call hlm-on
She agreed
bier arrivai In this country.
witb hlm that she should take up house
ln the oid country and get along as best
she could an the very limlted allowance
that che had until hie conid make a home for
bier ln Canada. She bad lier child. She'
dismlssed bier servant, dld the wark of bier
bouse herseif, iived and struggied aiong.
and at Iast came out ta Canada ta meet
lier busband, and wben sbe came here received a telegram tram birn ta say that
she wac flot ta came ta hlm, that hie dld
neot want bier, and ail that klnd of thing.
It was most beartless treatrnent on bis
part. But there la a point that bas not
been touched upon. I shouid like very
weIl that every member of tbis Hanse
would exercîse bis influence ta see tbat
that man le dlsmlssed from tbe staff of the
engineers af the Grand Trunk Pacifie.
That rond le belng bult ýwith the money af
this country, and we sbould nlot aliow tbat
man ta remaîn wbere bie is.

Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-Hear, bear.

The SPEAKER-I draw attention ta the
fact that the bon, gentleman is speaking beHon. Mr. ROSS-And 1 amn snrprlaed at
my bon. friend from Ontario (Rocs, Middle- side tbe question.
sex), wben hie wac premier of that province,
Han. Mr. McMULLEN-I knaw my rewlth ail the reforme that the governrnent marks are nlot in lune, but at tbe samne
of Ontario prided therneelves on bringing time I could not belp making tbe stateabout, tbat hie did nlot take a step ta bave ment
the trial of divorces taken away fram the
Senate. In the provinces of Nova Scatia
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Wby nlot pass an
and New BrufswickAct ta prevent hlm frein marrying again ?
lion. Mr. POWKR--Queston, question.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-Tbere le a division of
the Supreme Court set acide ta try divorce
cases and there are very few of tbem, lese
than the number that came before tbe Senate tram year ta year. The prlntlng of the
evidence ls disagreeabie and wrong and
sbouid nlot be continued. I amn surprised
tbat in.this eniigbtened day a tribunal for
divorce should be left la the crude and aidfasbioned state la wbich it la.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I want ta cal! tbe
attention of tbe flouse ta a fact wbich appears ta be inconsistent witli aur rules.
It la stated tbat there shouid be eue day's
notice, or two day's notice, ln certain cases,
for tbe adoption of a report. That is a comnplete report. We oniy recelved the evideace ln tbis case this morning. 1 ar n ft
going ta ralse a point of order, but in the
future wlien a case of this kind cornes
ta be dlscussed la the House, I think tbe

MKROH 17, 1908

55

evidence should be ernbodied in the jour- Ârctic navigation carry proportloaately very
lîttIe cargo, and that la e point which has
nais furnished to the Senate.
to be borne lu mmnd. The question before
The motion was agreed to.
us just now la, 'whether the ordlnery steel
RAILWÂY TO HUDSON BAY.
sfeamshlp wlth plates o! about Inch thick
could navigate thaf route. I taire the eviDEBÂTE CONCLUDED.
dence of Mr. Low; and any one who was
The Order of Day being cafled:
present at the meetings o! tixe committee
*Resuming the adjourned debate on the of lest session wlll remember he wes very
motion of the Hon. Mr. Davis, that in the
rpinion of the Sonate the governrnent shonld mucix In favour o! the scixeme. I furn to
on account of the rapid developrnent of wes- page 112 of ' Canada's fertile Northland,'
tern Canada, and the continued inadequacy and I flnd that Mr. Low made the !ollowIng
of existing transportation facilities take
early action towards the construction of a statement :
railway to Churchill on Hudson's bey.
The straits are prectically neyer clear, but
Hon. Mr. POWER-The position with the ice that was in there after the middle
would not
respect to thîs Hudson Bay Railway of July until November alrnost,greater danbarm an ordinary vessel. The
la one that la pretty generally understood. ger in the auturnn in the navigation of HudThe farmers ef the Northwest find that son strait is the stream of Arctic ice that
comes down from the Ârctio ocean and from
they bave to pay a very considereble sum Baffin's bay.
to get their grain to tide water at Montreal.
I direct attention te thxe furtxer paraThey have an Idea, which hes been fortifled
grapix:
occasionally by gentlemen who rnlght be
Then frorn the end of September snow
a lîttie more prudent lu their expressions
in
frequent. The
of opinion, that If this rellway 'were built squalis are of snow equails nevigator isLate far
in
than fog.
more fear
to Fort Churchill, they could get their sea- September there is a heavy fog that rises
frorn the water, brought on by the excessive
son' s grain out without any difficulty, which
cold. W.hen the temperature gets below zero
would of course, save a very large sum of there je a continuous fog that rises from the
money. Wbile that le a perfectly natural feel- water, sornetirnes 100 foot and sometimes 200
You could not overcome that by lighting, It is a case where the wish ls father to feot. nor with anything, except getting on the
ing
the thought We are not interested here Ia top of the rnast and looking ovor it; it ia a
the same direct way that thé' farmers of the hight fog.
Northwest are lnterested, and not being InThen furtxer on he seys:
terested In a personal way, we are able, I
The strait is navigable frorn about the
think, to look at the question frorn a judi- middle of July until the first day of Novernciel staadpoint, and that la thxe proper -ber anyway, and a couple of weeks rnight bo
added at
standpoint from which to look et It. With bay, the the end, because the ice in Hudson
new ice, is of -no conoequence te a
respect to this Hudson Bey scheme, 1 would ahi puntil it gets te ho 15 or 18 inches thiclr,
ndnot much ice formed before that date.
observe thet there la a common seying
I should like f0 see the ordinary steel
that a clxain la no stronger than ifs weakest
link. The essentielly weak link in thîs steamer frylng to make her way through
Hudson Bay Rallwey chein la the naviga- fifteen-lnch Ice. Further on Mr. Low saye:
tion e! the Hudson Strait. We have heard
That frorn the latter end of July f111 the
staternents from the hon, gentleman who In- rniddle o! Nevember, frern three --. - 1te four months, there was probably caf e navitroduced the question, and from other hon. gation, where ordinary iron framnp steamers
gentlemen which were more or less roseete could ho used.
In their character; but let us flot make the
Furtxer on he states:
mistake of letting the wish ho father to
The Hudson Bey ships, as a mile, cerne inte
the thougbt Let us look et the Informaabout the first of Âugusf,
tion which we really have upen the sub- the Hudson bayfrorn Churchill cornes back
and the ship
ject. Before 1 go any furtxer, perbeps if again about the end of the month. It goos
may be well to sey that It bas 1been stated to Fort Churchill, &c.
Then Mr. TyrreU, a gentlemen who ls
by sorne hon, gentlemen that yen could
have vessels constructed speclally for fthe very well known, an engineer wbo was Ia
navigation o! the Hudson strait. That la the employ of the Geelegicel Survey, says
true; but vessels constructed specielly for at page 115:

SENATE
A vessel could go in and out of Churchill
on November 1. That is about the latest.
As te the time a vessel could enter at the
opening of the season, that varies. The openixig cf thie harbour varies nearly a month.
The average time cf opening according te the
old records, as far as hie remembored, was
June 5, and when it opens it is wide open.
From his knowledge he did not say the baY
as fan as the mouth of the Churchill river,
is navigable .from June 1 te, Novemben 1.
He was credibly informed that thon. ie
more or less Anctic ice cornes down and
'blocks the mouth of the Churchill harbour
for a period in the summer timo.
At page 117 there la an extract from the
Dr. Bell
evidence of Dr. Robert Bell.
spoke of one occasion on which lie entered
tee Stralt on the 22nd of June, the 'Dinna'
being a steamer constructed for Arctie naviThe extract is as follows:
gation.
Dr. Bell was net sure, but ho thought that
date, Jmie 22, 1907, was the earlieot date ho
ontered the strait on any cf his voyages.
They did not see any ice at the entranco,
but encountered At laten, especially tewards
Fox Bay. The latest period iie passed threugh
the strait was, hie thought, with the ' Ocean
Nymph.' Thoy cleared the strait before te
middle of Octeber, between the lst and l5th
he would say. Ail his trips were between
June 22, and about October 10.
So you will sc that Dr. Bell did.not mun
The most satisfactory eviinto November.
dence whicli was before the comînittee was
that of Commander Wakeham, who lad
made a number of trips Into; Hudson Bay
and liad spent a good deal of time navigating the Strait backward and forward, Just
for the purpose of testlng tee condition of
At page 126 lie- s.ays that
the navigation.
when lie went Into tee Strait:
Inside the strait we found open water, and
thought they were geing te have ne difficuity
in getting through. Everything looked clear
ahead, until they came up in the neigiibourhoed cf the Saddle Islands, and met with a
barrier cf solid, heavy Ica. They tunned
anound and followed it, looking for an openîng, and followed it ail the way across the
straits. The witness had net had a great
deal ef expenience with ice of that kind, but
any co could see that there was ne use attempting te go into a pack cf that solidity.
He did attempt te go ln at tee Instance
of Mr. Fisher of Manitobn, one of those
sanguine westerners, of whom there are se
He proceeds:
many.
As a remilt, the. 'Diana ' was jammed from
June 23 until about July 9 or 10.Teyer
badlv jammed, and the ship nippe,e.t ai
anda
bands got ready te beave her on tw. or thre.
occasions. That was on July 9 and 10. They
had worse jams on July 4. However, the
wind changed and the ice began te go abroad,
and they got out of it by steaming to the
southward.
Hon. Mr. POWSR.

This was ln a vessel construted for
An ordinary ship would
Arctic navigation.
be squeezed to pleces.
Hon.' Mr. GIBSON-She was flot an irou
ý'essel.
Hlon. Mr. POWER-No. He, proceeds:
He got into Hudson bay on July 12, going
down between Mansfield island and Coates
isiand. He steamed around, and saw ne ice
of any consequence, and put about to go out
again.
He left on the 219t; and was back in
Hudson bay on the 24th. That was the flrst
time he was able to pass throhgh without
difficulty. That was the second trip going
in. On the first trip he had to land Dr.
Bell and Mr. Low, and was delayed by that.
TIen he says lie went back south of
Mansfield Island this Urne, and on September 7tJi was off Cape Biggs.
They experionood their first snowstorm on
that date. Froni that time on they had snow
almost daily in the straits, not heavy snowsterms, but snow squalls.
Now, lion.
That was the 7th September.
gentlemen will see that an ordinary vessel
could flot undertake to navigate there while
these snow squalls were so continuons. The
report proceeds:
The witness remained in St. John's nefitting until Octoben 6, and on that date left
to go back te, the straits. He got back off the
w.outh of the straits on October 15, and was
delayed there by snowsterms. He got back
th. Douglas harbour on October 18 . On the
24th he was again at Cape Wolstenholme.
That is at the entrance of the bay, and met
ne ice. He thon went back te, Douglas harbour and held on there for a while, intending to go back into the bay aeain. He made
his last attempt te get inte the bay on October 29, and was stepped by heavy winds and
snowstorms, the ship icing up very much.
He tried te force his way, but decided that,
ail things considered, it was not safe te stay
there any loneer, and put about.

'iben he sums

Up:

There is no doubt when the strait is properly surveyed and lit, it will renden navimatien safe, but the climate conditions are such
that you caniiot expect navigation there
P.fter the end of Octeben. This is on account
of the hazardous weather, and that cannot
be overcome by light. There are snowgtorms,
and freezing up te, contend with. There is
nothing a captain dreads more than a snow
Rtorin at sea,. It is worse than a feg.
Commander Wakeham got ont on the 29th
October, but no ordlnary commercial craf t
could stay in as long as that, andi I arn
satisfled from the evidence taken before this
committee, and other evidence thnt the ordinary vessel of commerce, the vessel which

MARORE

17, 1908

555

cause I have said it more ihan once-we
must look at is from the point o! vtew
of Canada. I find no faulI whaiever with
the bon. gentleman from the West ln looking at It as they do. They naturally tbink
only o! the Interest o! their own part of
the country ; but we bere have to trink
of the whole country, and It does seem
nbusinesslike and illogical for us, afier
spending ai least a couple of hundred million dollars in provlding means o! communication for passengers and freighi between the greai west and Montreal, to
underiake to construct a railway the only
effect o! which, If it liad any effeci, would
be to inter! ere with the business o! the
roads wbiceh we bave ourselves construcied, because practtcally Canada has bulIt
the Canadian Pacifie Railway just as It la
building the Grand Trunk Pacific, and If It
lias not built: the Canadien Northern ht bas
subsIdized ht to a large exient I hope r
am flot narrow-minded nor selfish, but as
a business proposition, hon. gentlemen
sbould hesitate before they approve of this
proposal. I admire very much the energy
of the people o! the west. Conaldering that
they are the persons chiefly interested ln
this matter, we might: expect them to do
something handsome themseîves Iri connctdon with ihis object. I notice !rom the newspapers thai the province of Saskatchewan
bas, as they say, money to burn, and la apparenily proposing to follow the example
of 'Manitoba aDd buy ont the telephone system there. That la a business that 1 do not
think a goverrument has any righi to go
Into. It la flot a goverument business; It
does flot pay In the hande of the goverument; It has not paid In flngland, and
will not pay ln Canada, and If any
province han money that it
western
does flot know what to do with, I
humbly submlt that It would be perhaps
more in accordance with the finuesa of
things If that province were to devote sme
of the money which it bad towards
helplng the construction of thia road. If
the advocates of this road can show that
even for trree montra o! the year, Hudson
sirait is open to navigation and the road
will have a good business durlng trai time,
If the people of the provinces which are
directly and speciallY Interested are preI do flot 1li.e to repeat this thlug, be- pared to contrîbute some o! their public

wll carry a sufficiently beavy load, a large
enough cargo te make It pay, cannot flavi.gate between Fort Churchill and the Atlantic
except about between the 15th July and 15th
That la three months. 0f course.
October.
ýshlps speclaliy constructed might go a littie
-longer, but then with respect to siîjis speci.ally constructed, ln addition to the tact that
they carry so Ulttle freight, there ls thia question, what are they going to do during the
-other nine months.
Tiaey can navigate
from the 15tb Juiy to the 15th October, or
If tbey are specially constructed till the end
ef October, but what are they going to do
-during the remainder of the year? There
ls no demand for thiat class of vessel except
possibly lu the Newfoundlnnd seal business,
-and they would probably have to charge a
much bigher rate of freight than usual.
Then again, we have to bear ln mmnd that
-these vessels, If they were ordinary cominercial vessels, would bave to par a much
highier rate of insurance than vessels going
out ot the (' ulf of St. Lawrence, and that
again would tend to make the freighits hlgb.
1'hen, supposing that the straîts are navigable for three montha ln the year to ordiziary commercial vessels, -how much of the
season's grain could be taken out from
Churchll before the middle of October? 1
±hink only a very email fraction. So that
I feel, hon. gentlemen, that our knowledge
-of Hudson Strait is flot of such a character
.as to justlfy the country at large lu making
-an expenditure o! probably twelve millions
o! dollars. 1 think this road from the Pas
to Churchill would cost that much. Now, I
have asked what the steamers that would be
employed there would be doing during the
A
remaining nine months of the year?
more Important question, perhaps, ls, wbat
would the railway be dolng durlng the nine
months when Churchill Is practically closed?
It does not seem te me that there would be
-very much for the road to do. There is
'nothing at the Churchill end of Hudson
Bay except a llmited quantlty of fish. It
la a poor water for -fiali. There are some
Ilsh ln the lakes between the Pas and
Laurchll, but these *fish would flot afford
inuch commercial assistance to tbe road. hi
would be hetter than noihing; but It is an
Item whlch 1 think the railway owners
-would flot take lnie serious consideratton.

SENATE
funds to, help the undertaklng, tben Canada might very reasonably give a moderate
subsldy to the company, who have faitb
ln tbe uDdertaklng, stlpulating perbaps tbat
other companies shall have runnlng powers
over tbe road on reasonable terme. That
is a reasonable proposition; and I for one
would be very xnuch opposed to dolng any
more than that. The people of those tbree
provinces who dlaim tbat this le a feasible
route, and who are most anious to have
thîs road built, should put some of their
own money into it, and Canada sbould content ltself wlth gîving a reasonahie subsldy-not a very large subsidy, but a reasonable subsidy to the people who bulld lt,
stlpulating ln return for that subsldy that
other companles be given runnlng powers
over 1t.on reasonable terme.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-The proposai of
the bon. senator from Prince Albert ls, to
my mmnd, a very sound one. It le ilot new;
for fifteen or twenty years back we have
been practically unlted in the west ln
favour of the construction of that road.
We have flot cbanged our vlews on the
matter. Wbat la always surprising to bear
lu the debates on this route, le objections
as to its expense and doubts as to the navlgability of the bay. These objections
are wlthout foundation. It la ln eVidence,
flot merely from one or two persone wbo
have vlslted the bay and straette once or
twice, but from the experience of the
Hudson Bay Company, and old servants of
that comnpany, that the straits and bay are
navigable for at least four monthe in
the year. Besides, If we consider the progress made lu the building of ships, we
certainly must look for a longer perlod of
navigation. Besides tliat there are facilities now for storing the crope whlch would
put tbat route ln a position for the sblpment of grain early bn the year. In vlew
of these facts, one le at a loss to understand the hostile attitude of many towards
tbat undertaking, whicb would place our
country on equal footing with the provinces, wbo export their products by
way of the St. Lawrence. As to the
expense there le nothing stupendous about
It. The road is at most 500 miles in
lengtb, and there are firms who are ready
to put Into that undertaking their own capiHon. Mr. BERNIER.

tai. Surely there are local works ln whlch
public money bas been lnveeted much lese
that are not s0 Important or so mucb
needed.
ThVe building of. that road would give
satisfaction to at least tbree provinces,
whilh will be, ln the near future, Influential If not commanding provIncesl. Would
it not be a wlse pollcy to undertake a project that would be of sncb great advantage
to the great Nortbwest especlally, and generally to ail the provinces of cjanada?
Such belng the case, parliament should
not turu a deaf ear to tbe dlaims of the
west Sectionallsmn sbould be set aside and
proper consîderation given to sucb a
scheme, tbe realization of whicli muet be
regarded as most advantageous to tue DominIon at large.
The bon, gentleman from Prince Albert
mnuet be congratulated for baving brougbt
tbis question before the House, and I hope,
that be wll continue to urge the project
before the public, bn tbe expectation that
be wlll at hast succeed, tbereby getting for
himself a just appreciation of his work and
0f. bis energy, and 'also a recognition of bis
true estimation of the needs and the possibilities of our country.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-I had no Intention
of speaklng on this question, until I beard
the remarks made by tbe hon. member from
Whien the hon. senator fromn
Halifax.
Prince Albert piaced bis notice of motion
on the order paper, I naturally supposed
that bis intention was to bring the report of
hast session's commlttee more prominenthy
I
to the notice of the people of Canada.
thought the whole object he bad ln view
would be eff ected ln tbat way; but when I
heard the hon. senator from Halifax deliver
is laboured oration, I felt lmpelled to make
corne remarks. I am surprised at the bon.
He surely bas flot
gentlemnn's speech.
forgotten the predictions wbich some of the
leading members of bis party made when
the Canadian Pacific Raiiway was underIt was the policy of those gentletaken.
men to denounce that enterprise and tbe
country through which tbe road was to pass.
Mr. Blake descrlbed it as a country that
wonild not produce enough traffic to, pay for
the grease required to lubricate the axIes
of the cars used to carry It out of tbnt coun-

MAROH 17, 1908
He aise described it as tbe home of
try.
In vlew of those
the wolf and the bear.
predictions, and tbe remarkable development In the Northwest since then, the hon.
gentleman from Halifax ought to besitate
before throwlng obstructions ln the way of
Âny
'opening Up the Hudson Bay route.
one wbo looks at the map of thîs eountry
will see that nature bas provided a sure
short route for taklng the produets of the
We bave the St.
Interior to the seaboard.
Lawrence and the great lakes for eastern
Canada, and a glance at the map wlll show
that Hudson Bay was destined by the Creator to be the natural outiet for the produets
There 1s only
o! tbe great Northwest.
one fault I can flnd wltb lt-If the Creator
bad only put Hudson Bay one hundred
miles furtber south, it would be a complete
outlet for the fertile belt.
HEon. Mr. ELLIS-How would that affect
Hudson Straits?
Hon. Mr. PERL3Y-I shall come to that
Hudson Strait Is ln
ln a fev moments.
places nearly one hundred miles wlde, and
vessels bave been passing through It every
They were prinseason for many years.
cipalir oid fashioned sblps; there neyer was
auy inducement to put more powerful and
modern vessels on Vie route.
The traffic
has consisted In carrying supplies to Vie
i.ýudson Bay posts and carrying out furs,
and the business would not pay the cost of
putting on a better class o! vessels.
But
now that we have the Northwest developing rapidly, producing enormous quantities
of wheat, although only commencing, ln the
near fututre there wll be hundreds of millions o! bushels o! grain for expert. With
such traffic to be carrled, there will be enducement enougb for companies to provide
vessels sultable for navigating Hudson Bay
nnd Strait the greater part o! Vie year.
The Bay Is open and sultable for navigation
at a]] seasons o! the yeur, whlle Lake Superler is frozen up for montbs. After the
close o! navigation, the grain of the Northwest ls blocked at Port Arthur, unlesa we
lmaul lt eleûr across the continent by rail to
St. John. a distance of 2.500 miles. If we
liad n rond te Port Churchill. It would hnve
In
te he carried by rail only 500 miles.
v-iew o! thnt fnct. will auy one pretend to
sny that Hudson Beny is nlot the natural and

proper outlet for the trade o! the western
provinces?
Only a amaîl portion o! our
grain goes out now before Vie close of navigation. The greater part of Vie crop must
be kept stored until navigation opens in the
spring.
If we had this route open, we
could get out more before the close o! navigation, because the haul Is s0 mucb shorter
The balance
than by way o! Vie lakes.
could be carried to Port Churchill and
The bon, genstored Viere for Vie winter.
tleman from Halifax complained of the cost
o! Vie Canadian Pacifie Rallway and Grand
Trunk Pacifie, and spoke about Vis Hudson
But $12,000,Bay Une costing $12,000,000.
000 nowadays cuts no figure with the gevIt Is a mere bagatelle
erament ln power.
The country had confidence in
te tiem.
the bon. gentleman's great leaders and had
a right to bave confidence In Viem, because
it is a proper tbing for Vie people to bhave
confidence lu Vie statements made by thelr
Wrben they fail to bave conleading men.
fidence Ia tbem, the country will be lu a
Un! ortunately the
deplorable -condition.
people had confidence lu Mr. Blake when
bie decrled Viat western country and con(Lemned Vie policy of Vie govemament o!
that day lu building the Canadiani Pacific
If Mr. Blake bcd adopted a di!Ilallway.
f ement course, Vie bon, gentleman !rom Halifax would not have to deplore Vie cost o!
building Vie Canadian Pacific Railway. But
Vie course adopted by Mr. Blake and bis
colleagues ut that time was lu the reai interests o! the Canadlan Pacifie Railway.
It enubled the Canadian Pacifie Ruilway te
make good ternis when tbey were dealing
If Mr. Blake
with Vie government.
bcd muid Viat Vie Northwest wats a great
country, capable of producing enormous
quantities o! grain und bcd advised the
goverament of that day to be cureful and
nlot give large subsidies to tbe Canadian
Pacifie Ruilway, because the traffic o! that
country would warrant the construction of
the Ue and Vie road would pay for ltself,
Vie goverument might bave been able to
The compuny
moite a better contruet.
would bave undertaken tbe project for a
much less subsidy Vian Viey demanded.
Wben the company came to the goverament Viey said, 'Your country is no good,
your lands are nlot vuluable and we wiil nlot
be able teosel them.' The result o! ail thut

558

SEINATE

was that nobody was taken witb the country
and the company did flot sali mucb of their
lands. The settiers wbo went Iu there fret'
dld flot understand the climate or bow to
farm ln that country. If you do itot conformi to the laws of nature you canuot produce crops. A lot of us from the esteru
provinces, undertook to farmi tbere as we
had farmed ln the portion of Canada, from
wbich we bad corne, and failed to raise
good crops. But when we ascertained bow
to prepare the land andI when aud bow to
sow the seed, it was very different, aud for
twenty years the crops have beeu magniftcent. Since we learned bow te tili the soll
lu that country we have badl De frozen
grain until last fall. It happened te be a
freak season, but It was the same in every
part of Canada. Ontario, the garden of
Canada, experienced the same dilfiulty
that we met wltb. The Canadian west la a
great territory and the more the goverument
of this country shows its faith lu the future
of the Nortbwest, the better It wlll be for
the easteru provinces. I might give a waruiug te the manufacturera of agricultura]
implements; unleas tbey prepare now te produce on a larger scale, tbey wlll flot be
aible te supply the demauds of the west
In tweuty years from now it will be the
greatest market for agricultural Implements
ln the world, because there are many
hundred millions of acres of arable land
there capable of produciug wheat of the
finest quality and ln great quantities. Wben
that land la producing wheat, It: will net
ha possible to export It by shlppiug lt te
St. John. This government would therefore add a feather to their cap and cradit
te their Dame and win the approval of the
public at large If tbey would take steps
te open up the Hudson Bay route. I meved
lnte the Northwest lu April, 1883. In June
of that year we bad an election for a member of the Nortbwest council. That was
the first tima we had an election for a local
Thera were two candireprasentative.
dates ln the district where I lived, Major
Bell, and Mr. Jackson, both clever aud
competent men. Mr. Jackson, In his campaign, advocated the building of the Hudson Bay Raiiway. Tbough 1 was a supporter of Mr. Jackson, I neyer took any
stock lu that project, and thîs ls the first
time anyone bas ever heard me advocate
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.

the building cf the Hudson Bay Railway.
The point I want te make la this:, every
man then favoured It. It was a pepular
theme at every meeting. A few years a!terwards, Mr. McDonald, who rapresented
the district tliat I used te rapresent in the
House of Commons, held a merles of meetings througheut bis ridlng and advocated
tbe building e! tbe Hudson Bay Ralway.
I spoke on the saine platform. and opposed
lt. 1 did so and have done so untîl now
and for this reason, I held that the country had gene te great expense lu building
tbe Canadian Pacific Railway, sud tbat tbe
country was not prosperous. We biadt net
then learned how te raise good crops; but
ns soon as we learned bew te farra we dld
raise good crops, more than the Canadian
Pacli Railway la able te bandle, aud now
I amn In favour of tbe Hudson Bay Railwny. Had we undertaken to build It before Dow, we would bave been competiug
witb the Canadian Pacifie Railway; but If
we were te bulld biait a dozen Hudson -Bay
Railways, our connection wltb eastern.
Canada, by*meaus o! the Canadian Pacific
Railway would be necessary, snd the railway would net lese eltber freigbt or passengars. They cannet now baudie the freigbt
coxuing eut o! and geiug into tbat country
lu auy reasouable time. Tbey must doubla
tliair tracks and incerense tbeir rollug
stock to furuis the uecessary fadilties te
take eut the preducts wblcb we milse aven
new. If the farmers of tbe west bad this
Hudson Bay route lu oeration tbay could
sbip their grain te Liverpool for ftfteeu
ceuts a busbel less than they are payiug
Dow, and a great portion of it would go eut
by that route. We are net a manufacturing people. If we undertook manufacturing we ceuld flot compete wltb easteru
Canada sud we have te get our manulactured goods from the older provinces. The
more you balp us te be presperous, tha
greatar the ameunt of money we can spend
wlb you. If my ben. frieud from Halifax
would belp us by pointing eut the advan-'
tages that would arise from buildiug the
Hudson Bay rond, be wonld de much more
Ljenefit te the country than by opposiug ItL
If 1 bad a herse to sell sud I tell a purcîxaser that he ls bad, tricky and unsouud
and ln every way a poor animal, and then
asic $200 for hlm, yen would say I was

MÂROHI 17. 190855
one hundred and one hundred and fifty
pounds per head la the shrinkage between
Thot of course,
C.algary and St. John.
meaus that they are depreciated ln value by
the time they reacli England, where, unfortunateiy, they muet be siaughtered as
I'regret
they are taken out of the slip.
the bon. senator from Ha.if ax has
that
tiionglit fit to make sncb gloomy predictions
about tbla Hudson Bay route. He la repeating the mistake which his leaders made
wlien the Canadien Pacific Railway was
undertaken and I venture ta siy that If lie
lives twenty years longer he will blusb for
the opinions he bas.offered to thîs House
to-day.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I have no Intention of trespassing upon the time of the
Chamber ta making any extended observations, except ta say that I arn ratner at a
loas to understau the nature of the discussion that bas taken place upon this subject,
owing to Its controversial character. Whlle
Hon. Mr. POWER-Very likely It would. it bas been of a very interestiug nature,
the attitude taken by the government
Hon. Mr. PERLDY-Tlie lands in the im- *yet
of parliament eutirely
inediate neighbýounhood of the Bay are nlot at the last session
*dispenses with any necessity on our part
productive, but It was shown to the comthe feasibility of the Hudson
mnitkee last session that vegetables are raised to discus
Bay straita, or the practicability of buildevery year within a hundred miles of Port
via Hudson Bay. It seema'
Churchill. Therefore, there wouid be local ing a railway
*ta me the object of tuis discussion can
traffie for a railway to within 100 miles af
direct the attention of the gaveralin terminus on the Bay, and it bas been only be ta
ment, first of ail, ta the feasibilty o! the
shown that the route le one which presents
to the necessity for it.
no engineering difficulties, and that the lasi tscheme, aud secondly.
- If this bas been. overcame by the govern100 miles which lies in the unproductive sec
pronoutiement upon
The uavigability oi fment having made a
tion la down grade.
ethe question, it seema, therefore, ta my
the Bay and the Straits for a season of threE
we may place that responsibility
or four menthe lias been established beyonÉ ind,
iupon thie government and deost from furquestion, and vessels specially constructe(
the eontrovers.al aspects of
for the navigation of nortiiern waters wouic 1 ther discussing
r the question. During lest session of parbe able te paso tlirougli the Straits for fou
on Mardi 13, I took the oppartuor five xnoddtis of the year, giving sufficien t liament,
of expressing my views upon this
-nity
time to carry out a great part of the pro
elaborated them ta some exducts o! the west. Beef and wlieat are tii e question and
tent. As they are, therefore, a matter af
great stapie products of that country. Thie
nlot Intend on the present occawheat whlb cannot be exported betwee " record I do
n sion ta repeat what I then said. If hon.
the harvest and the ciosing: of navi*atio
will refer to the debate which
can be kept over at Port Churchill, an d gentlemen
Il took place ia the Hanse on February 22,
Cattle wiJ
shipped tbe followlng spring.
The rout e 1907, tliey will find that the Prime Minister,
go out ln the fall of the year.
behaîf of the goverimeuit o!
la specially adapted for the export o! cattl< ~speaking: on
Straits ar e Canada, expressed himselt ln this way :
because Juat as soon as the
But there is oie thing etili more jaeeded.
open is the best time for shipping catti e
and the
ta
They las e and that ie aa outlet be the sea, Hudson
out o! aur westerni country.
fonnd iu
noutlet te the sea is ta
Betwee
heavily la a long haul by rail.

a fool1; I would be more likely to get my
price for the animal If I descrIbed hie gaod
pointa. It bas been the same with this
Hudson Bay route. Just as Mr. Blake decried the Canadian Pacifie Railway and the
Northwest Territortea, and forced the government to give 25,000,000 acres of land
towards Its construction when 5,000,000
acres would have been a liberal subsidy,
the hon. gentleman la decrylng thia Hudson
Bay route and making it more difficuit te
get it bult. There la nlot an acre of arable land in the Northwest, that lis not worth
$50 to-day. It la selling for less, but even
the slough landa on whicb w'è cut aur bey
ls worth $50 an acre or more. The good
qualities of the soil lu that country are nlot
hait known yet We are living ln a progressive age, and wheu I amn told that the
Hudson Bay Railway will cost only $12,000,000, 1 arn surprised. 1 thougbt It would
iiikely coret more than that

560

SENATE

The Prime Minister was then discusslng
tels very question, and dealing with the
mauy transportation problemas and require-ý
ments of the Dominion, anïd unequlvocally,
lu the lauguage whlh 1 have read, comnmitted hlmsell to this very important question to the extent then indicated; and ln
closing the remarks which lie made upon
that occasion, lie spoke as foliows :
1 agree altogether with what has been said
b> my hon. friend from North Toronto (Mr.
Foster> that the time has corne for the construction of, this railway, and I may say to
my hon. friead who has brought this question to the attention of the House (Mr.
Knowles), and te the members of this House,
especiaiiy to my hon. frieuds from the
Nov thwest Territories, -who are particu]arly
interested in this matter, that at this very
moment the sxibject is engaging the attention
nf the government. I amn not prepared at
this moment te make any further statement
than that, but I say this with ail the authority which 1 have in this House, that at this
moment the subject is engaging the attention of the government. I arn not prepared
te say that next week nor the week after,
or within a very short time we will have an
announcement te make te this House, but I
hope that before the end of the session we
will have somothing te declare upon this
stibject.
I rose to my feet to ask the very pertinent question of the leader of this House,
why the Prime Minister, representing the
government, havlng committed hlmself se
strougly as the language indicates, did not
before the close of last session make the
I would commend
promise annouuced ?
thîs language to my hon. friend from
Prince Albert, who la a supporter 0f this
government, and 'wouid suggest.fo hlm the
propriety of further inquirIug into the
oversighit of the Prime Mlnister, as to wby
the policy of the goverument, as was aiready announced upon thîs very Important
inatter, bas not been carried out. Permit
me lu this connection to say that I hope
the goverument, ln deciaring Its pollcy to
the country upon this question, wll nlot
pursue the act of folly whlcb It has doue on
other occasions, by extending the order ln
councl whicli explred on July 10, 1906, to
the Canadian Northern Rallway as to the
land grant of 12,800l acres a mile for the
building of this road from the Pas to
Churchill, a distance of 400 miles, lnvolving
not less than five million acres of land. I
liope the projeet of the goverument wll be
to undertake tels as a government work,
and buiid It ns a State owned enterprise.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED.

to admiuister that land grant of flve million acres and the proceeds towards the
carryiug out of this very Important undertaking; that It be cnrried ont by a commission, upon which commissiobi there shall
be represented this federai governent.nd.
the governments of Manitoba, Saskatchewan
and Alberta. I repeat that 1 hope they wil
nlot do as they are belng lmportuned to do
to-day, to extend the land grant which expired nearly two years ago, to any private
corporation or to auy railway comipauy, but
will appropriate that magnificent grant and
the proceeds thereof ta carrylng ont this
project as a State owned uudertaking.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-ýHas
the leader of the goverument nothing to
say lu answer to the question put to hlm
as te the pollcy of the government ? Surely
he mxust know something about it.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn not aware that
there Is any necessity for my speaking on
the present occasion. The land grant was
piaced on the statute-book: by the government of which my lion. friend from Belleville was a inember. It lias no limitation,
as far as time 15 coucerned. An order lu
council was passed by the present administration calliug upon the parties to fulil
their obligation within a reasonabie time or
forfeit; the grant. There lias been no statutory repeal of the Act The clause under
which thls enormous amount of land was
given to a rallway company for the construction of a road to Hudson bay was not
to be found lu tee Subsldy Act. It was to
be found in a curious place wliere no member of thls Rouse could f nd It, I think. It
was In"a small ameudment to tee Dominion
Lands Act of 1884. I know It took me a
very long time to discover where lt would
be found, because the subi oct was not germain to tee place where it appeared. Naturaîiy, one wouid have looked ta one of
tee Subsldy Acta for that. A subsldy of
12,600 acres per mile was voted. Iu te
debate teat took place on that occasion It
was mnade very clear, te my mind ut ai]
eveuts, that tee feeling of tee majoritY Of
parliament ut that tIme-teat Is the Liberal opposition and a considerable number
of tee Conservative party who spoke-was
~that lu glvlng that largo land grant, it
sbould be taken from the immediate locnlity

ML&I.CH 17, 1908

561

alongside the railway. That was the f eel- by parliament on that subject has taken
ing, aithough Sir John *Macdonald denled place. -The opposition of that day mainthat the government were bound ta that tained that If the land w-as given at that
policy,
date It would be given alangalde thé railway, but no land lias ever been set aside
HoU. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Âre
as selected.
we ta understand that the polcy of the
Hon. Mr. DÂVIS-There has only been
government [s ta continue that land grant
one dIssentIng voice ln thls debate, and
ta the company ?
that la the hon, gentleman from Haifax,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--No.
and lie has, 1. must say, been very mild lnx
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Tlie his opposition. A littie of the lght w-hidi
hon, gentleman says no, that it la flot the we recelved last w-Inter with reference ta
policy of the government ta continue that thus subject lias glimmered through my
land grant, and ta Imaint upon the company lion. frlend's minc, and lie lias came ta
constructing the road. Is it the policy of the conclusion that there la a posslbilty
the government ta assume the live million 0f navigatIng the straits Up ta tue end of
acres set apart for that purpose, and bulld October, but he could flot get away from
the road themselves ? That ls the point the fact that lie lind ta ring [n the mnowput ta the hon, gentleman, and that la the storins and the fo-g. I do not know that It
conclusion which every reader of the is a very proper thlng ta tell tlie country
about snow-storins and fog. Perhaps, If I
utterancen of the premier muet corne ta.
exerted myself, I cauid get evidence that
Han. Mr. LOUG13EIDD-I might point there w-ere snawstorins at Haifax and on
out ta my hon. friend a miat*nnception tlîe Atlantic, arid lu the straits of Belle
w-hidi seems ta exist ln his mmnd as ta the Isle, and I think I could show an occaland grant. In 18M4, a provision was pass- sioal Iceberg fiaatiiig around the straits
ed by parliament lenving lt dlscretionary of Belle Ilie; at the same time It la a goad
wvith the government ta offer ta any com- navigable proposition and han been lu fact
pnny building thus road a land subsidy af for years and yearn, and w-Ili continue to
12,800 ncres per mile. That was done by be so. The fact thnt there happened ta be
orders*in concil. F'rom time ta tîme, orders an odd Iceberg floating around Hudson bay
ln couneil have been passed hy the pre- is flot an Insurmountable obstacle, one
viaus government and by my hon. friend's sw-show does nat niake a summer. When
gavernment, providing for the building of aur frIend, Captain Bernier, »telle us that
this rond and the granting of a land oub- w-e will be able ta teiephane and comsidy of 12,800 acres a mile. The last order municate w-ith the navigators on the
ln council expired on July 10, 1906. The other aide of the straits w-hidi side of
gavernment la therefore not bound eltier tlie strait la open, or use w-ireless telemorally or otherwise ta extend that land graph ta tlie saine efiect, lie may navigate
grant. 1 need flot point ont ta my hon. a nxonth longer than the time stated.
f riend that that land grant has lncreased I thlnk Commander Wakehiam said the w-esmany times In value since the legislation of tier was na co]d lu tîxe latter part of Octolô84, and It w-as certainly neyer the Inten- ber, that, w-hie tiiere was no Ice ln the
tion of parliament that for aIl time ta came, straits, from the fact of the cold w-eather
until that land 'wouid become s0 immenseiy Ice w-as accumulating on tlie ship. As 1
valuable an it [a to-day, the order ln council sald bne sw-allow does not make a summer.
shouid be renewed fram year ta year.
As the ion. gentleman from Wolseley sald,
thin w-Inter, if we take the evIdence we have
Hon. M~r. SCOTT-I mentioned that the before us, we couid have navIgated. tlie
government did flot Intend ta allot any straits aIl winter long, because Constable
land for the construction of the raiiway Seilars of the Northwest Mounted Police
ta Hudson bay. There neyer w-as any land toid un that lant winter an New Year's Day
allotted beyond the four or five Ilnes In and for a couple of days after New Year's
the lmet clause In the Act ta be faund ln Day, the tliermometer w-as ten above zero
the statutes of 1884. Na ather leglsiatian right nt Churchill. That being the case, I
36
REVISED EDITION

SENATE
'bave no doubt at ail we could have navigated that route ail wlnter long. We dlaimi
a great portion of our grain could go out
that way If we bad the road bulît. We
do not say aIl of IL It does not ail go
out now. A great portion of It Is stored
at Fort William. We cut our grain In the
latter part of August and beginning of
September, and a great deal of It la promptly threshed; and If we are as close to tide
water as we-would lie wltb this road, we
could put two-thlrds of the crop on steamers golng ont of thle liay before the
iniddle of November, and the evidence goes
to show that lu an ordinary year we could
navigate till the middle of November. We
have any amount of evidence to show that
the straits are navigable, and aise that the
bay la navigable, and I do hope that the
time Is coming when the matter wlll recelve more attention than it Is receiving
at the present time. My hon. friend said
we had plenty of money la Saskatchewan
and Alberta, and that we should put our
hands Into our pockets and asslst In buildIng the rond ourselves. I may say that
we have gîven a tairly decent subsldy In
Saskatchewan and Alberta, but we look on
this railway as being a national undertaking. The hon, gentleman from Halifax
Is aware that Canada as a whole coinmltted Itself te an enormons expendIture in
the building of the Intercolonial Rallway
and aiso to great expenditure every year la
maintalning tbat road liecause It bas neyer
pald, and nobody In the west is grumbling
about it. The day wlll corne wben westera
Canada will pay the larger proportion of
the bonds, If they are ever to be pald, and
we are not grumbling. We look upon this
aise as a natural undertaking. 0f course
Saskatchewan could build the whole road
if they wanted to do so; no doubt about
that. They dould guarantee the bonds, or
they could float the bonds. But it Is a
national undertaking, somethlng that wll
assist In the building up a greater Canada.
Therefore Canada as a whole sbould assist
in building the road. As the leader of the
opposition says if It was thouglit wise to
bulld It as a governmeat work, perhaps it
would lie a good thing; but not to operate
it, because I mnust say I agree wiith my hon.
friend that I do not lielieve in the government operating railways. I do not think it
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

will be a successful proposition. This bistory of Canada up to the present Urne lias
nlot gone to show that It is. So that if we
had to build It as a government road, then
it should lie given over to some private coinpany or ail of the companies.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-WilI my hon.
friend permit me to say a word? What 1
did give expression to last session-and to
that I stili adbere-was that the government
should buiid the rond and give runnlng
rlghts over that section of the road from
Pas Mission to the Hudson bay to the transcontinental systems that practically go to
the Saskatchewan river-the Canadian Pacifie Railway, the Canadian Northern and
the Grand Trunk Pacifie.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS--That is exactly the
Idea 1 hiad in my mmnd, and I said, In speaking the other day on tbis question, that If
the goverument undertook to build this road
tbiemselves, It sbould lie bult and then
banded over to one of the great transcontinental systems to take charge of, because 1
thlnk that will be the best policy. In the
near future we are not only going to have
the Canadian Pacifie Railway, Canadian
Northern and Grand Trunk Pacifie, but we
look forward to the time when the Great
Northern wIli be cnrrying its millions of
bushels of wheat frorn the United States
over thils route to Liverpool. The time will
come when the wheat of the western states
wlII surely be shipped. in this way. Any
road willing to.pay a fair amount for the
nse of this line should lie allowed to do s0.
I arn glad that there Is only one dissenting
voice on this question, and that Is mild Indeed. If lie can point to a few fogs In the
Hudson strait, I can point to a few In other
straits. We certalnly have snowstorms ail
over. If my hon. friend will look up the
evidence 1 placed before the House, lie will
find that I produced a fog table and snow
table, deallng wlth snow, fogs and gales ;
and It certalnly is greatly in f aveur of the
Hudson straits as compared wlth the Straits
of Belle Isle. As far as our canal systems
are concerned, tbey are frozen for six months
In the year and sometimes seveil months.
Stili no sensible man would say tbey are flot
useful the other months of the year. We
dlaim that the Hudson Straits will lie openl
four monthis in the year, and liv providing
proper lighting, teleplione and telegrapli sys-

MIAROH 17, 1908
toms, the period miglit be increased to five
months. I want to draw attention to Captain Moody's statement with reference to
the straits. We have had evidenco year
after year with referen.ce to the Hudson
bay itself, and 1 do not thlnk ln any case
lias the evidence gone to show that there
were any reefs or rocks out i the bay ;
stili 1 find In the report of Captain Moody
lie leaves the Impression that the ship he
was on struck: a reef ln Hudson bay. I
tliink there must have been reefs ln bis
head. He must have been down at Marbie
Island, whicli extends away out into the
bay. Everybody knows that ln ail the Information we have had of Hudson bay for
hundrods of years no navlgator lias ever reported any reef s there. 1 think there was
something done with the report of Captain
'Moody. His superlor officer should see that
lie does not makre any more reports of that
.klnd. I hope the government wll bring
down some pollcy towards the construction
of that road. The tact that the leader of
the Houge lias not said anything againet it
la an Indication that something 18 to be
done In the near future towards carrying
ont the project.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon, gentleman ls
quite at liberty to make bis motion or to
withdraw it. The House lias had the benefit of a very interesting discussion. Very
many points have been elicited, and they
wlll ail be taken into consideration. It may
lie dropped atter the debate.
The SPEAKER-Does the lion, gentleman
wish his motion put to the Rouse or does
lie withdraw It?
Hon. Mr. DÂVIS_-I do flot withdraw It.
The motion wvas carried on*division.
PUBLIC OWNERSHIP 0F PUBLIC
UTILITIES.
DEBATE ÂDJOURNED.
The orders of the day being called:
Resuming the adjourned debate on the.
motion of the Hlon. Mr. McMullen, that in
the opinion of this Senate of Canada, the
public ownershiP and operation of publie
utilities wouid not lie in the interest of this
Dominion.

563

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It wiil bie placed at
the foot of the Order Paper.
Hon. Mr. POWER-That ia not fair.
Hon. Mr. .SCOTT-I do not thlnk It la
rIght to détala the Houge with a discussion
of these abstract propositions. It should lie
taken up after the regular business.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-To my mind it la
a very Important snbjoct, one to whidh I
have given considerable thought and considerable consideration, and I badl hoped to
be able t0 deliver myseif of 'my observations on the subject; but If it i. going f0 be
contlnued in this manner day affor day witliout be!ng readhed, I will move that the
order he dlscharged.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-There are very
few Items on the Order Paper for to-morrow.
Hon. Mfr. BELCOURT-It wili not ho
reached.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The other subjects are formai.
Hon. Mfr. BELCOURT-The
jects are academic.

other

sub-

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-'1'he
lion, gentleman bias the power ln his
own hands to prevent: lis motion hoing treated ln a coutemptuous manner.
He can have from
six tlli twolve
o'clock to-night. I quite agree that those
abstract propositions should not romain on
the notice paper continuously from day to
day and week to week and month'to month.
He eau go on, and the Speaker wIll leave
the chair and the Houge wiil meet again at
eight o'ciock.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I thtnk It la perfectiy
riglit that discussions on abstract questions
should not take precedence of the Important
practical business of the Rouse, but If one
looks at tbe Order Paper for the noxt couple
of days, lie wiil find that nearly ail the matters whidh are set down for the consideration of the Houge are subjects of the same
kind as this-abstract questions. Tako toHon. Mr. BELCOURT-I am ready to morrow for Instance. No. One is: 1
House ln
proceed wvith this motion, but as it 15 nearly Committee of the Whole on the report of the
six o'clock, I wiIi move that it lie adjourned Standing Committee on Bailways, Toletili to-morrow.
graplis and Harbours.' That la a business
36j

SE-NATE

564

inatter. No. 2 is ' Resurnlng the further adjourned debate on the motion of the Hon.
Mr. McMullen : That ln vlew of the agitaion regardlng the services rendered by the
Senate,' and so on. That la an old story.
Then No. 3 la 'Resuming the suspended debaie on the motion of the Hon. Mr. Landry
wlth regard to the limite of Manitoba, Ontario and Quebec.' I thlnk that if this motion la placed after No. 1-O! course It wll
be after third readings, If there are anythe hon, gentleman will have attained ail
that he deslres.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-I do not 'see
'why the hon. gentleman from Ottawa would
flot agree to postpone the discussion o! this
subject tIi to-morrow, because It la an Important subject, I shonld like to have the
opportunity of aaying a few words on It
and I could not do so to-nlght.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I amn quite wlllliig to accede to the expreaaed wlsh o! the
House, but 1 want to know when It wlll
be diseusaed.
It belng six o'clock, the Speaker le! t"the
chair.
After Reces s.
Hon. Mr. BEDCOURLT-When tHe hion.
senator from Wellington gave notice of the
motioni whlch la now before the House, It
occurred to me that the aubject waa one of
considerable Interest and o! great Importance, and that i would be diacbarglng ln
part at east the dutles wlicb every mnember
of tHie House has ln common, o! taklug part
ln thie deliberations o! the Senate, and I
concluded that Hils would be a fitting opportunlty for me to do so. Âfter my hon.
f riend had made bis very interesting and
Instructive speech, 1 moved thie adjournment of the debate; then, for reasons over
whIch I have no control, partly because of
Illness, thie subject was adjourned from
week to week, until It was called this atternoon. It le qulte evident to me that ln the
meantime thie House bas become weary of
the subjeet. The impatience shown by the
hon, leader of thie House when thie matter
waa called, and bis satirical suggestion Hiat
It Should be adjourned for another week,
furnishied evidence of the f act. I took exCeption to that because there was an eviHon. Mfr. BELCOURT.

dent intention On thie part O! the leader of
thie House to do away with the subject.
The hon, gentleman auggeated It should be
Put at thie foot o! thie liat, on thie ground
that It was a subject o! an academic natiire. There are two or Hiree other subjecta
on the orders for to-morrow which are largely o! that nature, and I concluded that the
House, and! especlally the leader, had becorne weary of the aubject. I would conaider It unfortunate If, at any time, I were
to rise in my place and become a source
o! wearlness to auybody and espectally to
the leader o! the House, but It would be
absolutely unpardonable If.- I were to addreas the Senate when 1 had notice beforehand that thie House and the leader are
abaolutely weary of thie ubject. Under
the circumstances, I deem diacretion to be
thie better part of valor, and il desire to aay
that I do flot wlsh to diacuse thie subject
to-nlgbt. I may have an opportunlty at some
future tlme when thie subject wtll be up
again. I have given the question considerable Investigation and gaHiered some facts
and figures, and some arguments, wblch,
from my own point of vlew, are cnlculnted
to throw llht on thie subject, on some future occasion, wben I can sny what 1 have
to aay wiout wearylng anybody.
Hon. Mr. SCOT~T-My hon. friend la not
juatIfied la coming to the conclusion he has
stated. No one expreased any wearlness
e! the subject. But where Hiere la business to be put throug thie chamber, It ought
to take precedence o! aIl questions of that
klnd. In the ;Flouse of Commons, when a
question bas been debated for an afternoon
some one moves the adjournment o! the debate, and it. goes over, and you may flot
bear o! it for some montha again. We have
always been klnd to bon. gentlemen brlnglng up questions of an abstract nature, and
It la always understood wben such a debate
la adjourned tHat It goes to the foot o! the
orders.
There was no expression of un'wlllinguesa to listen t0 the hon. gentleman's
speech on the subJect. He la entîrely wrong
in the conclusions hie lias drawn; but the
desire was expressed Hiat business ahould
not be impeded by dlscussing questions of
that kînd. We bave uot much on our Order
Paper to-day, but we did flot devote twenty
minutes to the actual business of thie House.
Our time was taken Up with questions wblch

MARCHI 17, 1908
mlght have been dispensed witb or taken
up iu a debating society, but flot in any way
connected with the Order 'Paper before us.
I hope the hon, gentleman If he is flot prepared to go on to-nigbt will name nome
tijue when he wiil renunte the debate.
Hou. Mr. DERBYSHLIRE. There
is notbIng to prevent hlm from going on now; we
are aIl ready to hear hlm.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I agree with the hon.
Secretary of State when he says thait these
subjeets should make way for the regular
business of the House. On the other hand,
this Is one of the subjects which shouid
comimand the attention of tais honourable
bodly. It la a question of the greatest importance. Publie opinion la pressing 'forward oil nubjecte of that kind, the municipalization of public utilities or nationalization
of public utilities., It pertains to thie House
to enligliten public opinlon anfd prepare and
give a proper direction to public opinion on
sncb questions. and It canriot better be done
than by dlscussing them. For my part, 1
s-ould be exceedingly sorry if the hon.
senator from Ottawa does flot gîve to this
House and to the country the benefit of the
study he- has macle of the subject. I hope
hie wiIi reconsider -bis decision .and will
moire that the debate be adjourned until
a future date. 1 quite appreclate his position, and If I were situated as he is 1 would
iiot speak to an empty House on a subjeet1
of that kind, but that is no reason why bc
should not adJourn the debate to a future
day.
Hon. Mr. OLORÂAN--4 beartily concur
lu the remarks made by the hon. senator
from De Salaberry. The matter under dis.
cussion ls one of the greatest Importance.
We are a young country, developing rapidly
and what this honourabie House should do
to further that growth la to put our Institutions on a nound basin. We have the example of other counitries, of Australia, for
instance, In regard to ihis matter.
Hon. Mr. POWERà-The hon. gentleman
should not go into the iiierits of the question. He macle fils speech on the menits
of the question the other day, and he le out
of order In making another speech.
The SPEAKER-I confess I dcl not ne-.
zuember that the bon, gentleman hes spoken
on the subject.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I have not spokeir
on the nubject which tg at Issue. I had
spoken on the nubject of the debate. T'bis
rinlng of the hon. senator from Halifax:
and trying to blockThe SPEAKER-Thene la no motion before the House except the question on
whlch the hon, gentleman frÔm Ottawa la
cailed to speak. If the hon. member han
movecl the adjourniment of the debate the
hon. nenaton from Victoria may npeak on
that nubject.
Hou. Mr. CLORAN-Why dcl bis honour
the Speaker not cali the bon. nenator from
De Salabenny to orclen? Are there to be two
kiads of weights and measures lu this
House 7
'The SPEAKER-The answer ia obvioun.
The hon, gentleman from De Salaberry dicl
not speak on the subject. 1 may say there
Is nothlng before the Chair except the Order
of the Day. le there any motion to postpone It?
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN.-I am not golng to
make a speech on the subject, but nimply
to nay that 1 concur ln the remarks of
the hon. senator from De Salaberny. Evidently the hon, gentleman from. Halifax
does not Ilke any lighit, except what comen
from his own littie town clown by the sea.
That le not -sufficient for the rent of the
country. What 1 have to say le in enewer
to the remank of the hon. Secretary of
State, that tais la not nlmply an academic
question for a debating soclety, but one
whlch Involves the great intenest of the
people.
Hon. Mn. SCOTT-I dld flot charactenize
this as a subject for a debatlng society.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-My oniy objection
to proceeding with the debate tain evening is that it la St Patrick's day.
Hou. Mn. ELLIS-If the hion, gentleman
le not preparecl to go on and nobody moyen
the acljournment of the debate, tae whole
matter wlill drop.
Hon. Mn. BELCOURT-I was ready to
go on, but evldently the House le not willing to proceed to-nigbt.

SEINATE

566

Hon. Mr. W'ATSON-The bon. Mr. Tai-.
Hon. Mr. POWER-In order to settie
the debate be ad- bot asked me te proceed witb order No. 12
the matter, I move that
journed until Tuesday, and tbat the order this evening.
go on after tbird readings.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Then I shahl withThe motion was agreed to.
draw my motion, on condition tbat the bon.
senator from St. Boniface dees net proIRRIGAT'ION ACT AMENDMENT BILL. ceed witb the debate on -the Georgian Bay
Canal project to-nlgbt.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readlng of Bill (99) An Act to amend the Irrigation Act. He sald: As bion, gentlemen
are aware, we bave an Irrigation Act whlcb
was lntroduced first ln 1894 by Mr. Daly.
Av ameudmt,ýLt was mnade In 1895, and it
was consolidated ln 1898. The -experience
we have had sii'ce then bas led to some
amendmnents. There Is no Intention to alter
the principle of tbe Bill, and, therefore, the
amendments wbich I bave under consideratien cau more readily be discussed wbeii
tbe HIouse gees Into commlttee. The only
reai change la principle is that there are
certain questions whieh bave arisen. or are
lkely te arise, that have ln the past been adjudieated by the minister. it is now proposed to substitute the Board of Railway
Commîssioners for certain questions which
Involve railways. Beyend that. there Is no
change ln the principle of the Bill.
The motion w-as agreed te, and the Bill
was read second time.
GEORGIAN BAY CANAL.
DEBÂTE POSTPONED.
The order of the day being called:
Resuming the adjourned debate on the
motion of the Hon. Mr. Casgraia, that he
w iii cail the attention of the Senate to the
importance to Canada of the early construction of the Georgian Bay canal, and will
irquire- of the governmeut if the report cf
the survey made of that waterway will be
laid before the Senate during the present
session ?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I move the adjournment of the House. I do net tblnk lt ls necessary, in his sparse Hlouse te proceed
wltb a question of this kind. I wa§ beartily
Wr accord wltb tbe attitude assumed by the
bon. sen.ator frem Ottawa ln regard te this
question. It is 110W the 17tli of Marcb, one
of our national bolidays, and as we have- no
Important business ln tbe Sente I move the
ndjeurninent of the House.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT.

The SPEAKER-Dees the hon. senator
from St. Boniface wish te proceed with
bis speech ?
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-Wbule'I appreciate
the desire of the lion, gentlemen te-nîghit
te hiear me spealz, I do net care te address
an empty House.
Hon. Mr. POWELt-In erder -te relieve
the bon. gentleman from St. Boniface, 1
move that this debate be adjeurned until
to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-Tîlat is mny privalege and I make the motion.
The motion was agi-eed te.
SECOND READING.
Bill (69) an Act te incorporate the RuthenIan Cathelic mission of the Order of Saint
Basil the Great in Canada.-Hou. Mr. Taibot.
THE HUDSON BAY ROUTE.
ON THIE MOTION TO ADJOURN.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--The
Senate to-day bas committed itself te a very
large expenditure of meoney, and ln vhew of
the declaration made by tbe premier last sessien in reference te the Hudson Bay road,
and the affirmation of the same principle teday by an almost unanimous vote, tie representatives of tie gevernment ln this
House net votlng against It, we are committed as a wbole te proceeding Immediately wltb the construction of that very important Hudson Bay railway. Wbat sbould
be knewn ln the Interest of those wbo support the rallway, and more partlcularly of
those who w-ill have te bear the cost. Is
wben wlll tie goverament proceed wltb
tbe construction ef the road. At wbat
perhod de the goverament propose te Intreduce a Bill for the purpose of setting- aside

MAROH 18, 1908
the lands for that road ? I arn sure the
hon. Secretary of State will appreciate my
anxiety to know when the work is to be
commenced. I take it for granted that the
hon. gentleman will see that the wish and
the wiil of the Senate Ia carrled out.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-I would like to
point outHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-When
the hon. Secretary of State abnegates his
functions, I shall address the hon. senator
f rom Portage la Prairie. I arn surprlsed that
the leader of the government should tolerate the assumption on the part of one of his
supporters of the functiona which belong to
himself.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I could flot seie the
hon. gentleman.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--But
,you told hlm to speak.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I could flot see the
hon, gentleman wlth my back to hlm. I
arn not aware that being In favour of an
enterprîse commits me or the government
to the Immediate commencement of the
work. There are many projecta that I have
favoured, one that is now occupying public
attention, that I favoured some flfty odd
years ago--that la the Georgian Bay canal.
1 was a member of the parliament that
voted a good deal of money to carry on
that work, and yet It dld not go on, aithough the governrnent of that day-'-my
hon. friend'a frienda--were In power at
that Urne. They persevered for a distance
and atopped. because, in their judgment,
there were othier works that requlred more
immediate attention. That is exactly the
vlew I take of thia question.
We may
favour it at a period of time when the conditIons of the country are suitable; but the
hon, gentleman will admit that the government of this day have a pretty large block
of enterprîses on tiselr hande and they can
scarcely be called upon to take up another.
Hon. Mr. WÂTSON-I have the same
anxIety that the hon. senator from Hastings exhIbita for Information, as seconder
of the motion carried this afternoon. The
announcement was made ln the other House
to-day that there was a surplus of nineteen

567

million of dollars. Notwithstanding- the extravagant estimate made by the hon. senator
from Halifax, of the cost ef building the
Hudson Bay road, we could build it In
one year, and atill have a surplus over.*
Hon. Sir MAÂCKENZIE BOWELL,-It la
quite evident that the hon. Secretary of
State has not fully comprehended the motion that was passed to-day. It was not
merely the affirmation of a principle, not
merely an expression of opinion on the
part of the Senate that the work should be
done, but It goes further and aay that the
government should take early action towards the construction of the railway. It is
a matter of too great Importance for the
hon, gentleman to treat so cavalierly.
The SPEÂKER-I suppose the hon, gentleman Is speaking on the motion for adJournment.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-On a
motion to adjourn, I can speak on almoat
any question.
The motion was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned until to-morrow at
tbree o'clock.

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA,

Wednesday, March 18, 1908.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
oiclock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Bill (E> An Act respecting the Pontiac
Central Rallway Cornpany.-(Hon. Mr.
Camnpbell.)
EQUAL DIVISION 0F INITIATION 0F
LEGISLATION IN HOUSE 0F COM~MONS AND SENATE.
The order of the day belng cailed:
That the Senate deems it expedient to invite the Hlouse of Commons to co-operate
with it by meana of a joint comrnittee te consider the advisability of devising methods
whereby a more equ.1 diviision of the initiation- of private and public legislation. may
ba secured between the two branches of parliernent, and adopting rules governing debate whioh will limit the time of discussion
ai) as to better expedite business.

SEiNATE
Hon. Mr. 3McMNULLEN-I have been requested by several hion. mein bers to postpone this motion, and 1 therefore move that
the order of the day be discharged and
plaeed on the orders of the day for Marcli
25th.
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-Wlh the consent of
the House, I wish to cali the attention of
Ris Honour the Speaker to tus resolution,
wlth a view to affordiug the hon. gentlemani an opportunity to alter bis motion.
We will be asked to vote upon this resolution. nnd we mny take it as It is presented.
The resolution is flot la order, for the reason that there are two very distinct propositions raised in It. First, we are asked
to consider the advisability 0f devlsing
methods whereby a more equal division or
the initiation of private and public legisintion may be secured between the two
branches of parliament; and, secondly, we
are asked to adopt rules governing debate
which will limit the time of discussion so
as to better expedite business.
These two
p)ropositions may be conflicting; s0 that one
man rnay be disposed to vote in favour of
the first portion of the resolution, and may
not be prepared to, vote for the second.
Theref ore when it cornes to a vote, If it gets
that far, sorne hon, gentlemen will hiave to
retiroe from the Chamber, or be compelled
to vote 'yes' and 'no' at the samne time.
1 contend that a resolution drawn In this
w-ay cannot be forced upon us.
Consequently it is not in order.

in the tercentenary celebration at Quebec, is niow unider consideration. The mnatter has not been decided, but
probably there will be a considerable display of troops at the celebration there.
tui be tak-en by it

RUTHENIAN CÂTHIOLIC MISSION.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Before the orders
the day are called, I wish to say a few
words that I tbink will be relevant to, this
occasion.
If there 15 on1e mile of tuis House
which is honoured more in the breach than
in the observance, it is that w-ith reference
to lion. gentlemen giving an explanation
whea mioving the second reading of a Bill.
0f

That was done 3-esterday by the bon. genltleman from Portage la Prairie la moving
the second reading of the Bill to incorporate
the Ruthenian Catholic Mission of the

Order of St. Basil the Great in Canada.
W'heii I, as politely as I could, asked hiim
for an explanation, that bon, gentleman
with a contemptuous wave of bis hand de-

clined to answer and went on with his
motion. That is unfair, and particularly
In connection with a Bill, which. the hon.
gentleman, if hie had any cognizance of it,

should have explained to the House.

It Is

a mneasure which this House did not know
mnything about, unless hon, gentlemen had
given the subject some study.
Lt is a Bill
in connlection with a church said to be in
communion with the chiurch of Rome, the
Ituthenian Catholic church. I thought It
bcad reference to the Galicians, and looked
up the matter and found that It was. The
The SPEAKER-I shall take occasion te, Ruthenians are divided in religion ; about
examine the point.
haîf observing the Greek rite and haif the
The motion was ag-reed to.
Latin rite.
I mention this to show how an
TRAINING 0F M-ILIITIA AT QUEBEC. important matter like this may pass throngh
tue Ijouse without the hon, gentleman in
charge of it knowing anything on the subINQUIRY.
ject.
Lt was referred to the Committee on
Hon. Mfr. D031VILLE lnquired:
Ras the government adopted any pIan on I rivate Bis. The arguments which were
the subject of the next training of the Cana- used some time ago by some hon. gentledian militia P
menî to show that one reqnired to be a
Wili this tr-aining take place, as ordînariiy, ieînber of certain committees
to know anyat the diulerent camps aIready estabiished
in the varions provinces, or wiil there be a thing about the legisiation referred to them,
corcentration of volunteer troop
et
sr tQee en- were justified In this case.
during the celebration of the -

ary of the city founded by Champlain ?
The SPEAKER-Does the hon, gentleman
In the latter case, which are the different
corps that are to go to, Quebec and how many intend to move a motion?
davs are they to stay there P
HIon. 'Mr. surLLiVAN-So. but I give
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The question of the
notice that I shall move at a future day
training of the mihitia for 1908, and the part
that this Bill be nfrrîed to a (ommiittee
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

MARCH 18, 1908
more drastie than auythiug that is proposed
iu tilis Bill1.
That practically the rallroads

of the W'hole Honse. 1 was simply enliglhteuing the House on somiething it did flot
kuow anythlng about, and conld flot know
anything about. 1 observe two thiugs, first
that a gentleman should answer according
to the rules of cjvilized society anyhow,
and secondly I consider a good deal of care
sbould be exercised la many of thiese subjects in order that they xnay be referred
to a Committee of the Whole wbere hon.
members may be cognizant of the legisiation going on.
iou. Mr. BERNIER-I may say a word
to relieve the conscience of the hon. gentleman
In the province of Alberta there Is
a religions soclety known as the Ruthenian
Cntholic Mission, and I suppose this Bill is
to incorporate that religious society.
IIAILWAY ACT AX[ENDM'%ENT BILL.

of the stutes are placed iu the bauds of the
innîîicipalities w-ho cu order gates and other

THE HOUSE AGAIN IN COMMITTEE.
The Honse agaiu resolved itself into:

protection of thut character, and w-ho can
lu that w-ny compel the railroads to put up

t.ýese protective agencies, and if thiey fail
to do so, that they have the power in aImost every state of limlting the speed, not
to ten miles, but to six miles an hour.
1

îuight say before I leàve this point, that
there are in muuy states of the American
Union different legislation from this.

Lt

goes a grent deal fnrthe, lookcing to the
abolition of the level crossiug altogether.
The State of Massuchusetts Is tue leader ln
that legisîntion, and a very Important lnw

that bas been placed ou the statute-book
and is being w-orked ont provides for the
abolition in towus und cities of the state of
the level crossings altogether, and the substitution of subw-ays or overheud crossings. The

leislation of Massachusetts provides that

Cc.irnittee of the Whole ou the report of tea per cent of the cost of this shaîl he borne
thw Standing Committee on railways, teâe- by the coninuoîwealth, that not less thun
gy-aphs and harbours, on (Bill 3) An Act te,
sixty-flve per cent shahl ho borne by the
aniend the Railway Act.
railway, and not more thau 25 per cent by
(lu the Committee.)
the nnicipality; so thut it lsan matter of
The CHAIRMAN-The question is uow ueg-otiation and fiuully of urbitration ns to
on the anieudment proposed by the hiou. whetlîer the railwny shaîl puy more than
gentleman troin De Salalberry (Ilon. Mr. sixty-five. or whether the inuncipality shahl
Beique).
pay less tban 25 per cent. The sum fixed for
Hon. '-%r. -IERGUSON-W'heii the bluse the commonwealth to puy Is ten per. cent. I
just mention tat
lu order thut no lion.
rose on Thursday last, I was dealing with
gentleman w-I imngine that 1 have presome evidence which w-as snbmitted to the
Committee on Railwuys, Telegraphs and
Hurbours ln connection with this Bill. I
w-as pointing ont just at the time I resumed
iny seat a very misleading statemnt, to
use no stronger word, that was made with
reference to the legislntion lu the United
Lt w-us l)ointed ont,
states on the snbject.
and I frankly believe very neurly every
inemnber of the cominittee accepted Lt ns

correct. that there w-as no such legislation
ns la proposed lu the Bill, in operation ln

thue United States, and that, possibly, the
enactmnent of this mensure would divert
As bon, gentrade fromn Canadjun roads.
tlemen w-hi remember I read extracts from
the laws of four States of the American
Union bordering south of the lakes, states
tlrougb win~chî this competitive traffic would

have to be carried, and 1 showed by themn
thut the legislation of these states is mnch

snmed to -ive ail the lqws of the United

States on the subject.
Every state has its
0w-n laws, and they have some laws dealing

w-ithi the level crossing-, and some otber
stites sncb as Massachusetts, and, I thlnk,
Olîlo have laws providing for the abolition
of the level crossings altogether lu the
large cities.
I shahi uow tonch on the
question of the reduction of speed.
The
hou. gentleman fronu De Salaberry pointed
out that w-heu the Act w-as cousolidated

!l 1903, parliainet w-eut fnrtber, 1 understood hlm to say. that it badl gone before
lu reference to this subject, by enacting

clause 275.

I turu to the Act and I find

that the clause for w-hich 275 Is a substitute in the RailwaY Act 0f 190-

Hon. ',%r. BEIQUE-I did not say nnytaing of the kiad.

~570

SENATE

.Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My hou. friend disarranged, I submit there can be no
did say It, and the 'Hausard'1 wlll bear me such drastic effect la the Bill. Indeed
out.
the fault la the Bill Is that the ten miles
an hour which la only a penalty, le: fot
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The hon, gentlemanl
strong enougli, because when a railway
is bound to accept my statement, or read
stops ln a town or village ut the station, it
fromn the report of my remarks in the demust necessarily go slowly over the adjoinbates. 1 say 1 made no such statement.
lng crossing.
I arn speaking fl0w of the
smaller towns or villages, and whenever
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I accept the hou.
gentleman's word.
But hie did say that the train stops at the station, it must necesparliament weut further lu 1903.
The lion. sarily proceed ut a slow rate of speed, and
gentleman mnay flot have meant that par- there is very littie Inconvenience lu comlng
liarnent placed this clause on the statute- dowul to a 10w rate of speed approachlng a
book for the first tirne, and hie may flot crossing that la only a rod or two from the
station on one aide or the other.
When
have sald that.
the question of the speed la put forward
Hon. Mr. BELQUE-No. If my hon. friend wlth sucli n great deal of perslstency, and
will permit me, I shall show what hie has the Issue Is being obscured by it we might
ln mind, and will repent the statement thiat as well aay that because hanging is the
I made.
I referred to aud gave the text penalty for iurder under the crimînal code,
of section 30 of the Railway Act which that the criminal code provides that ail
gave power to tue board to regulate this meni shall be hnnged.
The ten miles an
inatter, aud I said that by section 275 this hotir reduction of speed is ouly a penalty,
parliament weut a step further then under and as I bave said, only a weak penalty,
section 30, and imposed a limlt for Mhe speed because Ia most of the towus aud villages
of trains through towns and cities to ten the speed will have to be brought down
miles an hour, unless the railway was pro- anyway as they corne to a station where
l)erly feuced lu.
they stop, and it would only affect througb
Hou. Mr. FERLGUSON-AIi rigbt. My express trains which rira without stopping
lion. friend after ail stated almost the exact at these stations at ail.
words that I referred to, that parliament
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-In the case of the
went a step further; but what mny bon. station belug a flag station, as a number
friend dld not say, I presume, and whicbi I of thern are iu the west, whatwould hnpunderstoo)d hlm to say nevertheless, was peu?
tliat that clause found its place lu the Act
Hion. Mr. FERGUSON-I imagine that
for the flrst time, and niy hon. friend did
there are very few filag, stations in towns
flot say that. I accept bis word without hesitation; but what I want to point out is that and villages.
lu the Act of 1888 the lirnit of speed for
Hon. M~r. BEIQUE-Take the Transcontithat purpose--that is protectlng the track- nental Rallway, the imperial Limlted stops
was six miles an hour, and It was lncreased at comparatively few stations, and goes
to ten miles an hour lu the Act or 1903. throug-h a number of towns and villages
I arn leading up to make this remark- that without atopplag at aIl.
a reduction of speed to ten miles an hour
Hlou. Mr. FERGUSON-As far as that
is flot by any meaiis so serions a thing as
the rallway companles led the commlttee is concerned, it may go through without
to belleve, or trled to make us believe It stopping. There la no question about that,
was. Ia any event, it Is only a penalty, and It may go through mauy. But an atand whlle tbey have tried to persuade the tempt has been made to make us believe
,commlttee, aud while there is an effort that this reducing of speed must occur at
hein.- made to persuade parliament as well, every crossing. 1 submlt that at least as
that if we passed this Bill ail the trains of far as the towns at whicli the train is to
the country will be delayed, and that their make n caîl la concerued, assuming It is
tîme schedule will be increased, aud that only a small town, the stopplng up at
tbe transportation of the country will be the station wll necesaitate passing slowly
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

MARCII 18, 190S

571

Mr. Chrysier told our committee thiat a
passenger train-and be must bave meant
an ordinary passenger train-wouid take
two miles to bring Its speed down to two
miles an bour, which la contrary to the
sworn evidence of the engineer on this
train at Sunnysîde crossing where this man
Hansford was killed. But I have evîdence
ln corroboration of that, 'which I shall submit to the House. I arn readlng from a
work on the Westlng'bouse Air Brake used
ln connection wlth tbe International Sehool
of Railroading. I tura to section 15, and
biere I find a report of tests made on a
train to settle the power of the air brake lu
brlngiug a train under ordlnary conditions
to a standstll :
15. The following table gives the resuits of
tests made on the Central Railroad of New
Jersey at Âbsecon, N.J., in May, 1903. The
train consisted of a locomotive and seven
caohes, the locomotives having b'rakes a.pplied
t,) the engine truck, drivers, trailers, and the
tender.
The percentage of breaking power of the
eatire train was 72-2
Six of the coaches
had 92-9 per cent, whiie the other, a chair
car, had only 68-9 per cent. The locomotive
per cent of breaking power was 48 -; it was
rednced by the unbreaked weight of the coai
and water on the tender. The total weight
of the train was 774,650 pounds; the locomotive alone weighed 294,700 pounds, six of the
coaches averaged close to 62,000 pounds, and
the chair car weighed 107,600 ponds. Ordivary cast-iron brake shoes were used on
the cars and tender, and steel shoes on the
engine. This train was fromn the service, and
represented ordinary conditions; the track
where the tests were made wae level.
Tests were made with the seventy-pound
uikaction brake, and with the 110 pound
ihspeed equipment.
Tetable gives ia the first columa the
speed in miles per hour; in the second, the
distance in which the high-speed brake made
the stops; in the third, the distance in
Engineer George Blanco, of the Canadien which t he 70 pound brake made the stops;
Pacfic Railway, said hie blew the whistle and in the fourth column, the differeace in
when his train was 80 yards away.
feet in favour of high-speed brake.
LENGTH 0F STOP, IN FEET.
I thlnk tlhat inust mean rods. It la probably n misprint. I have copled it as It
appeared ia the paper. The Act requires
SveedDistance
Quick action saved by the
in ur peer
miie
the wbistle should be blown elghty rods
hiehb.peed
brake.
rake.e
mils per
hn
before reaching the crossing, and I assume
this should be roda. He proceeds:

over the adjolining crossing. I quýte admit
there are some, and I thîak It w-as not necessary for any lion, gentleman to Interrupt
me on that score, because I w-as not maklng the assertion that there were no fiag
stations 'where there would be a crosslng
against which this law would operate, aitbough I do not tbiak thiere would be maay,
because It applies only to cities, towas or
villages. I want to point -out, and 1 have
been leading up to tbat, that 1fr. Clirysier
told ils before the commit-tee that it took
two miles to slow down a passeager train
to ten miles au bour, and the experts of
the rallway were present, and heard the
statement, and did flot contradict it. My
hon.' friead from De Salabery rend it along
with the rest wîth evident approval, for hie
sald these were the facts as hie understood
theni. Now, I ask, my hon. frlend, does hie
recognize that as a fact? 1 have evidence*
witb regard to that subject that I wish to
put before the House, aad bon. gentlemen
wlll be able to judge for tbemselves. Since
the discussion began ln this House-sInce the
second reading of tbe Bill, an accident occured at Sunyside station near Toronto,
where a youag- man named Hansford was
killed. It was a train of the Canadian Pacific Railway running over the Grand Trunk
track. I referred to that on Thursday last.
The verdict of the jury exoaerated tbe
Canadian Pacifie Railway and thieir officers from aay blame; but found that the
Grand Trunk w-as culpable. The engineer
on this train, George Blanco, w-as examlaed
before the coroaer's inquest, and the report
of bis evidence la the 'Globe' reads :

His train was 15 minutes late and was
goiag et the rate of sixty miles an hour.
Thr brakes were applied promptly but the
train was not brought te a standatill tîi it
vas e quarter of a mile past the crossing.
Here w-as n train golng at sixty miles
hiour thiat w-as brougbt to a standstill n
quarter of a mille past the crossing, w-bile

-an

45
50
60

10

80

5W0
705
1,0601
1,560
2,240

710
880
1,360

150
175
30

2,780

540

2,020

460

The resuit is sbown by testing two Westinghouse air brakes, a higb speed one of 110

~72

SENTATE

pouiids pressure, and the quick action brakze
of 70 pounds pressure which, I presume, is
the brake most used on our railways. If
yon tumn to section 2(34 of our Raiiway Act,
you wlll find very stringent enactmnents
wvith respect to the using of this equipment.
There is no 'may' about it, the
word used la shah, and I believe our railway companies are well equipped.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE--On passeuger trains,
not on frelght trains.

different that is fromi the stateinent subxuitted by M~r. Chrysier btiore the committee.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Let me draw the bon.
gentleman's attention to this : Mr. DillinIger
said that to reduce the speed of a passenger
train to ten miles an hour meant a minimum
loss of time of three minutes, whlle ln the
case of freight trgins it was twice as mucli.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I amn coming to
tlint.
if hon. gentlemen will let me proceed 1 will toucli ail the important points.
1 had that very extract ready to rend to the
liouse when îuy hon. friend called my attention to it. Mr. L)illînger's statement is
as follows:

Hon. IMr. FERGUSON-I arn dealiug with
passenger trains.
Going at the rate of
sixty miles an baur, with the use of the
quick action brake, the train la stopped in
1,360 feet, just 40 feet more than engineer
Banco swore to ut the inquest held at ToTo reduce the speed of a passenger train to
ronto, showlng that botli are practicaIly
ten miles an hour meant a minimum ioss
the saine, and the inference is that they are of time by three minutes, while in the case
of freight trains it was twice as înuch. With
both correct.
ninety crossings betwen Montreai and ToroaHon. Mr. BEIQUE-Are not thiese em- to, the increase in time for passenger trains
would lie from four to five hours.
ergency brakes?
Mr. Chrysier had put It at five and oneHon. Mr. FERGUSON-No, it Is the ordi- liait hours; '.%r. Dillinger put It at four
nary quick action brake I amn speaking of. hours.
I must say I have not absolute
The high speed brake would stop the saine faltli la the experts of the Railway Comtrain in 1,060 feet. The breaking power on miss;ion froni the fact that '-%r. Dillinger and
the train was é2-8 per cent.
If hon, gen- Mr. Mountain were present and heard Mr.
tlemen wiIl look it over, they wîli find that (Jhrysler make the prepasterous statement
lu 'Mr. Chrysier's statement the limit is just wnicli I have quoted, that It would take
22 times as great as either of these state- two miles to slow down a passenger train
ments shown, and it was evidently lis oh- to ten miles an hotir, and there was flot a
ject to make a strong statement that wouid word of expinnation or contradiction. This
impress the-committee with the tremendous statement by Mr. Dillinger requires some
disa rrangement to transportation which explanation.
Fie says it will take three
wonid oecur in consequence of the passing minutes to reduce the speed of a pasof this Bill.
Working out from that, sud senger train to ten miles an 'hour.
taking au ordinaryv passenger train in Can- That does flot at ail correspond with
ada-munning at 60 miles au hour it could be the tests given ln this book from whidh
brongght to a stop lu :1,360 feet.
Our ordi- I have quoted, and when lie draws a
nary passenger trains mni, I presume, at distinction between a freig-ht train and a
the rate of about 35 miles an hour. I know passenger train, I arn at a loss to know exthiere are some machl faster than that. The actly whnt he miens. 1 have taken lessons
trains between Hamilton and Toronto rua on this subject during the Imite adjournment
ut very higli speed, but I thiuk I amn safe of the House. and consulted verv able and
lu snylng tat 35 miles an lhour la the aver- experlènccýd railway men.
They tell me
age speed of passenger trains lu Canada. that it ail turus ou your braking power,
In that case there would be only a reduc- whether the train is a passenger or a
tion of 25 miles an bour lu speed to bring freiglit train, but this fact remains. thnt
it ta ten miles an boum, which is less than the freight trains do flot min at anything
haîf the, work, to be doue ln briuging to a like so high a rate of speed as passenger
standstill a train running ut 60 miles; there- trains do. <and the minimum to whielh
tlheM
fore it could be bronght to n stop in 44 0 require to lie reduced is ten miles an hour.
feet witb a seventy Pound brake.
'Fow Assumiing n freiglit train is rnaling 20 mile-s
Hon. Mi.BEIQUE.

MARCH 18, 1908
an hour, you have
down instead of 25
$enger train.
So
sorne very serions

only ten miles to slow
as ln the case of a pasthe difference requires
explanation.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The freiglit train
would be niuch heavler than the passenger
train..
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes, but It ail depends on the braking power you have, and
If section 264 of the Railway Act Is obeyed,
as I belleve It Is, by our rallways ln Canada, there Is flot sucb a great difference
between the slowing down of a passenger
and frelght train If the percentage of your
braklng power is malntalne.d.
Hon. Sir GEORGE DRUMMOND-The
application of the brakes ln case of an emergency, and the application of the brakes
ln the ordinary way ln a passenger train
are two entirely different thlngs. If you
apply the emergency brake on a passenger
train running at the speed the hon, gentleman speaks of, every passenger would be
tbrown ont of bis seat.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I arn not talklng
of emergency biakes at ail.
I arn talklng
of the 70 pound brake, not of the 110 pound
or hlgh pressure brake.
Hon. Sir GEORGE DRUMMIOND-No
englue driver runing a passenger train
would thlnk of putting on his brakes to the
fullest extent at once. He puts them on
gradually.

573

marks. 1 may say for the information of
my bon. friends around me, that I arn not
a director of a rallway and I arn not an
owner or a sbareholder , but 1 make It a
rule wben I address this House on any matter of Importance, to post myself upon It,
-and I not only consuit men who are, ln my
judgment, as well qualified to give an opinion as dIrectors or owners 'of railways ;
but, la addition to that, 1 have turned up
standard authorities on the subject, and 1
arn quotlng these authorities to the House.
When I have done that, If I bave mîsunderstood anything it wlll be quite open to
any hon, gentleman wbo bas more llght to
throw on the subject and knows more about
It than I do, to set me right. I have gone
through tbat part of the subject I want
to make just'this statement : Wbatever
leeway there may be one way or the other
with regard to thîs, there can be no second
opinion that the staternent made by Mr.
Chrysler to tbe Railway Comrnittec was lnaccurate, and under any conditions we en
conceive of, with a welI equlpped train, It
Is not possible that it would take two miles
to slow down a train. I arn afrald that
rnany other estimates submltted to the comrnittee by Mr. Chrysler, If lnvestlgated,
would be found to be equally wlde of the
mark. Now I come to the question of
expense. and I bave to quote from Mr.
Glirysier again.

Hon. Mr. MIT CHELL-How long would
it take to start a heavy frelgbt train ? The
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I must say that bon. gentleman bas explalned how long It
these Interruptions are qulte unnecessary takes to stop a train; bow long wIll it
and uncalled for.
take to start a train ?
Hon. Mr. JAFFRÂY-Will1 not the appliHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I arn only precation of the brakes depend a great deal on senting tbe same character of staternent
the grade? The hon, gentleman bas quoted as was made to our comrnlttee.
That
the figures for level ground; what about a statement Is that it took two miles to slow
grade?
clown n passenger train to ten miles an
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If my bon. frlend bour. 1 assume that the train is an ordihad followed me he would have observed nary one, running at the ordinary speed
Perhaps Mr.
that 1 reRd from the book that this test was and runnîng on tbe level.
the level, and It stands to reason If Chrysier meant slowing it down and startmade on
you are golng down grade you would have to lng ut again, but If he did, it was many
put on a beavler application of the brakes tirnes too long a turne, even ln order to
than If you were golng Up grade. 1 ask, stop and start an ordinar train.
Mr. Chairman, for protection, because at
Hon. 3fr. YOUNG-I do not think the
this rate of interruption it wlll not be
wlth my re- lion, gentleman ls fair to Mr. Dullinger.
possible for me to proceed

-SENATE
Hon. Mr. riEItGUSON-I amn speaking
of Mr. Chrysier.

gined it could possibly be. Is It possible
that a very large proportion of these crosHon. Mr. YOUNG-They were speaking sings that are absolutely without protection
of the train being alowed down ln a reason- could not be protected in any way except
able manner; but my hon. friend speaks by a subway or an overhead bridge?7 If
of an emergency, wbich la an entIrely dit- that la the condition of thIngs, a stronger
argument is made ln favour of this Bill
ferent thlng.
than anything I have heard yet.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I bave no time
Mr. Chrysler sAid:
to refer to it again. My hon. frlend says
It was slowing do'wn in the usual manner,
The Canadian Pacific Railway had 1375 and
while what 1 have quoted was slowlng down the Grand Trunak 787 crossings which would
ln case of an emergency. I do flot tbink be afiected by this Bill. «The installation of
gates cost at least $1,000 a year each to mainthe test reads thnt way. There xnay be tain them.
The tct was that the passage of this Bill
some difference of that kind, but not a sewculd mean an expenditure by the railways
Mous one.
of at lest $50,00,000.
Hon. Mr. JONES-In the officiai tests
which the hon, gentleman bas quoted froni,
does the report give the weight of the locomotive?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Ves, and 1 read
It to the House.
Hon. Mr. JONES-In these other tests,
do the statements miade by Mr. DIllinger
show the weight: of the locomotive and
could the hon, gentleman give the Hlouse
the difference between the weights of the
locomotives la both cases?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My bon. frlend
Is always courteous, and I want to receive
Interruptions froni gentlemen 1 respect
with ail possible courtesy; but I thixik that
sucli an Interruption as that should not
have come because I had read Mr. Dellinger's statement, and If my hon. friend did
flot hear it, the fauit was not mine, because I think he will give me credit for
speaking fairly loud.
Hon. Mr. JONES-I did not hear the hon.
gentleman.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Many other Interruptions were made In the sanie way.
Now I coule to another staternent of Mr.
Chrysler's:,
In many cases the railways would have to
bei altered because it would be necessary to
construct either an overhead or a subway
crossing.
We are now dealing with level crossings
lu cities. towns and villages that are absolutely unprotected, and, if this statement
of Mr. Chrysler's is correct, the situation
is even worse than many of us have Imanon. Mr. YOUNG.

Now, I ask hon. gentlemen just how far
they believe that statemeat to, be correct.
That the protection of level crossings ln the
cities, towns and villages o! Canada, outside of those that have been already deait
with ln these places, would coat fifty mllions of dollars, and Mr. ChrysIer went on
to say that it wouid be but fair that the
municîpalitles should be cailed upon te pay
a share of that.
Now that is what Is reported, and my hon. friend froni De Salaberry rend It to the House witbout comment
as If he evidently approved of IL
My
hon. friend knows very well that section 59
o! the Rallway Act gives the Raiiway Commission pcower to apportion the cost of ail
protection between the municipalities aud
the street raiiways and the generai railways.
That power Is given and la exerclsed, and when the statement was made to
the committee a few minutes afterwards by
Mr. Chrysler that the subway on -Bank
street, in Ottawa, cost $75,000, the Impression was left though he did not actually
say iL, that that was the expense whicb the
rallway had to bear entirely, just as he led
the committee to believe that this $50,000,O00
o! expense which lie said iLwould cost to coniply with the Lancaster Bill, if put in force,
would ahl fail upon the railways ln Canada.
lu the United States the law in those states
that have deait with the abolition o! level
crossings, bas been to apportion 65 per cent
o! the.cost to the railway company and ln
the commonwealth of Massachusetts the
state bears 10 per cent and not more than 25
lper cent is to be paid by the mnunicipality.
The award relating to Bank street subway
followed on somewhat sirnilar lhues. I arn

MIARCOH 18, 1908
told tat the apportioinment was inade twvoeights as against the Grand Trunk Raiiway,
three-eights against the street railway and
three-elghts againat the municipality of Ottawa.
ThRt was a little harder on the
rnunicipality than the practice ln the United
States; but It followed on the same Unes,
and wby a atatement should be made before
the committee to convey the Impression ta
the members of that committea and of
parîlarnent that any expense that wouhd be
entailed under this Bill would fall entirely
on the railways and not on the municipalities, Is something I cannot understand, because wben the matter la fairly put before
the Railway Commission they may be depended uipou to do what la fair ta the parties. Mr. Mountain said:
Tc mastai a bell coat $800. To put in a set
of double gates about $700, whihe the cost of
mnainteniance was about $1,000 a year.
I amn not challenging this statement. 1
assume it ls a fair estirnate, and If we take
the 2,500 crossings ln cities, towna and villages which they tell us wouid corne under
thie scope of this Bill, and which wanld
bave to ha pratected, I assume that a very
large proportion of them couhd be very wel
pratected by the Installation of an electrlc
bell, the first cost of which would be $300
and whicb would not require any expendiLet me point out
ture for maintenance.
ta hon, gentlemen ail the protection we have
The angine bell
now under the atatute.
which la necessarlly only a vary amail
feebie sounding thing, and the whistle are
sounded at a post 80 roda from the crossing.
Assuming that the train is running at 0
miles an hour, and thia warnilg Ia given
ut the signal post. it mast takes 15 seconds
If the
for the train ta be on the crossing.
wind happens'ta be lu a differant direction,
and other noises confuse the sound, or the
T-ehiche driven by the passenger hlrnself
makes conaiderabla noise how easy It la for
a man who la even ordinarily wary ta ha
caught on one of thase crossinga undar sncb
The warnlng la alrnost nil.
circumatances.
If Instead o! that an electrle bell was Instulled wbich couid be soundad whan the
train la fiye or six miles from the crosalng,
the waruing- would arable people ta preserve thair lives at the crossiag of the highWhy have they flot resorted ta that
way.
means of protection whlch would have paved

the lives of very many wlio bave perisbed
1 bave made an
ou those level crossingsl
estirnate of my own on this subject, but of
course, I do flot pretend ta say that It 19 of
any value. Assumlng that 2,000 of these
crosslngs could be well or fairly weil proteted by an electric bell, the whole lirst
cost of that protection would be $600,000
and there would be na cost of maintenance.
110w f ar that would go ta ease the publie
mind 1 amrnfot Ilrepared ta say; but I beleve It wçould go a long way, and it would
be the menus of saving a vast arnaunt of
But it ls not done, and we
buman life.
have In the tbickly populated parts of the
cities, towns and villages, 2,500 crossings
without any protection wbatever except the
sounding of a bell and a whistle 80 rods
fron *the crossing. In the corner's verdict
at Sunnyside, near Toronto, it was stated
that from 30 ta 35 trains a day passed over
that level crossing and that the view of
persons on the highway was obstructed by
cars on the eidiag, and tuere was noD protection whatever find no warflifg given except the blowing of the whistle, Which was
done, 1 take it, at 80 roda frorn the placea quarter of a mile from the crossing and
only fifteen seconds from the time when the
train would be crossing the highway.
My han. frlend from De Salaberry Interrupted me on Thursday by denying
the staternent which 1 made to the
Rauge that he had last year advised the
Senate tbat section 275 of the Rallway Act
was a good measure and much better than
the Lancaster Bill ln the way of protecting
the crossings. My hon. friend corrected me
and sald ha had not apoken last year on
If he wlll takze the trouble
the question.
ta turn ta page 844 o! the Senate 'Debates' of last year, ha will find hirnself reported as using these worda;
We have under the Railway Act as it
stands' a provision that is very plain and
clear, which Ireade in this way
We have in the Railway Act as it stands
a well drafted iaw and 1 would for no consideration consent ta substitute for it a law
which would have the effeet of openifig the
door ta ail kinds of litigation and of creating confusion.
I presurne that my bon. f riend bas for1 arn not
gotten bis speech of last year.
a hawyer, and It la the fate o! a hayrnan
whenever be makes a statement on anytbing
bordering on a legal question lu this flouse,

576

SE-NATE

to have almost a sueer rise on the lips of
hon, gentlemen, that he cannot be right, but
that lawyers must lnvarlably be righit. With
due respect for the legal fraternlty-and no
man has greater respect for them than I
have-Il have very littie use even for the
best of them when they go off at half-cock
on any question.
They can blunder as
readily as any farmer or layman in the
country.

1 thought the economy of the Railway Act
as passed in 1903 and as it is now on our
statute book, was to substitute for the Railway Committee of the Privy Council in al

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-What about a layman who goes off at balf-cock,?

Mr. Lennox-for these were the gentlemen
that drafted that clause and prepared the
Bihl, was a clause that provided that the
orders of the ohd Rallway Commlttee, of
the Privy Counchl, as well as ail orders
made up to this time by the Board of Railway Commissions, stili contlnuing la force,
if the crossing was protected according to an! of them, would nlot require
any new application or new order; they
would have the rlght to run as fast as they
11ke over any crosslng protected In this
manner. I am now well posted la the bistory of tbLs question. That clause was put
In at the instance of the railway men.
The first draft was that they must keep
thieir crossings properhy protected.
They
said 'we have s0 many hundred overhead
bridges, so many subways and s0 many
gates. We are at a great deal of expense,'
and they said what was true, we conformed
wlth the ohd orders of the Railway Committee of the Privy Couiicil and the orders of
the board, aud are you going to open up aIl
these orders afresh, and subject us to great

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The opinion of
anybody who goes off at half-cock is nlot
worth very lunch, but I would always take
a man wlth ordinary good common-eenae,
who studies up his question somewhat,
and knows what he Ia talklng about, against
the opinion of a professlonal man wlio
gives bis opinion wlthout looking luto the
merits of the case. I want to point out
that to the hion. member from De Salaberry,
and I have the greatest possible respect
for him and I know that he is possessed
of high legal abiiity, and be has been often
of great value to myseif and other gentlemen of the House, aithougli unfortunately
the shepherd is golng astray tbi.s time, and
leflding the flock into a very perilous position ; but I hope he will see the mistake
lie is making before we are througli with
thls question. Perhaps I had better rend
to tlie House what I sald at that tîme myself. I bad spoken just before my hon.
friend as foliows :
I amn told that in a large number of cases
there were.orders of the Railway Çommittee
of the Privy Council existing before the
Reilway Committee came into existenee. It
is proposed in this Bill that these orders
shall stili remain ia force. It is not necessery that this should be nrovided in the Bill

inatters of that kind, that board, and aow

this Bill seeks to revert to the old system
and submit to a different authority.
The clause that my bon. friend pointed to

as an illustration of extraordinariiy bad
drafting by Mr. Âyhesworth, Mr. Lemieux,
Mr. Emmerson, Mr. Macdonald, of Plctou;
the late Dr. Stockton, Mr. Lancaster, and

expenditure and trouble, and perhaps have
to tear dowa some of our works and con-

struct theni over again.'

The committee, I

thhnk, fairly sald ' We will not put yon to

tlsat trouble at ail, but we wil put a clause
la the Bill that will except ail crosslngs
bi-cause another section of the Railway Act dealt with by these ohd orders, and that
prevides that ail orders made by the Privy
Council should remain ini operation. They wlll be a sufflicient answer wlth reference
are continued in operation. Ahi orders made to any complaînt that shall be made under
liv the board also remain in operation with thîls Bill.
But when the Bihl came to this
i-cference to crossings. The Railway Cominittees could proced and obtain orders in House the very presence of that clause
regard to others.
which was put In ln order to meet a strong
and ver! rensonable objection offered on behaif of the raihway companies, was given as
a reason why we should throw out the BiM!
Whea the
because it was Nid!! drafted.
to mv humble appreciation the
.Accordiüg
adoption of this Bill would have the effect of Bill was prepared b! that coinmittný, every
cirPating confusion .. . because I mnust one of thein lnwyers of lîigh standing. we
;ay that I have rarely found a bill so ba*dly mîght assume without investigation that it
(hlnfted as this is.
lion. Mlr. FEIIGUSON.
1 called attention to that point, but the
liou. senator from De Salaberry rose Immedintely afterwards and said:

MAIIOR 18, 190s
Was flot badly drafted. I thiuk the hon. gen
w'ouid be very
tliman froîn De Salaberry wli now frankl, as a iawyer, I confusinag, at a los. My part.
would be and for to underVstand the meaning of the Act in making such
admit that It la flot so.
Be lias admltte(
this year that It was correctly dratted a ia differeuce. So, in the amendinent which I
toffer, I make ail into one condition.
least lu thls respect, and lie has lu bis. owi
Here we have my lion. frlend admltting
amendment, sithougli he has made a dif
ference, and the difference ls as essentia that when lie rises lu this Bouse as a meinas the dîfference between chlk and cheese ber of thue Committee of the Wliole he
yet lie follows the form of the draftlng Ir wauld, as a lawyer, find It very liard to
most particulars.
understand the ameudment lie succeeded
*N~ow I caine to my hon. frIend's speech, lu getting the Rallway Cammittee to ugree
and If hon, gentlemen wlll read that speecl *ta two or three weeks aga. If I arn puttiug
carefuliy tbey -will flnd that lie took ni t ls matter unfairiy, my bon. frlend wll
about haîf bis lime demalishing wliat? Nol of course be able to convînce- the House I
the Lancaster Bill, but an amendinent tc amn dalug so. I am quoting bis words froin
that Bill whlcbh le drafted himseif and suc- 'Hansard.'
But uow I corne to another
ceeded ln persuading the Railway Commit- part of the hon. gentleman'. speech. and aftee was a good and proper ameudment for ter passing over the part af It in whlch
parliament to adopt.
When the commlttee lie praceeded ta put hlinseif riglit, lie makres
met after. the first day, after hearing the a speech whicli would have been an excelrepresentatlves of the railways, my hion. lent Introduction lu this Bouse lfor the
friend. drafted an ameudment and It wns Lancaster Bill, for opinions are expressed
ordered to be prlnted, and the committee wis-hl are eutirely lu accord with that Bill;
adjourned for elght days.
We met again but there i. this dîfference between the
and my hon. friend. pressed hi. amendment, Bill and my hou. frlend's speech, that it 15
and It was carried by the Railway Commit- very hard lu many respects ta bring tliem
tee. Then, hée glves notice and comea to Inta contact at ali. I heard a stary of an
the 'House and took up about half of the aid preacher wlio was approaciec by a
time of lis speech to show that that amend- yaung divine whom lie lad heard preacli.
ment was flot a good one.
What I said The young divine asked hlm 'What did you
about lawyers going off at lialf-cock i. think of my sermon?' The old preacher
pretty weli lllustrated lu thîs respect, and It answered : 'Your sermon was well
enougli,
would flot be EL
very unkind or very unfair but If your text baad the smallpax your
serInference to conclude froin my hon. frlend's mou would not catch it.' That
i. the way
action, that If another stage of this Bill was with the amendinent whicli my hon.
frlend
ta be taken, we would Enud hlm amendlng asks this Bouse ta agree ta and
the speech
lis. own amendinent once more. But this lie made lu explanation of It. I wlll
read
Is what lie sald:
saine extracts froin the han. gentleman's
The second condition in the report of the speech as It appears lu the unrevised repart af the 'Debates.' I have not been able
comimittee is :
Or nIles. snch crossiag i. properly pro- ta get the revlsed edîtion, but I accept
the
tected in accordance with such orders, regulations and directions, or unies. permission unrevised against myself as being generally
is given by some regulation or order of the correct, and I am sure my hon. frlend wlll
bo'ard.
flot abject ta my uslng i against hlm. Be
This extract is taken froni my hon. spake as fallows:
trlend's own draft, the resolution that was
It should lie made
carried lu committee, and whlch was re- companies ta protect the. duty of ail railway
the. lighway crossing
ported to this Bouse, but
and ta make thein respnsible if it is not
which my hon. protected, se is deemed
advieable by decision
frIend now proposes to amend.
Be pro- of the. experts of
the Railymy Commission.
ceeds:
Nabody cauld want a better reason
I draw your attention ta this, that this
wor ding is making a differeace betWeen 'duly than that for passlng the (Lancaster
maintained' in accordance with thé orders. Bill, but né reason at ail for
pasqlng the.
regulations, and directions of the. Railwav
Com mittee.' and 'cr.ossing properly proteot- shilhy-shally ameudment my hon. frileud i.
ed in accordance with sncb orders, &c.' It ask-iug the Bause ta adopt. Be proceeds :
37

SENATE
It seems te me that the extent te which this
parliament should go would be te make it the
duty of the Railway Board te take up ail these
matters s fast as they possibly can, and te
prescribe in a technical way and in a wise
manner, how the protection in each case

sbould be made.

Can the bon, gentleman point in the
amendments whlch ie lie has submltted.
as far as It dIffers from the Lancaster Bill,
where there le one single vestige of protection for these crossings to be found from
beginnlng ta end ? My lion. friend. took
good care to take out the words. 'Unless
these crosslngs are properiy protected,' and
lie lnserts lu lieu of those words the shfllyshlly expression, 'Unless permission le
given by the Board.'

lion. Mr. FERGUSON-I amn not aaying
auytliing about the Lancaster Bill at ail.
I arn asklng the lion, gentleman about bis
ameadment. I have given hlm tlie floor
for one purpose.
Han. Mr. BEIQUE-What ls It ?

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-In reference to
bis statement:
Therefore we should make the Bill as effective se possible, provided We muake it TeaSOnable and practicable, sud we should go ta the
extent of makiug it the duty of the Reilway
Comsmission to prooeed as fast s.s possible in
requiring the. railway couipany ta provide am
great protection as is practicable in every
case.
I ask the hiou, gentleman ta point aut
tram lis amendaient, and fram the wards
Thien lie proceeds:
tliat lie bas lntraduced ln that amendment,
nlot from anythlng lie bas copied from the
It will b. enoumbent on the railway company, before they can exceed a speed of ten Lancaster Bill, anything thnt wl! sustain
miles an hour at crossings, to obtain an lis speech ?
order of the Rilway Board prescribing how
that highway oroseing shall be protected, and
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It resuits from this:
to oompiy with that order or otherwise be that the speed is llmlted ta ten miles an
l'able.
heur uniss the Rallway Board Issues an
Again I say first rate, but that is a re- order etlier permittlng them ta exceed
commendation ta the Lancaster Bill, but not that, and this order may not be Issued
of the amendment my lion. friend is pro- for thie crosslng. Practlcaiiy, It must lie
posiag. He further saye :
lssued-for every crassing. An order may
Therefore, we should make the Bill as effec- cover several crossings at tlie same time,
tvaspsible, proded we make it reason- but tlie rate of speed la reduced unlees tlie
a7
-ie
ele a"d raoe
._tent of makingbe th. dut houidgot the commission acts and takes tlie responsiit
of the Railw.a
spsibleh
Comsion toprced asfs
bility af acting.
requiring the. reilway companies to provide as
great protection as ie practicable in every
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The lion. gentlecase.
man ls still expiaining tlie provision In bis
Wlill my hon. frlend point out to me, and amendment wblcb lie barraws from the
I shall not mmnd belng interrupted now, Lancaster Bill, and la the clause whicb I
wbere lie lias lntroduced. one line In bis have explained to the House that deals
amendment which provides for these things witb existing orders af the oid Railway
lie lias so well put before tlie House la lis Committee of the Privy Councl, wlth regard to crossings, but lie skifuily avoids
speech ?
reference ta bis own provision uniess
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I shahl answer my the board gives permission.'
I wiii point
lion. frlend. 1 liave trled to show tliat the out ta my bon. friend anotlier statement ln
Lancaster Bill, If it were passed as It came lits speech whicb requires explanation, as
ta this House, would not attain at ail tlie weii as that ta whicb I have juat directed
object souglit for by the lion. gentleman, attention. Be ls now explining tbis clause
hecause as I stated and I repeat, tiiat every of wlicb le the author, and which le ta
riliway lu obtalning power te build a Une, lie found In tbis Bfil and ls nat la the
lad to bui]d tliose rallwaye accordlng to Lancaster Bill.
the order eitber of tlie Railway CommisIt will be encumbent on
sion or of tlie Railway Commlttee of the being abi. ta oomply with them, failing their
that, ta obtain in
Privy Councl, and tliat, therefore, the the ineantime permission f rom the Railway
Doard ta exceed for a given time that speed.
Lancaster Bill was defective In tlîls restither for the twenty-four hours of the dp
pecto,. for certain hours of the day.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

MARCII 18, 1908

579

Vill lte hon. gentleman poinît out whiere t hie reporter trusted for bis explanation of
speeech, rather
In bis amendment titere is any given lime t Lie BiM ta iny lion. friend's
I
t han to the amenduient lie inoved.
ianentionied, where hie bas provided for an
lion. friend iresumne hie thought it was impossible for
M-%y
order at ail?
lnterim
meke a speech of
knows there le notlîing of the kind in it.f nii lion, gentleman to
motion that %vas
subutit to hlm a paraphrase of bis one kInd and propose a
I wli
altogether lu an opposite directIon, and I
Bill, aud I am In the judgment of hon.
was misled, as weli
members In tItis House, whiatever their presume tbe reporter
lie might be, for many hon, gentlemen,
opinions on this question may be, who wiii
they heard my hon.
rend my paraphrase of his amendment, and ivere astonished wben
friend's speech and afterwards toolt up his
*t
then take up the Bill and say wihether 1 is
It impossible
not a fair one. It ls as follows: Ail trains amendment. They would find
to believe that the samue mmnd w-as behiind
may pass et any rate o! speed lu and
speech. It was
through the thlckly peopled portions of both the ameudment and the
woader the summary reporter should
cities, towns and villages, provided the hiigbi- no
the inistakze
way crossings are malntnined la accordalîce bave been milsled and maire
If lie paid any attention to my liou.
with orders In force by the Railway Comn- lie did,
to do as a
mittee of the Prlvy Couacil or thle board, friend's speech, which he had
very disand sncb trains may aise pasa over, al reporter; but I notice that another
Ia such cities, tinguishied party made a mistake as well
other highwny crossings
towns and villages nt similar speed without as he dxd. I refer to the Toronto 'Globe,'
say,
any protection being provided nt suclb cross- and that is a paper that I muet
Inge, If permission ls given, sucb permission usually gives on the wbole, making
need not be based on any examination of some allowance for party feeling froin
such crossing, and may continue In force %vbichi very few of us are entirely exempt,
in its news columus a very fair report of
indeflnltely.
the words, but I ana what ls going on in the country. 1 have
I arn not giving
In the reporting
giviag the meaning and parnphrasing the recelved as mucli justice
a word In it that tbere columns of the 'Globe' as I have froin
There je fnot
Bill.
Indeed 1 have been
shaîl be an examinatlon of the crossings any Canadian paper.
There ls inclined to give It the palm for givlng me
are given.
before these permits
paper. But
nothlng In the Bill that *the permits shahl be more justice tItan any other
of lime, and the Toronto 'Globe' fell lnto an exactiy
givea for a llmited period
there la nothlag to Indicate that one order similar mistaLe as tiiet of our reporter. I
from,
couid not be made to cover the 'wbole 2,500 do not know If the bon. gentleman
De ,Salaberry. looked over the Toronto
crossîngs.
' Globe ' of Friday last. If he hail he woUI4
The fact Is, you emasculate the Bill by Eind that the ' Globe ' started the report on
taking out the only words that were o! any the level crossing question, and used my
real value to. the public, because tne old name throughout, and attributed the hon.
orders of the Privy Counicil were In force gentleman's speech, as well as my own
and orders passed by the Railway Board speech to me; and I could not find much
up to the time of the paslag o! tItis Bill fault. The Toronto ' Globe'1 was led
would stîll be In force, but fearing that Into the mistakre that he was a atout
tbey might be impaired by the strong words advocate of protection of the crossings, from
' unless audIt crossing ls properly protected ' bis speech. If the paper had looked into
there was a provision put la the Bill that his amendmeflt its drenum would have been
aIl these orders of the Raiiway Committee very soon dislpated. 1 have referred
of the Privy Couacil and the Railwny Board to the words of my hion. friend with reof Commissioners sbould be In force gard to the permission of the Board. ani 1
and "te effect was that they enable the would ln aIl kindness and conrtesy ask
railway te run over ten miles an hour him If he feit justified In telling this House
over such crossing. I took occasion on that tItis permission was to lie for a gîven
Friday lest te refer to a summary tbat period, withoiit putting- any such words In
eue press reporter prepared with regard
his amendaient. My hon. f riend said ia bis
to my lion. friend's speeeh. I think
374

SENATE
speech that the permission would be ' for a
Hlon. Mr. BEIQUE-I shall answer tbe
given tirne,' and 1 have read other state- lion.
gentleman when be has -finished bis
ments wblch are equally at variance wltb
speech.
the action whlch he asked this House tc.
take by his amendrnent. My hon. friend
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Judging frorn the
-carne to another point, and here I freedom with which the hon, gentleman
lias
ýwiII bave to dIffer from hlm very pointedly, interrupted me without hesitatlon,
1Iimagine
and before I do so I wlll read the Lan- that If he were very eager ta
elucidate that
taster Bill exactly as It lias been passed point, lie would flot
hesitate ta answer me
three tirnes by the House of Commons. If
110W.
la as follows
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-My meaning la per1. Section 275 of the Railway Act is repeal fectly plain.
I cannet Imagine that the
ed, and the following is substituted therefor
275. No tratin shall pass over -any highwai lion, gentleman does flot understand what
crossing oit rail-level in any thickly-peopied lie Is talking about. I amn su're
he underr ortion of eny oity, town or vàllage at a stands. He understands
that If we take
gîeater speed than ton miles an hour, unless
such crossing is properly protected, or unleas elther one Bill or tbe otheraiuch
-rosisj
constructed and thereafter
duly maantaaed in accordance with the orHon. Mr. FERGUSON-I am taking the
ders, regulations and directions of the Railway Committee of the Privy Council and of Lancaster Bil1l.
the board in force with respect thereto. The
board may limit such speed in any case te
-Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Ibat the jury wi11 be
any rate th t it deeme expedient.
2. The company shall have until the firet called upon to pass upon tlie question as ta
-day of Januaey, one thousand nine hundred whietber the company la responsible, not In
end nine, to comply with the provisions of connectlon wlth every crosslng, but In contli5 setin
nection with a crossing where an accident
That la the wbole Bill. The hon, gentle- may bave happened.
man leaves out the vital words, the whole
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I amn very rnucb
principle of the BUi. 'Unless sucli crossing
oblged ta the lion. gentleman; and I amn
Is properly protected,' and substitutes for
It the shIlly-shally provision, 'Unless per- pleased that 1 have succeeded ln getting hlm
on bis feet and wlth receivlng bis answer.
mission la gîven by the Board!.But rny The hon, gentleman
says It would only corne
lbon. friend lias declared :
before the Jury when an accident happened
Then I take exception to this Bilh,
on sorne particular crosslng.
On some of
ed, for thie additional reason; tat as wordit is them It mlglit neyer happen, and
la others
seught, instead of leaving to the board the
decîsion as ta how in eacli case the highway it mîglit only bappen once Ia ten years. Lt
crossing shall be proteoted, it leaves it toP only goes before the jury wbea
an accident
jury in ail cases.
happens, but lie told us It would be under
It mu8t; comp17 with any one
of three con- the Jurladiction of tbe jury
ditions; first, unless such crossing is properly
Ia every case.
Drotected. That is a question which will be I leave It ta hon.
gentlemen Ia this House
left to the jury.
If they did not understand hlm ta say that
He la speaklng of the Lancaster Bill.
I the protection of these crossings was to be
know I have beard the statement frorn hlm
taken out of the hnnds cf the board altoelsewliere, It la a very partial gtaternent, and
the juriadiction of the jury 'la every case.'
I do flot thlnk that he lias an opinion that
gether, and was to be vested la a jury
every crosslng within cities, towns and vilIn every case.
1 bave gone to the
lages that are unprotected by orders of tbe
trouble of fortifying myself on this
board, and every matter relatlng ta thern,
point; but, as la the days of Daniel
wilU be afterwards handed over ta a
Boone, when he pointed bis gun In
jury.
Does rny hon. friend believe
a tree the coon came dewn, I have not
that?
La that bis view that these had a necessity
ta use rny aminunition
crossings, by that provision, 'Unless sucli
at all; nevertbeless I shaîl show the House
crossîngs are properly protected' are taken
the foundation I was golng ta lay agaînst
out of the Jurisdiction of the board and
bis speech. but flot against tbe explanation
banded over ta a jury?
Does lie believe lie bas made just now.
Section 80 of the
that? 1 would litre ta bave an nnswer.
Rallway Act reads as follows:
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

MARCH 18, 1908
Section 30. The board may make orders and
regulations:
(h)> With respect to any matter, act or
tlhin which by this or the speciai Act is sanetione.d ' required to b. don., or prohibited;
and
(j >Genereliy for carrying this Act into
eli.ct.
And we decigre by thi Act whicli we
make a part of the Rallway Act of Caniada, that the crossings shall be protected ;
and then section 80 declares that the Board
shall do It But my lion. friend, whlle lie
led the House to belleve that It would open
the door to any amount of confusion, and
that it would put these crossings, lu ail
cases, ln the handa of a jury, and we would
have one declalon JI one part of the country, and another ln another explains that aIl
he meant was that the jury wouid have to
deai wlth an action for damages.
I ask the House why a court and
Jury aliould not deal with an accident
wlien the wife and chidren of a man who
la klled at a crossing apply for compensation for the injuries done? Why should tliey
not have redresa? Itis ne resen te them
to say the Board has been lax ln Its duty,
and lias net exercised the permissive power
given to them. That la not a good anawer.
It la not a good answer that the Rallway
Company neglected to make an application te tlie Board for permission to put in
a crosalng; but as I read the decision of
the Supreme Court, the parliament of Canada having passed the Railway Act snd
created the Board of RaUlway Commissioners, and given tbem juriadiction, wliether
tliey exercised the jurisdlctien or not tlie
law closes the deor against the farnily of
any man who la killed. on the railway,
against a suit for damages because the jurisdiction la taken away frem. the jury and
is placed ln the Board ; and altheugli the
Board may be lai and fail, as it bas failed
lu many cases te perform its dnty, and
althougli the rahlway cempanies may have
taken advantage of that laxity and net
made the protection, yet the poor family
wliese bread-winner lias been killed at a
crosslug are prevented from going te a
jury to obtain damages for the loss tbey
have sustained. Is that right ? That i.
the position of the law at present, and that
la the charge which my bon. friend makes
against the Lancaster Bill, that It will allew people te go te a jury, where the

581

railway cempany bas neglected te protect
Ita crossinga.
The situation at present la
that parliament lias created, a condition of
thinga tliat bars a suit on the part of the
famliy whose bread-wlnuer may have been
kIlied at one of these highway crosainga.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat la a strong statement. la the lion, gentleman justlfled in
nxaklng It ?
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Yes, It; la justifiable. The hon. Secretary of State
lias a
great many things to attend te, and it la
impossible.for him te follow the detaUls ln
these matters. I have the judgment liere.
Hon. Mr. SCOTTr-I would llke te say
to tlie hon, gentleman, tliat lie lias made
many criticisips of the lawyers, but 1 think
It wouid have been better if lie liad consuited a iawyer before makIng those statementi. Section 275 was not tliought cf
tihi long after the case te whici lie referred.
It was net the law on which they decided
the case. He cited from the case of McKay va. Grand Trunk. but quoted section
275, whicli was not enacted until many
years after that accident eccurred.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My
la entirely wrong.

lien. friend

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-4Everybody
la
wrong but the bon, gentleman frem Marslifield.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Section 27. aimeat word for word was fouud ln section
10 ef the Âct of 1888 and 289 ef the Act of
1892 witli this difference, that six miles'
was the speed limit under the old law, and
It ls ten miles under this Act.
Hon. Mr' SCOTT-The wording Ia net
the same.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I arn making
this
afatement on my veracity as a member ef
parliament. Miy hon. friend made a statement te the House, and it la really astonlablug to bear sucli a statement as that
made, tliat is section 275 was enacted
for the flrst trne atter the case cf McKay
vs. the Grand Trunk- was decided.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON--I tell hlm that
tels clause bas been in the Act awfty back
for twenty years, and that the declalon ln
McICay vs. Grand Trunk was rendered lu
1903, and turned upon this clause and the
judgment la the law of the land. I
I
amn not statilg It as my opinion.
amrn ot puttlng It forward as the opinion of
any legal gentleman I have consulted lu
this matter, but I arn puttlug it forward
as the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Canada, which Judgment bas flot been appeaied from, sud whlch la the law of the
land at the present moment, snd It stands
lu this wuy nt the present time that wlth
regard to these 2,5W0 unprotected crosslngs
-and a great many more lu the rural districts, that ne matter what accident may
happen or bow bianiable the company may
be, or how great the injury 'to the person,
there le no remedy to the farmer, because
parliament bas passed thîs Act and created
tbls jurlsdiction. That le the judgment of the
Supreme Court, and the Judges went further aud sald the board had to act before
the rallway company could even put up a
gate.
I read that part of the Judgment te the House, and It la flot
niecessary I should repeat It slmply because senie hon, gentleman was not paylng
attention or did not follow me.
The law
as laid dowu by four out of five of the
judges was that wlthout an order of the
board the rallway ceuid not erect a gate ou
a highway, and atter ail It le pretty nearly
comniin-sense. Every one has a cemmon
law- rlght ou a hlghway, and It can oniy
be taken away from hlm by a statutory
iaw.
The rallway company does not get
the rlght to the wldtb of the right of way
of the rallway on the crosslug. They oniy
have au easenient, and have no right to put
up a gate untîl they have an order of the
bourd. Whien they do not apply for au
order, and the board does not make one, It
leaves these crossings as death traps to the
people wlthout any remedy lI. the case of
an accident occurring ut any one of these
crosslngs.
My hion. frleud went ou te say:

Oua jury, lu one case, would decide that
such a thing is a proper protection, anud the
jury in another part of the oountry would
decide that it is net a proper protection, aud
there wouid be confusion of decîsions which
should not obte.in in matters of thi8 kind.

We ail kaow thst the law is very uncertain, aud If you aeek protection lu the court,
everythlug will depend upon tee evidence.
There may bave been cîrcumatances lu oe
case very different f rom those lu another,
aud a strauger iooklng on might say that
some verdicts muet be 'wrong. There might
be some cases lu wblch the jury would flnd
the person who wss kllled was se cuipable
by bis contrIbutory negligence that be was
not entltled te any compensation. It might
be la other cases that reasonable conditions
liad been complled wltb, se the verdict of
juries mlgbt differ froni each other, but the
rellance of tee people le on a jury, and to a
jury they ougbt to be able to go when anytelng so serions la to happen te teem as the
loss of the bread wuer or other member
of al fauilly througb an accident at a highway crosslng.
If the parliameut of Canada Is content to leave the law wlth regard
te these crosslngs as It now la by that decîsion of the Supreme Court, they will take
a great responslbility befere tee people of
Canada.
The House of Commons are not
dlsposed te take auy such responslbllty.
They have passed this Bill three times, and
It wlIll be seen 'whether the Senate of Canada is so oblious to what le right lu the
case as to throw It eut for a tbird tUne.
Before resumlng my sent I wlsh to, submlt
te the House newspaper reports of some
three accidents that have happened since
this debate began lu the Senate. I see represeutatIves of tee Canadian Pacific Railway and the Grand Trunk Rallway are lu
my beariug, but I bave this statemeut to
make, that the fatallties: occurring lu this
connection ou tbe Grand Trunk Railway
are eut of ail measure greater than on the
other great ruilways of Canada, and very
rauch greater than on tee Canadian Pacific
That redounde te the credit of
Railway.
the Canadian Pacifie Rallway, and I take
If it were left to a jury of course it would It as a fact thiat tee have equlpped their
uines better, or employ better men, because
be left to a jury in each individual case.
these extraerdinary fatalitles are attacbed to
Stili. the~ Idea with the hou. gentlemen the operation of the Grand Trunk Railway.
was. that the whole 2,500 crossings were I showed the Hoiise. on Thursday. thiat
going- to lie left to a juiry. He liroceeds:
wvhiIe otie person was klilled or injured lu
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

MAROR 18, 1908

the last tlbree years for every seventeeu
crosslugs of the Grand Trunk Rallway, only
one person was killed or injured tro every
59 crosslngs of the Canadian Pacifie Railway lIn the sane period. I amrn ot making
any explanation of the. cause of tixis difference.

583

Swansea boy killed at the. Winclermere avenue
crossing by a Canadian Pacific Railway train.
Barry Somera, of Swansea, who was driving
w.ith Hansford,1 aid they wae proceeding
south on Wundermere avenue, and approaching the crossing they heard ne bell, or other
%urning given. Tiiey were watchung a shunting engin. to the ea.t of the croosing, whon
their attention was turned to the Ganadlian
Bacifie train, which was

oning

from

the

Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbe hion, gentleman west. Tii. horm. wo.s just on 'the track upon
the -train
Hlansford
must bear ln mmnd that the Grand Trunk whicii an effort to was eomung and horse did
made
urge it on. Tii.
Railway, as a rule, runs through a much r~ot go eny tstr, and the. wi.tness saved himse.lf by climbing over the seat Inta the baok
more thickly peopied country.
of the waggon. Hansford ac tried to get
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Tbnt may ex- out, but wae too late. He was hurled about
and
plain.
I amrn ot bere to make a good case tlirty yardsGeorge instantly killed. C-.adian
Engineer
Blanco, of -the
for any one rallway company. I believe Paoifie Railway, said ho blew the whistle whon
hie train wae oighty yards away. Hie train
they are ail culpable, and since thls debate
wae fifteen minutes lat", and wea goung at the
began lni the. Senate three valuable lives i ate of uixty miles an heur. The brakes wore
have been bast *between Montreal and To- applied promptly, but the train wae not
ronto and aIl on the Grand Trunk Railway brceught; to a standstill till it was a quarter of
aLMile ast the crossung. Tii. other witneeses
luxies.
In vlew ef that tact, wbule It inay iitcludeS Conduoter W. J. Waiker, Provincial
flot be the fault et the management ot the Constable Simpson and Geo. Vincent, the fireGrand Trunk Railway, thiat rallway coin- man. The last named said aIl the, erossings
at Sunnyside -are dangerous and lie ha. been
pany should not press lts views so very very careful ini his lookout there. Evidence
etrongly on parliament as it is dolng. was also put ini as to the amount of .hunting
te the dangerous
Here is the report ln the Toronto 'Globe' dcii. there, and Peter Siater, agent condition
of the crosîng.
at Swanet the accident whichi bappened at Sunny- ses, described conditions ut the crossing and
aide only about three weeks ago. It la the the number cf trains; which passed there.
Coroner Godfrey asked the jury te take steps
report ef the. coroner's Investigation:
tepta stop te a repetition of tiiese fatalities
P. dangerous crossing-Grand Trunk Railway !caruSunnysidie and place the. responsibility.
hold responsible for death of Perey Hans. liir. H. L. Dra.yton, K.C., appeod for the'
Crown.
ford.
Coroner's investigation into the fatality nt
Windermere avenue, Swansea, on Mondar
1 sbould like ta know wbether the. Board
afternoon-Can-adian Pacifie Railway train or the raiiway company bas done anytbing
was goi.ng sixty miles an heur.
W. the Jury find thaît the. deatii of Percy to,%,ards the. protection et thls Runnyside
Hansford was oaused by being struck by crossing?
This la a case wbere tbe parCanadian Pacifie Railway train No. 34 while
There was
croeing over the crosng of the Grand Trunk tîcular hardsbip comes lni.
.Railway at Windermere avenue, in the town- ne order te proteet thîs crossing.
The
ship of York, beîng thon on the allowanc., Board bad net been appealed te. and there
travelled by the public.
W. attach no blame to the engineer or crow was ne order made and tbe friends of
in charge of the train.
Perey Hlansf ord cnnnot go to the. court and
We, the. jury, aise find the Grand Trunk
Railway is to blame and responsible for the dlaim damages because tii. Board bad flot
death of the said Perey Hansford by main- acted, and thie company bad ne autbority
taining sucli an extremely dangerous crossing, te erect gates. Parliament bas created this
having a total disregard ta the interests ot
1 bave another case bere
the public usung the sane. There is a large jurlsdiction.
numnier of pa6senger trains, thirty-th-ree in which occurred at wbat is called n protected
number, paasing the, point at a rate of froin crosslug.
Some wonder was expressed lni
fifty to sixty miles an hour, as admitted by
the railway witnesses. The view of the tracks the Houa. that people were sometimes killed
,'hen travellin g soutiierly is vinterrupted and at prot.cted higbway crossings. I will read
shut out by buildings and cars left by shunt- reports et two
cases wbich bave occurred
ing englce.
W. reommend. that immediate stops should witiiin the last few days, and tbe explanab. taken te secure the protection of the cros- tien of the cause 'wlli be seen at once:
stng by gates or watchmen ut the least.
The foregoing verdict was returned after
midnight by Coroner Forbes <3odfrey'e jury.
sitting at the. home of Mr. Charles Nurse at
Humber bay, aud invastigating the. deatii of

Monday afteruoon

Gates were defective--Company. blamed for
accident at Bloor street crcessng.
Witnesses testify that dead man could have
wailked under gates and not known they were

of Perey Hansford, the dowîî or train approaching.

SENATE
Âfter sitting from eight o'clock ta eleven
fifty-five Iast night the jury returned a verdict te Dr. A. E. Morgan, censurinig the railway company for the death of G. H. Scott,
1393 Bloor St. West. Scott, a man with a
faiyof eight was struck and iastantly
kiledZ by a Grand Trunk express at the
Bloor St. crossing last Friday night.
The verdict of the jury, in part was
We ail agree as ta the deoeased's meeting
accidentai death. We are aiea ail agreed as
ta the exaneratian af the train crew, and the
discliarge of
gateman agreed that the their dutios; we are
urther in
gates on the night
in question were net in proper working order, and that we (the jury) do cepsure the
railway company for having their gates s0
long a tirne in such a defective condition, in
not having a signai in the watcbinan's cabin,
and that in aur opinion haed the gates been
in proper working condition the accident
woul1 not have happened.
Yesterday severai witnesses testified that
the gates at the crossing were iowered in
their presonce, and that when they were sa
lowered they were five and one-haîf feet from
the ground. As Scott was a man of. short
and stooping stature the witnesses concluded
that hie couid have walked under, the gates
without stopping or being aware that they
were down and a train approaching.
The gates were warped and wouid net
fall 10w enough, se, by the evidence, It appears that It was dark and the gates were
suspended se hlgh that this man walked
under them thinklng that they were reafly
open. Another case to whIch I wish ta
draw attention occurred In Montreai, when
a very well k-nown gentleman-I dare say
the hon. senator from De Salaberry knows
hlm, Mr. Nloel Wilson, was klled. The report of the case la as follows:
The level crossiug claims new victim-Mr.
Noel Wilson, brother of Mr. C. A.
Wilson, atruck by iight engine
at Vine street.
Level railroad cressings on the Grand
Trunk Ra.ilway from Bonaveniture station to
Victoria bridge were respensible yesterday for
another fatality. Noel Wilson, a farmer, of
the Ile Bizard, :wae yesterday afternoon fataily injured, hie horse klIed and sleigh
smashed by a Grand Trunk Railwey engins
at the Vinet street croesing gates.
The viotiin was stili living at the General
Hlospital this morning, but the, doctors have
no hope for his recovery. He has net regained consciousxess sînce the accident. He is a
brother of Mr. Charles Â. Wilson, K.C., of
this city, and of Mr. Bruno Wilson, journalist.
The son cf the victim wss an eyewitness cf
the accident, as hie waa driving in the 6leigh
ixnmediately behind his father.
It appears that the Vinet street crossing
gates were net workîng properly, the frost
iiterfering with the manipulation. On accc-unt of this, Ga-teman Choquette waa instrueted ta stand guard at the. crossing with a flag
and warn people net- te venture on the tracks
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

ivhen the train was approahinç. Witnessee
state that the gateman took tis precaution
et the time ôf the accident, but it looks as if
the victim did not understand why thero was
any danger when the. crossing gates wore up,
sa~ continued ta drive ahoad, just in tinie for
bise leigh te be struck by a light ongine running weet. Ho was knocked eut of the aleigh
and his skuil fractured. Hoee and aleigh
were carried aieng by oow catcher by about
twqenty-five yards boforo the. engin. was stopped.
The. vietim was forty-three years aid.
The two laet cases I have read are cases
which would corne under the view presented by the hon. senator from De Salaberry;
they would certainly go te a jury. My hon.
triend sald In his speech that :
0f course the courts or juries would have
te decide whether the company has complied
with the requirements of the Railroad Board.
The court and jury will have in each case
te decide whether the croesing was at the
tirne of the accident, protected as decided by
the Railway Board.
I present these twe cases as sbowlng that
highway crossings having been erdered, the
company Is then beund te keep the gates
lu proper order. Havlng fafled te do se,
the frlends of the v~ictlms In the two
cases I have mentloned wlll have cases
te take te the courts, and If the tacts are
as stated by the newspapers they wlll have
Ilttle trouble In securing verdicts; but In
the case ef unprotected cressings at whlch
the great majorlty ot accidents occur, there
]s ne redress before the courts ef the country for damages or compensation If ne
order bas been made by the Board for the
protection of the. hlghway crossing. I have
gene over the greuud pretty tully, and I confese I weuld net have undertaken this werk
had it net been for the extraerdlnary statements put betore our Railway Committee
by the representatives ot the rallway cernpanies, and as I proceeded te examine and
compare the statements which were made
on that occasion wlth the law and the tacts,
I began te see that the comrnittee was very
serlously rnisled by the railway companies,
and it Is scarcely possible If a full statement of the case had been put before the
commlttee, that the BIhI would have been
reperted In an ernasculated condition. Before I take my seat, let me say that while
this House le net beund ln any way whatever to eche the views et the House et
Commons with regard te any measure whlcb
may b. passed by that body, yet In vlew

MyARCH 18, 1908
of the tact that the eiected representatives
of the people have on three occasions with
absolute unanirnity passed the Bit! that is
110W before us, If turning to the question
at the beginning of the session, and sendIng it to us, as the hon. member from St.
John sald at the second reading wlthout
aliowing the grass to grow under their
feet-In view of this tact we have carefully to examine into this question and
answer for our own consciences, and the
people we represent ln this country, as
to whether we are doing rlght ln throwing
out or ernasculating such a Bill as thus. At
any rate If it le doue It shahl fot be rny
fault. I feel I have doue rny duty to the
I therefore move as
best of my abiiity.
an arnendrnent to the amendment:
That ail the 'words aiter the. second word
any ' in the. firet line of the. sa.id proposed
amiendanent be struck out, and the. following
words be substituted in lieu thereof: 'city,
town or village at a greeler speed thlan ton
miles en hOUr, unise such orossing is properly protected, or unies s cl crossing ie
constructed and thereefter duly maintained
and properly ?rotected in acoordance with an
order, regulation and the directions ci the
Be.ilway Committee of the. Privy Couneil or of
the board in force with respect thereto; the.
boad shall, however, from iMe to time, as
it deemr. proper, limit or iucrease the. rate of
speed of such train over efuch orossing, but no
ci der or regulation of the. board iucreasing
encli speed shail be made, or continue in force
aiter the first day of January, oeethousand
aine hundred and fourteen, uniss such orossing je properiy proteoted as prescribed in
this eubsection.'
I rnay expiain to hon, gent lemen that I
put a notice on the order paper proposing
what a great imany members in this' House
thought was a very serious compromise. I
suggested ln that notice that a very long
trne shouid be ailowed the raiiway cornpanies ln order to cornpiy with the conditions of the Lancaster Bill; but 1 found
the pressure of the companies againet that
amendment was mest as strong as it was
againet the Lancaster Bill itself, and I
came to the conclusion that there ls no0
Ai
neceseity for that extension of time.
that can happen in the meautime wili be
that the penalty may appiy lu some cases
ouiy-in a very few, as I amn convlnced, and
to a very srnall extent; but as agalnst that,
the common law wiil apply wlth regard to
the familles of those who may be kiilled lu
the meantinie at raiiway crossings, that the
friends of tiiose killed will have their action

585

againet the railway company until the board
takes these 2,500 crossinge, we are toid of,
out of the unprotected eixu and iznstructs
the company what the protection shahl be.
As soon as the board deals with tbem, the
railway company la required to do no more
than the board wiii tbink is necessary ln
every case; and,* until that cornes, the board
will have to answei to the friends of the
people who are kilied at rallway crossings.
But ln the event of 110 order of the board
being made. and the company not having
protected the crossinge, tuey will, under the
LancasterBilh, be lhable for damages for
every accident that occurs at unprotected
crossinge.
My ameudment le seconded by
my hon. friend frorn Shediac <Hon. Mr. Poirier) 'who had given notice of an amendIt 18 exactly the
ment to the same effect.
Lancaster Bill.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-My hon. f rleud from
Marshfieid bas taken charge of the amendment I had put on the Order Paper, and
I
Ibis he hue doue witb rny consent
couid not-very few ln this House could
have expiained the question under discussion as fully, as thorougniy and as convincingly as rny hon. friend bas done. Hie
speech, aithough long, lu a certain sense,
It le to those
bas been most Instructive.
who have opened their ears to hie argumente, to hie array o! tacts, to hie statemente showing the eseential difference between the Bill brought over from the other
House and the ameudmente thereto proposed by hon. gentlemen lu the Senate* who,
have made a specialty or proposing such
amendments with moet consummate art
that bis argument will appeal.' The difference between the Bill and the amendments
le seerningly emali-in, tact Imperceptible,
and, hon, gentlemen, there le a fine haud
under that, mo fine that It changes almeet
wholiy, flot the visible aqspect o! the Bill,
but Its uthlity as a Bill to proteet
the public of Canada against accidente
occasioned by raiiways unwittingiy, 1
admit, but no less accidente whieh destroy
the lives and fortunes cf Canadian citizens.
The whoie dIfference le lu leaving ont these
two words 'properly protected.' By striking eut those words and bringing the whole
matter under the Raiiway Commission, the
effect of thie Bill le, as has been very lucidly
explained by my hou. !riend-and 1 wil

SENATE
ïiot go over the ground lie bas so thorougbly
investigated-completely changed.
I did
not lntend ta make a long speech; I shall
mire it even shorter than I intended, liecause it Is useless to cover the same ground
twlce, especilly when the second racer bias
flot the speed and abullty that the first one
possesses.
The hon. senator frorn Maralifield bias brouglit before the House certain
Incidents that occurred ln the cornrittee,
and to which 1 would suggest a atop should
be put. We la the committee aliow promoters of Bis to explain their measures.
'That la very proper.
We sometimes aliow
-thern through courtesy ln order to, le enlightened and weil dIrected concernlng those
Bis to have solicitors; but those legal liglits
iwho corne before us are supposed to, speak
ef the law as they know It. The-promoters
,of a Bill have to state the facto as they
1-now them but the lawyer who cornes and
-dellberately mis-states the law-because a
lawyer of the standing of Mr. CJhrysler
k-nows the law-ls gullty of somethlng like
.conternpt of the committee. We waDt lght,
but what is thrown on us was ln this case
.just the contrary. We want a stralght path
-and the one lie pointed out to us la a crooked
one.
It Is a conternpt of our comrnlttee,
-and I for one, If sucli tactics are resorted
to delberately, If some facts are Intentionally dlstorted to mlslead us, I and others
will protect ourselves lu the commîttees.
Our position here Is a serIons one.
We
.are not here at the bldding of aay cornpany
or eompanies.
We are here representing
the people of Canada.
If we do not represent the people of Canada ]et this charnber be abolished, and the sooner Vie better.
I for one wll not stand as Vie valet, or the
rnouthpiece for Vie servant or the tool of
any or ail the companles unless 1 feel that
those companles are doing what they should
do to the country and to the House. ComIng back to his Bill, I will remind the
House that Vie question of the Senate
belng amended or suppressed or dissoived Is before us here.
The people expect us iu this matter as well as upon ail
other questions to, do our duty-we are here
to prevent basty legislation; we are not here
to put obstacles in the way of the known
wili of the people, but rather ta prevent
the other Hanuse froin ralhrading Bis
thrugli )arllimrent tbat inay be Injurions
Hon. Mr. POIRIER.

to the public interest.
We are bere to gîve
tbemi tirne and occasion to review their own
legislation, and we have lu this case exerclsed our function.
This Bill lias been
passed twice lu the oVier House and subinitted to us; twlce lu our wisdorn or lu
the darkness of our vision we have rejected
It.
It cornes agaîn not mereiy as a government Bill.
It cornes here better Vian a goverumeat
Bill. It cornes here beartng Vie stamp of the
Lîberai rnajorlty, and of the Conservative
opposition. It lias been endorsed officialiy by
the leaders of Vie goverunent. Therefore, If
ever a Bill was an expression of the sentiments of Vie other Hanse, thîs Bill is. The
other House represents Vie country.
The
country knows that Vils jiil has been before Vie Hanuse for three years, and Vie country neyer expressed ltself againet It. Therefore, 1 conclude that as mucli as cau, le, thîs
Bill la the popuhar expression of what the
country wants ln Vis regard. That la; why
I gave notice that sînce we bave ta swallow
the BIhI-I wIll use that expression-since
we have to acknowledge, ln matters dernocratle, the sway of the other Hanse whlch
represents Vie people-sInce we have ln regard ta the Bill to do what we do concernlng
money Bills whlch we are not alhawed ta
arnend, 1 gave Vie notice whlih appears ln
my name, lu order that Vie question miglit
be better understood, lu its true liglit by
thls honaurabie House. We are not at bay,
but we are faclng the wlll of the other
House, whlch Is Vie wll of the people. We
have done aur duty. If the Bill la not
proper, hon. gentlemen tknow the proverb :
country gets the haws It deserves.
This
la the country'i affaîr.
Our duty taday, from rny point of vlew, la ta pass the
Bill as it la, not ta mankey wlth It, ta send
It back, and have the oVier House, wlth aur
assent of course and let the oVier Hanse
taire the whole responslblty of Vie measure.
What would be aur position If we altered this
Bll in any part? The Bill mlgflt corne back
to us, and then we would be put lu the dilemma o! elther not concurring with the Bill,
or eating humble ple, of swallowlng It, and
if I were lu the other House, and if Vis
Bll were altered by the Senate, I know I
wvouhd vote it back ta the Senate and say
' Gentlemen'1 swalhow it or die.' Let us flot
put aurselves lu that ridicuious and danger-

MARCU 18e 1908
oUs. position. It is the will of the people
represented by the majority of the Hlouse
0f Commons. Let us accept it bolus bolus.
I migbt toucli on other questions, but I
ivill flot do so now, and havlng complimented the hon. gentleman from Marshfield on
bis inagnifIcent speech, and thauked hlm for
having taken it out of my bauds and dealiug6 wlth it wlth much more abillty and
kuom-ledge than I could, I wlll close my
remarks. I have doue no iobbylng. I do
flot know what the opinion of the Hlouse is,
but 1 hope that the Bill wil be passed as
it came to us for the third time from the
Honlse of Comnions.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I may be permitted
to refer to the remarks *whicb I mnade onigiually, when tbis measure recelved Its
second readlng. I for one, expressed thîs
view :that If we were of the opinion lu
this. House that the Bill was a good one,
we should pass It. If we were of opinion
tha t It required ameudment, It was Our
duty to mend it, sud send It back as amended to the other House. I expressed this
opinion, whlch I have since expressed to
Individual members of this House - that If
the Commons perslst lu the adoption of
the Bill, as tbey bad already passed the
Bill on several occasions, that for muy part
I -%ould be disposed to leave the responsibility of a bail measure with theni, and
that the country would be eutltled to load
thei with that respousibllty. However, I
have a better opinion of the House of
Commons than to think tbey will act
as the bon, gentleman who bas just resumed bis seat bas stated that hie would
act under similar cIrcumstances. I belleve
that If we send this Bill back to, the House
o! Commons amended as It sbould be
ameuded, that It will recelve the fair consideration o! that Chamber, and that tbey
wll acquiesce lnx our amendmeuts, If they
belleve ln their conscience that tliey are
good ameudments. This bas always been
my opinion, and I have bad occasion to express tbat opinion a !ew days ago to the
bon, gentleman froni Toronto and othier
members of this House. Wheu the Bill
came before the committee, I deemed it
muy duty, us a member o! that couittee,
to the best of my abihity, to improve the
Bill, I suggested au ameudment which was
adopted by the committee. In drafting

587

that amendaient 1 tried to, follow the wordlug of the original Bill as closelY as Possible. Â!ter It had been accepted by the
committee, it became my duty when the
Bill was reported to the House, to, see
wbether the f ull effect had been given to the
opinion o! the commlttee. Tbe objeet of
the committee lu maklng an amendment
to the Bill was to Improve It, and on conslderlng the Bill more matnrely I came
to the conclusion that the amendaient was
îîot properir drafted, that there was a
loophole left almost to the same extent
as ln the original BUI, and I saw some hou.
gentlemen of this House and drew their
attention to the matter. For my part, I
came to, the conclusion that it was my duty
to give notice o! the amendment wbich I
moved lu this House. Wben I spolie tbe
other day lu support o! that ameudmnent, I
did not thinli that I was concerued with
the question as to wbether It was an amendment to my own amendment:, I tooli the
responslbility o! It. In !act I statcd when
I spolie that for the work of the committee I was to a certain extent responsIble ;
but It would not have been proper for me,
and it would not be proper for any bon.
member of this House not to try to, Improve a mensure because be was the author of the first draft If be tbonghit the
first draft was defective. In the remarks
thiat I offered to this bonourable House I
did not refer to the bon, gentleman from
Marshfleld, and I"am nt a loss to understand the reason why I have beeu for two
or thiree bours the subject of the attack-s
of the hou. gentleman, especially wben
these attacks have taken the fonm of Insinuating that lu drafting this measure I was
striving to emasculate the Bill, and that
1 was trylng- to force upon the Hlouse a
iiîcnsure whicb was not lu accordHou. Mr, BEIQUE-Wbicb was not lu accord witb the remarlis I made wheu presentiug xny motion.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I did not; say the
hon. gentleman was seeklIng to eniasdulate
the Bill; but I said he did emasculate It.
Somne hon. NIE-NBERS-Order, order.
lion. '-%r. FERGISON-The lion. gentlemen w-lue were streuous lu tiueir endeavours
Io~ iliterrillt nie wvheii i was on the tioor,

SENATE
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-And If I were talkand insisted on doing it again and again,
eali me to order because I want to set my- ing on farmlng questions 1 mlght be supposed to be talking through my hat. But
self rlght. Io that fair 1
when I arn spaaking on law questions I
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I have always had a have some respect for my position as a
high opinion of the hon. gentleman f rom lawyar, and, when I do It delîberately, I
Marshfiel. 1 have a great deel of respect do it withln the judgment of my confreres_
for hlm. I know hie la one of the inost in- as lawyers, and I would not have respect
dustrious members of thîs House, and I have for myself If I were maintaining opinions
never attributed to hlm any motive, nor which should flot be maintained.
I do.
accused hlm of Insincerlty or otherwlae, and not propose to go over the ground that I
I dlaim that anybody reading the remarks covered ln presentlng the amendment whIch
hie has offered to this honourable House the I moved the other day.
I ask the House
otber day, and bis remarks to-day, cannot to rend the remarks whlch I made ln supbe led to any other conclusion than that I port of tlîat amendment -and I repeat-and
wes Insincere ln the resuit of the work 1 leave It to the judgment of any sound
I have offered to thls honourable House.
Iawyer-that ln my opinion this Bill as
Hon. Mir. FERGUSON-The hon. gentie- paseed, as It came from the House of Commono, would not attain et ail the object
mainthat Is sought by the hon, gentleman from
Some hon. MEMBERS--Order, order.
I say that under its
Marshileld at aIl.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-The same hon. provisions a raiiway company could be
gentlemen who are caillng order are ai- permitted to exceed the Ilmit of ten miles
ways doing it 1 want to point out, that It an hour at highway crossings, for the rason
was when I was interrupted by my esteemed thiat they are doing so under the regulations
friend fromn Montreal, and by other hon. made by the Railwey Board or by the
gentlemen la the House, who were, I know, Itailway Commîttee of the Prlvy Council,
elosely connected wlth rallway companles, and that, theref.ore, they wlll be complylng
and when the Interruption took the form witli one of the alternatives as mentioneci
It lu because I amn of opinion
almost of preventlng me fromi golng on wlth la the Bill.
my speech, It was then 1 made some thet we should go further, flot by repeaiing
teference to Interruptions but flot to the section 275 of the Railway Act, which Is
hon, gentleman, 1 dld flot single hlm. out et a good provision as fer as it goas, and neail. He was not the worst of tiiose that la- cessary; but by making It the duty o! the
terrupted me. He was flot a sinner in that Railway Commission to nct as soon as posrespect. But 1 dld refer to the Interruptions sible for the purpose of protecting human
that were comlng thlck and fast upon me, life on hlghway crossinga, and pending their
trom gentlemen who were connected with belng able to do so, allowing themn to issue
railway companles.
a permit wbich will enable the rallway coinHon. Mr. BEIQU-I leave it to the opin- panies, If the commission deems it advision of this hionourable House If the remarks able to do so, to exceed ten miles an hour
made by the hon, gentleman from Marsii- at individual crossings, or for a certain
The hon.
field were not to the affect that either I number of hours ln the day.
gentleman charged me with lnconslstency.
,nas Infiuenced by the subWet matter, or
tlint I dld not understand what I was talking 1 mlht retura the compliment, bêcause hae
about. 1 have a great deal of respect, as placad on the order paper two different
1 have sald, for the hon, gentleman from notices of amendment which to-day hie bas
By putting the amendment on
Marshfleld, but .1 wonid take hlm to be a iiot moved.
the order paper. and ehanging it after it
better authority If hae were talklng upon
farming subjects, than he la talking on law was first published,. was il not an expression of opinion on bis part that the Lansubjeets.
caster Bill should be amended. Now, hie
Hon. MNr. McMULLEN-HEear, hear.
lins clianged is opinion again, and If hie
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON-Tjhat Is another changes his opinion, If hie belleves hie made
an error, I cominend hlm not to persist ln
w'ay of sneering.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

MAROH 18, 1908
an error w1iceh lie bas acknowledged. But
It le no reason why lie sbould tax me with
Inconslstency because I happen to be a
member of the Railway Committee, and
toak part ln drafting the Ilrst amendment,
-and that on a better consideration of the
subjeet, 1 came to the conclusion tbat the
Bill wauid be improved by adopting the
phraseology wbicb le covered by the amendment naw before this honourable Hanse.
'The lion. gentleman has taken a great deal
-of tinie to reter ta rallway legisiation in
the United States.
I do flot think we are
mucli cancerned with that, and we do not,
as a mile, take the Ulnited States as an example for aur legislation.
He bas taken
a few pages of the debates to criticise the
reports which are made by the Railway
Commission and by the rallway companles
as published ln the blue books. I do flot
think that it is quite pertinent ta the question betore us.
For my part I ar n ot
responsible for those'reports.
They may
lie correct or they may be lncorreét.
I
would not be able to cantrol those reports,
but I take it for granted, and I am of the
-opinion that human lite should be protected
la a reasonable way nt highway crossings,
and. I think It is our duty to adapt a mensure whlch will flot take this question from
the Raiiway Commission, because they bave
the techalcal knowledge to, deal with it;
«but wlll leave It with the Railway Commission, and make it the dnty of the Railway
-Commission to exercise their judgment in
the matter and give directions as ta protection of crossings as fast as they can.
M-Ny
ameadment Is ln that direction.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-I lstened ta the
speechi of the bon. gentleman tram Marshfield, and I was surprised to ând that lie
had spent so mucli time la going over a lot
af statlstics with regard to this question;
but. he did nat seem to have spent very
much tîme la studylng the ameadment of
the hon, gentleman from De *Salaberry. If
he had done so, and If he had paid a lUttle
more attention ta It he would nat have taken
the stand that lie did la saying that thls
ameadment practicaàly took It away tram
the power of the jury to deal with thli question af accidents nt highway level crossing's
nt ail.
The hon, gentleman tram Marshfield seems ta pay a great deal of attention ta the words, 'Unless sncb crossing is

589

properly protected,' as tbey appear lu the
Bill as it came np tram the Hanse of Commons; and becanse those wards do not appear ln the ameadment as moved by the
bon. gentleman trom De Salaberry, exactly
la the same position as they appear la the
Bill as it came from the Hanse of Commans, he therefore thinka that It bas been
taken ont of the power of a jury la the case
of an accident ta deal with this matter.
Hon. Mr. PERGUSON-My statement
was, that It ls now ont of the power of the
jury; and that the amendment wll leave it
there.
Han. Mr. BOSTOCE-The ameadment as
moved by the han, gentleman tram De Salaberry says that unlesa sncb crossing ls
constructed and thereatter duiy maintained and pratected, la accordance with an
arder, regniation and the directions of Vie
Rtailwsy Committee of Vie Privy Cauncil,
or ot the Baard la force la respect thereto,
or uniess permission is given by some regulation of the Board. Sa that that puts the
matter ln a somewhat différent position;
but the ameadment does nat take it ont
of tie bands of the jury ta deai with It
ln Vie case of an ardinary accident happening. Tbey can mske their recammendations and say where the blame existe, mest
Vie same as they can at the present time.
I have a strang abjection ta Vie Bill as It
came up tram the Hanse of Commons, because the first part of Vint Bill states Viat
section 275 ofthVe Railway Act as It stands
nt the present time le ta be repenled. As
one of Vie travelling public, I consider that
that clause deals with a totally different
question to Vie one which Vils new clause
deals with. That clause, ta my mlad, was
put inta Vie Railwny Act for Vie purpose
of pratectIng Vie travelling public. This
clause we are dealing wlIt le ta try and
protect the people crosslng Vie bighways,
and 1 thlnk It Is decidedly bad legislatlon
Viat clause 275 as It at present stands lu
the Railway Act should be repealed.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Hlear bear.
Han. Mr. BOSTOCK-Far that reasan 1
shoaild vote ngninst the Bill as It now
stands. I aiea would hike ta reer for a few
moments ta a statement made by the han.

SENýA TE
gentlmanl froni Marsifleld wiîlî regard t('
the question of tbese accidents as they have
happenied. I took a littie trouble to look
up a few statistics witlh regard to crossing
accidents, and without wisbing to cast any
reflection upon the people from the province
of Ontario, I was rather surprised to find
when looking Into the returus as publshed
tu the raîlway statistica, that the greater
proportion of these accidents nt level crossings that occur to persons that are not
trespasslug tipon the railway, occurred lu
the province of Ontario. I do not know why
that sbould be, but tise returns as tbey stand
show that the Canada Southern Rallway
killed iline people and Injured four. The
Grand Truuk returius are, I presume, almost confined to that province, klhled
il and Injured 19. The Canadian Pacifie
Railway returns show that 20 were klfled
and 18 injured. Out of that '-0, 1 find from
the returu very klndly furnished me by
the secretary of the Canadian Pacific Railway, that 13 were killed and eleven Injured
ln the province o! Ontario the next biggest
province belng Quebec. These are highway
crossings aud It refers to persons not tresThere
It deals with nearly ail.
passiug.
were two killed and five Injured on thse Iutercohonial Rlaiiway, and one on thse Central
Ontario Railway, and two killed on the
Canada Atlantic. So that as these returus
go, it would seem that nearhy ai these accidents happened lu Ontario. I think that
every bon. gentleman lni this HIouse is ouhy
too anxious to see tiuis law enforced lu sucli
a wny that we shahl prevent these accidents
happening lu thse future, aud I find, referring to thse speech made by the gentleman
who ls responsible for bringing thîs Bill
before the House o! Commons, that lie does
not appear to have quite thse saine view
about tise matter as tise hon, gentleman
When lie was speaking
fronu Mýarshfield.
about this Bill lu July,. 1906, hie said:

There is reaUly n law.

The Act is incon-

sistent with the rest of the statute and that

is one of the reasons why it requires amendment. The law provided until lest year that
a railway couhd not exceed ten miles au hour
unhess the track were fenced or protected.
When we got into the special committee it
was found that this had to be amended so
as to make it acceptable.

The effeot of my

amendaient; is that the railways must run

not faster than ten miles an hour or proteet
their tracks or else get an order from the
to the
This leavllailway Commission.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK.

FHaiiway Commission Practically the decision
tto what protection is neoessary at sny
( i -i

g

I t]ink the hon. genltlemfan's Bil went further than lie intended, and that the amendmuent proposed by the hon, gentleman from
De Salaberry hlmseif expressed the vlews
of the promoter of the Bill very much better
than the Bill as it came from the House of
Commons, and 1 hope we shahl see this
amendment carried.
Hon. Mr. KERR moved the committee
rise and report progress and ask heave to
sit again.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY from the committee
reported that they had made some progres
with the Bill, and asked heave to ait again
to-morrow.
The Sexiste adjourued until three o'c*hock
to-morrow.

THE SENATE.
OTT.AwA, Thursday, March 19, 1908.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o*elock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
WATER CARRIAGE 0F GOODS BILL.
FIRST REPORT 0F COMMITTEE
ADOPTED.
Hon. Sir GEORGE DRU-MMOND, f rom
the, Committee on Bauklng and Commerce,
presented their report on Bill (Z) An Act respecting the Water Carniage of Goods, recommending that the committee be given nuthorlty for the emphoyment of a shorthand
wrlter to report the proceedings of the committee on the Bill, and arguments and
statements made before them, and that flfteen hundred copies of the shorthand writer's report be printed and distrlbuted ln
such manner as the committee may direct.
He said : In expianation of the report, I
trust this honourabie House will flot hesitate to, endorse the action o! the committee
and approve of the report. The Bill 15 of
vast importance to a very large number of
iaterests ln this country, and the committee. early this morning, before commenciug

MARCH 19. 1908
the examîlnation of tixe Bill, had a number
of influential bodies represented before
theui, boards of trade, shipping federations
and so on, and they took upon themselves,
to be approved of by this House, to empioy
shortband writers and agreed to request
this House to approve of the appointment,
and the circulation of 1,500 copies of thxe
report. That ls the wboie matter, and I
trust the House wiii approve of tbe report.

591

cause, as I understand, fixe coxnmittee bave
adjourned for two weeks; s0 that If we
adopt the report to-morrow, we shahl be
In ample timte.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Time la really the essence of fixe matter ln the present case.
Those wbo appeared against the Bill wanted
a monfb, and wben fixe vote was faken, fthe
majority In favour of the two weeks' adIt was reprejourument was only one.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIG HT- sented that the parties interested were on
Does thle hon. gentleman mean a report of thxe other aide o! fixe Aflantic, and It was
the evidence or simply of the statements necessary to forward fbemt thls InformaIs it the report containing the tion, so that tbey should be apprised of the
made?
evidence tiiat is to be submitted ?
evidence which had been given; therefore,
Hon. Sir GEORGE DRUMMOND-Yes, every day la o! consequence.
the evidence only. I move the suspension
Tbe motion was agreed to.
of rule 24-H.
Hon. Sir GEORtGE DRUMMOND moved
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-There la DiO report
that the report be adopted.
on the Bill itself yet ?
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Sir GEORGE DRUMMý%OND-No,
oniy on printing tu~e evidence.
BILL INTRODUCED.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It la thxe recommendaBill (FF) An Âct for thxe relief o! Edith
tien. The committee are asking to obtain Maud Rosario Gammell.-(Hon. Mr. Jones.)
autborlty to prInt the evidence.
THIRD READINGS.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I do nlot see wby
-Bil (51) An Act respecting the Erie, Lonwe sbould suspend our rules for the adopdon and TilIsonburg Railway Company.tion of the report There is no hurry.
(Hon. Mr. Wilson.)
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-It la a matter
Bill (76) Au Act respectlng the Interproof vital Importance that the evidence taken vîncial Railway Bridge Company of New
in this matter, and the statements made Brunswick.--(Hon. Mr. CostIgan.)
sbould get into the banda of parties inBill (7M An Act respectlug the Canadax
terested In the passing of this legisiation Northern Quebec Rallway Company.at fihe earliest hour possible. The commit- (Hon. Mr. Tessier.)
tee only adjourned for two weeks, and tbey
RAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
agreed, as the chairman bas reported, t0
ask thxe consent of fixe House to fixe printIN COMMITTEE.
lng of tbat evidence, f0 bave It in the
The House resumed ln Committee of the
hands of those that are Interested at fixe Whole consîderation of the report of the
eariiesf possible moment. It la weil that Standing Committee on Railways, Telethe mile should be suspended for that pur- graphs and Harbours to 'whom was referred
pose.
Bihl (3) An Acf to amend the Railway Act.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Do I understand
(In the Commlffee.)
that any evidence bas been taken this mornHon. Mr. KERR-So muchbhas been said
ing 7
on this question that I do not feel calied
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-Yes.
upon to add much more to the deHon. Mr. POWER-I agree wlth the bon. bate; but there are so many ameudments
gentleman from Stadacona. We are al before fthe House, or whicb notice bas
in favour of doing whaf is proposed by the been gîven, that if occurs to me that
committee. There ls no burry about It, be- we miglit just as well shortly review the

592

SENATE

matter both as lt ls, and as It is proposed parts of the City. The answer to that la, that
te make the law. Ail are agreed, so far as if It is important that where the hlghway
I am aware, not only as to the propriety crosses at rail level the rate of speed should
but as to the necessity aiseo0f making pro- be slow, that la no reason why the rate of
vision for a reduced rate of apeed at what speed should nlot be equally slow ln the
may be considered points of danger in citles, thicly peopled parts of the towns, unles
towns and villages, descrlbed as thickly the track at that part of the town was
The oniy difference I have properly fenced,, and, therefore, the omispeopled parts.
been able te find at ail, .is a dîfference la sionl of that provision from the Bill, to my
tue way of carrylng it out, or rather of mlnd, ls a fault to be found ln the Bill as
expressing that Idea and doing it wlthln sent f rom the House of Commons, and one
Perhaps If we go for a moment of those things which 1 thlak we shouki
reason.
We should preserve to the pubor two over the sections of the Act, It wil remedy.
do more than a long discussion or very much lie the protection of requiring that the railThe section of the Act at pre- way shonld run nt no greater speed through
comment.
sent, No. 275, la aimed at and provides for thickly peopled parts of the clty which are
a reduced rate of speed not exceediag ten unfenced from the railway.
miles an hour for trains passIag through
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Section 293 rethlckly settled parts of cities, towns and talns exactly -the same provision, with the
villages, and 1 have not heard any one say simple difference that ln 293 It la a cash
anythlng againat that provision or give any penalty, whereas la 275 it la a limitation of
It Is as speed.
reason why It should be repealed.
necessary as any provision respectiag the
Hon. Mr. KERR-I do not think the proslow rate of speed whicli hias been discussed
position my hon.* friend speak-s of holda
la any way, and It la definite-It requires no
393, not 293, which proamendment and lt speaka for itself ln pro- good. He refera to
vides for a penalty :
viding definltely for prohiblting a speed of
If any train of the company passes in or
more than ten miles an heur, unlesa the through any thickly peopled 'portion of any
track la fenced or protected la the manner city, town oz village et a speed greater than
That feacing re- ten miles an houir, unless the traok à6 fenced
prescrlbed by this Act.
or proprly protected in the manner prescribed
lates only t0 the right of way through the bv this Act. or unleas permission to pas at a
It ls greater speed ia given by enme regu1ation or
crossings.
city, other than hlghway
aiso agreed, by ahl who have apoken at ahl crder of the board.
It la ail right enough If you have it proevents, that hlghway crossings at rail level
shonld aIl be protected and that, unleas they hlbited by the Act, but under section 893
are protected, the rate of speed should be a penalty la incurred and enforcible under
reduced to the same rate as la spoken of la the moat strict interpretation, and mnasthe section I have referred t0, and the mucli as you have not provided la the Act
whole question la, does the Bill sent us by againat the greater speed, the penalty
Se that the
the Honse of Gommons provide for that and would not be enforceable.
provide for It la a definite way or la the aaomaly is provided by the Bill sent to
beat form, or whether the amendment pro- us from the House of Gommons that
posed to It does that, and does It la a bet- while they have repealed section 275, and,
ter form. I submit that the Bill as seat t0 according to the reading of their Act, la ao
us by the House of Commons, does not pro- dolng they have'relieved It of the idea of
vide la this way the protection which we un- running at a 10w apeed of ten miles an hour,
deratand here la requlred wlth refereace to because the mere repeal of that section la
speed at croasinga at least. In the firat place, to be Interpreted as an Intention te remove
Il does not do so, because it repeals sectiot that prohibition, and merely leavlng the pen275 and does nlot replace it, except so far as alty clause ln would not cure it, as augIl would apply to croasings only, and by gested by the bon, gentleman froin MarshInference the argument la that If the trali field. I ask hlm to taire my argument about
bas te come to a slow rate of speed al it for what It la worth, and my position ln
crossIngs. It must necessarily corne down that respect la sustained, 1 think, by any
to that while passing through the other gentleman who la at ail cognizant of the
HIon.

Mfr.

KERR.

MARCU 19. 1908

593

iaw with regard to the enforcement cf the Act, sf111 It was there, and th(, limitapenalties for the violation of Âcts. of Par- tion was formerly six miles an hour, as
liament. Consequently, while they bave re- pointed ouf by the hion, gentleman fmom
pealed section 275 and replaced It: by a new Mamshfield. But there was aise a provisection, that at railway crossings at sion that crossinga should be fenced, highrail level traina are nlot to travel at way crossings should be -guarded, and the
a greater rate of speed 'than ten public protecfed, and that clause was ln
miles an bour, they have nlot asmend- the positive form. ln whlch we have If now
ed the penalty clause so as to appiy t0 -tn the positive form ln which If was bethat, and tbey have Ieft it therefore a pro- fore It was dropped ont of the Act ln 1903.
hibited Act, without a penalty attached to I refer fo the section I have lu my band,
it. The olci Act bad a prohibition as t0 section 107 of the Act of 1888. 1 shaîl
running through cities, towns and villages mead the precedlng section. Section 194
at a greater rate of speed than ten miles meads :
au heur, with the penalty attached te It
When a municipal corporation for any townTbey have repealed by their BIhI the sec- thip has been organized and the whole or any
township
tion which prohibits, and bave repiaced it p.ortion of gueh into lots forlbas been murveyed
and subdàided.
settlement fonces
by another, and have not amended the pen- shail b. erected and maîntained on oach aide
alty clause t0 fit the crime; so that thie Act of the railway through such township, of the.
height and utrength of an ordimary division
ln that respect, It appears t0 me, la abso- fence, with openings or gates or ba.rs or slidluteiy defective and net such as we should ing or hurdie gates of suffiaient width for the
with propor faeteninage at
accept here. My hon. friend reminds me-- purposes thereof, the. railway, and aie cattiefaxm orossings of
and I intended saying It-that even If this gua&rds at ail highway crossings suitable and
Is to be interpreted. as a sufficlent prohibi- î«uffieient to prevent cattle and othsr animais
tion as well as a penalty, it wouid be open from gotting on the railway.
And then passlng down to section 197:
to the company to accept the penalty as a
At every public moad, crossing at rail level,
compensation for having done that which
shail b.
railway,
the law Intenaded te prehibit; but I do not 1of the. fenced on the crossing as ta allowsufficiently
both aides so
the.
thlnk that is the interpretation. I only present eafe passage cf the trains.
It as an alternative. I may assume, thereSo tbat ln the Acf of 1888, definIte profore, .fhat something wlilch was uninten- vision was made for the guarding and protional bas been done by the repeal of sec- tecflng of the highway cmosslng at rail level
tien 275 as It stands In the Act to-day, and by the railway, and fthe qualification was
that there was no Intention te permit trains only that If shaîl be doue te such an extent
t0 run at that rate of speed, subject t0 a as wili allow the safe passage of the trains.
penalty of $100 a day, and liabillty for the That means the saf e passage of passengers
consequence, as tliey would be'under the and cf the public on the highway as well.
section ot the Act. The amendinent whichi
Now that provision, by an amendment lu
15 deslred, as 1 understand it from the de- 1892, and by the re-enactment of the Railbate, is one mereiy restoring to the Rallway way Act lu 1903, was omltted altogether,
-ect a provision which was left eut lu 1903. and those sections have been brought Into
It may bave escaped fthc observation of some the comparatlvely Innocent euuctment f0 be
hon. gentlemen, and, therefore, 1 cail their at- found lu section 254 of fthc Acf as If now
tention te it : thaf thîs Is not a new pro- stands-' The compaur shall erect and mainposition that at hlgbway crossings at tain on the railway, fences, etc.' The railrail level trains should be cumpelled wvay fences nt evemy such cmossing, It prof0 mun at a 10w rate of speed, nor vides, shall be turned into caffle guards sufIs tbe ether proposition a new one, ficlent to prevent cattle and other animais
that ln thlck-ly peopled parts of cities getflng on the raiiway track.
So that the
and towns they sbould run at a 10w rate broad view whlch was to be found ln the
of speed unless the road is properiy fenced. Act cf 188, section 197 cf It, bas been dropSeveral hon, gentlemen have polnted out ped ouf of our legislafion.
Now we prothe section of the Act by whlch that was pose f0 restore If; but, at the same fime,
provided under the old law, and aitbough ln w-hile restoring If, te preserve tbe distinct
1903 it w-as put ln a more elahorqte form ln l)rovýIsion respectlug the speed of trains in
38

SENATE
cities, towns and villages. 0f course, there
is the provision which lias been adverted to,
that the board msy on its ewn motion make
provision for these things; but it is flot
wlfhin reason that the board shouid make
provision for ail*the highway crossiugs by
a defluite order reapecting each one of tliem,
In tirne to prevent a great dea! of wliat we
seek te avoid by this legisiation, loas of life
and Injury te persons who may be caugbt
on the frack lu fhis way at the crosaings.
The BIi from the House of Commona does
net provIde the protection to our mmnd ln
s satlsfactory way.
In the first place,
It does not provide for a rate of
apeed at crossinga; at ail events not
with sufficlent certalnty.
The Bill provides that no train shall cross at a greater
speed than ten miles an hour, 'unless such
crosslng la properby protected.'
Wliat Is
properly protected?
Who Is te determine
when a crossing la properby pretected? Who
la to settle *whether the read was properly
pretected or net? It la net a definîte cousideration of thîngs or a condition of fhings up
to a specification. It Is lesving It af large,
ani the question cornes to be desît with, it
la lu escli case a question te be determined
by a jury whether or not that particular
crossing was properly protected.
It does
not require te be properly protected accordlng to any speci-ficatien or standard; and,
possIbly, it would flot be advisable to provide a standard for every crossiug. One
croslng may require more protection thau,
another, but the nncertalnty left werks eut
this wsy, that when the question cornes te
be determlued by the jury. one Jury may
to-day determine that the crosslng was properly protected, and the next day, ln another
case arisIug eut ef the sarne accident,
occurring at the same crossiug, before
anether Jury a differeut vbew rnay be taken,
and se you have uncertaluty, sud that kind
ef uncertaLnty whlch enables s raibway cernpany practically te defy public opinion sud
take ifs chances.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Woibd net my
hon. frieud shlow that under section 30 the
decliein would rest wlth the board?
The
board are given jurisdictiou, and It Is peinted eut lu section 30 lien they shall exercise
if.

Hon. Mr. KERR-I n'as under the inHon. Mr. KERR.

pression that iuy bon. frieud from Marshfield thonglit that that was so, and It la because lie thinks that way lie Is supportin,;
tbat clause; but it Is perfectly plain thai he
is entirely mistaken.
There la an alternative.
One is that It la properly protected
so tbat no matter who has done it, whether
the railway- bas protected the crossing
of its own motion yielding to publie opinion, or wbether it has doue
it ln accerdance with an order, If it
is 4properly protected,' ne matter how the
protection la provided, it le an aswer, snd
the question for the jury. la, dees the crossiug requIre more protection than It liad,
not, la it In accordance wltli the provisions
ef an order from the Railway Board or thle
Act, but la it ' properly'1 protected; beca use
If It la properly protected ln the eres of the
Jury the rnllway compauy are acquitted
from liablllty.
That la the firat.
The
second alternative Is the one my hon. friend
refers to-' Or unless such crossing la constructed and thereafter duiy maiutsined lu
sccordance with the orders aud directions
of the Raflwsy Commission.'
Hon. Mrn FiRGUSON-I
firet.

refer

to the

Hon. Mr. KERR-It may bave beeni insufficIently protected by the company ef
their own motion, sud the Jury mai come
to the conclusion that if was flot sufficiently
protected sud Eind agaluat tlie railway; but
ln the next case a jury might Interpret the
evîdeuce ln an eutlrely different way and
corne t0 the opposite conclusion, aud you
would have that klnd of uncertalnty and
difficulty ln desltng with a question whlch
ought not f0 be left by an Acf ef pariament lu that position.
Lt does not des!
witb the matter wlth sufficient certalnty.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-What dees the lion.
gentleman suggest?
Hon. Mr. KERR-Thie arnendmeut.
Hou. Mr. CLORAN-That la not sufficlent.
Hon. Mr. KERR-I arn sorry.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Wbich arnendment?
Hon. M.%r.
KERR-The aineudment proposed by the bon. senator fromu De Salaberry.
The amendrnent passed in the commit-tee
does it; but to my mimd the language Is flot

MAROR 19. 1908
go satisfactory, nor ls it in some respects
Hon. Mr. KERR-No, I do flot propose
se certain.
The clause, therefore, that 1 to do that. The very converse of it. There
prefer ls the amendment offered by the bon. may be an order, and there may be more
senator from De Salaberry, wbich reads as than an order and directions. Tbere may
follows:
be a regulation, and it has got to be ln ac3. No train she.ll pana over an y h.ighway cordance with ail of them. I propose to
crossing et ral-level in any thcl-epe
pc rtion of any city, town or vifiage et a make tbe requirementa cuimulative, not alci eater speed than ton miles an heur, unlees ternative.
snob croseing as conatructed and thereaiter
duly maa.ntained and proteceld in accordanoe
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-±'uen, In that case,
with an order, regulation and the directions it wouid requIre lu every Instance te be lu
of the RêiIws.y Committee of the Privy Council or ci the board in force wi*th respect there- accordance wlth three thîngse-not any one
tc, or unies@ permission is given by soine regu- of three things, but three tblngs.
lation or order of the board. The board mey
fiont tiie to time fix the speed in any case
Hon. Mr. KERR-Yes, ln accordance with
't any rate that it deems propoe.
three requirements.
go that the answer, no far as thhii amendHon. Mr. BELCOURT-ln necordance
ment goes, and the only answer, which the
railway company can set up la, tbere bas witb an order, la accordance with a regulabeen an order of the Railway Coînmittee dion, and lu accordance wlth dfrectio;ns. I
who bave considered tutu matter and de- want to understand that.
fined what protection sbouid be provlded
Hon. Mr. KERR-It requlres tbree conthere, how It should be constructedl and ditions
wlth reference te tbree requiremaintalned and protected. There are those ments.
There are tbree requireruents. It
tbree requirements, and that order la the muet have
been constructed-it must be
protection of the rallway compnny, behInd
duiy maintaiued tbereafter-aud It must
which the conipany wIll stand, because lt bave been protected-in
accordance with an
has an order made wlth respect thereto.
order, and not only In accordance witb an
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Tbe fourtb Une order, but lu accordance witb a regulation
of the amendment reads: In accordance and the directions of the Raiiway Commitwith an order, regulatIon, and the direc- tee of the. Privy Council or of tbe Board,
tions 'of the Railway Committee of the lu force with respect thereto. So that If
rlvy Council.' Are the three requisites the Rallway Committee makre a general
called for? Isl It necessary to bave an order, a general regulation and general diorder, a regulation and the directions of the rections with reference to a crossing, these
Railway Committee ?
three requirements must be complied witb,
Hon. 31r. KERR-Of course the amend- and that la wby I prefer thls amendment
ment la dealing witb orders made by two entirely to the Bill froni tbe House of Coindifferent badies. We may be dealing with Mions.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I wlsh to point
a raiiway crossing whichl was constructed,
malntained and protected under an order out what appears to be a serieus difficulty.
made by the Railway Committee of the We ail know the great number cf crossings
Privy Council sonie years ago. That la one lu Canada, and to require In every Instance
case, anether is protection under an order these tbree requlsites would put It out ef
-that is, coustructed, nintained and duly the power of the Rallway Commission te Ispretected Iu accordance witb an order, regu- sue an order wbich would be applicable te
lation aud the directions of the Board, an auy given nuniber of crossings.
erder In force and made %vithreference to
Hon. Mr. KERR-Of course, wbeu there
the crossing.
are more things ln a clause than one, it i.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Has It net ap- oniy reasouable to look at ail o! theni bepeared to my bon. friend that the wordiug fore you corne to a conclusion. 1 wIll ans-.
Is net apt language, because lu that case wer that In a moment or twe. Instead of
I submlt hie would require tbe 'words, 'Ain saying, as the Bill froni the House of Cernorder, or regulation or tbe direction.' Tben Mous says ' Uniess It le properly pretected,'
.Tou weuld have a separation ef the termis. giving ne definition of wbat proper protec-

SENATE
flon is, ani leaving that to be determined
by a jury carried away probably by scientific evidence that may be offered by men
of standing and so on, whichi would carry
weight that the ordinary witness would nlot
haveHon. Mr. BELCOUBT-My hon. triend la
trying to convince me that 1 amn wrong lu
supporting the Bill. I amrn ft supporting
the Bill as It stands; but I want to understand what this amendment means.
Hon. Mr. KERR-I arn glad t0 hear what
rny hon. f riend says; but if seems to me
that If be agrees with me about it, I shall
be able to. explain f0 other hon. members
that the requiremeufs are defInite. Eifher
the Privy Council has ln the past, or the
Raiway Commission has heretofore made
or hereafter rnay make *an order in
whieh they defined what la t0 be
doue ln the way of protection, what
ls f0 be done ln the way of maintenance,
what Is to be doue ln the way of construction, maintenance and protection; and If
tbey have doue that, then they have discharged their obligation and would be releved so far as this section of the Acf goes.
Remember that order must be one whicb
lo in force at the tirne of the accident
and made with reference t0 that crossing or so worded that 'it would be
made with refereuce to that crossing,
although
it
might
relate
to other
crossings as weli.
That is. the one case;
the alternative la this-' Or unless permission is given by some reguintion or order
of the board.'
If will be seen by hon.
gentlemen that the raiiway company can
go to the board aud point ouf that these
cannot ail be done at once; that they ean
be done according as progress may be
made, and la any particular case the board
may relieve them for the time If they provide sucb qualified protection as la the
meautime the board may requIre.
They
may make a regulaflon or an order.
In
other words, haviug a board wltb a staff
of officiaIs, wlth refereuce to aay particular
crosslug It puts the onus on the raiiway
compauy of geffing that order aud regulaflou.
When a railway company wants t0
be reiieved from making the protection af
auy particular crossing, they must get the
order or regulation from the board ftr&.e
Hon. Mr. KERR.

them; If not there is no order or regulatien ln force and the whole Act is absolute la ifs operation. Inafead of there being
any room for equivocation, or uncertainty, if la entirely reiie%ed of if, aud so
far as justice la concerued, they are able
to say, 'the special circumstauces or sncbi
a crossing require us to ask for a suspension or a regulation.'
Ail of those seern
to me f0 be reasouable propositions, 'and
seem, each of them, deiluite and uniess
complied witb, the statute is operative.
In other words, the language la absolufe-' No train shahi pass at a greater
speed than ten miles an hour uniesa 'wihaf? unless you can show you have doue
your work there la accordance with ûn
order; that yon have malntained it ln accordauce wlth an order; that you have protected that crosslng lu accordance with an
order; or unless you cau show on application
to the Railway Board there la a reason
why, by some order or regulation, you
should be wholly or lu part relieved of that
obligation for a tIme.
The board have
before them what the wlll of parliament is.
whist the requlrements and demauds of the
public are wlth reference to this, and, havin that before them, they can be trusfed
safely la the future as they have been In
the past, and their pat record shows they
can be safely entrusted with the workiug
ont of that proposition.
».hat la one of
the highest offices that the Rsllwsy Conimissioners have been called upon to discharge. Then, added f0 that, we have the
provision that the board may, from fime
to fime, not merely limit the speed ln auy
case f0 a rate if deems proper, but that if
may fix the rate. The circumastauces may
be sncb as f0 justify them la aliowing a
greater rate o! speed at certain hours of
the day or night.
Under these circuinstances, tinere is no reason lu the worid
why the company should be nnnecessariiy
bampered la carrylug ou ifs operations, so
that, lu these particulars, I think the amendment of my hon. f rieud froni De Salaberry
is entireiy preferabie f0 the Bill as if came
f rom the House sud la prscticaily the Bill
as adopted by the commiffee but ameuded
by being made iu ifs language more definite,
clear aud easily understood, sud, therefore,
more practical and workable.

MARCII 19. 1908
Han. Mr. DOUGLAS-WiII the hon. gentleman explala the effect of tbe last clause on
the precedlng clause?-that they shahl fot
pass at a greater speed than ten miles an
hour; and then that the board may flx the
speed?
la flot one la canflct with the
other?
Hon. Mr. KERR-The Bill sent from the
House of Gommons contaîns that provision.
Instend of using the word ' fix'1It uses the
word ' lîmit.' I think that word 'limit'1
would enable them ta ftx the rate of speed
that It mens. It does not necessarlly mean
a less rate, but that they may deterurine
whnt the rate of speed shall be.
Hon. Mr. DOUGLÂS-Why both clauses?
HEon. Mr. KERR-I do flot propose ta
put ln bath clauses.
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS--They are la the
amendment.
Hon. Mr. KERR-No. I propose to put thîs
clause la the ameadment instead of the one
la the Bill fram the Hanse of Gommons.
This la substituted for the same provision
that there la la that Bill wlth the differeace
that the word ' fix'1 la changed ta the
word 'Ilimit,' because, under certain clrcumstances, It might be reasonable for the
Board ta determIne that the rate of speed
may be greater than ten miles an hour.
They will take the respoasillity of determiniag that, and la niaking the change,
with that degree of responslbllty upon
them, I do not think there will be aay
trouble or riait as far as that ls concerned.
Han. Mr. WOOD-They mlght fix It at
a lees rate.
Han. Mr. KERR-Yes, or greater.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-I would Ilke ta ask
thé han, gentleman a question: Does he
remember language such as this :
It seems ta me the Senete wonld. not be discbarging its whohe duty unless it adopta this
Bill. This question about railway croesings
shauld le dealt with .now, and deait with as
tbis Bill provides.
That ls the Bill before the Houlse. - Does
the han, gentleman remember maklng use
of that statement ?

597

Hon. Mr. ICERR-I have no daubt that
I used those words; but I used them when
we were golag Into commlttee, where we
would have an opportunlty ta consider the
matter, and I dlaim for rayself the privilege that every one else la this -Chamber
has, of chnnglng my mimd. I amn qulte
open ta this conclusion. The Bill may bE
good nd It may be la the right direction;
and when It may be made better, I arn prepared toanccept It rather than reject it. I
thlnk the ameadment proposed W' the hon.
gentleman from De Snlnberry lmproved the
Bill, and for that reason I support It, without taklag back one word of what I sald
beforý.
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN-Thls matter lit
one of great iaterest. The principal thiag
I wnt to draw the attention of this
honourable House to a statement made by^
the bon, gentleman from Mnrshfield. He
mentioned the ame of Mr. Mountain, th&
chief engineer of the Rallway Board. Hasnld :
Mr. Mouintain oame ta the second meeting
of the committee wath this ste.tement whiob.
had been submitted ta the Houe ia hie b~ad,
and reed rit ta the committee, and said it was
a true statemeat.
Thea the han, gentleman from Marshfield
goas on and tries ta canvince this honourable Seate that It wns not a true state.
ment. I dnresny ha wns doing It la absoJute gaad falth, but there must have been
a mîstake la same way or other, because 1
uaderstand the statemant prepared by Mr.
Mauntain was nbsalute]y correct, as Mr.
Mauntain statad, only the differeace mny
have arisan fram the fnct, as Mr. Mountain then stnted, that la the retura of the
Railway Board accidents on the Intercolonial Rnllway, which la nat under the
contrai of the Railwny Board, have been
amitted. Thereupon the han, gentleman
from Marshfield proceeded ta hunt up the
utumber of deaths on the Intercolontal Rail.
wny. He fouad that three persans only
hnd been klled on that rond. Ooasequently.
ha said that ls not eaough ta aecount for
the large dîfferance. I havQ taken tire
trouble ta loak up -the returas, and I find
the hast raturn-nd thle I wlsh the Seata
carefully ta note-af the Rallways and
Canais Depnrtment, the statlstics very carefuiiy prepared by Mr. Payne-and whilst 1

SENATE
arn on that subject I miglit commend ta the
reading of bon. gentlemen this stiltement
prepared by Mr. Payne and under thue direction of M. J. Butler, a book which Is
most valuabie, a book whicli, If it was flot
gii-en for nothing, every one would do well
ta buy, and give a good price for, a book
whIch contains a good deai of valuabie
Information wè dld flot have before. This
la prepared up ta June 30, 1907, whilst the
iast report of the Rallway Board ls prepared only up ta Mardi 31, 1907, leaving
the mantha of April, May and June out
of the calculation. No wonder the figures
that Mr. Mountain gave from the returus
of the Board of Rallway Commissioners for
Canada would not agrée wltlî the returui
of the Raliways and Canais Departuxent.
They are flot for the same date. There
.Is a difference of three months between the
twa.

Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The hien. geutlemnan always interrupts rue. 1 have been
speaking for about three minutes and 1
have two minutes of interruptions. 1 should
be allowed to finIsh and then 1 would be
very glad ta answer ail questions, If I amn
able ta do so.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSO.NL-I want to point
ont to- my hon. frlendHon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN-I protest.
Hou. Mr. FERGUSON17-Will the han, gentleman just take up pages 114 and 110, and
I wiil show hlm that lie la only reading a
part of the tables, and If he wvlll go to the
first namned page he will find that 69 were
killed and 67 lnjured. They are divlded
Into two classes, non-trespassers and trespassers.

lion. Mr. CASGRALN-Whlat pages?
H on. '-%r. FERGUSON-My hon. friend
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-114 and 116 of
wlli observe that the comparisan extends
over three years. It ls ail covered lu the the statistics for 1907, and I notice the error
same retura and cavers years terminating the hon, gentleman is maklng, that lie Is
only reading- the class of accidents at railla each case on the 3lst of M-%ardi.
way crosslngs, of non-trespassers; but there
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-There la a discre- is a distinction made ln the return of that
pancy la the date.
year lietween those alleged to be trespassers
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-That daes flot get and non-trespassers. He is reading the
over the discrepaflcy ln the date. Accord- latter only and If he wlll add them bath
lng ta the return of the Board of Rallway together, lie wlll find that the figures whlch
Commissioners I find that there were forty 1 have submitted are riglit.
kiiled and 29 injured, whilst ln the other
Han. Mr. CÂSGRAIN-I would like the
return I find there were at highway crosshon, gentleman from MNarshfield to state
luge, under the same appellation la another
whetlier lie persists ln saying that the reIndex, 48 killed and 49 Injured. That Is a
port made by Mr. Mountain was flot a correturn of the statistics of the Department
rect report?
of Railways and CanaIs.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-For what year?
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-For the year endlng 3Oth June, 1907, at pages 114 and 115.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Was that a report
for the fulil twelve months of that year?

Hou. Mr. CASGRAIN-TIs rather confusing.
Would the hon. gentleman let me
have a littie chance to finish, and tien ask
aIl the questions lie pleases.
Surely lie
can remember them.
Han. Mr. CLORAN-I adn askilng a simple
question which the hon. gentleman lias flot
courage enougli ta answer.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN.

o.M.ERUOIcetilsa
Hon. Mfr. CASG;RAIýN-He says here 'it
is a true statement.' and then lie goes an ln
a columu or a columa and a hlf ta demaliali
that report, wisling ta put Mr. 'Mountain
ln a wrong light" befare this Senate.
1
have known Mr. Mountain for a number of
years, and I do flot know any Canadian
engîneer for whom I have more respect
than that gentleman.
We cannot refer
liere ta what took place ln cormIttee, can
we?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON--Ol,

yes.

MARCH 19. 1908
lion. Mr. CA*SGRAIN-Tlien 1 nmay say
that Mr. Mountain produced a certain lest
eliowing that a certain number of persons
were killed.
Then the lion, gentleman
went up ta bis room, came down with another report and would have the committee belleve that Mr. Mountain was really
trylng ta put before the commlttee a atatement whlch was flot absolutely correct, and
lie asked hlm, WHIl you explain, Mr. Mountain,' and we know how the lion, gentleman
tramn Marelifield can do It. We know his loud
and eolemn tones. He eald ' How Io It that
your figures do flot agree,' and most of the
members of the commlttee were under the
Impression that Mr. Mountain liad made a
grat mistake wlien afterwarde cemparlng
the figures Mr. Mountaln said, ' The Intercolonial figures are not ln our report because as you know, by the Rallway Act
the Intercolonlal le not under the Rallway
Board.'
There was bound to be a discrepanicy la the figures.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSO-Tliey are marked there for tlie lion, gentleman; lie cannot
go aitray' If lie looks at tliem.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-One report le up
to Mardli 31, 1907, and tlie other ta June
30), 1907,-tiree montha' dîfference.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-On the page that
tlie lion, gentleman lias read lie omitted 21
deathe and a larger number of accidenta,
and they are on the very page lie le looklng at.
Hon. 31r. CASGRAIN-I do net understand how tlie lion, gentleman can compare
two reports tliat are not of even date.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It muet be tliat
the lion, gentleman knows lie le omlttlng
these figures, or lie would not refuse to
look at the table. Thiere are the two
clauses.
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRIN-I am really sur-L
prleed at the lion, gentleman thlnklag I amn
wUlngly trylng to bide figures.
Hon. Mr. F'ERGUSON-Why does tlie
lion, gentleman not rend whiat le before
hlm?

longer thian tlie otlier, and consequently It
Is very difficuit to make a comparison between tiema.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That lefa
noreason wliy the lion, gentleman aliould only
read hiait of the report lie lias la hIs biand.
Hon. Mn. <ASGRAIN-Tie lion, gentleman aays further :
I muet 6ay that I have not absolute faith i
the experte cf the Railway Commission, from
the fact that Mr. Dellingor and Mr Mountin
wero preeont and heard Màr. Chryoier make
the preoerous statoment which I have
quotod, that it would take two inileo, &c.
The lion, gentleman tramn Marslifield lias
not implcît faltli. I .the experte et te
Board cf Railway Commiseioners, I want
ta vindicato In tels Hanse one of tee experte of teat Board wliom I know perfectly,
Mr. Geo. A. Mountain, and I say teat a
better choice could net have been made by
tee government He la a man ef vast experience.. He le a man wlio conducted large
works. He bulît a part of the Canada
Atlantic RaUway Ctor Mr. J. R. Booth, fromn
Coteau ta OttawÏ_and rromn Ottawa ta
Depot Harbaur and Parry Sound, a
road .which -lias. been clted ln many instances as due of ' the beet ronde ln
thls country. There le fia rallway offIcIaf wlio bas.given ,better satisfaction, and
lieariig'bhlm reterred ta as being wlling
ta hlèoimethlng. tra-m the committee, I
thought it MY duty tÔ rîsa ln' tels Heuse
and detend teat.gentlemhan. .As
te Mr.
Lancaster'e
u. .anl
favour-of te
prîncîple of teat ineasure and. alwaya have
been; but I am pleased ta aa&y that the
lion, gentleman from De - alaberry, wltli
tee extensive knowledge teat lie posseases of
the law, and his abllty ta grapple wl&h legal
problems, lias bettered It ten-fald over, and
I shail lie deliglited ta vote for tee amendment p'roposed by hlm, whlcll. baves the
decîuion an tels point ln ait Case ta the
Rallway Board, wlie are la a mudli botter
position. than any jury ta decide la whlcli
way and ln what manner a hlghway eroulng sliould lie pratected.

lin. Mr. POWER-I do ot;jWJa It la
necess.lry ta make very praoo
spçces
Hon. '.%r. CASGRAIN-I cannot make in connection wlte tels subjeCt, and Cortliem up off-liand lîke this. These are two tainly It le unnecessary ta bacome vory mucli
reports, flot ot aveu data, one tbree monthe exeýlted. ¶1
lere [s nobody hélas killQ4 jùst

SENATE

'

hiere and now, and we ouglit to be in a
position tu look oni and consider the question In a calm and temperate frame of
mmid. 1 bave flot heard any bon. gentlemanî say that lie dld flot desire that every
protection prectîcable sbould. be afforded to,
hnunau l1fr. Of course tbere are certain
thlngs wbicb you cannot protect people
against. You cannot proteet people against
She*ix own Imprudence, against their own
negilgence and Ignorance; ail that you eau
do la to provide that any one wbo is reasonably careful shalI fot mun any rlsk of
belng kllled. on a railway. The bon, gentleman from Marshfield bas manifested a
disposition to minimize
the inconvenience to wbicli the raUlway companies
would be put by the enforcement of
the Lancaster Bill in the form la which It
came up to ns.
1 think the members of
the commlttee were, as a rule, satlsfied
that the Bill in Its operation would be liable
to do very considerable miscbief to the commerce of the country.
The object, of
course, Is to prevent fatal xccidents at bigbway crossings.
That -is the only thing
which, this Bill undertook to do, to minimize the number of accidents at higt-way
crossings.
Now, I turu to the stathtcs
clted by the hon, gentleman from Marshfield.
I turu to pages 114 and 115, and I
flnd on page 114 that the ist: of persons
trespassing on the rond who bave been
kiiled and injured at highway crossings was
21 kIlled and 18 lnJured--tbe total number.
Then on the next paýgethe total number of
persons wbo were mot trespassing but were
kIlied at crossinga was 48 and the total Injured 49.
1 just wish to cali attention to
another tact.
At other points along tbe
track there were 122 trespassers kllled.
Tat Is, six tîmes as many were killed at
other points on the track as were killed at
the crosslngs. There were 55 persons lnjured. That la, at other points on the track
about tbree times as many as at the
crosslngs.
Then of the persons who were
non-trespassers there were ten kiiled and
twelve Injnred at other points on the line.
So, bon. gentlemen, althougli it Is a melancholv return, the number kllled Is not so
excem4ive *s It -nigbt be supposed, considerin.g the -fâct ffhat we have 22,000 miles of
-railwnmy. ýThere is just one other point to
ihicb !-direct -the attention of -the Fluse,
-non. M, POWER.

and to whichi 1 do flot tbink attention bas
yet been called.
As a rule, the rate of
speed of street railways la not mucli over
ten miles an hour, and on looking. at the
return of accidents on the street rallways I
find the number kilied was 27 and the number injured 84, and of course the mileage lo
very mucli sinailer. There were about hait
as many k-illed on the street raiiways as on
the other rnliways.
That Is killed on the
crossings.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Does that atone
for the others?
Hon. Mr. POWIER-No, but I bave not
heard the hon, gentleman become eloquent,
and being very mucb worked Up over ail
the accidents wblcb bave bappened on the
street railways.
Hon. Mm. FERGUSON-We have not tiaat
question before the House.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I bave not heard
it proposed by anybody that we should
cause the street raîlways to slow down to
say five miles an hour.
There la another
point to wblch attention bas not been directed, and whlch I think bon, gentlemen
sbould consider In maklng up their minds
In connection wltb this question; that Is,
what proportion of those accidents happened
in tbickly peopled portions of cities, towns
and villages.
As n rule there are more
people kfhIed on tbe rond crossings lu the
rural districts than lu the cities, towns and
villages.
Looking at what one sees in the
newspapers, tbose accidents on the country
rond crossings are more numemous than In
the cities and towns.
There Is another
point, and I daresay the bon, gentleman
wlhl think It Is a very absurd question for
me to suggest, and tbat Is this: how muchi
ls the risk of serions accident lncreased by
the greater speed of the trains? There Is
this thing to be borne lu mInd: that the
train which is moving forty miles an boum
p~asses through n place ln one-fourtb of the
t.me a train moving at a speed of ten miles
an hour, and for that reason, other things
being equal, the iiability to accidents would
be radier less: but, (5f course, the fast train
does take people by surprise Nhen they are
aot looking out for it. There is this other
matter also, that when an express train
which is understood to mun forty or fifty

MARCH 19. 190b
miles an hour is known to be approaching,
people keep off tbe track.
Hon. '-%r. SULLIVAN-Hear, bear. There
is no deubt about that.
Hon. Mr. POWER-HavIng said that
mucb on tbe general question, I corne to
the BUI as referred to the Raiiway Committee. As bas been pointed eut by the
bon. gentleman f rom Toronto, the Bill
as it came up from the Heuse cf Gemmons repeaied altegether section 275 of the
Raiiway Act, and substituted sonxetbing
else for it. The section of the Railway Act
which was repeliled contained a provision
that ne traiD sbould paso through any
tbickiy peepied portion of any city, town
or village at a speed greater than ten miles
an bour, unless the track was fenced or
properly protected In the manner prescribed
by thus Act, or unless permission la given
by some regulation or order of tbe Board.
The Bill wlien It came from the Heuse cf
Cemmens proposed to do away witb that
altogether. Surely it Is just as Important
that a raiiway track.through a village sbeuld
be fenced as that the cressing should be
properly protected. If the railvay runs
beside a hlghway, for Instance, there Is
really much more danger of accident If the
track la not fenced. In the first place,
cattie are likely to get on the track, and I
think If I had to choose between the provisions of section 275 as it stands now, and
the provisions of the Bill whIch came up
to us, I sbould decldedly choose the existing section 275 of the Raliway Act. The
point of difference between the Bill as It
came up to the Senate, or tbe subamendment of the bion, gentleman froma
Marsbfield, and the amendment of the bon.
gentleman fromn De Salaberry, is that the
amendment of the bon, gentleman from
De Salaberiy leaves a discretion with the
Railway Board. Now, this Railivay Commission was appointed to deal wIth the wboie
question of tbe management ef our railways, and up to tbe present time that
Commission bave done their work In a
very satlsfactory way. Wbile I bave a
great deal of respect for the judgment of
I
the hon, gentleman from Marshfield,
think that on tbe wbole the chairman of
the Raiiway Commission and bis colleagues
are just about as weli qualified to judge

as to wbat regulations should be made witb
respect to speed on railway hunes as even
that hou. gentleman. Tbe Commission le;
the body witb whlcb the discretion should
lie, and tbat la tbe reason- wby, of the two
ameudments, I prefer tbe one propoaed by
tbe bon, gentleman frem De Slaberry.
Tbhere i. another point to which I do not
tbink sufficient attention bas been directed.
The hon, gentleman from Kamloops referred te It yesterday atternoon; but I thInk
it is a point which deserves further -consideration. My view la tbat the promoter o!
this Bill ln another place did not Intend to
exclude the jurladiction of the Raiiway Commission, and I shail read a couple of extracts from bis speeches ln the other House.
At page 7066 of the Commons 'Hansard.'
for 1906, 1 find that tbe member for Linicoin said :
The effect of my emendment ia tha.t the. rail.
ways must run not faster than ten miles an
hour, or proteot thsir traeks, or ela. get an
oi der from the Railway Commission.
That ls just wbat tbe amendment o! the
hon, gentleman fromn De Salaberry proposes. Tbe extract continues :
This leaves to the Reilway Coîmnission
practicaily the. decision as to what pcrotection
îî necesss.ry at any crcsaing.
If that bad been put lu tbe Bill as It
came frem the Gommons. the commlttee
probably sbould. not have undertaken to
ameud It.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If the bon. gentleman wili look at the date, be will fiud
tbat it was lu discussIng a Bill that was
introduced, not tbe BIBI agreed upon by
tbe commlttee of seven, but a Bill Introduced by Mr. Lancaster at an early stage.
I am under the Impression that Is the case,
altheugh 1 bave net looked at It.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I wili read 'what
comes before, ln order te show wbat the
position was.
On July 5 :
House in Committee on Bill (62) to amend
the Rafl.way Act, 1903-Mr. Emmerson.
Hon. H. R. EMMERSON (Minister of %ailways and Canais) moved the, House juito Committee of the. Wiiole, and he said:
As I understand the matter, every section
ii, the second reprint of this Bill, as ameuded,
jr- Committee of the Whole, has been passed
upon and a.pproved by this committee. There.
fCTe, the Bill stands at this moment as having

SENATE
the approval of -the Oomrnittee of tiie Whole
Hlouse. There is, however, a matter which
l'as been refered to li this committee, that
is one relating to Bill <No. 80) which perhapc
the hion, gentleman froin Lincoln (Mr. Lancaster) wil explain.
Mr. LANCASTER. By arr-angement with
the government through the Minister of Railim ays I move tu add the follewing ae section
20a.
And hie went on to read bis amendment
la the shape lu which it Is now before the
Senate, and lu connectiou with that he made
that speech. My point la that the Bill
drafted by the hon. gentleman from, Lincoin dld flot carry out bis own intentions,
because the Bill he gives us, whlch bie
reads frem, la mast Identical witb the Bill
which, came up the other day. I have been
reading frein pages 7065 and 7066.
I turu te the 'Hansard ' of last session
(1906,07). and at page 953 I find that the
mniber for Lincoln used this langunge:
Ilader the Bill as passed by this Hanse la3t
session they have only te go tu the Railway
Commission if they do net wish te afford the
protection and get speciai permission not te
give the protection.
This shows that the hon, gentleman frem
Lincoln realiy dld net mean te exciude the
juriadiction ef the Railway Commission, and
now the lion. senater frein Marshfieid la
very indignant aud tblnks we are a number
of nlmost Indescribable monsters, because
-ve try te inake the Bill tlint came te us
convey tbe iueaning which the nuthor of
the Bill mentioned ln the Heuse of
Commons In two, sessions. I did thînk of
making some cemparisen between the
amendient of whichi I bave given notice
and that proposed by the bon. senator frein
De Salnberry; but the better way perbaps,
Is te, dispose cf the ameudment of the heu.
gentleman Èrein Marsbfield first
I May
sny, hewever, with respect te, the amendment ef whIch I have given notice, aud
that ef whicb the bon. senator froin De
Salaberry bas given notice, tbnt my amendment Is onîy about liaif as long as his, and
I think It cevers the ground quite as effectually.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I wiii net attempt te add nnythiug te the arguments
that have been presented frein a legal
standpoint.
1 prefer te leave It te, tbe
legs]l ights of this Heuse te, dispose of that
question.
.I want simply te f'efer te a
Hon. Mr. POWER.

few points thnt I think have net been
touched upon yet.
In the first place, we
have a very large number of level cressings
In thus country.
If we had stlpulated. at
the Inception of the construction of railways
tat there sbeuld be ne level croasings, the
probabilities are thnt we would not have In
Canada te-day the very extensive rallway
accommodations that we enjoy.
Level
crossings were and are a necesslty In the
conditions of thus country.
We have no
right te rail at the rallway companies because there are level crossings.
They tire
liera for the convenience of the people, for
the purpese of securlng railway accommodation aud -for the general good. If those
wbo bave tu, use level crossings wouid act
with prudence, we would net have anything
luke the number et accidents that take
1Place. Why do net people guard themselves
ngainst accidents
at level crosslnga 7
Netwlhstandiug the fact that the raiiway
companies put up signa wnrning thse people
ef the danger at railway crossings, bow
many take any notice of those signais?
Tbey drive by, lu mauy cases without paying the elighteat attention, and the resuIt is
that accidents take place.
It would be a
good thing If we had the power te, put an
ameudment In our criminai code lmpesing a
penalty on any oue drlvlng, over a rallway
cressIng witbont coming te a dead stop before dolng7 su. If we have net that power, I
sbould luke te, see somethIng ef thse kind doue
by the local legialatures.
New, the bon.
senator frein Marshfield clsallenged the
statement I biad made lu the cemmittee with
regard te, the bampered condition lu whIch
Canadian rallways wIll fInd. theinselves If
this Bill were passed, that it wenld give
the United States lunes an advantage over
our raiiways runnlng between cempetlng
points.
He says that lu the Unitod States
almost every state bas passed legisiation
something lu tbe lhue ef this Bill as sent te
us frein the Commens.
I challenge hlm
new te naine one single state lu whlch sncb
drastic legialation bas ever been passed.
The only state that bas nny legisiation of
the kind is New Hampsbire, wbich bas a
statute net reguiating the speed of trains,
but giving te the Raiiway Commission the
power te, regulate the speed of trains passing througb tewns aud cities, the very thing
we are trying te de by tbis Bill as amended

MAROH 19. 1908
by the amendment of my lion. friend f rom

De Salaberry.
I admit that citiesi as a
rule, have power te regulate the speed of
trains and street railways wlthin their limThey have that right cent errcd In
It.
their charters as cities; but ne atate bai
passed such a law as the eue preposed here.
Anether thing that I drew attention te was,
that on the Canadian Pacific Railway and
thc Grand Trunk Raiiway there are many
stations wherc the express trains do net
stop, some of them at villages of considerable population.
If yeu cempel the cernpanica te slow dewn their -trains te ten
miles an hôur at ail sucb places, yeu wiil
seriously restrIct the opeed of tbrougb
trains running between Important pointa.
Now, my hon. friend frem -Marshfield
bas referred te the legislation lu Michigan.
There la ne provision ln that
state under which any village can regulate the speed of trains, ne matdense the population
may
ter hew
be. Citlca have the pewer, I admît and
se have large towns, but net villages. Anether thIng my hon. friend. mcntioncd was
the tIme which clapses betwcen thec blowing of tic whistlc and ringing of the bll
and lcaching tic crossIng. whcn a train le
travelling at thc rate of 60 miles an heur.
As a rule, trains de net keep up that spced
running tbreugh cities and towns; tiey
slow dewn; but If they did, I ask my bon.
friend if'he would net have time lu flftcen
seconda te get down on bis bands and
knccs and crecp acreas Uic cressing before
Uic train could reacb hlm, sie that anybody
who heara the whlstlc bas time te get off
thc crossing. The great trouble la Uiat
people wli stupidly allew themselves te be
run oecr by raiiway trains, notwithstandIng notices and warnings. In 99 cases eut
ef 100 wbere accidents occur, thcy are due
te the indifference or stupidity of people
thcmi3eives. Many people commit suicide
by delibcrately lying dewn on thc track.
Seme will .flnd a place on thc track, others
on a crossing. HeIw de I knew that? Why,
people Jump into Niagara river ln order te
be carrled over Uic talla. You might as well
say that we should put a wali aleng the
river front abeve Niagara Falls te prevent
people committing suicide by drewning as te
pose such legielation as this. Whcn people
want te commit suicide they wili do it

one way or anether. We cannot prevent It
by legisiatien. These level crossings are
of interest to ail of us. We have no riglit
to say to the railway companies, yeu are
aitogether responsible for klling the people
of thii country If tbey -are using the precautions requlred by law, putting Up notices,
blowiug wbistles and ringing belle. With
these precautions, thcy are dolng ail that
the law sbould requIre them to do. But ln
another place yen say yeu muet corne down
to ten miles an heur when yen stflke a
populous tewn or village. Wbo ls going te
put up. the mark se that the engineer wili
sec it and understand that when he strikea
that mark bis train muet be running ten
miles an heur and no more'> Who la going
to stake eut the space between the twe
pointa where be muet rmn at that speed ?
It muet be doue by somebody. Yeu cannot
expect the engineer te know where that Io
te begin and end; he muet have some, guidance. If lt la net done, under this law he
weuld be Ilable te be hauled Up and fined.
This question le one that requires very serieus consideratien, and, after viewing the
whele matter, I have corne te the conc~lusien that the ameudment proposed by my
esteemed friend, the hon. senater frem De
Salaberry, la the best that can be made at
the present time. If we paose more drastic
leglalatien, we cripple our railways and we
do net want te do that. We want te give
thema fair play. In the United States, we
know that the Interstate Cemmission bas
ln many cases dene very serions barm and
interfered wlth trade, and the public begin
te realize the Injury that bai been donc.
We had better take care that that dees net
take place ln Canada. I de net want te
shbld the railways; I want te sec tbcm
live up te whatever law we have. If they
vielate the law I arn quite wilng that tbeY
should be punisbed; but we sheuid, have
another law Impesing a penalty upen those
whe. delibematcly cross thc ralway traeka
witheut taking the slighteat notice ef signe
er warnings. Poancy a man at night driving
a covered buggy across a railway track
and neyer stopping a moment te find eut
If a train la approacblng. He le net likely
te notice the whistling of a locomotive or
the ringing of a bell; prebably he weuld be
cenfused with otiier noises. I say that the
law sheuld require a man under such dir-

S1'SATE
ciimstances to stop stone-still until he
learns whether a traiù la corning before he
atternpts te cross the track. I amn propared to support the amendment of the
hon. member frorn De Salaberry.
Hon. Mr. McGREGOR-I have nothing
in the way of argument to use; I only want
te explain my vote. When the Lancaster
Bfi was first breught te the Senate, I wae
rather lI faveur cf It, and said it sheuld
nlot be tbrown out wlthout very serious consîderation. Certainly the Bill has recelved
censideratien; it la going to be amerided,
and It shouid be arnended. I Ilstened te
the hon. senator frem Marshfield wlth very
great interest. He deserves eredlt for the
facts he laid before us. At first I intended
te support hlm, but, after very serieus consideratien, I have corne te this conclusion:
We want safety first, but we want speed
as well. If a train la going te Montreal
to-nigbt and I con reach there a quarter cf
an heur seener by a fast train than by
taking a siewer one, 1 would take the fast
train. What we waut la speed witb safety.
Absolute safety we cannet get au long as
rallways run. Even If a train'runs only
five miles an heur, yeu wili flnd foellsb
people wili get iu the way and be injured.
In the tewu where I live, I saw a man
serleusly lnjured by a train backlng Up,
shunting. He was cressing the track witb
a herse and did net get eut ef the way.
Heu. Mr. FERGUSON-That lu well previded fer by section 276 of the Railway Act.
Hen. Mr. McGREGOR-I take riskis myself very eften with the street cars here.
If I see a street car coming fast, I stop
until it passes; If It la meving slewiy I try
te pass before It, and the, is more rlsk in
cresslng when the car ls going slewly.
When I am eut driving at home, If I have
te cross the Intercolenial Raiiway and mee
a train approaching slewly, 1 whip up my
herse and cross before the train cernes; but
If the train la mevlng fast I de net taire
any risk. I thlnk I can fairly accept the
arnendment of the hon. senater froua De
Salaberry.
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-I asked the bon.
gentleman froua Toronto if he wouid kindly
give us some light on the relation -of one
part ef this clause te the other. I bave
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN.

waited very patieutly whle ethers speke
te see If liiht weuld be thrown en that

subject. If I arn te vote, I want te knew.
what I arn veting fer. 1 do net want invoived clauses and bad Engllsb. We are dealing
with abstract princîples, and net with general statements. The amendment, as I understand it here, la cenflictlng-the clauses
are net lI harmeny one wlth the other.
If I understand, English, and I eugbt te,
there la a maximum of speed prevlded fer
in this amendment, and there Is an implied
minimum ef -speed la the latter part of the
clause, and that minimum is ln the judgment of the Board, wbatever that inay be.
Then it lu qulte possible, I uee In the relation ef* one te the ether, that the minimum may everlap the maximum, because
the judgment of a court may lu this case,
as tbey have power given te them lu any case,
wlth reference te speed at any rate te
decîde wbat it deems proper lu its judgment I certalnly tbink there la a confusien ef Ideas, and I see tbe groundwork
bere fer a great harvest fer the legal profession. A case might corne befere the
ceurts lu whlch they weuld reap a goed
harvest la seek-lng te define what is the
maximum aind what ls the rnimum. * De
I understand by the maximum speed that
it la uiodlfied te ten miles an heur lu cîties,
tewns and villages ? Arn I te draw the
conclusion froua the latter part cf the clause
that the Board may fix the speed 'la any
case,' whether la a town, city or village, 'at
any rate, net ten miles an heur, but possibly flfteen miles an heur, er even In places,
wbeire it mlght be dene with perfect
safety, at sixty miles an heur ? In our
Northwest country It will net make much
difference wbether trains run fast or net,
because the nature of the country la such
that we can generally see a train cernlng
about three miles away and nobedy need
be lu any great hurry [n gettlng ever crossings unless he has sernething te warp
his judgment, as once happened lu a case
I saw at Portage la Prairie. I saw a farmier drive bis tean rlght across the track
when the train was rnovlng eastward. The
cowcatcher caught bis wagon and tbrew it
and the team into the ditch and stripped
the herses ef their barneas. The train was
stopped and *everything was found but the
man. We went back looking fer arins and

MAROH 19. 1908
limbs, expectlng the man -was ln pieces,
but we could flot find. a trace of hlm. After
a time we found hlm sitting on thue cowcatcher unhurt I suppose It was what was
ln hlm that enabled hlm to get off so euecessfully. He had ln hlm more than he
should have had. The question now la flot
80 much a question with us ln the wnest
as to whether the Board should Increase
the rate, but how far It should be increased.
ln towns, cities and villages. I do flot see
why we should have the maximumn speed
ln conflct wlth the minimum. Virtually,
there la a supposition Implied ln thls iast
sentence, that the Board saah have power
to exceed the rate fixed lu the firat Instance, If they deem It expedient or proper.
1 do flot think it la a credît to this honourable Senate to allow involved clauses
of thîs klnd to leave the House without belng put ln plain Engllsh. 1 look to the
hon. senator from De Snlaberry, who la
the author of this ameudment, to throw
sonue llght on these two points, and then I
shall be able to consîder the ameudment
mucb more favourably than I do at present. My dlfficulty wlth it Is that"It is flot
stralght Engllsh. The clauses are flot sufficlentîr and clearly eut to prevent mîstakes
belug made when you go to court. and aidjudicate a case, because the judgment of
a court la here so pecullarly defiued that it
may altogether supersede the stateruent, 'A
greater speed than ten miles an hour:' I
should lîke very much to get llght on thls
subject before I vote, and there la ground
for asking the bon gentleman who has prepared thîs amendment to give us some Ides
as to how these two clauses may be harmonlzed.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-How would the hou.
gentleman do It If he were on the bench
hlrnself?
Fon. M1r. DOUGLAS-I would say that
H
thîs is work for legal gentlemen to do;
but not for men who want simple justice.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The bon. gentleman
asks a question whlch It Is my duty to
answer. I may say, however, that I would
have much preferred If he had persisted ln
puttlng the question to the hon. senator
trom Toronto, because I do not claim to be
an Engllsli scholar. However, I have oc-

605

casion to read Engllsh as well as Frencu
law pretty often, and have had occasion
to do so for forty years lu the exercise of
my practice, and I cannot see that there
cau be any confusion arlalng from thîs
clause from the point of vlew of a legal
man. What the phrase conveys ls this,
that the speed la limlted to ten miles, unhess one of two conditions obtains; firat the
construction, maintenance and protection nccordlng to an order of the Rallway Board,
or, second, pendlng the lssuing of an order
of that klnd, or even slmultaneously wltb
the Issue of an order of that'klnd, or after
It has been issued by speclal permission
given by the Railway Board, to elther exceed that speed, or If the Rallway Board
deema it adrîsable, to limît It to a speed
less than ten miles an hour for these
speelfie or Individual hlghway crossîngs.
only at certain hours of the day, and 1
cannot ses that there la any confilet between that part of the clause and the other
part of the clause.
Hon. Mr. DOUGLAS-I understand the
hon. gentleman's explanation, but I do not
see the necesslty, after sueh an explanation, that that clause should Inelude tlae
words lu the first part of the ameudment,
,A. greater speed than ten miles an hour.'
It lo qulte uncalled for, If you give authorlty to the Board that they may from time
to tîme fix the speed ' at amy tîme,' 'at any
rate' It deems proper. They have ail the
authorlty and power that any Board eau
desire. There la an effort to fix the maximum speed ln the second lhue. and then
that speed may be exeeeded If an order
la made by the Board.
Hon. Mr. JONES--If there was nothlng
but the last clause which the hon. gentleman read, and there are 2,500 or 3,000 crossings, what would the railway do pendn.g the
decîsion, 'w1thout that part of the amendmeut that he speaks of lu the first part,
whieh he thînks unnecessary ?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I wish to approach
thîs question lu a judicial frame of mmnd,
and gîve wvhatever experienee I have lu regard to the interpretatlon of clauses 'which
are passed by this parliameut and others.
In the first place, I regret that lu the oriAct to amend the Rallway
ginal Bill ,'An
Act.' the following wils put lu

SENATE
Section 275 of the Railway Act is hereby repealed and the following is substituted therefor.
1 may say ln regard to that action, It was
flot a wlae one; It la flot ln the Interests
of the people of thia country to, wlthdraw
section 275 of the 'Railway Act as it stands,
and If hon. gentlemen wlll juat listen to
tbe. reading of It, they will see the necesslty for Its continued existence ln our
statute. That section reads :
No train shail pass in or through any thickly
peopled portion of any city, town or village 'it
a greater apeed than ton miles an hour unless
the track je fenced or properly protected.
This clause deals with the track, not
wlth the crosslng, but wlth the truck runnlng through cîties, towns and villages; and
If we strîke out this clause we relieve the
railway companies, as far as this goes,
of ail responslblity of keeplng their track
fenced ln thlckiy peopled sections of the
country. Wlth the new law, we slmply
force tbem to protect their crosslngs. There
ls not a word hn the Bill whlch wili force
the rallways to do what they are forced te,
do under section 275 ef the Âct. So that
the Bil, i that respect, la inadequate, and
It was a mistake to attempt te repeal
clause 275. As I understand the amendment moved by the hon, gentleman frooe
De Salaberry, he inserts this clause. Nýow
take the clause ltself and examine the two.
Tbey are Identical, with the exception of
three words omltted and the change of one
letter. Wby the three words are omitted,
ls more Vian I can tell, and the three
words omitted are the essence of the Lancaster Bill, wbeu it says, 'Unless such
crossIng lu propprly pretected.' Why drop
out the words, 'Properly protected.'
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE--The words are
'Censtructed, maintained aud protected.'
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-That la not included
ln the hon. gentleman's amendment.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-Supposlng the hon.
geutleman's amendment covers what ls already ln existence ln the Bill of Mr. Lancaster, 1 flud fault with this provision ln
it, and I think the railwav companies
wiIl find fault equaliy in regard to that
provision, as well as every mu nicipaHon. M. CLORÂN.

lity in the Dominion of Canada, as weli as5
every citizen in Vie country who wlll bav-e
a grievauce agalnst Vie raiiroad. Wliy ?~
Because on each crossing there wll be room
for ltigation. There wIll be a necessity
for the rallroad etther to come before the
Rallway Commlttee or Vie Board of Commissioners. There will be necesslty for,
the representatives of Vie municlpallty to
come up to Ottawa. There will be necesslty on Vie part of Vie citizen to ceme up
te Ottawa to have a certain cressing protected, and the hon. senator from. De galaberry answered me Vie other day, when I
asked hlm tu regard to Vie provision he bas
put ln his ainendment, If It weuld be necessary for each case to be taken up separately, aud bis answer was 'Practcally ro.!
Would Viat not be a nice state of thlngs,
te force eachi railway company to corne
befere Vie Rfallway Board to ask permission te put down a crossing ? Would it
net be a cumbersomne task ? ls this legîslation not deslgned so as to werry people
lnstead of giving Viem esse, because the
clause reads as follews:
Unleesssuch crossing is properly protected, or
unless such crossing is constructed and thereafter duly maintained in aocordance, with the
oiders, regulationsa snd directions of the Railway Committee of the Privy Counicil or of the
board in force in respect thereto. The board
m7y limit the speed in any such case te wh-it
itdeems proper.
I would lîke to have Vie law wlthout
any chance o! evasion, or InterpretatIon on
Vie part of Vie courts-that la compuisory
regulation : Viat regulations be sent forth
as a matter of rlght, not only lu one case,
but for ail crossings, and give Vie railway
oue or two years, whatever may be deslred, to put the crossings In a proper condition ef protection. If such were done,
then the object of Vie Bill would be attained; but If It ls golng to be ]eft to, ladîvîduals to enforce the law, it wlll be a
cumbersome aud awkward thing. I hoped
such would not be the eff ect of the amendment, but the hon. gentleman madle answer
to me aud said Viat practlcally ln every
case wve would have to take specil action.
1 do not tbink Viat would be a proper thing
for Vils parliament to do. If lie eau see
bis way, flot to force Individus) action for
each crossing. 1 wouid say that the amendment Is on the right Iiies. I understand

0

-MAIRCH 19. 1908
that railroatds have a great deal to contend
with. They have a great deal to.contend
with ln gettiug their trains tbrough Immense distances--three or four tbousand
mlles. I can understand railways caunot
have protection at every crossing, but there
ln no donbt that If the railway companles
themselves--and nmre companies have doue
this and beuefitted by it-would undertake
te preteet crossings, on their own Initiative, wherever asked, especially lu large
communities, like passing through St. Henri
near Montreal, or ether places, that they
would have the good wIll. ot the people,
that there would be none et the feeling
that exista; to-day, antagonistic to the railway Interests, because ln many Instances
railways do flot accede to the desires et
the munlcIpality. But If they did it lu a
great number of cases, they would gain
the goodwlll of the people, and there weuld
be noue et thls autagonlsm tewards tbem.
The railways are aIl trying te, build up the
country, and we arè not called upon here
te, hinder their efforts. Our first duty, however, la to the people, te protect human
lte, as was well sald by the bon, gentleman from Toronto; at the same tîme, we
must net throw ail the sacrifice of buman
lite on the railroad. I fInd. by the statisties
that lu ei-ery calling sud In every walk
et lite there are many fatal accidents as
well as non-fatal. I find that In 1906-7, there

were 1,107 people killed in the Dominion of
Canada, and I was very much surprised
to find that tbere were over 176 people klled
on farms, falling off baystacks and belug
run over by wagons, machlnery, and so
on. In navigation there were 117 kilIed.
In fishlng and buntlng, fit teen. In
lumbering 119 and In minlng 119. lu railway service-that In comprising ail branches
of'the service, not merely rallway cros.
ings, of the different systems of rallroads
tbrougbout the Dominion, I find there were
252. So that the comparison is flot se much
to the dlsadvantage-we will flot say to the
discredit--of the rallways, and what
I
would ask la, that wrhen they recelve a request from a munlclpallty, people who do
not act llghtly, who corne to tbem on bohait of human lte. that they should accede
as tar as possible and flot block the wish
o! municipal autliorities who are responsIble for the lives lu thelr midat. Then
what was the total of non-fatal accidents?~
It was 2,745. On the farms there were 262
fatal accidents. Flshlng and huntlng, flve,
lumbering 156, minlng 174, building trades
272, metal trades 562, weodWorking 138, and
lu railway service 340, out o! a total of
2,748. There were other callings where
there was a smaller number et accidents
as showu by the table submitted to parliament by the Deputy Minister of Labour, as
*
tllows.
DEPAitTmENT OF LABOUR, CANADA.
STAnTX5icAL TABLES VIT. A. R. No. 27.
TABLE OF FATA4L INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS IN CANADA DURING 1906.
Number of fatal accidents by monthe.
Trade of Induetry.

iTotal.

.3

. .........
8
3 10 10 12 25 14 24
ihigand hunting................ ...
1
ô
3
2......
Lumbering ........ ...... ........ 4 * '3
7
6 16 15 12
S
Mining ......................
.... 7 7 9 il 16 15 8 10
Building trades ....... .... ........ i1 4 1 36
416
7
Meta trade....... ...............
6 3 6 5 311
55
Wodwki trades ............ .. .... ...
...........
.... .....
Clothing trades ...................
.... ....
........
Textile trades ........... ... ....... 2
1
Food and tobacco preparation........ ...
5 2 1
2 . ..:..:
Leather trades........ .......... i
2614 20 274
21
2
Railway service......................
2
Navigatioa ......................
6 19
2
2 19 il
7....
General transport...................
1
5
4
2
2ý 3
3
7
Agriculture...............

Civic employees................ ....
Miscellaneous trades .............
....
Unskilled labour .....................
Total .. ....

............

3
5
1654

1
1
6 1 2

5 18
1!1 7~

71 169! 12

6
1

11

8
5

0

17 23 17 13
....
1 .. ;..3
6
4 lu 16
5 il
lu110
4
3
3! 7

15
119
119
59
69

il

.. ....

.
5
29
4
7

1
4.5

1

4

317

176

39

2

22 *28.8
7:
31
9
3
i1
7
1
2
.39 3
1
2
4

.:...........
3
20

252

117
45
5

543
43

2-21,107

SE-NATE

308

DEPARTMENIT oF' LABOUR, CAXADA.
STATISTICALUTBLES VII. A. R. No.

TABLE

OF NONZF.ATAL

28.

INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS IN CANADA DURING 1906.
Number of non-fatal accidents by months.

Trade or Industry.

~z
Agriculture.......... ..............
Fishing and hunting........... ......
Lumbering ........ ..... .. .......
blining............ ............
.......
Building trades .............
Mtetal trades. .......................
Woodworking trades.................
Printing trades .....................
Clothing trades ..................
Textile trades ......................
Food and tobacco preparation.........
.......
Leather trades ..............
Railway service............. .......
.
..........
Navigation ............
...... ...
General transport .........
c-mployees.. ..................
Civic
Miscellaneous trades ...... ... .......
..........
......
Unskilled labour ...
Total ........

.............

6 20 24 20 41
16
.. .. 81523..12
1 23 1
516.
9 27 14
10 14 15
5 31 15 20 26
14
54 42 63 56 54 44
131016
8 817
3.....1
2
1
2
3.....4
b 1 ....
8 27
3 1 61
4
8
4
8
4
3
3...3...
1
3
1
16

30
1
2

8
18
Il

30
14 21 il 26
2
3 2 4 6 8
9 17
9 27
il 24
9 1
7
à 3
5
12 18-ý 17 29 28 16
10 16 18 15 17
10
20

47

43

23
7
19
12

il
3
24
12

7

6

But, on tlie wbole, tlp situation Is nlot s0

things I amn agalust ns long as I have a
We must have our
sent ln parliament.
Iaws as clear and distinct as possible; our
judges have no right to Interpret the law.
They- should have only the rlght to apply

It. That ls a statement that I have made
several times ln Vie past, nnd I have It
from judges Viemelves, Viat Vie great difficulty lu their judicial experience Is to be
obliged to interpret Vie nonsense of parliament. That Is what they complain of-the
non sensîcal. statutes. Why do Viey nlot
make their law clear the judges ask?
One lawyer says Vis, and the other
the other thing, and the judge throws up
his biauds lu distress, and says, 'What can
I do ? I bave to interpret the law.'
It is our duty as legfisiators, as Vie lion.

.

Total

21
16
21
30
2
2
4

7

262
156
174
272
562
133
17
19
46

79

3...

31........340
61
6 12
5
178
21 10 14
66
4
3 il
222
15 12 14
163 9 1 142

188 156 253 191 1286 255 273 298 218 218 209 ý203

bad as it appears to be, and If Vils parîla.
ment wlI put his railway crosslug question lu Vie bands of the Board and make
It compulsory on them, and give them suffidient time wliin whlch to carry out their
Instructions, It would be a proper course
to pursue. 1 wouid dislike, however, to be
party to legisîntion Viat would be obscure,
Viat Vie courts would have great difficulty
lu interpretlng, and Vint la one of Vie

Hon. Mr. CLORÂN.

34 35 22 1716
....
..... 0....
...................
14 18 13 15 .9
7 20 27 26
30
58 52 .95 41 33
13 967
1313
1
1
1
3
2
2
3
....
4
2 44
6 16
4
9
6
1 .....
4
....

g

4<

2,745

gentleman fromn Saskatchewan says, to
make our laws clear and plain, that everybody who runs may read, and that as little
interpretation as possible shall be thrown
on the court. Just Imagine what the hon.
gentleman from Marshfield said the other
night, to the surprise of myself and the
hon, leader of this House, that the Supreme
Court of Canada had declded, that citizens
of titis country, nlot only citizens, but any
person ln this country have no rights under
the common law. Hle cited the case of McKay vs. the Grand Trunk. I have gone over
that judgment. I read It last night and
this morning, and I must confess that the
view taken of that judgment by the hon.
gentleman from Marshfield la correct. There
ls n statement made there that the companfy was not responsIble because they had
fulfilled tie Instructions and regulations
given to them by parliament. Is that doctrine going to be uphield lu Vis cSuntry '
1 hold it would be an outrage on Vie basic

principle of Vie British constitution. Parliament bas a rlght to give to a compauy
or an individual, power to do certain
tings, but at its own expense, not
at the expense of the siîbject. If a mill
anîd its
lias to run its mnachinery

MARCH 19. 1908
business, it has to do so, at Its own rlsk,
and flot at the expense of buman life or at
a sacrifice of the rlght of the subject and
It la an outrageous principle to be propounded and upbeld by the Supreme Court
of Canada, that because parliament bas
stated certain things, that the citizen bas
no longer any right to corne before the
courts of hiW country and dlaim damages.
The Urne wlll corne, and I do flot know
but it would be the proper Urne now, to
Introduce au addition to the Railway Act
ln language clear and plain, that notwitbstanding anytbing ln the Railway Act of
Canada, or ln any Act of the parliament of
the Dominion of Canada, and notwitbstandlng any judgment of the Supreme Court
or any court i Canada, every person ln
the Dominion shall have the right to take
action at law for the recovery of damages
against ail individuals, companies and corporations, wben bis or ber rlghts ln regard
to person or property, througb negligence or
otberwise on the part of lndividuals, companies and corporations, have been trespassed upon or injured lu any way wbatever. There ls a law that la clear, and
would prevent our courts from InterpretingHon. Mr. POWEL-I sbould lîke to ask
Vie hon. gentleman bow Vie man wbo la
killed can brIug that action.
Hon. Mr. GLORAN-Evidently the hon.
gentleman from Halifax la not a bellever ln
He does not
Vie transmission of souls.
think the fatber can transmit to bis son a
part of bis rights after be bas departed Vhis
There is the position, and If Vie
world.
hou, gentleman from De Salaberry would
Include that lu Vie iaw, Vien the rights o!
tbe people would be safeguarded.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I do not Viink that
wouid add anytblng to Vie law.
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-But I amn speaking
ln regard to the hon. geutleman's amendment
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-1 should, perhaps,
make a f ew observations before the debate
la concluded, ln order to remove an Impression that bas gone abroad that the law at
présent is defective. I deny that. My Impression no doubt la strengthened very *much
by Vie attitude taken by the bon. gentleman

609

from Marsbfieid, taken fairly, ln al earnestness.
Lie dld not profess to be a iawyer,
but, unfortunately, be came to conclusions
tbat were not ln any way justifled.
He
appeaied to our sympathy ln regard to the
case of McKay vs. Grand Truuk anud represented-I have bis words under my
hand here-that owing to Vie defectve
clause, 275, the plantiff I that case
There la not
had been deprlved of justice.
aLsbadow of foundation for the statement.
Section 275 was not adopted tIi two years
after the accident occurred.
The accident
.l'be action was
occurred lu October, 1901.
tried by Mr. Justice MacMahon, and there
was strong evîdence of contributory negligence, tbe sort of negligeuce pointed out by
the hon. gentleman from Wellington wben
be spoke a few minutes ago. There bad been
on that day a fair ln Mount Forest, and the
town authorities, knowIng Viat the crossiug
was not; a very safe one, took precautions
to station a man at the crossing, as the
Mr.
farmers wouid be leaving the town.
He bad bis
MeKay had a covered buggy.
wife and two children ln Vie buggy witb
him.
A number o! persons were Up at the
railway crossIng and endeavoured to stop
Wbether he saw Viem or not, for
Viem.
some cause or otber, he toua no notiee. Tbe
officiai of tbe towu stationed at Vie crossing
to stop people, endeavoured to prevent: hlm
crossing, and failed to do so. He perslsted
lu crosslng the railway as Vie trai approached.
Evidence was given at Vie triai
tuat when ha came witbin forty feet of tbe
crossing ha could readly see the approachlng train, but for the !act that he was ln a
covered buggy and the track perbaps was
The jury found Viat Vie comnot visible.
pany had complied wli ail Vie orders lu
refereuce to riuglng tbe bill and sounding
¶Mr. McKay Just took one of
tbe wbistie.
Viose chances tbat ail of us sometimes take,
and as my hon. friend, who spoke a few
minutes ago sald ha sometîmes took, and as
1 take. Anybody who watcbes tbe crosslng
at Vie Russell House at six o'clock, 'will sea
Some get
many people taklng chances.
Accidents will occur. At
knocked down.
any rate the law at Viat time was not what
The law at that time was
it is to-day.
covered by the Raliway Act of 1888 as
amended by Vie Act passed lu tbe foilowlng
year. Tbe clause read lu this way:

610

SENATE

No locomotive or raiiway engine shail pffs
in or through any thickly-peopled portion of
any -edty, town or village, at a epeed greater
than six miles an hour unlees -the track is
fenced in the manner prescribed by this Act.
And the other clause, 193, reads.
At every public -road croesing, et rail level,
of the railway, thse fence on bath eides of thse
crossing shall be turned in ta thse Swttleguard, so as ta allow thse safe passage cf
trains.
Now that was the law. The law of today adds ta that, tnat the campany is hiable
unless the track is praperly protected. Then
the wards, 'praperly protected'1 caver everythiing.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-No.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-My ban. trlend smiles.
I stand by what I sald, and I am quite
prepared to prove it as I go on. The case
,was trled by Justice McMahon, and the
tacts ail came out. Han, gentlemen know
that juries almost invarlably find ln
favour of the plaintiff in Such Cases.
However, Mr. Justice McMahon, altbough
he telt that the man McKay had been
gullty ta some extent ot contributary
negligence, gave a verdict as stated. The
case then went ta the Court of Appeals la
Ontario, one of the best courts 1 venture
ta say la this country, made up of men
standing very higb as jurists. Tbat court
unanimously confirmed Mr. Justice McMahan's decision on the law as It thea
stood, without those words 'properly Protected' being ln.
Han. Mr. FERGUSON-That
reters to the track.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-Does
cross the blghway ?

'unless'

not the track

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Oh yes, but it is
only the part that ls inclosed.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-I stated tbe matter of
tact. I bave read the law as it was. Now,
tbere la no reference whatever ta the
track being properly pratected, la the law
as it stood up ta 1892; yet the hou. gentleman tram Marsbfield used these wards :
Thse court f ound that clause 275 lied no reference te hrighway crassings, and there wae no
limitation on thse speed of thse train as long
e they were protected, and as long as thse
fences were turned in at thse cattle-guard.
That was ýtse, judgrnent read by Sir Louis
Davies and ooncurred in by hie bcrother judges,
M.r. Justice Girouard dissenting.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT.

Now that le absolutely without auy founidation whatever. And turther down it ls
Hle quotes from one of the
repeated.
judges :
Blere we have the fanding of the Supreme
Court that meotion 275, which. this House was
made to believe last ye..r wae ample protection for theSoailway' orossing, Jiad no relation
whatever ta the highway crossing, 'but"only
ta -the fencing of the track.
I should like to quote the opinion of a
pretty hlgh authorlty lu this country. Wben
this subjeet came up first ln the House of
Commons, the Railway Act of 1903 had then
been passed. The then Minister ot Justice,
wbo, 1 am bound ta say, did nlot pay any
compliments to the Supreme Court, (I arn
nlot going myself now ta question It, but I
do say that tbey took a very strong position when they dissented tram the live
judges in Ontario who were absolutely familiar 'with ail the tacts, and attempted,
and succeeded in deteating that action on
what I think was absolutely Improper
ground) made those observations :
My hon. friend Mr. Lancaster is before this
because of the judgment in the
House ag'
case of McýKa.y vs. Grand Trunk.
1 may say tiiat the statute, section 275,
was introduced la cansequence of that. Not
a single member bas been able ta brinfarward a case where section 275 bas taîled. Until that bas been done, no one is ln
a position ta say that section 275 ta defective. The general words, 1Track properly
pratected' are very rauch better than ta define, as you would have ta do by the use
of very many wards, what is the protection
requlred. Tbere are same 2,000 of these
crossings. Now, they would have different
methods of protection for different crossings. It depends upan the circumstances.
The language used there ta general, and
courts are always ready ta construe general language as meaning that it shauld
caver ail cases that could possibly arise. If
you attempted ta define how crassings
should be protected, you would be sure ta
leave out some particular case you liad. not
taken cognizance ot. I was gaing ta rend
ta the Hause the observations ot the present Chief Justice cf the Supreme Court, at
that time Minister of Justice:
I have ne desire ta criticize that judgmnent,
but I tbink my hon, friend will beaT me out
iýhen I say that -in effeet the judges of the

MARCH 19. 1908

Supreine Court decided there that the. Railivay Act contained -the.wiiole law witii respect
ta the. management cf a railway, and that the.
commen l*aw obligation wiiti respect t. the.
protection of 11f. end I*roerty would, bp
elimnaated if the, statut;ory requiSeerents wore
complied witii.
My hon. frîend, Mr. Laucaster, ham no doubt coneidered that judgment.
Be ha. had the. advantage of iiaving the notes
cf the. judges befors him, but hie, I arn sure,
has net ovarlooked the. facta, sud e. I nid
before, I have no deaire t. ori4iais the judgment. Tii. judgment go.. much furtiier than
the sane court went in Fleminig vs. Cawtdian
Pacifie Ra-ilwey, and mutch furtiier tiiaa the.
sarne court -went, even more recentiy in a New
Brunswick case, and I cannot understand how
it is possible t. imagine that if the. sta.tutory
requirements had bean complied, wivti, the.
commron .law obligation, ceased te exist, Lx
view of the, etatements made by the. Lord
Chancellor in the case of Roy vs. Canadien
Pacifie Railway.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Who In tuis ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That In the statement
cf the 'Minister of Justice, the present Chier
Justice cf the Supreme Court, In his r.marks on the Lancaster Bill. iHe says:
This, it seema t. me is an authority exactly
te the. oontrary cf wiat; the. Supr.me Court
has held. However, penhe.ps my hon. friand
would not overlook the, other faot whichii
of
importance, that the, Suprerne Court decided
tii. case of McKay on a statut. that bas beau
am.nded, and tiat in not now the. law at ail.
It in on an entirely diflerent authority from
tii. provision cf the. present law.
That la what the Chief Justice said. I
-irn quit. aware lie differs f rom thie Supreme
Court; but the case came up on another
occasion, andi h. reports what lie sald there,
when Mr. Borden 'was dlscussing it.
He
said :
I have ne desimre following in that respect
the. example of my hon. friend the leader cf
the. opposition (Mr. R. L. Borden) te criticise
the. judgrnent cf the. Suprerne Court in McKay
vs. Grand Trunk Railway Company, uer t.
peint eut in wiiat respect that judgment dif.
fers from tiie judgrnent of the. same court in
Fleming vs. Tii. Canadian Pacifie Railway.
We are net hore te dîscues the judgment of
the Suprerne Court, but te ascertain whetiier
or net legisiation is necessary under the circumstances t. rernedy the. defect poînted out
by the. Supreine Court in that judgment.
I might peint oui t. my heu. friend the
leader cf the. opposition (Mr. R. L. Berden)
that the, jndgment of the. Supreme Court was
rendered net open the. Railway Act as Qt i
new but as it wae previcus t. 1903. My hon.
friend very proporly points out that the. Su.
preme Court h. id in McKay vs. Grand Trunk
that the, fenoing wiîc was referred t. waB
the fencing consisting of a board fonce turned
in at the cattle-guard.
39j

He differs fromn tiie hon. gentleman from
Masshfield.
Hon. Mr. FE3RGUSON-Yes.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--He proceeds:

-

Now that oannot apply to the. Bailway Act
as w, have it, for thi, reeon, which will b.
quit. apparent to the hon. the leader of the.
opposition.
Purtiier on he Baya:
The Supreme Court held that the. obligation
t was liirited te
te
t0o"obliýgato
thi. fecervddb
ct.ndi
section 197. Tint
has ntead.bla.
The. law on this
point in now contained in section M2 of the
Railway Act.
And that In where h. discusses
'Properly protected.' He says:

tuie

-words

The. words 'poperlj protected' leave the.
matter as a question of fact te be determined
a* t. what would b. a proper protection under
the. ciroumstane. existing in eacii particular
case.
It la pretty clear wbat that authorlty
means at ail events. On another occasion
in discussing the matter, Mr. Fitzpatrlck
said :
W. have discussed this .. t Borne langth ini
the Houes. The hon. gentleman in quit. right
te pueh the mattear as strenuoualy s lie
plaons. 1 cannot do any more thon. stat. my
-view. te the. committe.. Tiie ma.tter we discussed. and d.iscussed before the. R&iIway3 Com.
mittee, amd now h. i a ci here
aan
have ,xpressed rny views and I cn.:trchage
rny mmd. about tba.t. The liability cf the.
compauy in perfectly clear. McKay va. the
Grand Truk Railway Cornpany was net de.
cided. upon this etatute. It was decided. upon
the proviens statut.
He la there speaklng of Mr. Lancaster'.
pertlnacity lu pushlng the Bill.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Who says that ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The present
Justice of the Supreme Court.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-He
OMief Justice at the time.

was

Chief

net

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, but Minister cf
Justice at the. time, occupylng quit. as good
a position. He continues:
It . was decided upon the, previcus statut.
It weas a case decided by a majority Of the.
Supreme Court reversing the. decision of the.
Court of Appeal cf Onta-rio.

SENATE
*Now, I thought it ivas 01113 fair, right and
proper in dealing with this case thal our
feelings should flot be drawn ln by the very
earnest and eloquent language of niy hon.
frlend opposite.
1 entirely acquit hlm of
any desire to deceive the House. I do flot
make the sllghtest insinuation, but he was
so earnest In this matter that, In the -first
place, he touched the sympathies of the
House by the picture he drew of the terrible accident which occurred there, and
then of the relatives of the unfortunate niii
belng deprIved of any claims for darnagas
by the mistake made by the Supreme Court.
That cannot occur again. This Is a precedent
no longer, because the words of the A&ct are
entirely changed, and the words 1properly
protected' give ample. protection. If I amn
wrong, why dld not sorne hon. gentleman caîl
attention to sorne case where a party lias
falled to get redress since that Act bas corne
into operation?
We bave the sanction of
the hlgbest judiclal authorities ln this country that this is good law, that that statute
covers everything, that those words 1Properly protected ' apply to the track at the
crossing as well as to the track aîong a
street.
There Is no manner of doubt about
It. But, wholly spart from that, when we
corne to consider that wlthout the words
' Properly protected,' five judges, I do not
hesitate to say ranking qulte as hlgh as the
judges o! the Supreme Court, declded In
favour of the plaintiff, and confirmed the
verdict of the jury; although the words
'Properly protected' were not In.
They
aeclded on wbat the hon. senator frorn
Montreal alluded to just uow, the common
law principle, that the cornpany were lhable,
havlng failed to provide the proper protection for lite. We have gone beyond that,
and have put such language In the statute,
and given sucb powers to the Board, that
by nu posslbllity could an action fail under
present conditions, except with the straiued
vlew the Suprerne Court touk of! It
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Supreme Court
were dlvided upon it.
Three ut the judges
are no longer in the court. Justice Girouard la there stili.
He did not agree with
his colleagues in the conclusions to whiell
they came, and, therefore, I thouglit it my
duty to rernove the impression rnade by tbe
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

very earnest, eloquent and heart!elt appeal
made by the hon. senator from Marshfield.
He did it in good spirit belleving lie was
justified.
He was not justilled.
I tbink
I have made that as clear as Is possible
to rnake anything; no point could be clearer.
The case wss declded betore the Act of 1903
was passed. The-accident occurred In 1901.
Our amended Act was passed In 1903, s0
my hon. friend Is entirely astray. He was
su wrapped up In bis subject that lie would
not allow any one to lnterject a word, to
ask hlm If lie was qulte sure of the statement he was glvlng to the House.
The
House accepted It, believlng lie had Inquired carefully into tbe subject.
He made
some comments about lawyers belng hasty
In giving opinions, and sorne one retorted
that inyrnen were sometimes hasty too. He
stuck to hls opinion, bowever, and now
from the srniling way he greets me, lie
seerns still to glory la the position he took.
The law Is ail rlght
If there is any doubt
at ail about it, that doubt ia removed by the
amendment proposed by the hon. senator
from De Salaberry, rnaking It perfectly
clear, because It leaves section 275 In.
It
lîad,- nt aIl eventa, the endorsation of the
highest legal authorlty In the land.
That
autliority, bas endorsed It not once or twlce
but a number ot times.
1 should like to
leave lt there for that reason..
It Is a
mat-ter of the greatest Importance that the
1mw sliould not lie altered.
Mr. Belque's
amendment does not In any way dlsturb It.
but simply sdds to lt:
3. No train shall paÈs over any highway
crossing et rail-level in any thickly peopled
portion of any city, town or village at a greater spReed than ten miles en hour, unless snch
crossing is constructed and therealber duly
maintained and protected in accordance with
an order, regulation and the directionis of the
Railway Committee cf the Privy Couneil or of
the board in force with respect thereto, or
unless permission is given by some regulation
or order of the board. The board may from
tirne to time fix the ýspeed in «ny case at any
rate that it deerna proper.
Now, that adds force to the other provision, and certainly ought to be sufficlent
for ail purposes. If Is admltted that
there are a couple of thousand ut those
crossings. My lion. frlend first proposed
that those croaaings should bie put In
betore the end of aext year ; lie bas
since changed the date to 1914. Does
any one suppose that It would lie

MAIRCHE

19. 1908

613

pussible before the end uf uext year to Justice Fitzpatrick, ln bis capacity as a
protect 2,000 crossings ? In ail parts of member of parliament, but Mr. Fitzpatrick
tbe country the people are clamouring for made these remarks wlthout careful examAny money which ination, as many of us dld on the saute point
extensions of roada.
can be obtained goes for extensions. The last session. I confesa that ail the time the
question la flot usked, 'will yuu protect the matter was discussed ln the Rlouse last
crossinga?' it la «'will you give us the rail- year I thouglit that was the correct view,
I could mention mauy places where and the honourable member for De galaway?'
there are tbriving tuwns now that were berry was of the same opinion. The hon.
only green fields before the rallways came. member from De Salaberry pointed out the
Who put the crussiugs there? The railway correct view nt the second readiug of the
company put tbeir station there first then Bill tis session. If my hon. friend hadl
a grocery started and a town arose. Some- just taken the trouble to compare section
body made a lot of money speculatiug lis 275 ln the Act as it nuw stands with section
town lots, and streets weru~ upened up. That 259 ln tbe Act of 1892 he wUll fInd that
was Vie case at Mount Forest. That town section 259 reads this way:
was started 50 years ago on Vie Uine beNO locomotive or railway englue shail paso
The Une was in or through any thickly peopled -portion ci
tween Toronto sud Saruia.
at a
one of the first built lu Ontario. Lt is flot any city, towu or village unless greater speed
the track se
than ten miles an hour
at aIl improbable that the place got its name f enced in the manner prescribed lby this Act.
because it was a forest at Viat time. Now,
Then we have section 275 wblch weakens
* It ls a thriving village, due to Vie presence the old law as fouud lu 259.
Have Vie municipaîlties
ofthVe rallway.
Hlou. Mr. SCOTT-I challenge auy one
no responslbilitles at aIl lu protectlng the
There la Vie fact, that In naine to mention a case.
crossiuga?
cases out of ten, crossings lu the newer
non. Mr. FERGUSON-My hon. frieud
parts ofthVe country are due to the presence
caunot see It; I cannot help that I lcuow
The country becomes a
of the railway.
he ls sincere, but I doubt if isa view la
village, the village a tuwn, Vie towu a city,
given
lu by any one who .bas
sud then they come down on Vie rallway concurred
auy consideration to the question, because If
sud say you must speud su niuch money to
It la we would neyer be wrangllug over
put lu crossings.
a substîtute for, or addition to section 275.
Hon. '-%r. FERGUSON-l wish to say oue Section 259 la as follows:
word wlVi refereuce to Vie extremely goodthickly
No train shall pas in or
uatured aud Innocent remarks of my hou. peopled portion of any city,throughorany
village ut
town
frieud the leader of the House. I have no a speed greuter than ton miles an hour unless
protected in
fault to fiud. wli his temper or the manuer the track is .fenced or properlyAct.
the mauner prescribed by thie
lu whicb be preseuted lia case. Everything
The same provision,. except It introduces
la admirable, but It la a pity Viat at Vie
eud of such a long discussion as we have the words 1properly protected;' but It la
had, my hou. friend should have preseuted stili limlted and confined tu tbe tracli, and
to the House a view that was exploded two we have a Judicial decision that It bas no
yeara ago lu the House of Communs aud bas refereuce wbatever to a crossing; that it
beens recently Vioruughly exploded ln Vie deals with the track and the tracli only,
Senate aud everywhere else, except lu my and anyone who reads It carefully will see
bon. frlend's owu mmnd. I should like to that the judgment of the Supreme Court lu
hear Vie hon. gentleman from De Salaberry, rigit but whether rîglit or wroug it la the
or Vie hon. gentleman from Toronto say law uf the land and we bave to be governed
that the hon. Secretary of State la right ln *by 11. Section 275 la much weaker than
to
saying that section 275 as It stands pro- *259 of the old Act, because lu addition
If my hon. *the word, 'fenced' it gives another convides for bighway crossings.
Viat
friend ls right, we bave aIl been on a fool's dition. 'Properly protected,' meaning
the House somethiug less than the fencing wouid be
errand. My hou. frleud read to
remarks made two years ago ln Vie Hlouse considered sufficient, but it goes further and
uf Communs by a very emineut man, Chiel fsays: 'Unless permission ls given by order

SENATE
of the Board.' Therefore, ln place of section
2-45 bein- a stronger enactment than section
259 of tie old Act, It Is weaker. At any
rate thse Supreme Court bas decided that
section 259, and of course 275, had no
reference wbatever to thse highway crossIng. We are bound, as good citizens of this
country, by thse decision of the -Supreme
Court, unless they are reversed on appeal,
and that contention belng righit, ail that I
sald about those who are Injured or kllled
at these railway crossings and tieir frlends
being shut out from claiming damages,
stands good, sound and unimpeached and is
unimpeachable.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is hoped tliat the
last volume of thse Frenchi edition of thse
Revised Statutes wll be distributed in six
weeks.
It depends entirely on the translator.
REPORT

Hon.
When
poînted
ling of
flouse?

0F QUEBEC BRIDGE COMISSION.

INQUIRY.
Mr. LANDRY lnqulred:
wiii the report of the. commission,
to inquire into the cause of the falthe Quebec bridge b. laid before this

ýHon. Mr. SCOTT-I wired down to thse
Thse committee divlded on thse amend- Bureau, but I could get no Information
There seems to be some doubt
ment to the amendment whicIs was de- about it.
about whetber it has gone there or not. I
clared iost on a division.
could flot get thse Information.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY, tram the committee,
A QUESTION 0F PRIVILEGE.
reported that they had made some progress
witIs thse Bill and asked leave ta sIt agaîn
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Before the orders of
to-înorrow.
tIse day are called, I should llke ta caîl atThe Senate adjoumned untîl to-morrow at tention ta an item w-hlch appeared in thse
Montreal 'Gazette,' under thse heading
three o'clock.
'Provincial RigIs,' ln connection with thse
Bill respecting- thse Ontario and Michigan
Power Company.
I amn made ta say this:
THE SENATE.
Senator Beique (Montreai) spoke lengthily
upon the relative powers of the Dominion
OTTA'WA, Frlday, Marcb 20, 1908.
and the parovinoes, and came to the conclusion that the proposed woirks were for the
Thse SPEAKER took tIse Chair at Three general advantage of Canada, as the Bill declared.
o'clock.
This conclusion is prensature, because I
Prayers and routine proceedings.
suggested, and on my suggestion that clause
DISTRIBUTION OF JOURANLS 0F
was postponed for further consicieration. I
did flot express any opinion on thse clause.
HOUSE 0F COMMONS.
1 merely expressed a certain opinion as ta
INQUIRY.
the ruies whicb were applicable ta the matter.
Hon. hir. LANDRY lnquired:
When will thse Journals of the Hlouse of
Commons for the. session. cf 1906-7 be printed LIMITS 0F MANITOBA, ONTARIO AND
QUEBEC.
and dîstrîbuted to those who are entitled. ta
tbemP
MOTION POST.PONED.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Journals of tbe
The order of thse day being cailed:
House of Commons will be distrlbuted withResuming thse suspended debate on thse moln tbree weeks.
tion of thse Hlon. Mr. Landry, that in the
opinion of the; Senate the limits of Manitoba,
PRENCHI EDITION 0F REVISED STA- Ontario and Quebec should be *xtended to
thse north so that each of thoa. provinces be
TUTES 0FF CANADA.
hounded north 'by at least the sixtieth degreý
oi latitude.-Hlon. Moe. Landry.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I move that this
Hon. -'%r. LANDRY inquired:
order of thse day be discharged, and that
When will the lest volume of the French it be placed on thle orders of thse day for
edition of thse Revised Statutes of Canada,
Tuesday next.
1906, be printed and put in circulation?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

MAROR 20, 1908
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHIEED-I beg to suggest
to the House, inasmuch as there is a postponement froin day to day of many of the
Important orders, that hon. gentlemen who
have charge of thein sbould be prepared
next week to discuss them ln the evening.
Some bon. MEMBERS-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-There Is no good
rejison why we should flot sit at night and
dispose of the work.
Hon. 3fr. PERLEY-Providlci
want to go down to Montreal.

Wuý to

The motion was agreed to.
CO-OPERATION BILL.
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
Tihe order of the day being called:

flot

nounce that it is the Intention to refer the
I have received sevBill to a committee.
eral letters from parties who are interested,
who wouid lîke very 'weil to be heard, and
I think that Is the only way ln which they
can be heard.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-Inasmuch as the
Bill Is to be referred to a commIttee, could
we flot take the second readlng to-day 1
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, there Is no objeet
that 1 can conceive ln adopting that course.
Very many appeals have been made to me
by parties who wish to appear, and they
are not quite ready.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It means a postponement for a whole week.
lion. Mir. SCOTT-No, I wiil take it up
The second reading of the
Wednesday.
buiI wiii be taken on Wednesday, and I wiil
then name a day for the committee.

Second reading Bull (5) en Act respecting
cc-operation.
Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-I move that the order
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I amn glad that that
of the day be discharged, and that It be decision has been arrlved at, because ai
placed on the orders of the day for Wednes- great many parties eesire to be informed
day next.
when the matter wili be taken up, and do
We can
Hon. Mfr. GIBSON-Might I be permnitted flot wish to be kept walting here.
ln- discuss the question of letting it stand over
to ask the bon. Secretary of State If he
to suit the convenience of parties for and
tends to send this Bill to a committee?
against the Bill when we go to committee.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes. I Intend to ask
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If the second reading
the House to approve of Its reference to the
we couid let It go to
Committee on Banking and Commerce, and ls taken pro forma,
committee.
to have it considered by them.
Hon. Mr. WATSON-But some hon, genHon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-May I ask my
the House.
hon. f riend what the object ln postponiug tlemen wish to address
this matter from day to day is, Inasmuch
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Would it not be better
as it is goiug to a select commlttee, hefore to have the debate fIrst ln the committee?
'wnich eidence wUll be taken, 1 presume.
HRon. Mr. WATSON-No.
Hon. Mfr. SOOTT-It la usual, when an
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-As that suggestion
hon. member aks me to postpone, for readoes not seem to meet with the approvai
The hon.
sons, to accede to the request.
gentleman says he has received a letter of the House, I think we wiil have to adfrom the Attorney General of his province, hiere to the proposai to adjourn the second
the -frst
and 1 think. the proposition Is a reasonable reading tili Wednesday next, to be
order atter thIrd readings.
one.
Hon. Mr. LOUGfIFED-Why not say
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-I presume that
1Tuesday?
would relate to the committee stage?
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-AIld give it a chance
Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-No, the principle of
to go to conimittee next xveek.
reading.
the Bill is involved on the second
Hon. Mfr. GIBSON-The Banking and
Hon. '-fr. McMýNULLEN-I amn very glad
to liear the hon. Secretary of State an- 1Commerce Committee meets on Thursday,

616

SEINATE

and If this Bill is not read the second time offences, but who hiad afterwards been rebefore Wednesday, It wll not reach the instead. These words 'Mfterwarda reincommittee next week.
stated'1 were ieft out of the BIil
*Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Then say Tueaday.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Wll
my hon.
Hon. Mr. POWER-We have aIready frlend be able to say why the English version la defective, and not the French verhaif a dozen very Important measures for
sion?
It seema to me that If the words
Tuesday.
in question were hef t out of the Engish
The SPEAKER-If it la flot reached, It version, the logical consequence would be
their omission from tbe French.
wlll go over tili Wedneaday.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know how the
The motion was agreed to.
errer arose. I have not been able to find
PRESBYTERIAN COLLEGE, HALIFAX, out.
Possibly I may ascertain before the
Bill comes Up In committee.
BILL.
SECOND READING.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Hon. Mr. McGREGOR moved the second was read a second Urne.
reading of Bill (DD) An Act respecting the
BILL INTRODUCED.
Board of the Presbyterian Coliege, Haifax.
Bill (GO) An Act respecting the Northern
The motion was agreed to.
aud the Crown Bank of Canada.-Hon.
Hon. Mr. McGREGOR-I move that the Mr. Rosa. 'Midlesex.)
Bill be referred to the Committee on Bank- ATLANTIC,
QUEBEC AND WESTERN
lng and Commerce.
RAILWAY COMPANY BILL.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-ýWhy la the Bill reAMENDMENTS CONCURRED IN.
ferred to that commlttee?
Have tbey not
Hon. Mr. FISET moved concurrence in
enough to do without dealing wlth rehiglous
the amendmenta made by the Standing
mattera i
Committee on Railways, Telegraphs and
Hon. Mr. POWER-The Bill deals with Harbours to Bill (T) An Act respectlng the
Atlantic, Quebec and Western Raiiway
the funds of the churcb.
Company.
Hon. Mr. McGREGOR-The coliege board
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Three amendhave the power to invest the funds of the
The first
church, and tbey are asklng for some menta were made to this Bill.
amendment la on page 2, Uine 17; after
change in their powers.
'1907' Insert lor in this Act.'
These words
The motion was agreed to.
were left out.
They were In the original
draft.
Then on page 2, Une 32, after
PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND RAILWAY 'apply' insert the worda 'And ail
other
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND
rigbts to which they were entitled.'
That
ACT A'MENDMENT BILL.
does not seem to add very much, but wIll
not do any barm.
Then page 2, line 32,
-SECOND READING.
they add a clause as section 7.
This was
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second rend- put In for the purpose of enhabling the comIng of Bill (117) An Act to arnend the Inter- pany to purchase the Atlantic and Lake
colonial Railway and Prince Edward Island Superior Railway from the Exchequer
Railway Employees Provident Fund Act
Court.
The Bill of hast year authorlzed
He saiZI: This Is simpiy to correct an thiem to buy that road from the trustees of
error that occurred lu a Bihl of last session, the bond-boiders, who were then in possesleaving out tliree or four words.
It re- sionl of it. 8ince then the Exchequer Court
ferred to men wbo were receiving an an- bas ordered the sale.
Consequently It
nuity after a certain number of years, ani would enable this company to buy from
It made provision -for men who had been the purchaser to whom this rond may be
discharged for being guilty of miner adjudged when the sale takes place.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON.

MAROR 24, 1908
The amendment is as follows:
7. Should t:he Mat&pedia section, as defined
in section 2 of the Act of 1903, b. sold, whether before or aiter the. passing of this Aot,
by order of the. Exohequer Court of Canada,
or of an y other court ce ooznpoent juiriedictic!n, under judicial proceedings against the
Baie des Chaleursý Railway Company and the
Atlantic and I*ke Sup.rior Railway Comnpany, and suc, section b. aoquired by ainy
person, corporation or trustees (hereinafter
referred ta as «the, owner '), tiien the coinpany is authoriz.d ta purohase fromn tii. ownor, and the, owner ie authorized ta sell ta the.
icomqp.ny the. ss.id Matapedia section;. and
section 4b added ta the, Act cf 1903 by section
2 cf the Act of 1907, shall &Dply, mutatis mutandis, ta any purchease made iby the. company
in 'nrtue of the. pcwers herein canlerred.
I move that the report be concurred Iu.
The motion was ag-reed ta.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN mared a suspension
cf the miles In order that the Bill might
be read the third time presently.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-What la to be gained by suspending the rules?

617

The other paragraph ls ane ta whicb I
venture ta direct the attention of hon.
members, because It refera ta wlxat la
known ta b. a very serions abuse. It la as
follcws:
It ie the. duty of the. librarians ta bring
under the. notice of p&rliament the, f act that
nome m.mh.mrs of botii Hous.. keep the.bocks
lent theaz for a period of time longer than
allowed by the library regulations. In many
cases, important works oalUed for hby other
members, have been kept out of thé. departtuent for several y.ars. deepite pressing requests for theïr retutii.
The motian was agreed ta.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bil (7) Au Act ta lncorporate the. North
]Dnpire PFire .Insurance Compsny.-4Hon.
Mr. Young.)
Bill (27) An Act ta, amuend the Goverument Years Act.-(ýHon. Mr. Scott.)

Bihl (35) An Act ta Incorporate the. Travellers' Life Assurance Company of CanHan. Mr. OASGRAIN-Those who are Iu- ada.-<4Hon. Mr. David.)
terested lu the Bill are azmxious ta have it
Bill (56) An Act ta Incorporate the Bank
passed as soon as passible, ta, enable them
ta make thetr financlal arrangements.
1 of Hamilton Pension Fund.--(Hon. Mr. Mcunderstand that large interests are hanglng Mullen.)
on this Bill, aud, as It originates Iu the SenBill (62) Au Act respecting the Subsidiar
ate, It Is advlsable ta have It go ta the High Court'o! the Ancient Order of PoresCommons as early as possible.
ters lu the. Dominion of Canada.-(ýHan.
The motion was agreed ta, aud the Bill Mm. McHugh.)
was then read the third time and passed.
Bill (82) Au Act respecting the Niagara,
THE LIBRARY 0F PARILIAMENT.
St. Catharines And Toronto Raiiway ComHon. Mr. POWER moved the adoption of pany.-<(Han. Mr. Kerr.)
the report of joint Ilbrarians on the state of
The Senate adjourned uxftll Tuesday at
the library of parliament for the year 1907. Thmee p.m.
He said: This ls largely a formai report,
but there are two points lu It ta whlch I
think it desirable ta call attention very
THE SENATE.
brlefiy. The first paragraph whlch I shahl
OTTAwA, Tuesday, March 24, 1908.
read le as follows:
The librarians have been led ta expect'that
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Thre.
some space will b. placed at their disposai in o'clack.
the. addition ta the Hanus. of Com mous now
under construction. This would, ln some
Prayers sud routine proceedinga.
measure, rehieve the congested state of the.
library, but it is feaoeed that in a short tilme
LABRADOR BOUNDARY.
the sae diffioultiee under which they now
labour woiild -reappear. It is therefore the
librarians' duty ta call the. attention of prINQIJIRY.
liament ta the urgent necessity ai providing
Hon. Mr. LANDRY rose ta draw the atmore space to meet the. demand of our valuable national collection of books, by execut- tention of the Senate ta the fahlowing facts:
ing the plan prepared for that pu.rpose ai the
chief architeet of the. Department oi Publie
Wonks.

1. That on the 9th o! January last, Hie Excellency the Gavernor of the tIand of New-

SENATE
foundland at the opening of the fourtil session
of the twentieth general assembly dehivered a
of which mention was
speech,ofina the courseinteresting Canada, that
question
made
of the Labrador boundary, rwhich speech contained the followîng paragraph :
'I have convened the legisiature at an earlier
nsue, as two verv
erio of the. year han
importat quetions a ectng the coiony wîi1
presetly neessite the undivided attntion
of my niste rs, nameiy -tie Labrador boundry quesion whicii it is agreed shail be reoerrda the Judicial Commite of the Privy
Counil, and the American àshry questioni
wieh is ta come before the. Hagle tribunal.!
2. That on the Srd of Marchi isant, His
Honour the Lieutenant Governor of the province of Quebec in opening the third session
of the tenth legîsiature of that province, made
a special allusion, in the rpeech fromn the
Throne, ta this semae question of the Labrador
boundaries, in the following terra.
(Translated from the Frenchi.)
While appiying to the tribunals to protect
its territory against the. encroacliments of
Newtoundland, my government has not abandoned the negotiations which it lied previously
entered into with relation ta the fixing cf the
boundary between that country and our own,
and I have thie pleasure cf announcing ta you
that the. government of Newfoundland lis
acoepted. our proposition. ta submit this question ta the arbitration of the Judicial (Jommittee of the Privy Council of His Majesty.
And that he wii inquire:
1. Ras the government of Canada come ta
an understanding with that of Newfoundl'ind
to carry ta the. Judicial Committee of the
Priv Council this question of delimitation. of
the boundaries between Labrador and that

part of the territories belonging ta Canada

known under the naine of Ungava and Iyinz
te the nortii and northwest of the province of
Quebeci>
2. Wheu did this understand.ing take place,
and is it ta it that His Exoeilency the. Governor cf Newtfoundiand alludes in the spee.-h
tramn thie Throne of tiie 9th of January?
3. Has this understanding been followed. by
any action whatsoever, and is the question in
litigation submitted at present to tiie decision
cf tiie imperial tribunal?
4. In what forbi, and who in this instance
represents the interests cf Canada?
5. la the government cf Canada acting ix>
this cause independently cf that cf the. provinoeof Quebec or jointly with it?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers ta the
hon, gentleman's questions are :
1. The government of Canada bas agreed
with' the government of Newfoundland ta
submit ta Ris Majesty In Council tbe question of the boundary between the Dominion
of Canada and Newfoundland In the PenInsula of Labrador.
2. On October 2, 1907, the government of
Newfoundland concnrred ln this submlsslan. It Is doubtiess ta it that Ris ExcelIency the Governor of Newfoundlanci ailudes In bis speech from the tbrone of
January 9 last.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

3. The imperial government lias upproved
of the proposed reference, but It bas flot
yet been brouglit formally before the Judicial Committee of the Prlvy Colincil.
The Minister. of Justice bas submitted
to the Attorney General of Newfoundland
a draft of a proposed agreement as to the
procedure to be foilowed on the reference,
together with a draft of a proposed case
to be submitted. by tbe two governments
to the Judicial Commlttee. Thiis proposed
agreement and case is before tbe government of Newfoundland for consideration.
4. The Minister of Justice.
5. The government of Canada la actIng
witb the concurrence of the goveru ment of
tbe province of Quebec, but the only formai parties to tbe reference are the governments of the Dominion of Canada and
of the coiony of Newfoundiand.
CONSTRUCTION 0F NEW BUTTS

AT

ST, JOSEPH DE LEVIS CAMP.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY inquired of the government :
1. Have tenders been asked for the construction of new butts at the Royal Engineer Camp
at St. Jose ph de Lévis in order to allow firing
at 600 yards?
2. Who are the persons that have obtained
this contract, and at what price?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers to the
hon. gentleman's questions are:
1. Yes.
2. George Roy, of Levis ; prîce, $4,615.
ROSS RIFLE.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inqulred:
1. How many Ross rifles have been distributed, np te this date, to the men of the
permanent forceP
2. How many to the men of the volunteer
forceF
3. How -many bayonets fitting the Ross rifle
have been distributed to the mon of the Canadian militia?
Hou. Mr. SCOTT:
1. 2,925 to the permanent force.
2. 4,356 to the non-permanent militia.
3. None

MARCH 9,4, 1908

1

posed of Messrs. Aylesworth, Lemieux,
Smithl of Nanalmo, Bourassa, Verville, Ger'ais, Sinclair, White and Monk. After takag a great deal of evidence tliey made a
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
are as follaws:
the gav- r eport, and their conclusions
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY lnquired of
Froin this evidence, derived from persans
erument:
rho have made a 4special. etudy of the co-operthe commission ap- IF
,tive mnovement in Europe. it, appears clearly
When wiIl the. report of
very great
pointed ta inquire into the cause cf the fallin t hat co-operation offers particui.arly advantage
in certain
of the Quebec bridge be laid before is Bouse? o the farming classes,
3ranches of alCricultxirsl pursuits, such as
Is at theb airying, market gardening and fruit culture.
Han. Mr. SCOrT-Tliat report
been proved of great use
Jo-operation lias
Printing Bureau. It will take two or tbree a the purchase aiso farmers of agriculture1
by
there are half mplements and fertilisera.
weeks to prepare It, because
Your committee found that co-operatin
tone priats ta acconipafly It.
iers a means for the labouriag classes to
most favourable terms,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The answer ta m3 purchase, under the and the articles requirsd
lie
t for neoesaries of lifean y trade. It also priquestion la what ?
the exercise cf
vides a system. by which the wage-earnsrs can
now either build or ac4quire their owu homes, by
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It le being printed
ijeans of small leans fromn credit and savings
as rapidly as possible at the Bureau.
societies.
have given the credit auz1
Your
Mr. LANDRY-The hion. mInister savings committee the. Bill thoir special conHon.
feature of
sideration and have arrived at the conclusion
fouund out that it was at the Bureau?
that any general movement to foster co--opersmall loans and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. It wlll be tbree ations destined ta provide people whose situmeans of xnvestment for
It la compieted.
weeks at least before
ation removes them from the sphere of action
of our ordinary banks.
ln dealinff. however, with this feature of the
CO-OPERATION BILL.
proposed measuro. your aommittee have provided special clauses destined to surrouxid the
SECOND READING.
exercise cf the credit and savings power by
necessary guarantees
the second read- these societies with aIl abuse.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved
ta prevent any passible
ing of Bill (5) An Act respecting co-opera1 may say that one of the witnesses wbo
Me said: The abject of this Bill ls
tion.
was a Mr.
to authorize the formation of societies or appeared before the committee
huai- Desjardins of Lévis. He had, of hie own
associations ta carry on industrial
organized,
nesses or trades; and on the application of motion, six or seven yeara aga,
without the autborlty of law, an association
flot less than seven persons to the Mlnlster
ta carry out the
of Labour, lie authorizes the issue of a char- ln hie awn nelglibourliood
very objects for which.this Bill is designed.
ter to the parties ta form a corporation for
I may say that He started an association wltb 50 members,
the purposes of this Act.
existence a mantli
this legisiation bas been aeked for repent- and after It bad been ln
framn
and, for several years past, at ail the It: bad n capital of $266. In six years
edly,
that time its capital amounted ta fortycoagresses of the labour organizatlons. They
odd dollars,
have particularly pressed-for an Act of this eiglit thauaand seven liundred
and It: hadt ln the meantime loaaed ane huaA similar law Is la force la the
kind.
add dallars.
Britishi Islands, France, Germany and Bel- dred and ninety-niiie tbousand
Four-fiftha of that had been returned, and
gium. and tbe effect of lt lias been benelicial
I need flot add
Those wha take nat a single cent was bast.
ta the people iuterested.
that it was productive of very great benefit
mast luterest ln it are the labourlng and
together, 'wba were
farming classes. Tbey are certalnly twa of ta, the people associated
enabled by the channels off ered them
the most iniluentiai bodies ln this country,
ta raise themselvea up
and If any legislatian of this kind la ta tbrougb the society
cansiderably above the level that tbey bad
benefit them lu the way of promptlng ecomembers of
nomy, tbrift and saving, It Is aur duty ta occupied befare tbey becarne
the association.
The Bill was intrameet their wislies.
duced tlîree years ag-o, and made some proHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-WilI rny lion.
Last
gress lu the House of Comînons.
how that $50,00O was raised?
session it wis referred toan commrittee coin- friend say
REPORT 0F QUEBEC BRIDGE
MISSION.

OOM-

SENATE

620

Did it represent membership fees or other Their means are too srnall to enable thern
to invest lu bank stocks or any higlier class
funds?
of security. Their savings are made up of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Auy moneys received comparatively smali sums. Canada la too
A person who jolned, lu this big a country for associations of this kind
on deposits.
particular case--although that is an arbi- to affect general trade. It has flot haît any
trary figure-pald a fee o! $5 and bought a perceptible prejudice or dlaadvantage wberAs time passed, be bought otber ever it bas been establisbed; on the contrary
share.
The money was loan- It bas encouraged thrift and economy among
uliares If be chose.
ed out, under the control of a board nomi- its own members. It la proposeil bowever,
nated by tbe Investors, lu small sums.
although it ls a public Bill, to give those
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Was It the saine wbo do not concur lni the wisdorn of the
Act an opportunity of explginiug their
number, fi!ty members?
views; therefore I propose, after the second
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, they kept on lu- reading of the Bill, to send It: first to the
Tbe society le iocalized. Under Coxnmittee on Banking and Commerce, In
creaslng.
the Bill the society works wlthin a given order that we may bear tbe pros and cons,
area, witb this provision, that lu large cities those wbo favour it and those wbo are
wbere there are several electoral dstricts, against it, wbere ail parties wlll have an
the society may work lu the city as a whole oppertuuity of explaluing their views.
and not be limited to su electoral district.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I waited for a
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Does the govern- few moments with the expectation that perment propose to Impose guarantees upou haps the hon. leader o! the opposition would
eacb society witb reference to the funds have somethiug to say upon this question.
wblcb tbey may accumuhate?
I wouid be glad to give way If It: was bis
Intention to address the House. For my
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
part, I may state frankly that 1 arn enHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Such as are pro- tirely opposed to the principle contained ln
this BUi, and 1 amn exceedingly sorry that
posed ou other bauking corporatious?
the hon, leader of this House bas consented
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, they have flot the
to introduce it, tbereby giving lt the presThey loan Iu these
powers o! a bauk.
tige o! a goverument measure.
0f course they
small sums to each other.
have no power to Issue bills, and noue of
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-It was taken up by
the extraordluary powers a bank has. The the government lu the otber House, by Mr.
effect of the system. wherever it bas beeu Lemieux.
estnbllshed, bas beeu to stimuinte thiri t and
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-Even supposing
As an Illustratiou, a man bas
economy.
It ls a goveriment measure. I cannot belp
50 or 60 cents whlch be does not take to
He le encouraged to put expressing mi-self against It, and I wiIl
the savlugs bank.
It Into oue o! these co-operative associations vote against It at every stage, and I shall
ln the hope that be can later on pay in give my reasous for IL. In the province
Lt is recom- of Ontario, the retail merchants are aimost
more and purchase a ehare.
mended thint the shares be two dollars eacb; unanimously opposed to tbe passage of this
I have received perbaps fi! teen or
but it is eutirely optional with the associa- Bill.
figure that may be fixed twenty letters upon the subi ect. lu every
tion, the particular
for n share. It is, however,' always a emali single case they complain tbat It is a direct
There le, I mnay say, and as hon. thrust at the retail trade, particularly of
eum.
gentlemen no doubt kuow, opposition to it our province. I do not know how lt works
1 in the province of Quebec. They may there
by the Mercantle Retail Association.
The sanie have got some advantages frorn organizathink they are unduly alarrned.
opposition arose in Great Britaîn, but it was fions o! tMis kind, and 1 arn not going to
swept aside; it was aot considered fair or question the statenient Made by the hon.
reasonable. Those people asked for no speciai Secretary of State with regard to, o',ganiprivileges thst any one else cannot enjoy. zations of tbis k-ind la England and other
Hon. Mr. LOXT'GIEED.

MATI
They may have, but we have alplaces.
ready had organizations of this character
In our province, and they proved nothing
I know al
short of an unlimited curse.
about these organisations. We had tbem in
our district. We had the Grangers, for Instance, au organization that had au existence for many years. A good many of thosc
that took an interest with them went
around, cutely whispering In the ears of
farmers that retail merchants, as a mile,
were a lot of thieves; that they were chargIng the consumera of goods far more thani
they could easily obtain them for by such
organizations as they had and that they
would glve them the goods at very mucb
less. A great many people were Induced
to contribute a share, ten dollars; almoat
every farmer who listened to the stoie,
that were told by these wily agents became
stockholders, contrIbuted their ten dollars
with the assurance that they would get a
dlvidend at the end of the year upon their
ten dollars, and, In addition to that they
would get the goods that they required for
themeelvea at first cost. AIl others buying
goods would have to pay a certain profit
but those who contributed the money for
the formation of the organIsation would get
their goods at coat, others, who bought, not
being members of the organization, would
have to pay say twenty or twenty-five per
cent advance and the resuit of such a system would be that at the end of the year
the shareholders would get a divldend on
their ten dollars, and tbey would get,
In the meantime, throughout the year, everythlng they wauted to buy at wholesale
price. A great many were caught with
that offer and the Grangers became a very
extended organisation throughout our province and badl an existence qulte a number
of years. They established a wholesale
depot in the clty of Toronto, because the
retail merchants were strongly opposed to
the organisation, and they complalned of
the wholesale trade glving to those people
gonds on the very same terme that they
got them. The result was that they started
a wholesale business, which dld nothinf
but seil to the Grange and bought from
different manufacturers ? That organisation lved for a number of years, and the;
died n natural death. They commenced
quarrelling amongst themselves. For In-

24, 1908

621

stance, in a Grange that was formed lu my
sections of the country, one of those organizations, sent for two bales of buffalo robes.
which they were to get at a reduced price
When the robes came along, the fIrat man
that came picked out the best robe of
twenty-four, and the next mani that came
ln plcked the next best, and no on.
and when they reached the end, the
lent men that came ln had to take
the poor nes. 'They would. fot acensued.
a iawauit
cept them, and
and it was the mens of breaking Up the
whole business, because whlle the robes
were equal lu price they were flot of equal
quality.
There Io no clas In Canada today that ls struggling harder to carry on
their business than the retail merchants.
They have the hardent figlit of any clas of
I do not believe
men In Canada to-day.
that the retali merchant lu Canada, after
paying the necessary expenses connected
with bis business, can show a clear profit of
five per cent over ail costs, and allow anyle it wise,
thlng at ail for bis own time.
is it prudent to encourage organLzationa of
the kInd proposed In this Bill that will
strike f urther at the business of retail merchants?
It undoubtedly wili be the means
of establishlng quite a number of Institutions lu different townships and corners and
sections of the country.
There will always
be some wUly feliow who thinks he eau.
He
make sometluing out of this.scheme.
will go round to the farmers and tell tbem,
'If you consent to become stockholdera, we
will give you ail the goods you want
throughout the year at enormous reduction.
These fellows who are Iii the retail
business are charglng far more than goods
We are golng to show them
are worth.
Becomne a
what we wlll be able to do.
It wll only
member of our association.
You wli get ail
cost ten dollars a year.
the goods you want to buy at cost price,
and In the end you will receive a dividend
on the ten dollars, and it ls assured to you.'
He will get a great many farmers to join
an organization of that icind, and the as*Every
sociation wiil live a lîttie while.
dollar that thesè organizations collect lu
that way takes business away from the retaîl merchants, and when you put that at
the back of institutions like Eaton's and
Simpson's of Toronto, who send gonds to

SEINATE
portions of the province of Ontario, 100 to0
150 miles round the city of Toronto, it will
mean muin to the small country trader. The
express business done from these large institutions ln Toronto la enermeus. They are
killing out the smali retali trade. Posslbly
tbey may be some benefit to the consumer.
1 have trled to get at the bottera of it, and
have corne te the conclusion that there is a
great deal of this business done on tbe
prînciple of burnbng. -Barnum once sald
that the peopie liked te be humbugged, and
that hie was golng to give themn a surfeit
That rnay be true. I believe there
of It.
la certain percentage of the people whe
Not only that, but
Ilke to be humbugged.
they wili nlot be satlsfied unleas they are
1 have ne doubt that orgahurnbugged.
nizations will be forrned under this Bill,
and they wll bumbug, fool and mislead
the people Into, the idea. tjat they are going
te give thern geoda for perhaps nothlng.
The resuit will be that, after a whle, the
craftvj Individual wbo fera the association,
who laya the traps and gets the tbing Into
operation, wll make an easy living out of
He wIll get se rnuch for the time that
It.
he spends on it, and ln the end the money,
1 have ne
ln ail probability, wili be lest.
doubt It will be the same experience that
people bad wlth the Grangers and other
I arn entirely
Institutions of this kind.
opposed te this Bill. I realized what It was
when I was ln business. 1 know what the
retail merchants suffered by such erganizatiens, and I contend that, under present
conditions, wlth the restrlcted trade, with
the efforts that retaîl merchants have at
the present moment te psy 100 cents on the
dollar and run their business, It is not treating themn preperly te encourage opposition
ef this kind, and it la geing te resuit ln disaster, I bhave ne doubt, te many men wbe
are to-day trylng te mun an heneat business,
te support themacîves and their familles. In
aîl probabilty, by such organizatiens as
this, tbey wll be driven to the wall, and
wlll have te compromise witb their creditors as the result of this Bill. I amn serry
that nir esteemed friend the hon. leader ef
the geverriment bas beld It his duty te lnAs far as I arn
treduce sncb legisiation.
concemned. 1 do net knew what the objeet
rnay be. It may be popular ln the province
of Quebec, and mnay have done well ln some
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN.

other province, but I know that as f ar ns
Ontario is concerned, the retal merchants,
90 eut ef .100, and I believe a larger peî'centage than that, are bitteriy opposed te
this Bill, and I have ne doubt when it cornes
te the Cernmittee on Banking and Conmmerce tbey wili appear there and subrnit
reasons wby they are epposed te It.
Hou. Mm. BOSTOOK-I bave listened te
wbat the bou, gentleman f rom Wellington
bad te say about this matter, and 1 think
that bis position Is rather againat the departmental store than against thils Bill. 1
happen te knew sornetbing about this question ef ce-operation ln England, and 1 knew
that wbile it, bas been a great beneflt te
the people, It bas net te rny knowledge,
been an Injury te the retail sterekeeper.
The co-operative associations in Engiand
were started, in 1844, by weavems and people werk-ing in the cotten mills, and factories of that kind lni tbe manufactumlngcentres ef England. In 1851, there were
130 of these societies througbout England
and the Midlands of Scotland, and the
co-opemative socleties bave gene on increasing. In 186U, they stamted a wholesale organization for the purpose ef supplying
these retail associations, ln England, andi
ln 186 they started a wbolesaie soclety in
Scotland for a similar purpose. They have
increased their business very consIderabîr,
and have helped the people te trade among
thernielves. From what I know about these
socleties, 1 consider that tbey bave been of
great benefit te the country ? The retail
stores are organized amongat the people,
the people 'within a measonable area buy a
shame ln the store, and the profits are divIded, If they make profits, at the end ef
the year, atter paying lnterest at the rate
er five per cent on the share capital. The
object in organizing tbese societies ln the
fimat Instance was te help the poor people
as rnucb as possible, and the object ef
paying divldends was because they could
net carry on their business at actual cost,
but in carrying It on at a profit, tbey did
net de as my bon. frlend from, North Wellington bas sald was done by the Grangers.
Tbey did net hold eut, ln the firat Instance, tbat the geods weme aIl geing te
be sold at cest te the peeple, and tbey did
net Increase the price te the outsiders.

MAROR 24, 1908
Their business wns doue among.st Vie
sharebolders, and they dld not, therefore,
make a profit out of other people to be
dlvlded amongst tbe shareholders. In the
United Klngdorn, Viere are at the present
time some 2,745 of Viese socleties maklng
returns, and Viey have a mernbersblp7 somewbere near two and a baif million. Thet
share capital of Viese socleties at Vie present time amounts to some £45,000,000, and
the business Viey dld lu the year 1905e
amounted aitogether to over ninety-elgbt
million pouDds. So that the success Vis
association bas developed throughout Vie
United Klngdom, bas been very marked,
sud It bas certainly doue a great deal for
the people of the country. I remember Sir
Horace Plunkett taklng Up the agrîcultural
aide of this question lu Ireland, aud the
organization of co-operative creameries, and
other co-operative societies amongst Vie
agrlculturists lu Ireland.

q

co-operation irnongst thue farmers in the
seliing of produce, and 1 think a co-operat Ive creamery. 1 know that this legisiat Ion ls very xnuch deslred ln certain port Ions of the province, especially amongst
t he mlnlng districts 'where.Viere are a large
number of amers, wbo are very mucli In:erested ln tbls kind of business. Âny bon.
gentleman who bas followed the movement
.n
1 England will find that the men who be~ome co-operators are ieadlng men. They
xccupy positions onl district boards and
county councls aud educational Ioards, and
the wbole inovement bas a very great educational benefit, as welI as helping Viese
people to carry on business ln thelr own
interests. I arn very glad to see Viat Vie
goverument bas taken charge of Vils Bill.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I rise rather to express an Impression on thîs Bill Vian to
1 understand
express a decided opinion.
that this Bill ls going to be opposed when
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-We bave tbem It reaches the Comittee on Banking and
here in Canada now.
Commerce, and I desire to remain f ree to
formai ny opinion wblcb sbould be formed
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-That is a different
after Vie discussion by the supporters and
Vbing altogether.
opponeuts of the ih bas been heard. HowHan. Mr. BOSTOCK-No, it la on the ever, 1 amn lnclined to favour Vie principle
I understand that his measame lunes as the Bill and the only thlng of Vie Bill.
The first ls
Sir Horace Pluukett bas been known to say sure bas three main objects.
that be regrets about It, la that be did not to encourage savlng amongst the people.
understand Vie question of these co-opera- Surely noboily cau bave any objection to
tlve-I caîl Viem loan socleties. They are that, and lt is one of the main objecta of
flot really banks, and hardiy boan societies Vie measure. The second object la to foater
-but Viey belp Vie farmer lu gettlng among the people tbe principle of associaamahI advances for Vie work of bis farm, tion and Viereby gain the atrengtb resulting
and Viese banking societies together witl frorn an association. It may take ail klnds
It rnay be for the purpose of
Vie co-aperatîve creamerles and other Vhilgs of forma.
developed Viere bave been of encouraglng- smaîl savings or helplng men
that he bas
enormous benefit ta Vie farmers of Ireland lu their agricultural pursuits. It Mnay take,
ÂnoVier
I certainly thlnk that Vis Bill la a very posslbly, the forai of lndustry.
good one lu Vie tateresta of the people object la to. procure for the membera of
This co-operation bas a great future before- those associations articles of varlous klnds
It lu educatlng the people Iu the rural dis without the intervention of the mlddlemau.
tricts, to understand bow business la car- The bon. senator f rom Wellington seema to
rled on. One great difficulty wlll be fouud, labour under a faise Impression. Re says
Viat Vie people who w1il taire bold of tiese that Vhis Bill la Intended to do a great deal
associations, If Vils Bill goes through, do of miachief ta the retal trade. So fa.r as
not, as a rule, understand Vie princîples I arn aware, this Bill la not necessary to
that govern business, and as an educational permît a society being formed for the pursysteai. I Viink Viese co-operatîve associa- pose of sehhlng to Its membera, and to Its
It ls
tions are very good things ln the Interests members only, any articles of trade.
of the people. We bave at Vie present time open to any number of men In thîs country
lu Britishi Columbia a certain amount of to apply to the hon. Secretary of State to

U211SEINATE
be incorporated for that purpose, and tbey
couid carry on a co-operative business under letters patent as they could under this
Bill. Therefore, ln that respect, this Bill
does flot introduce anything new; but there
are other features ln the Bill which could
flot be covered by letters patent.
I have
flot had lime te give mucli attention to the
Bil itseif-bilt 1 amrnfot sure that it does
flot overstep the jurlsdiction of the
provinces.
Otberwise, so far as I understand the Bill, I amn inciined to give it my
support. *In several parts of the country
the cheese and butter Industries have taken
the forrn of co-operative associations, with
the resuit that the members of those associations have greatly profited.
In Hol1land, the cheese business has attained its
great developrnent and prosperity iargely
througb associations of this kind. li England, these associations are very numerous,
and have proved beneficial to their members ln rnany respects.
It la, therefore, a
good idea to, facilitate the Introduction of
such associations In Canada.
The main
object to be encouraged is the savings habit
among the people.
France has recently
presented to the world a spectacle of financial strength resuIting from the saving
habits of -the people, due to tbat cause.
Durlng the late financiai crisis, the rate of
money did not rise over 4 per cent. That
18 not the resuit of any great accumulation
of wealth la the handa of a f ew, but is due
to the fact that the people at large are
saving, and saving ail the time, and, therefore, they are, so to speak, protected from
many of the .finanelal troubles whIch occur
lni other counfries.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Smnce the hon. senator from Wellington bas taken bis seat, I
have been thinking over bis statements and
arguments ln opposition to this measure,
and I .find they are based on a sentiment
and principle directly at variance wltb the
generai interest and welfare.
Hlis sym.
patby les wlth the retailers; so do mine, to
a certain extent; but not to the same degree
as bis.
His ciaim is that trade sbould be
divIded up, and he advocates tbe cause of
the retail men. So far as the sentimental
side of It goes, I do flot suppose this bonourable Hlouse wilI take it mucb into consîderation. We are here to deal witb stern
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

facts, and to do whiat is best for the community at large and not for any one class.
I know from tbe experience of the past 25
years that I have given attention to public
affairs in this country, bothi ln the press,
on the platform and elsewhere, that the best
principle to underlie trade la co-operation.
It succeeds lnx
railways and ln financiai and
other Institutions, and why sbouid it not
appiy generally?
I know that when the
Patrons of Industry were in existence, from
1891 to 1898 they secured for the farmers
of Ontario an Immense advantage on one
uine alone, and practicaily ail the farmers
of the country shared in that advantage.
There was one moaopoly ln this country
whicb bound the farmers hand and foot, especialiy the farmers of the west; I aJ.Iude
to the binder twine monopoly, one of the
inost oppressive Institutions ever fostered by
an Act of parliament, au institution whicb
made a few men ricb, and caused the
farmer to sweat early and iate to secure
money to carry on bis agricuitural operations.
The farmers had been oblIged to
pay from 18 cents to 28 cents for binder
twice.
The Patrons of Industry, a cooperative association, came into existance.
I was then iaterested somewhat inx farming
myself, and became a member of It, and
my only regret Is that I did flot take a
hundred shares Instead of only one.
The
resuit of that co-operative movement was
to reduce the cost of binder twIne 50 per

cent
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Wben the Tories
were ln power, they bad to pay only seven
cents.
Hon. Mr. CLORA-N-I have paid from
nineteen to twenty cents for it.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY--Only under thîs government.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-They were flot able
to buy It at ail under the other government.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN--T.his co-operation
was amongst men-interested in agriculture.
They reduced the cost of that one Important article over 50 per cent and recelved
dividends of 10 per cent and 6 per cent,
nnd one year 100 per cent.
H1on. Mr. SULLIVAN-Wbo paid tbe percentage?

MARCH 24, 1908

625

MAROR 24. 1908

625

Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-The men who consumed the twine. What must liave been
t-hp fortunes that tuie manufacturera ln
titis country received when they had a complete monopoly of the trade. Now. am
I to, be told by the hon. senator from Wellington that that should not have been>
done, slmpiy because It hurt the trade of
a few people ? That argument ls agaInst
the common welfare and the common Intereat. The bon. gentleman says that these
co-operative establishments die a natural
death; not any more than other businesses
do. If they die a natural death, nobody
suifera from their death but the shareholders themselvea. When a retailer goes out
of business, ail hia credItors, especially the
wholesalers, suifer. But that la not an
argument against this principle of co-operation. There are too many retailers ln al
the towna and villages of this province
Take the town of Hawkesbury. We have
seventy-five to eighty stores there, to a
population of about 4,000. That means a
retail store for every 50 people, or every
ten familles. Haîf of them, after three or
four years existence, had to go knto bankruptcy, thereby creating trouble ln the
commercial world. They have to selI their
goods dearer because of the number to bc
supported, and the resuit la that ln the
end the consumer la the victim of the retail men. You have to look at this que«
tion not from the special point of view, but
from the point of view of the masses of
the people. I deal with both, and everytime I deal wlth a retail man I am sorry
for lt; he beats me. When 1 want to, save
money, I go to a wholesale man and get my
coifee at 32 cents a pound for whieh I had
to pay the retaller 40 cents. My tea at 80
cents a pound for which the retailer chages
me <30 cents. I buy a llttle bag of charcoal
for which 1 have to pay 10 cents, at the
rate -of $20 a ton; I can buy It for $8 a ton
wholesale. When I want to buy oranges, I
can purchase a case for $2.50 to $3; buylng
from. the retailer they cost me $7 to $8,
and so on through aIl the Items of business
and yet we are told on the floor of thlF
House that the present condition of thinga
must uot be disarranged, that we must look
after the interests of the retailers. 1 hold
that such a position as that ls directly opposed to the general -welfare of the people.
40

ro corne back to the retail men, we have
somet1mes four and five stores more than
The
are necessary ln a nelghbourhood.
esuit la they have to charge higher prices,
and In many cases the men who have no
mens of measurlng and welghing their
produce at their homes are deceived as to,
the weights and measures of what they buy.
Dnly the wealthy get full value for their
money, because they have the means to
protect themselves; therefore wherever coopération can be estabiahed and full justice given to the consumer, that principle
ought to, be malntained. and upheld and
respected by parliament.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHIEED-I, perhaps, should
mnake this explanation to the Chamber, that
1 have endeavoured to keep an open mlud
on this question, o'wing to the fact that it
le about to be referred to the Banklng and
Commerce Cominmttee, and before that committee Important evidence, I apprehend
will be taken, dealing with ail phases of
the question. The Bill la certalnly a most
important one, and if It la found by this
Chamber or by the committee that it la ln
the Interest of the masses of the people
that legislation of thia kInd should be enacted of course any other interests would
have to, make way for the public Interest.
The question naturally arises as to whether the poorer classes of the community
should flot be given those rights which are
exerclsed by the wealthler classes, so f ar as
On the other
co-operation Is concerned.
hand, there la this to be considered, whetheir the objects ln view can be fuUly carried out by the Bill whlch we have before
us ? There are times when parlament has
to Intervene to protect the people against
themselves, and the question le belng raised
here every day as to whether legislation
havlng that end l.n view la so molded and
safeguarded. as to carry out the objects
which the legislation may 'have lu view.
The House of Commons had the advantage
of bearing the evidence upon this subject
taken by a special committee before whceh
were examined many gentlemen wlth large
experience on this question. Among them
was His Excellency the Governor General,
and there were others who spoke with great
famllarlty upon this subject, particularly as
it obtains ln England and on the contient.

SENATE
The question is a ver? large one, certainly,
judging from the facts which have been adduced before that comnittee. It woul appear from some of the facts elicited, that lu
Great Britain tbese co-operative socleties
are so large and Important as to Include
witbln their membership two million two
hundred and fifty thousand people. It was
there adduced ln evidence that the annual
turnover of those societies last year amounted te no less than $500,00,000. That the
profits upon that turnover amounted to nlot
less than $50OO000,00, ten per cent of whicb
was devoted to educationai purposes ln
Great BrItain. It was aise establlshed bo
fore that committee that the dairy Interests
of Denmark, that are now so prominent
before the world, largeýly owe their deveiopment to the existence of these co-operative socletles. It was there stated that of
the $100,00,000 experts of Denmark, no less
than $70,00,0O0 is represented by those cooperath-e socleties. Of course, If this be
the case, It wiIl at once appeal to bon, gentlemen that an Institution of this klnd,
capable of carrying on operations of se gigantic a character, would certalnly be entitled to the very best consideration whilh
parliament can give. It lu a question ln
my mmnd as to whether the advantages to
be galned wiil nlot be overcome by the possible losses which have been polnted out
by my bon. trlend from Wellington. From
the experlence or the country ln the past
with reference to kindred socleties It
Is a welI known fact that Institutions of
this klnd, up to the present time, in Can.
ada at any rate, have nlot been of that
successful character that was auticipated.
It la aiso a question whlch should demaud
the greatest consideration as to whether the
banking powers, namely the acceptance of
deposits, &c., proposed to be given to associations of this klnd, should be given under
the alleged safeguards at present embodied
lni the Bill. It. would sern to mie, f rom
a casual consideration of that Bill, that a
greater measure of Inspection and of guarantees should be imposed by the government wlth reference to this brandi of the
subject. My bon. friend, the Secretary of
State, has pointed out the very rapid growtb
of one society iu the province of Quebec.
from wbich it will appear that the possibilîties of those varlous societies accumuHon. M1r. LOUGHEED.

lating very large amounts are such as to
ciassify them wltb our banking Institutions. That of course Is a very commendable thing lndeed, and If lt can be shown
that socleties of this klInd are capable of
carrying on business so successfully as
to resuit ln the accumulation of large funds
such as the hon. Secretary of State has lndicated, then the greater the necessity and
the greater the responslblllty of parliament
that those who put their money Into those
institutions sbould be properly safeguarded
as te the result of Investment and deposit.
1 therefore hesltate to express myseif
one way or the other on the Bill. I have
endeavoured to give It as much consideratien as I could; but Inasmuch as It lu a
matter that bas been before the House of
Comnions for some years, and has been discussed several times, and furthermure as a
select committee has given, for a great part
of this session, Its best consideration to the
question,. it wouid be unreasonable to ask
us to pronounce ourselves definitely upon
sO important a question without havlng
before us the evidence whlch would warrant a satisfactory conclusion on the subject.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I have not read
the whole of the Bill, but I do not thlnk it
Is at ail ln touch with the Bille whiceh bave
been passed such as the Annuities Bill, tbe
Savings Banks, &c.
Those were for the
general benefit of the people; but tbis
Bill wiil undoubtedly do an lnjury to
a certain class of people, and I do not
thlnk It will do any good to others. So
far as Ontario Is concerned, It wlil end
In disaster; some promoters wll walk
off with the funds, and wbere wili the
profit be to the investor ? I share the
vlews of the hon. senator from Wellington
on this subject. It will undoubtedly tend
to kfll the retail trade of Ontario. I speak
of Ontario, because I arn more famîliar
wlth Its conditions. The retail groceries
business to-day cannot afford a living wlthout including the sale of hIquor. Therefore,
the retaller is selng bis goods at present
for the benefit of the people. There Is no
class of the people making a living that
should be struck out; they. deserve a living
as weli as others. The arguments advanced
by the hon. senator from British Columbia

ýMAIRCU 24, 1908
aud the hon. member from De Salaberry,
are altogether fallacles. The hon. -senator
from De «Saiaberry spoke of tlue saving
habits of the people of France. They make
their money by keeping out of sncb socleties. They save what they cau, just as
the French Canadiens do or used to, do.
Instead of takiug their money to the bank,
they keep it at home, and ln that way secumulate it I do flot; thlnk, therefore, the
experience of France could be adduced as
any argument lu support of this Bill. Certainly, the arguments about cheese factories
and creameries, do flot apply to this Bill,
because they are for the benefit of tlie whole
commuulty. They do flot injury auybody or
tend to create hostllity betweeu different
classes of the people. 1 have the Rame objection to departmental stores. We find
that one man makes millions by such
ineans, whiie mauy other traders make
nothing.
If you want to create a
favoured class, you are here. proposing
the rlght legisiation to do it. I was astonished at the remarks of the hon. Secretary
of State about the savings of those people
lu the case he alluded to; but it struck me
to ask who is paying that money. If this
organization lu Quebec were makiug $M0,000 lu a short time, somebody had to loue
it
They were flot doiug any industrial
work which added to the general prosperit.s. Canada la going ahead f ast enough,
sud people should flot; try to go too fast.
There lu no need for these co-operative societies. They create class autlpathy as the
Every one was delighted
Grangers did.
when the Grangers died a natural, or per.
haps an unnatural death. Theue are thue
reasons why I object to the Bil, because
it strlkes at people who are honeut citizens
trying to make au honest living.
Hou. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.>-Not beIug a member of the Committee on Banking and Commerce, I wish to express my
views now. I fully agree wltb the hon.
senator from. Wellington lu the opinion he
has given ou this Bill. I think It would do
more harm than good. It ls possible that
lu one or tivo places it may flourish ;
but, as a general thing, the farmeru and
labouriug men who put their xnoney into
schemes o! this kind will lose it. The Bill
offers a premium to clever men to form

627

the companies, to get hold of the guileleas
farmer and workiugmau and obtain their
mouey. Some of these organizations wil
flourish, and others wIll fafl, sud the farmers sud workiugmeu wlll loue their
money. Two years ago we had two co-operative societies of this kiud lu the grocery
and provision hunes. I thiuk they existed
for about two years, sud finally they went
to smash, and the shareholders of those
companies bast ail their mouey, some of
them a great deul. I thinkl t lu Impossible for auy compuuy of this kiud at the
utart ta buy their goods cheaper than they
can be obtalned to-day by the ordinary retail traders, aud If they buy them on as
good terms, they are retaihed at a los sud
the farmer who puts is money lu thinka
be le gettlng a bargain sud obtainiug cheaper gooda where he le probably getting an
Inferior article. I say that the people now
have facilitles ta get ail they want at the
cheapeut possible rate, aud I am opposed
ta the Bill.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE--I think thîs la
purely a provincial matter, sud that
parliameut should not touch this question
at ail, because If auy province lu the Dominion requires these orgauizatious they eau
be provided for lu Its own provincial legislature. The province of Ontario ls against
this BIUl. We have had letters frors retail
merchants sud other associations lu the
province, eomplaiulug that we have euough
WIth regard to
associations of t.his kind.
its being a meaus of uaviug money, there
le already every opportuuity to save it,
tg> put It in the baulis where it will be perfectly safe sud putting lt luto companleq
that are already established, sud that have
perfect records.' I think It la _a great mistake ta Introduce the Bill lu this House,
sud I hope when it comes before the eomWe do not want
mittee it wil be kllhed.
that Bill et ail lu Ontario, sud I entirely
agree with the hon, gentleman from Wellington.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
not kuow that I should bave ventured an
opinion ou ibis question had It not been
for the speech of the hou, gentleman from
A ittle bluder twlue
Victoria division.
hiutory May, perhaps, lead the House to a
different conclusion, altogether from that

SENATE
wiiich the hon, gentleman has ventured to
described. In the meantime, however, 1 amn
flot prepared to go the length the hon. gentleman from Wellington, or the hon, gentleman who bas just spoken have gone Ia
reference to, the merits of this Bill. If
people desire to enter into corporations for
the purpose of benefiting thernselves, I
have sufficient libeZalIty ln my composition
to allow them to do so. 1 arn not prepared
to say that they have been a success lI Ontario. In the city ln which I live, I know
of but one co-operative assoNlation, and that
was estabished when the Grangers or the
Patrons of lndustry were In full force. In
that case, however, they went altogether
beyond the original Intention of the Grangers. They entered Into grain speculations.
They obtained elevators. Farmers argued
among themseIves that they could handie
their own grain and seli It to, greater advantage than the speculator, and that the
profits which the speculator put In bis
pocket would be secured to thernselves.
The result was, 1 arn sorry to, say, bankruptcy to the most of those who entered
Into the speculation, and it was only the
other day that I saw one of them, once a
comparative]y wealthy farmer, who had
fitted hlmiself, through the operation of that
soclety, for the poor-house. It la a matter
of very great regret. He was an old echool
friend of mine. But when I lok back at
the resuit of the organization to, which I
have called attention, and the manner In
which It was carried on, I corne to the conclusion that, unless they are conducted by
thorough]y honest men, and men with business ability and business experience, such
organîzations are velry apt to be fallures.
I arn not prepared, however, to accept the
statement made by my hon. friend to my
left (Hon. Mr. Sullivan) that If they were
establshed la Ontario, the resuit would be
that some dishonest men would run away
with ail the money. I thlnk there are sorne
honest men In Ontario, If there are very
many who are dishoaest.
In regard to binder twine, the manner la whlch rny hon. f riend has placed
that question before the House would
lead one to the conclusion that the organization of a society in opposition to
what they called the binder twine combination led to a reduction of the price of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

binder twine when sold to the farmers.
My recollection carnies me back to the time
when there was a great complaint made by
the farmers of this country, and more particularly by the farmers of Manitoba and
tic northwestern section of the country, at
the prices whleh were charged. At that
time, the goverament of the day took this
question into, consideration and, under the
administration of the late Sir John Thompson, Who was then Miaister of Justice, they
purchased a large quantlty of machinery,
rsud established a manufacture of binder
twine la the penltentiary.
It was argued
at that time that there was no occupation
to which the prisoners could be put that
would enure so much to, the benefit of the
farming communlty as the establishment of
a binder t-luie lndustry, and have the output sold at a pnice very little beyond, or a
very small percentage beyond the actual
cost of the raw material and the rnanufacturing and sale of the goods.
At that
tinie, the resuit was that the price of binder
twlne weut down rnaterially, and it Interfered to a great extent with what my hon.
fniend called the monopoly.
Tîrne rolled
On.
1 may as well admit the fact that la
the appointmnt of agents, the selling of
the twine, the goverunent lost a certain
amount of money, but that was either
through mlsmanagement-I ar n ot prepared
to say exactly dlshoaesty, on the part of the
agent; but while the goverunent lost, the
purchaser and consumer or the binder
twlne got it cheaper and lost nothing. Ultimately there was a change of goverament.
The Cuban and the Philippine Islands war
took place, and the result was that the
growing of the manilla and the sisal, the
materials out of which the binder twine
was manufactured, rose trernendously la
value, and that was the reason of the great
lncrease in cost of manufacture; but where
the Injury was done--aad lt was discussed
la this House at the time--was this: The
goveranent, instead ef selling the binder
twine at a pnice whicb would have been
remunerative to the country, doled it out
to certain of their friends Ia the western
portion of Ontario, who reaped an immense
These were
benefit frorn the sale of lt.
the causes of the increased lirice of
binder twine. and when I took exception to tile policy at the tirne, the then

MARCH 9,4, 1908
Minister of Justice, the Hon. David Mills,
excused the action of the government, or
justified the action of the government on
the ground that, owlng to the war ln the
Philippine Islands and in Cuba the raw material bad risen so materially lu prîce that
they -were compelled, in order to meet the
expenditures of lue government ln1 the manufacture lu the penitentiary, to lncrease the
Wilu the manufacturer, who had
price.
to buy his raw material the year ln whicb
the manufactured article was soId, tbat
argument was conclusive and correct But
what were the facts ? Every one knows
that lu the blnder twine lndustry the raw
materlal has to be purchased the year previous to lits manufacture and sale to the conThe raw material out of whlch
Sumer.
binder t'wlne was made at lue period to
wbich I have called the attention o« the
Hlouse, was purcbased at the cbeap rate of
lue year before, and the result should have
been that the manufactured article, wbicb
was sold lue year afterwards, should have
been dlsposed of to lue consumer at a rate
based upon lue profit on lue price paid for the
raw materlals; but it was handed over to lue
favourites to whom 1 have referred, and lue
price was ralsed to double what it was before, sud lue combination-not lue combiuation, but the farmers' organizations, which
existed, I lulnk, lu lue town of Brantford,
If my recollection serves me right, raised the
price just ln proportion or a Uittie more than
The
it was sold for by the governent
goverument had bought lue raw material
lue year before, and could have sold It out
to the consumer at a rate whlch luey would
have bail to sel had lue cause not existed,
and lue product of farma lu lue Philippine
Islauds and ln Cuba hadl remained at lue
samé price It was lue year before. This
la lue Ilttie history of the binder twlne
combination, for which lue goverumeut was
equaliy responsible with the gentlemen who
were mauufacturlng it, for thé reason luat
they bad but one or two alients to take hold
o! the penitentlary twine, and luose agents
raised the prIce Just In proportion to lue
price set by the private manufacturera to
That combination
wbom I have referred.
ln Ontario was composed of farmers, and
mauy of luemn became weaithy, or comparatively weaitby tbat year lurough the sale
,of their binder twine. I am not prepared

2

to say that these organisations are ail of
lue character luat lias been represeuted. If
the arguments of the hou, gentleman from
Wellington, and the bon, gentleman from,
Kingstou, are strlctly correct, and If governments are to be couducted upon the principle laid down by luem, we sbould st once
pass a law to'prevent the continuance of
departuieutai stores.
Go to lue city of
Toronto aud what do we find?
The departinental stores bave sbut up nearîy al
the retail stores on King street. I am not
arguiug against departmentai stores, but I
arn drawiug luis argument fiom the remarks made by lue hon. gentlemen who
have spoken.
If luese organizations wIll
Injure lue small retail trade of the country
by closing them np, why not legislate agalnst
departmeutal stores just ab well? We kuow
that depsrtmeutal stores are having a marvellous effect upon smaller retallers. The
large establishment lately erected lu Winnipeg by the Eatons, coverlng almoat a whole
block has had lue effect to which I have
called lue attention of lue House. Those
who have been lu Winnipeg, and luose who
know what lue renta of property ln de!fereut parts of lue clty were a year or two
and what they are now, and who redfect
upon lue tact lue number of retali shops
which bave been shut Up since lue establishment of that mammoth institution, If
luey are ln accord .with lue principle laid
down by lue hon. gentlemen, shouid go a
lttie furluer and brlng ln a mneasure for lue
suppression of departmental stores. Is that
lue duty of a Soverameut? To my mmnd It
ls not, and I belleve lue less we do lu our
legisiative capacity to, restrlct trade lue
better it will be for lue coxnmunity as a
whole. I am opposed to lue continuai bowling against what luey cail corporations and
monopolles. I belleve luat many of these
Institutions do a great des] of good to lue
communlty and much good resuits f rom them
for .many reasons whlch I will not discusa
at luis moment I amn raluer Inclined to
agree wilu my leader, luat when this question cornes before lue Baukiug and CJommerce Commlttee and we can discusa It ln
detail, luat we shahl be berter able to come
to a conclusion as te what course should be
pursued. That those wbo are to be affected
by lue BiII lu Ontario and other sections of
lue Dominion sbould object, I am not at al

SEINATE
iurprised. But you cau scarcely deal wltii
any question of' the magnitude of this Bill
without affecting sorne one, and, for one, 1
amrn ft prepared to cast my vote la favour
of the restriction of any organisation whicb
ls for the benefit of' tile general commufllty.
We live in a free country, and 1 arn of that
tnrn ef mind that leads me to the conclusion that the less we interfere wlth the llberty-because sncb it ls--of the people ln
dealing wlth questions of thls klnd, tbe
better It wilI be for commerce, and the
better for the community.
Hon. Mfr. WOOD-I wish to say a few
words wlth regard te Vils Bill, and 1 would
aay at the outset that 1 bave nlot had the
Urne or opportunlty to examine It as caref ully as 1 ehould like.to do before expresslng an opinion *with regard to It. The remarks whilh I wish to make are rather ef
a general cliaracter, bearing on the general
principle of the Incorporation ef companies
Belng a member of the
of this nature.
Committee on Banklng and Commerce, Ilke
some otbers, I desire to approach tbe conslderation of the subject with an open mind,
and T only wish to say nt tbe present time
that my inclinations, from my readIng and
experience, are to belleve tbat corporations
orflles klnd are nltetofsncb advantage,
elther to the persons who join tbemn or to
the publie generally, as we are led to suppose. One hon. -gentleman, who made soel
remarks ln the course of this debate, said
that It was rlgbt that the poorer classes, the
farinera and the( worlrlng people, shoul'l
have the same privilege et co-operatlng fl
their own Interest as the wealtbler classes
who form corporations for the purpose ef
traite or manufacture. 1 arn quite wllhlng
to agree to that prInciple. 1 thlnk it ls a
sound principle, and 1 amn willlng to do anything lu my power, so far as the legIsiation
of this parllaLnent la concerned, te assist the'
class of people to .which lie refera; but I amn
not sure that the experience cf Vie wealthier
classes who bave formed corporations for
the purposes rnentioned Justifies us ln concludlng Viat It la ln ail cases a benefit.
My own experiene. and the result cf my
observation ln Vie section of Vie country
from which 1 corne, ls that Vie large proportion of these corporations that are formed, elther for business. manufacturing or
other purposes. do nlot outlive one generHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELT,

ation. The men who start Viese enterprises,
mwho are generaliy men of abihity, and who
during their lifetiine give close attention
and study te the business of Vie corporation
make themn a succesa; but It ls lamentable
te say Viat wltb a large number of Viese
corporations, after the persons who crigiualiy fouucled Vie business paso away,
others are net found te take their place and
There are
carry theni ou successfully.
souïe conditions under whlch these organizations do succeed, and succeed for a large
number of years, but It la generally fouud
%where Viat la the case that they have ln Vie
corporation a staff growlng up who study
Vie business f rom Vie perlod they enter,
whlch ls generally ln tbelr early years, and
w-ho, mtien Vie persous wbo bave flrst mnanaged and managed It successfully pass
away, are prepared from their sklll acqulred
and their knowledge of the business, to take
their places and carry it on successfully.
The difficultY wlth organisations o! Vis klnd
seerns te me te be that there ls not Viat
kind cf training aud experlence te depensl
upon. I notice lu section 9 Viat associations te be formed under this -Bill wlil
have a cornmittee te carry on their business.
At the general meeting efthVe association,
there are three persons te be elected who
boid office for one year, and these are Vie
persons who are te pass upon the boans and
investments et the company and determIne
hew and where they shall Invest their
money. My experlence wli ail organisatiens of Viat kind, where Vie management
ls elected annuafly, and 'wbere It ls elected
by a general vote of the members ofthVe organization, ls that Vie change of management -results dlsastrous1y te the Interests of
tie corporation. Many years cannot elapse
betore some Incapable or possibly dishonest
person manages te get elected te the management, and the resuit lu that case la disastrolis.
Hlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL
Ignorant men.

-

Or

Hlon. Mr. WOOD-Yes. However, as 1
sald at Vie outset, I do net wish te saY
that 1 arn opposed te this, Bill. 1 arn glad
that It la golng te the Banklng and Commerce Committee, and 1 desire to hear
everything that can be said both for ani
againat It. 1 ngree with the hast speaker

MATROI 2,4, 1908
the hon, gentleman froin Welington bas
spoken. That was incorporating a coinpany for business purposes, but we may
go further thau that, and the saine principle wili appiy. Take private bauks, started with sinail means: the resuits have been
the saine to the people who had Invested
their money. Tbey have iost. «Take our
mutuai Insurance compaules ; one wouid
tbink that would be a class of co-operatîve
business wblch could be worked to advantage, but whle a few sncb companles have
been succesaful, the great majorlty have
corne to grief. They have gone Into, tbe
Hon. '.%r. McSWVýEENEY-There are not bauds of men who eitber stole the money
any there.
or made bad luvestinents, and the resuit
I do flot tblnk the
been finnclal rul.
Hon. Mr. WOOD-jThere are none tbere bas
comparîson of the object of this Bill with
now. They bave bad a short lived existour departmntal stores la a fair one. It
ence.
The departinental
la entlrely dîffereut.
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-Ând a rnerry stores are tbe saine as any other stores,
only ru upon a larger scale. It la flot
one.
the money of the public that ls belng put
Hou. Mr. WOOD-And iu every case re- iu. It is the mouey of the prIvate Imdisulted dlsastrously to, the persous wçbo Iu- vidual. Take Eaton's or tbe large departvested their rnoney ln thein, and It la for mental stores lu Moutreal; tbey are handled
Viat reason 1 sbould feel opposed to Vie by prIvate capital, the'saine as the retal
Bill, and flot for Vie protection of Vie retali or the wholesale stores. it, la fot money
merchants or any oVier clasa I know of taken f rom tbe people wbo are brought luto
lu the comrnunity.
It, as we are golug to enable those people
.Hou. Mr. OWENS-Tbe laat utterauces to do so. So that the comparison. la flot a
of the hon, gentleman wbo has 3ust re- fair one. 1 thluk: that If the arguments of
surned his seat gîve us oue strong reason the hon. gentleman froin Victoria division
why we sbould not pasa tbis Bill. As ha had any effect, they would Induce meinbas stated, the operations of such orgaul- bers to vote against this Bill. Take a
zations have almost lnvarlably beau disas- wealthy man lIke himself, wbo could taire
troua to Vie parties who inveited thelr euough coal into hlm establishment to lait
mouey lu thein, and If hon, gentlemen wlII the season, and he would compare bis case
look over Vie number of Viosa corporations, wlth that of people who had to buy a bushel
Viey wll find that such has beeu Vie result of coal at a turne. It would take a man
witb a large majorlty of Viain. I do not and teain tblrty tripa to deliver one ton
wish bon, gentlemen to tblnk Viat lu pans- of coal ln the latter case. Yon cannot
ing aucb legislatlon, we are dolng a bene- compare the prIces. Take my hou friend,
volent act, something that wlll Improve who ls able to lay lu a case of oranges,
tbe condition of the farinera. The f ar- and the other man wbo would have to buy
mners wllI be induced to take stock In. a few oranges at a tre-

lu one tbing : That ail classes of people
sbould have perfect freedoin to associate,
or to invest their rnoney ln any way tbat
suits thein, and if I do oppose tVii Bill
it will be wltb a desire to protect the clase
of people wbîcb It promises to serve from
injuring tbeinselves. I do not endorse wbat
the bon. gentleman froin Welliugton sald
wli regard to the retuil trade. 80 far as
Viese organizationa, whicb bave existed lu.
Vie province froin wbich I came are concerned. I do not think tbey bave iujured
tbe retail trade to any appreciable extent.

Vie corporation, and the rasult will be,
as bas been statad, not oàly lu Ontarlo
but ln Quebec. Of course Viere are some
exceptions, wbere they bave proved a succeas. But those are the exceptions. It
bas almoat lnvariably led to disastar, and
Vie ppople wbo bave lnvasted thaîr money
lu tbat way bave almost Invariably bast It.
I amn referriug to the corporations of whlch

Hou. Mr. CLORÂN-He would. get thein
at cost prIce.
Hon. Mr. OWENS-There would be oue
delivery lu the case of the bon, gentleman
andI tweuty-five In the other.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-But at cost priceeverytbing at coat.

632

SENATE

Hon. Mr. OWENS-The hon, gentleman
rnay be a very good lawyer, but ho would
be a very poor business man. I bave flot
had an opportunity of looklng Into the
clauses of the Bill, but I wlsh to dispel
from tbe mlnds of a few that we are paslng a Bill for the benefit of the farmer.
I tblnk lt Is a disastrous Bill.
Hon. Mr. POWE.R-Llke the hou. leader
of the opposition, 1 have tried to keep an
open mind on the subject, and have listened
wlth a great deal of interest to the views
expressed by the hon, gentlemen wbo have
spoken. 1 was struck by the remarks of
the hon. gentleman from Sackville. I have
known that hou, gentleman for a great
many years, and bis addresses ln thîs
House, as well as ln another place before
he came here, were always characterlsed by
sound business sense. I found that my
open mind was in danger of being shaken
as I llstened to hlm.
But, after aIl, when
one thinks of It, thîs Is not a completely
new experiment
They have bad these cooperative establishments la England for a
great many years.
They have been very
successful, and I amn not aware that there
Is any sucb essentlal dîfference between the
Canadian and the Englishman as to make
a system whlch Is successful ln England
certain to fail wben undertaken ln
Canada.
That la one point.
Another point la that
some bon, gentlemen seerned ta thlnk that
some one would get away wlth large quantlties of funds belonglng to those associations. As far as I can gather, there would
not be any very large sum of rnoney ln the
treasury of any of these Institutions at any
one tîme. There la one point as to wbicb
I must say I feel a certain amount of
doubt, and that is the advlaabllity of allowIng- these ce-operative associations to go into
the business of banklng.
I notice ln the
schedule to the Bill, clause C, 'Formai statemeut to be made by the society carrying on
the business of banking.'
It bas been
found necessary to throw a great many saf eguards around the business of banklng and
wben you put It into the bauds of farmers,
very worthy people no doubt, but who have
not made a study of the banking business,
I arn afraid you are running very considerable risk. Then there is another point.

tbe £Ilpport of most inembers of this
Hlouse, a«question bas been raîsed as to its
constitutionality.
The Attorney General of Ontario and the
Attorney General of Nova Scotia have botb
questioued the rigbt of this parliament to
undertake to pass thîs Bill. Tbey feel that
It deals wltb something whlch cornes wlthln
the provincial jurlsdiction, and that Is a
matter whicb, I suppose, the Commrnttee on
Banklng and Commerce will consîder. 0f
course If there Is anythlng la the contention
of the provincIal Attorneys General, that
secure

bas to be considered.

The motion was agreed to, and the Bll
was read the second Urne.

SECOND REÂDINGS.
Bill (EE) An Act respectlng the Pontiac

Central Rallway Company.--{Hon.
Mr.
CampbelL)
Bill (FIF) An Act for the relief of Edlth
Maud Rosario Gammell.--(Hon. 'Mr. Joues.)
RAILWAY ACT AMENDMIENT BILL.
IN COMMITTEE.
The House resurned ln Cormlittee of the

Whole, consideration of the report of the
Standing Committee on Rallways, Telegrapbs and Harbours, to wbom was referred
Bill (3) Au Act to arnend the Rallway Act.
(In tbe Comrnittee.)
Hon. Mr. POWER-There la no substanUial difference between the arndment
rnoved by the hon. member from De Salaberry and that of whîcb I bave myseif
gîven notice.
The essential difference between the two is that bis la about twlce as
long as mine.
Let us see how section 275
0f the Rallway Act wll read wben the
amendment of the bon. senator from De
Salaberry le added to It:
275. No train shal ipass in or through any
thickly peopled portion of any city, town or

village at a epeed greater than teis miles an
hour unisse t he traek is fenoed or properly
proteoted in the manner .prescribed by this

Act.
3. No train shail pass over any highway
crossing- at rail-level in any thicly peopled
portion of any city, town or village at a
greater speed than ten miles -an hour, unle,3s
such crossing is constructed and thereafter
Wbile the Bill appears to be in the right duly xnaintained and protected in acoordan'ý_e
direction, and one that is calculated to with an order, regulation and the directions
of the Railway Committee of the Privy CouuHon. Mr. CLORAN.

MARCU 9,4, 1908

0

cil or of the board in force with respect there- tions were not at present in the plural, Is
to, or unless permission se given by some re- more suitable. Then there la another point,
gulation or order of the board. The board, that under our revised statutes« singular imay from time to time fix the speed in any
cludes plural and plural singular, so that If
case at eny rate that it deems proper.
orders and regulations, that covers
You wiil observe that this power of the you say
as weli as
Is repeated. You get one order and regulation 3ust
board to lmit the speed
Then there la
the singular number does.
that In the second subsection, and you get
this about it, the words ' In accordauce wlth
it at the end of the third subsection. Then
an order, regulation aud the directions, etc.'
ail this about the train not passing through
Whose order
city is also are llkely to lead to trouble.
any thickly peopled portion of a
or regulation is It to be? It does not say
repeated, and, I thluk, for no special good
' In accordauce wlth an order, regulation
end. What my amendinent proposes to do
It
and directions,' but 'the directions.'
la this-to repeal section 275 of the Act as
followlng: seems to me that you are likely to have
it now stands, and substitute the
trouble Ie deciding by whom the order is
275. No train shall paýss in or through aay to be made.
It does not say that It la an
portion o! any city, town or
thickly peopled.
village at a epeed greater than ton miles an. order and regulation o! the Rallway Comnhour; uuless the track is fenced or .properly mittee of the Privy Council, or of fixe board;
protected in the manner prescribed by this
Act, and every highway crossing at rail-level but It Is an order, regulations and the direcin such portion of such city, town or village tions.
Therefore, while I qulte agree wlth
is constructed, properiy protected and duiy the object o! the bon, gentleman, 1 veuture
maintained in accordance with the orders, roýgulations and directions of the Raiiway Comn- to submit this amendmeut as an amendmittee of the Privy Council and of the boaird ment to that which he has moved; 1 thlnk
in force with respect thereto; or uuless permission is given by some regulation or ordez It Is shorter and clearer.
of the board.
2. The board may fix snch speed in any case
-Hon. M4r. MACDONALD (B.C.)-This Bill
at auy rate which it deems expediént.
was re!erred to a commlttee of the Senate
The meauing, as f ar as 1 can see, Is iden- and there dlscussed very fully and was retical with the meaning of the amendmeut ported with certain amendments which they
I thought were quite sufficient. Since then,
of the hon. senator fromn De Salaberry.
wlsh to direct attention to what strikes me many ameudments have been submltted and
as the peculiar phrnseology whlcb the hon. they are ail so close together ln wording
senator from De Salaberry bas adopted lu and meanlng that If the House would takre
the middle of the amendment: 'Ualess such my opinion, 1 would say vote for the
crossing Is constructed and thereafter duly amendments recommended by the commitmalutnined and protected In accordance tee, whlch cover the grouud sufficlently. A
wlth au order, regulation, and the directions great deal o! attention was given to the
o! the Rallway Committee of thxe Prlvy Bill lu the commlttee, and when they deConucil or of the board.' 1 can understand *clded to recommend au ameudmeut, I shall
hlm sayiug it shall be constructed and main- *vote for It and no other.
tained lu accordance wlth orders, regula.
Hou. Mr. SULLIVAN-The hon. gentletions and directions, etc., but it seemis to mc(
regula - man fromn Halifax aud the hon, gentleman
that 1In accordance wlth an order,
If
tions and the directions,' is eccentrlc. I d( from De Salaberry are both lawyers;
they would get together they should be able
not recaîl any similar phraselogy In a Bill
them.
The hon, gentleman was apparently unde: r to settle the matter between
the Impression that there was to be a specia
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The object o! the
order made la every case. Now that is ifo t
E) hon. gentleman from Hall!fax la commeiidto be expected.- There are at least 2,50
readily accept bis amendcrosslngs, and the board are not goiug t D able, aud I would
Ment If It had merely the object of shortenmake a special order for eacb crossing
but It la unacceptable for
The board will Malte general orders ami1 lug fixe section,
;, two reasons: first, that it la dealing wlth
reguintions with respect to these crossinge
matters whlch are goverued
I assume, and the railway companles wl Il two different
If we adopted thîs
.t by dîfferent riles.
have to comply with those orders, so tha
this effect: Iu a
number, even though the'dire( >ameudmeut, it would have
the plural

SEINATE
city where the track of a railway passed
through it for say ten miles, if there happened to be only one highway crossing
without proper protection, as required in
this amendment, no train would be allowed
to run over that ten miles of track at a
The
faster rate than ten miles per hour.
other higbway crossings might be properly
protected, or there might happen to be no
Cther highway crossing, and the whoie ten
miles 0f tracl, might be properly feaced in,
yet the trains would flot be aliowed to run
at a faster rate than ten miles an hour.
Suppose that to-morrow, the limits of the
city of M1ontreal were extended westward to
take in Lachine, there would be some 12
or 15 miles of railway truck within the
limit of the city; with this clause ln operation, from the mere fact that there might
be n crossiug at the extreme west end of
the city not properly protected, trains would
not ibe nllowed to mun at a faster rate than
ten miles an houm for tlie wbole iength of
I fail to see aay reathat 12 or 15 miles.
W7e have to deal with two
son for that.
things, the fenclng of a rail-way in a clty,
Independent of the highway crossings, or
where there may be no hlghway crossings
at ail and with lighway crossings.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Wouid not that
be a case for a special application to the
Would not that be a
Railway Board?
case for the exercise of the provision ut
the end of the paragraph, 'unless permission Is given by some regulation or order of
the board I?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I fail to see the reaTake the case of a railway runnlug
Son.
through a clty a length of ten miles, and
suppose there is only one highway crosslug
at one end or the other of the ten miles, la
there any renson why, if the raiiway through
ail the rest of the city Is properly feuced,
the compauy should be obllged to go to the
Rallway Board for permission to exceed a
speed of ten miles an hour?
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-The reason which,
1 assume, underlies the whole of this legislation, Is to preveat trains runuing Iu cltles
at a hig.her s;peed than ten miles an hou r.
That would arise the moment Lachine became annexed to the city. If a suburb Is
annexed to the city, the reason applies at
once.
Hon. 'Nr. BEIQUE.

Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Under section 275 of
the Raiiway Act as It; stands to-day, It is
not necessary to ask any permission If the
raîlway is properly fenced ln. The train
xnay ruu at any speed under'such circumstances.
-Hon. IMr. BELCOURT-But the reason is
the protection at the crossing.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-We are ail agreed, 1
think, that as far as running ln a city, apart
from highway crossings are concerned, the
protection required Is the fencing of the railway on both sîdes, and that is proper protection as embodied in section 275 of the Railway Act. Why make that protection dependent also on the fact if there happens to be
any highway crossing, that this highway
crosslng must aiso be protected. I understand the highway crossings should be protected, but it is not because the highway
crossing is not protected that the railway
should be prevented for the remaining nine
or ten miles from rinning at a speed exceeding ten miles an bour, If the track, is
properiy fenced ln.
Hon. Mr. MeMILLAN-If a crossing is
properly protected ln a city, town or village,
cannot trains rua at a greater speed than
ten miles an bour over crossings as Weil ns
other places?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes.
Hou. Mr. McMIILLA.N-Then the object
of the hon. gentleman's amendment, as I
understaad it, is to prevent a train from
passing over a level crossing of that description at a -Speed greater than ten miles
an hour, unless it Is properly protected.
Hon. MT. BEIQUE-The object Of MY
ameniment Is to preveat a train passlng at
a higher rate of speed than ten miles an
hour over a bighwny crosslng unless titat
crossing Is properly protected. We have lu
section 275 of the law as It stands now this
other protection, that apart from highway
crosslags the track through the city, town
or village must be protected by being fenced
on both sides of the track, otlierwise trains
cannot mun faster than ten miles an hour.
Where is the reason of maklng one dependent on the other? That Is my objection to
the ameadment of the hon.. senator from
Halifax. If a rallway Is properly protected by fencling, apart from highway cross-

MKIROII 24, 190S
ings, trains should be allowed to mun at any
speed the company likes; but s0 far as
crosslngs are concerned, the company wli
have to reduce the speed to ten miles an
hour unless the crossing is protected; or.
vice versa, suppose the highway crossing Is
properly protected, the train sbould be ailowed to exceed the ten miles limit as far
as the track Is properly fenced lu, and where
It Io not properly fenced ln, the speed should
be reduced to ten -miles an hour, but oua la
flot dependent on the other. becanse it la
goverued by different miles. In one cas.-,
the protection is a fence, lu the other it la
a diffarent kind of protection altogethar ;
tharefore from that standpoint the amendment Is objectionable. It la also objectionable la uslng the words 1the orders, regulations and directions.' If the amendmnent
were lu that shape, it would have no effect,
because ail these highway crossings have
to be buîlt under section 159 of the Railway
Act as It stands, at ter the issulng of an order goveruing ail the b ighway crossings.
Hon. Mr,. 31c3t11LAN-That is durlng
construction.
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-And atter construction. Before a railway is ibiilt, the company bas to submlt plans ehowlng ail the
highway crossiugs, and an order la issuea
by the board sanctloning the plans and ailowing the railway to be bult. As a matter
of tact, they axe the orders and regul ationa
regarding the building of a railway and the
crossing of highways. Therefore, to use
the words 1accord ing to the orders, regulations and directions,' would not attain the
object we have lu view. What we have to
exact la an order. It wll flot necesarily be
an order for each crossing. Iu the saine
order several highway croasings may be lncluded. Ail the highway crosainga iu the
municipalitles or county may be coverad by
one ordar, but It wlll have ho be an order
deallng wih hlghway crossings, aud not the
general orders which are issued inerely at
the time the building of the railway la authorized.
Hon. Mfr. SULLIVAN-Is your amendnment to allow a train to pass tbrough a
clty, town or village at a bigh rate of apead.
without reducing the speed to hen miles et
aur point?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-If the track Is proq>erly protected.

lion. Mr. FERGUSON-The two amendinents, to my mmid, are flot worth arguing
about, because neither of them, la of any
particular value. Neither of thema will protect a crossing or restore the common law
rlght of tbe people. They wlll flot make
railways liable by common law for act.idents at crossings. To my mind, tbey are
not worth discussing, but I prefer the
ameudment of the hon. senator from De
Salaberry because it is flot so confusing as
the other. Section 275 of the Railway Act
deals wlth the track and the track only.
Notwitbstanding tbe remarks of the bon.
Secretary of State the other day, 1 atml adhere to that opinion. The ameudment of
the hon. senator from De Salaberry proposes
to deal with the bighway crossings. Now If
you amalgamate these two into one section
and questions arise wlth regard to the track,
it wili become a pretty dîfficuit matter to
apply the penalty -for exceeding the apeed.
Because you are providing for two different
states of things altogether, and I think It
leads to clearneas to have themn deait wità
separately, and whatever good there ls lu
elther of tbem will be found out by thos
who have occasion to use them. While I amn
on my feet, T want to say that my atatement
of factos ubmitted to the House wben 1 addressed It, have only been challenged by
two lion. gentlemen. One was the hon. gentleman from. Wellington, who made. a very
strong statement ln contradiction of what I
-repreaented to the House ln regard to the
law lu tbe United States, aud he said that
the restriction of the power of the municipalities only lu Michigan applied to cities.
Hon. Mfr. McMULLEN-I sald cities and
towna and exceptional villages.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I understood the
hon, gentleman to aay cities. It would be
very much better for my bon. friend to
refer to statutes than to make statements
of what somebody else bas told hlm.
Hon. Mr. McMULLIN-Oh, no.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUBON-I should Ilke hlm
to quota the statute which austains his view 7
The atatute I quoted deals with cilles and
towns of the tourth class, and tbey are
made to Include places as 10w ns tbree
tbousand population.
Hou. Mr. McMULLEN-15 that the Michigan statute ?

636

SENATE

Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Yes.
On page
M4 of the first volume of the Revised Statutes of Michigan lie wll find what I tell
hlm to be correct, and If lie will turi to
page 974, lie wilI find the statute I rend
to the House. I d.Id nlot niake tbis statement on liearsay. I read It frorn the Revised Statutes of the State of Michigan.
There was another staternent which I made,
which \vas challenged by the hon. gentleman from De Lanaudière. It was 'wltb
regard to casualties at the hlghway crossinge of Canada, and the contradiction between the statement submitted to the conimittee by Mfr. Mountain and the statIstics
to be found ln the report of the Railway
Departmnent. Now there were submltted to
the Hoûse and to that comrnlttee statemente made to botb these parties. One
was a staternent read at the comrnlttee
meeting by Mfr. Mountain, which had prevlousiy been presented to this House.
Hon. Mfr. CÂSGRIN-Is that statement
of Mr. Mountain's correct ?
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-No, it ls not correct. It le certalnly Incorrect.
Hon. Mfr. CÂ8GRAIN-You
neot correct ?

say It la

Hon. Mr. FJDRGUSON-Yes. I do not
thlnk my hon. frIend hiniseif wljl venture
to say It la correct, because we have the
meturn prepared by the Departrnent of Railways, by Mfr. Payne, made up froma the
sworn retumna of the rallway conipanies, and we have this statement
submltted to the House at the saine tirne
as a part of the return, and it empliatically contradicts the statement whlch Mfr.
Mountaln read to the committee. I wll
just show how they dîffer: Mfr. Mountaln's
statement for the jear 1905 terminated
Mardi 3X, 1905. The number kllled was
41, and the number injured, 5. For the
sanie year, the number kllled was 59, accordlng to Mfr. Payne's statement, and 67
Injured.
Hon. Mfr. <JÂSGRAIN-Also for March
ai.
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-It does nlot say.
Hon. Mfr. CASGRAIN-Is It Mardi 31 ?
Hon. Mr. McMUI.LEN.

Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-My hon. friend
wiil see that cau have no bearinig when
you take ln the tiiree years, because If
they are left out ln one year they will corne
ln the next year.
Hon. Mfr. SULLIVÀN-Every rallway ln
Canada le lncluded.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes,
the rallways of Canada.

It la only

Hon. Mfr. KERR-What year Is that ?
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-I arn givlng the
figures for the year ending, accordlng to
Mfr. Mountain on Mardi 31, 1905, and the
number shown to have been kulled le 41 and
the lnjured 5. I turn to Mfr. Payne's statement cornplied f rom the sworn returns to
the departrnent, and It gives 59 killed and
67 lnjumed.
Hon. Mfr. KERR-Is that durlng the same
period as the other 7
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-It la for the samne
year, but I cannot say exactiy whether the
terminatlon of the year le the saine ln the
both cases. But when you corne to take
'the three years, It will not make any difference, or very Uitile difference. Tien you
corne to Mardi 31, 1906, the number shown
to have been kWled was 42 and the number
injnmed 9, according to Mfr. Mountain. I
find on turnlng to Mr. Payne's retumn, that
there were 50 killed and 76 lnjured. Hon.
gentlemen eu see In a moment that the
rnere incident of a year termlnatlng just
one month dlfferently frorn anotier would
not make any difference.
Hon. Mfr. CASGRÂIN-WiII
tiey
w1th tie saine nurnber of! rallways?

deai

Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-Just one question at a tume. We corne te 1907, and there
we find the number gîven by Mfr. Mountain
as belng kiiled was 41 and the lnjured 22;
and the number given by Mr. Payne in the
sworn meturns la 73 kilied and 74 lnjured. It
ie no wonder that the hon. gentleman laughs.
When attention was called to the wonderful
discrepancy, but one reason was given, that
the difference would be partly accounted for
from the fact that the Intercoloniai Railway was included in Mfr. Payne's figures,
while It was not încluded ln Mr. Monn-

637

MARCU 24, 1908
tftln's. 1 turn to *Mr. Payne's abstract, and
there 1 find that there have beeni three
killed and five injured on the Intercolonial
Railway in the last year; so therefore, comparlng these years, It would bring the number of killed down to 70-that is taklng off
the number kllled on the Intercolonlal Railway--and 69 lnjured.
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN-Is the Temniscaming and Northern Ontario Railway lacluded la Mr. Mountain's report?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I cannot tell what
Is included la it
Hon. Mr. OASGRAIN-Is it lncluded lu
Mr. Payne's report?
Hion. Mr. riERGUSON-I arn treating my
hon. friend dlfferently from the way lie
treated me the other day, when he was maklng a statement ln regard ta which 1 arn now
puttlng hlm riglit. He would flot allow me ta
interrupt, but now lie Insists, and expects
a different kiad of courtesy fromn what lie
would give wben he had the floor. I think
lie should take It to heart and treat others
As for
as he expects them ta treat hlm.
any question about there being some railways that are under the goverument of
Canada and othiers that are flot, I cannot
ascertain that from the report of the Railway commîssioners, for the table they bave
prepared does flot show where the aeeîdents
happened, or what rallway they happened on.
The government report shows where every
man was killed or lajured, so that you are
able ta trace it ta the railway; but ln the
commissioner's report, tliey do flot give
these details at aIl, aithougli 1 think the Act
They just
requires them to give them.
give the number killed, and they say 'on
level crossings,' and these are the figures
that they submit. I cannot.compare them.
Mr. Mountain first thouglit that the Intercolonial Railway being included ln one and
flot la the other would account for the di!ference, but I pointed out that in the last
year, it would anly maire a very small difference, that it wou]d stili leave the klled
at 70, and the lnjured 69, whereas lie put
them down at 41 killed aia 22 injured.

Hon. Mr. FEIIGUSON-± do not mind being iuterrupted.
Hon. Mr. KERR-Is there flot thls dl!ference between the two: that he only deals
with matters that the Railway Board deals
with, whereas the other embraces flot only
the Intercolonial Railway, but provincial
There are the -Quebec
and electric roada.
and St. John, the Temiscaming, and a great
many others.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Not one of these
casualties la the goverament returu refers
ta electric roads. They are dealt with separTheir deaths and casualties are ta
rately.
be found la another table, and not in this
one at aIl, and there is no mixing o! them
whatever. I say I arn not able ta make a
comparison ta know whether the roads Mr.
Mountain deait wlth are exactly the same
roads as the goverament dealt with. They
must surely flot lie the same, and the
commissioner's table Is s0 insufficient that
It does
you cannt make the comparlson.
flot show the railway a9t whlch the trouble
occurred, as It should show; but my statement was very fiatly contradicted-and
here I want ta say one word ta the
hon. gentleman luterrupting me, and 1 want
He Is chairman of
hlma ta lay It ta heart.
the Railway Cammittee, and some of us
think when there is a Bill before the
cornmittee affecting railway corporations
we get no show at ail, we are hardly
allowed ta open aur mouths, with the
treatrnent we receive at that committee.
When my han. frlend. came ta address the
House ou this subject, lie read fram tliis
book which lie prized very highly, although
lie lad very little acquaintance wlth ItL It
Is the rallway statistics of the Dominion o!
Canada for the year ending June SOth, 1907,
and he read from pages 114 and 116, and
what dld the hon. gentleman do? There
are two tables on that page, which are
headed la this way:
1Summary of accidents to persans for the
year ending 3Oth June, 1907, shawing kInd
o! accident, accidents resultlng from the
movement of trains, locomotives or cars,'
and the first table deals with trespassers,
and they are given as 21 killed and 18 lajured.
nIon. Mr. ASGRAIN-They do not came

Hon. Mr. KERR-Would the hon, gentle- intoti
man allow me-

discussion

as to

protection of

SEINKATE
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON- Yes, they do the report shall contain the naines of those
corne in under the law. The Railway Act killed on highway crossings by an engine or
requires the sworn returns to give the nuin- car. According to the fancy of somebody,
ber of persons kiiied or lnjured tlirough they choose to put down some men kiiled
being struck by an engine or train on high- at crossings as trespassers, their lives are
way crossings, and it does flot cali for to be of no consequence, and the fact
the distinction between trespassers and non- that they are klled te to pass into, obitrespassers ; but a distinction bas been vion because somebody says they were tresdrawn for the last year between trespas- passers. .We should have the table made
110w do they up simply showing the number ot peopie
sers and non-trespassers.
draw ItV Wlth regard to some of the acci- killed at railway crossiags.
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRIN-Why do they put
dents that have occured since the debate
started la this House, two men were them separately lui the book ?
killed at protected crossings, but protected
Hou. Mr. PERGUSON-I wish the bon.
crossings wlth the gate out of order. An
unfortunate man at Montreal drove in gentleman would try to talk a littie sens!on the crossing and was kiiled. That biy. 1 toid hlm what the law provides. iu
man is called a trespasser. Tiiere was the United States, I think they do draw that
another case on Bloor street, ln Toronto, distinction, and the Rallway Departient
where a man named Scott was kilied not have tried to assimilate the returas with
long ago. There the gaie was swung those of the United States; but it matters flot
down and he walked clean under it in whetlier the man was a trespasser or flot.
the dark, without his head touching lie was on the highway crossing, and If he
the gate. That was at a protected cros- was killed there the iaw requires that the
sing, and Scott wouid be calied a trespasser. returui shouid show tlue fact of is being
1 presume that is the way they draw killed or injured, and does flot require alny
the distinction. Here we have the two other fact but that to be sworn to. M'hen
tables, or one table divlded Into two parts th hon. gentleman came to read the table
on the saine page o! the book; the hon. gen- to the House he mlght have made a
tleman read only one o! thein, and aithougli mistake. I might only have got a part
I cailed bis attention to the fact that he of it and omitted the other. I hope, to be
was only reading one part of thue statement, charitable, that that was the case; but wben
and I sent the book over to bis table, bc I passed the book over and it was possible
for the hon. gentleman to put himself
persisted In going on with bis statement.
t
hudbv.èdn
buh
I rgt
Hon. Mr. CASGRIN-I still persist.
persist mn Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I stili thluk I am
do not count those 21. 1 atill
my statement, because tiiose were not on right.
Hon. Mr. PERGUSON-I have heard an
the crossing.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If the hon. gen- old story, 'which I TrIll not repent, which
tleman rises to make a consequentiai obser- illustrates that position very %vell, whieu
the hon, gentleman says lie is right. Any
vation, I wouid like to hear hum.
hon, gentleman who doubts it can refer
to pages 114 and 116 of the Railway StatisHon. Mr. YOUNG-Order, order.
Hon.Mr.FERUSO -Whosay orertics for Canada, and he wiili easily find out
h swog
n
ih
Amn I out o! order when 1 say that an ob- woi
are no
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-There
one? I
servation is flot a consequentiai
appeal If there is any hon, gentleman In the deaths froin crossings ln the United States
House except the ex-Speaker of the Manito- statistics. They give no accolint o! the
ba legisiature, who wouid cail me to order deaths at crossings.
Hon. Mýr.-FERGUSON-Oli yes, they do.
those grounds if so I would like to k-now
Who It is. The hon. gentleman mak-es an ahHon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I had It here.
solutely inconsequentiai statement. The iaw
have the
Hon. Mr. riERGUSONil-I
does not say whether they shall le trespassers or non-trespassere. The law says figures.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN.

MARCH 24, 1908
Hon. 31r. SULLIVAIN-Not at crosslngs.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Yes. And they
divide thein as trespassers and non-trespassers ln the United States, and I think, as I
bave already rernarked and explained to rny
lion. friend, that we have attempted ln Cai-'
ails to adopt the United States systern, but
the division of the casualties into two classes
does nlot affect the question at ail. Our law
does nlot recognlse that distinc~tion. What
we were dealing with was the number of
people killed or lujured at crossings. It
mlght be the contention of the railway companies that the victim was a trespasser, and
he mlght go to the courts and flnd that he
was nlot a trespasser at ail, as certainly Mr.
Noel Wilson of M.Nontreal was no trespasser
when the conjpany lef t the gate open, and
Mr. Scott ln Toronto was flot a trespasser
wbeu he walked onto the crossing and was
kllled, because the gate -was neot let down
sufficiently lu the night time for blm to
know it was tbere at ail. i have been coinpelied to take up these two points, because
rny statement to the House was challengcd.
I rnay say that I took a great deai of care
to go to original sources for my information.
rt

l

*~.

...

0.il

,

T

3

deait not only impartially and fairly with
everybody, but ho bas shown an arnount of
urbanity towards ail members of the committee whlch we like to recognize, and 1
tbink the bon. gentleman will withdraw the
staternent he made.
Hon. Mr. FEROUSON-I do not think I
have said anytbing that would according to
any rule of parliament cali for a withdrawal. At the same tirne, I would bt*
sorry to do my hon. friend an Injustice. Hoi
is geniai and pleasant and I believe from
my heart that If he does anything wrong it
Is not very intentional. I amn always ready
to go that far, but I have noticied that when)
a question affectlug raUlway cornpaflie3
cornes up, that it is not only the Chairman
but other lion. gentlemen who do nlot give
those who waut to Investigate a fair show.
I have cornplaiued of that agalu and again
and I feit I had grave reason to complalu
of it wheu we were in conittee ou this
Bill. The moment I would rise to ask
a question of Mr. Mountain I would be lnterrupted lu haif a dozen quarters. It
would seem as if the desire was to siiut out
questions from utembers.

#*li.

could, and I arn not conscious of puttin;
anything before the House that lu nlot absoiutely correct, and If any hon. gentleman
contradicts me he certainly ought to do ft
on bettor authorîty 'than rny hon. friond
from De Lanaudiere or my hon. friend from
Wellington have shown. I may remark that,
later on, 1Iintond to move an amendrnent
to tbls Bill ln another form, but I amrnflt
very particular whether it Is doue in comrnittee or flot. I presume the flouse has
made up its mmnd to pass this emasculated
Bill. At any rate, I will give hon. gentlemen an opportunity of placing their votes
on record whon the Speaker Is iu the chair.
It would be hardily fair to the House to
move it now without giving notice. I wiln
put it on the order paper so that hon. gentlernen will be able to see lt and kno
what they are voting about.
Hon. Mr. KERR-The bon. gentleman has
made an Insinuation rather than a staternent
against my hon. f riend the Chairman
of the Rallway Cornmittee. I do hope that
on consideration he will withdraw that
statenuent, because I think we ail f eel that
the chairman of the comrnittee bas always

a
eiet
o.M.SLIVAthat there has been a great deal of law and
statistice given to us. If the law ls 'no
botter than the statîstlcs, it Is very bad. I
conid flot find any statlstics that would give
one an idea of what fanît thore was, or
what was the r.eason, whether there was
an inquest or nlot at any one of theso crossIt makes ail the difference ln the
ings.
world how the man happened to be kllled,
whether he was sober or not, or whether it
was ln the day or night or what trains. I
could flot find anythlng about that. There
is nothing ln the report of the Registrar
General of England about that, -and the
English report Is very accurately prepared.
There la no account there of the killed at
crosslnigs. Nor Is there any ln the United
States whlch is publishod by authority, and
there is the difficulty ln forrnîng an opinion.
I lire ln a city where every one of these
diffieulties exists, and I do nlot thlnk lt 18
the fault of the railway compaur.
The amendment of the hon. gentleman
frorn Halifax was deciared lost.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I move -that the
word 'order' be made 'orders,' so that it

SENATE

640

wlll read 'in accordance with the orders,
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I move that the cernregulationa and directions of the Raiiway mittee risc, report progreas and ask leave
Commlttee of the Privy Council'1
to ait again.
Hon. Mr. McMILLAN-I bave given noTbe motion was agreed to.
tice of an amendment whlcb I wlsb to wlthHon. Mr. LANDRY, from the commitîce,
draw, wlth the consent of the House.
reportcd that tbey bail made aome progress
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Before a vote la wltb the Bill, and asked leave te oit again
taken, I give notice of a motion I intend to to-morrow.
submlt at the third reading.
Il being six o'clock, tbc Speaker lefI the
Mon. Mr. SCOIT-That munst be donc Chair.
'when the Speaker la in the Chair.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Very weli.

Âfter Recess.

BILLS INTRODUCED.
Hon. Mr. BEIQtTE,-I do. not propose to
repeat the resoens I have given on several
Bill (37) An Act to incorporate the Canoccasions wlth regard to this proposed ada Weather Insurance Company.--(Hon
change. To my mind I arn afraid i wili Mr. Belth).
defeat the object of the law, because it
Bill (HH) An Act to restriet the Evils of
wIil be taken to refer merely to the general Dlvorce.--(Hon. Mr. Cloran).
orders and regulations which have been
CONSTITUTION 0F THE SENATE.
lssued before any raiiway ls bulit.
DEBATE CONTINUED.
Hon. Mr. riERGUSON-It only deais wltb
The order of the day being called:
about 205 crossinga altogether out of about
13,000.
Reauming the. furtiier adjourned debate on
the. Hon. Mr. MeMulien, thqt ta
The a'mendment proposed by the hon. thie motion ofagitation oeegarddng
Nie ~ thie
cd
the services
gentleman from Ottawa was deciared iost. rendered by the, Senate as a part of our legisJative. system, anid in view of the, criticism
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I want to make a few Icilli i~n parliament and the, press wih respect to appoinîments ta thiis Chamber, it is
remarks--

th pnion of this House, desirabie that
thi. ii uetiono the method of appointments
aad ti. term for which appointments are te be
made in future ehould b. oonsidered and the,
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-There'Is sucb a noise system renat, and the motion in a.mendment
of the Honourabie Mr. Davjd, tint ail the,
,w
ords afler 'hat' in the main motion b.
nobody can understand what is going on.
struck out and repiaced by the following:
ý the Senate, whie not deeiýring ta pronoance
The CHAIRMÂN-The question la on Mr.
finally upon tue numerous and varions pro'Beique's amcndment.
jecîs of reform which have -been proposed and
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I arn golng te speak on discussed in connection wih the. Senate, yet
in view of
on tie
that. I have been trylng to get tbe car of subject end the. ditferences of opinionhad time
until t.hose projects have
the House for over bai! au hour.
to mature, believea' it opporetune to declare
tint il
to inorense the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon. gentleman ~fficiency isofdesirable, in order more legisiation
tii. Sonate, that
b. initiated in this House, that more ministers
will have an opportunity at the next stage.
of the, Crown bave sents therein. and that any
minister may peroaly introduce and defend
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-When ?
goverament mensures on the floor of bath
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-At the third rcading, or Flouses.'
wben the report is rccivcd.
Hion. Mr. BEIQUE-I arn afrald that the
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I want to give a rea- luteresî wbich was evoked by the speeches
we bave heard on Ihis subjecî has considerson for my vote.
ably died away, and tuaI It bas been superHon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-It is too seded by a f ee!ing of weariness at bavlng
late now.
the notice on tbe Order Papcr for sucb a
Hon. Mr. WILSON-The hon. gentleman long lime. However, when onc bears la
ahould nlot be deprived of bis right to spcak iuid lhe importance o! the question, 1 tbink
it ivili be rcaiized liat il is the duty of ail
in comiltee.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-A vote bas been calicd
for, and it must be taken now.

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT.

MAIICH 24, 1908

641

the members of this honourabie Hlouse :-o ment ta bis own iiking? I would on the
express their views on sncb an Important wboie declare that the point of order is too
late.
matter.
Hlon. Mr. BEIQUE-I was going to say
that this question has been not aniy before
this Hanse but before the country for a
number of yeara, and so far the resuita
If I am n ot mishave been very good.
takcn, a few years ago there was quite an
opinion ln favour of the abolition of the
Now, I think there are very few
Senate.
either ln this House or ln the other Hanse,'
or lcading men ln the country who wauid
take the respousibllity of voting for the
abolition of the Senate. Anather beneficial
resuit from the discussion has been that
the mInds of leading meni have been stimuiated at fanding several modes of reforming
or Iniproving the constitution of the Senate,
with this resuit, that hardly two men can
be fouad to agrec upon one of the several
reforme whlch have been suggested. This,
to, my mind, ls In itseif, a prctty strong
Indication that there are serions objections
to evcry one of the reforma which have been
suggested, and that, after ail, the present
constitution of the Senate may be the best
We
that conld be devised for tue conntry.
were rcmlanded by several previons speakers
that what led to adoptung the constitution
of the Senate at the time of confederlation
was that a part of the provinces were
against the system of representation by
As that system was forced
population.
by the larger province on the other provinces, It was thought proper that there
should tic compensation for the other provinces by hnving a Senate ln which the
members wouid be appointed othcrwise
The SPEAKER-The attention of the chair than accordiag to population. It was deemwas drawn some time. ago to, the fact that ed advlsable to adopt the system of glvIng
this motion contalned a preambie as weil as ta Ontario ami Qnebec 24 members cach,
the amendment itacif which made it irre- and to Nova Scotia and New Brunswick an
gular, but after a discussion upon the motion equai number, 24 members.
This was iaand the amendment had already gone on for teaded to harmonise and protect the Intersomne considerable time, I tout: It for grant- esta of tbe smalier provinces.
I think It
cd that the House was sclzed with It and1 will tic admittcdl that the condition of thuaga
decldcd not to Interfere.
As ta the point whlch thea obtained bas nat changed
raiscd by the hon. gentleman from St. Boni- sunce.
On the coatrary, at that time the
face, that the motion contains more than west was flot taken Into consideration. It
one proposition I have doubt as to the hon. was considered as a wiiderness hardly suitgentleman's point being weli taken ; he able for human habitation, and It was not
an very rcadily dissoclate thc severai pro- deemed that we would ever have propositions -by moving tg strike ont parts of vinces la the Northwest whIcb would ticthe resolntion, and thus vote on his amend- corne part of the confederation. -Forty

Hlon. Mr. BEUNIER-To relleve the mmnd
of the hon. -gentleman, I wll raise a point
of order. Any one reading the notice will
see that there are no leas than six separate and distinct propositions Involved.
There is the method of appointment,
the recasting of the whole system and
the term for whlch appolintrnetns are
to be made, ln the main resointion. Then
the ameadment calis -for more legislation to
be originated ln the Senate, for more minlaters of the Crown to have seats therein,
and for the Introduction of more ministers
than we have at present, and tu permit ministers to defend government measures la
both Houses. Besides there la a preamble
sufficient to kili these resolutions at once.
On each one of these six propositions we
We
are Hable to be called, upon to vote.
may feel incluned ta vote for one, and unable to vote for others. For instance, I arn
quite wing to vote that more legisiation
be lnitlated ln the Senate, but I may have
objections to other matters incinded lni the
resointion, such as min'utera of the <Jrown,
except those wbo are regularly ln the House,
being allowed ta defend gaveimment measures ln either Honse. I do flot thlnk any
one can be called upon to vote yes and no
at the same time, and that wouid b. the
effect of this resointion, conseqnently I respectfuily submit that thia resointion la not
in order-the main resolution. and the
amendment and I ask for the rnllng of the
late.

SENATE
years have hardly elapsed, and now every
one can see alniost the day wben the balance o! power will be transferred from east
to west and lastead of belng wlth any of
tbe enstera provinces wlll be west o! the
great lakes.
Therefore, thue day wlll soon
corne wbea the laterests, lastead off being
harmonized wIll be more dlversfled tban
they are now, and wlll be tue Interests o!
the west against the Interests of the east.
Wbat took place some 25 or 30 years eago
la the United States lu now takiag place ln
Canada.
Our Canadian west la being developed now as the western States were
beiag developed tben. It lu belng developed as rapidly and by a population as diversilied as la the case of tbe United States.
The Immigrants are coming la by bundreds
of thousands every year, and wIll continue
to corne la la increaslag number' from
almost every part of tbe world, and what
lias takea place la the United States wll
no doubt take place bere-It wlll be years
before tbese newcomers form a unlted peo-pIe, appreclatlag our Institutions and adoptIng our natlonallty as their own.
One bas
to go back not more than 15 or 20 years to
a time wben even ln the United States tbere
was, s0 to speak, no natlonality, wbea the
question was universally put as to wbat
would be tbe outcome in tbat country, wben
Interests were consldered to be so diversilied that people were generally led to believe that there would be a division, and
tbat lnstead of a unlted nation tbere would
be a repnbllc la the west, a republlc ln the
south and posslbly a republic la tbe east
each composed o! several states.
It la
Only ln recent years tbat these newcomers
bave made up their mlads to become cîtizens o! tbe United States because o! the
great prosperity prevaillang, and because
*they were prend to become part and parcel
of à great nation.
Our condition lu more dangerous than was
the case wlth the United States, because
here we have a large portion of our immigration frorn the United States.
Ia trne,
*these Immigrants will appreclate our institutions and wlll become good *British subjecta; but it will take years, and they wll
be kept la close contact with the United
States-especlaily the western part o! It,
and If there should arise any serions question betWeen the eastera provinces and the
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

western provinces, there rnight be great danger to the confederation.
It seenas to me
that, under sucb circumstances, we sbould
be very conservative and should hesitate
before alterlng the constitution of the Senate wbich'was prepared exactly to meet
and guard against conditions of that kind.
Another consideratIon which one should also
bear ln mimd is that we are goiag through a
very rapid evolution, flot only ln this country
but everywhere. We are passlng from conservatîve to democratie Institutions.
I amn,
for my part-aud we are ail I thlnk-sprung
from the people, and I rejoice at the progress which bas been made a]l over the
world ln democratie Institutions; but the
danger at present Is nlot that we do nlot
go far enougb ln that direction, but that
we may go too far.
Only the other day,
a Bill was preseated In the Imperial parlusment of Great Britain demnandlag employment for ail persons out of work and to
establish state worksbops paying trade union
wages. A Bill of tbat kInd wblch would bave
been rldiculed 10 or 15 years ago was, apparently, supported by quite a number of.
members la the Imperlal pariament.
It
was on the occasion of that Bill that Lord
Rosebery expressed bis opinion as to bow
serlously we are belag threatened wltb beiag drawn too far ln that direction. Tbese
coas1derations should flot be lest siglit of.
In tbis country we should remala sufficlently conservatîve to guard against dangers
of that kiad.
It bas been very properly said that thue
Senate should be botb represeatative and
Independent. I quite agree wlth that statement and I dlaim that tbe Senate lo represeatatîve. It should be representative off
aIl classes, and I dlaim It lo representative
o! ail classes. The boa. mnember from Middlesex furnlshed figures sbowlag how far
It la representatIve ln tbat direction. 0f its
members 19 are lawyers, 6 capitalîstsand
bankers, 3 journalios, 13 engaged la agriculture, 15 ln mercantile pursuits, 9 la manufacturlag and lurnbering, 7 doctors and the
balance ln differeat other pursuits. 1 bave
been but a few years la thîs House, but I
have gîven a good deal of attention to the
measures wblcb bave corne before parliament and bave nôtlced that tbe senate ls
representatîve to this degree that no measure can be passed, wbetber at the request

MARCE 24, 1908
of railways, bankers or labour unions or
farmers or any special interests -except on
It merits. I amn sure It will be the opinion
and the testimony of every member of this
House that the Senate la representative of
ail classes of soclety, and It sbould remain
go, and this, to my mmnd, las. strong Indication, and the best proof, that la constitution is good. So long as the Senate wlll thus
remain representative, It will be representatIvýe ln the true sense of the word and It
should remain no.
It bas been urged that the Senate ahould
be refreshed once ln a whlle. I have obtained from the accountant a statement
sbowing the number of members of the Senate appolnted during the last twelve years-from 1896 to 1907,- inclusive. In that Urne
82 senators were' appointed. Strange to
say, If yen divide the twelve years Into
two periods ef six years each you finit
exaCtly forty-one ln each perlod. Sureiy
that la refreablng enough.
It shows
that new members are brought Into this
House very rapidly-very much too rapidly.
This House, ln being representative, differs
essentlally from the House of Lords, whIch
remalus to this day mainy an ltereditary
cham ber and representative of the aristocracY and the large land owners. 1 can
quite well imagine the desirabilIty and
necesaity of reforming the House of Lords
ln that respect If the conditions of this
sienate were the same, I, for one, would be
strongly ln faveur of changing the constitution lu order to allow It ta be remedied.
As far as the independeuce of the senate Io
concerned, It la as Independeut as It can be,
because the members are appointed for lite.
As such, tbey are not personally interested
ln keeplng lu contact with political organizations or ingratiatlng themselves with the
power for the time beiug, or with mon who
will be ln power to-morrow.
If tho members of the Senate were not
appoiuted for Ile, If they were appointe
for ten or fitteen. years oulY, they would ho
personally interestod lu keepIng ln contact
wlth those political organizations and ln
courting, so to speak, the powers ef the day.
It would bring into the Senate the same
political factions as lu the other House,
which, it seexua to me, Is flot desirable.

643

This Houso should be non-political as far
as possible, and It cau only be so If electiens are disponsod with ? Now, the reforma which have been .suggested are the
election for a torm only, election by the
people or by the provincial legislature, or
by the mombors of the House of Gommons
for the province and the members ef the
legislature jolntly, or by the mombers of
the Senate and of the Honse of Commons
also jointly. It was also suggeâted that a
certain number of the memberà of the Senate might also be appoiutod by nivorsities,
or by chambers of commerce'or other lInstitutions. I cai your attention to this fact:
that If they wero thus appointed by universîties or other institutions, ail Institutiens' would be claimiug tho sarne right
You would have the labour unions, who are
becomIug more important ail the time, and
very rightly so. For my part I believo labour unions are doing good work for the
labour classes, and they would Insist upon
haviug the right to chooso also a number
of Senators, and mauufacturiug associalions, ln tact ail classos'would be clamouring
for that right What would bo the cousequenco ? It wonld load to this : That a
large number of members of this Houge
weuld feel themselvea as beiug tied up or
affliated with those Institutions, witb these
classes or theso labour unions, and bound
at ail limes to advocate the special Interests of these bodies. Tako for Instance, the
union label BiIh, which we had last year,
If you hadt a f ew members ln this House ap.
poited by labour unions, snrely they would
be altogether lu favour of a measureo0f
that kind, and If others wero appointed by
bankers tbey would fee1 bouud to advocato
the Intereste of the banka, thorefere It
wonld bave the affect of raising clasa againat
class to tho dotriment of the country, and
againat the interest and the good reputation
of this bonourable House. I need not repeat the several objections which bave
been ralsed and very properly expressedl by
othor speakers agaluat the several modes
of appointment which I have just mentioned. From the fact that the appolutment or
electIon would lu ail 'cases be for a term
oniy, it would be destructive of the Independence of tlie membera of this Heuse.
It would keep them permanently divided
on political lUnos. It would lead, ln many

SENATE
cases, ta their courting the appointing body
duriag their term of office, or their ingratiating themselves with strong corporations.
It wonld give rise ta the introduction of the
same elements of undue Influence as are
tfo often attendant on ail kinds of electians.
If elected by the people, It wonld gîve nuse
to confiicts between the two Bouses, - as
bath of them could dlaim ta have a mandate directly Tram the papular body. If appalnted by the provincial legisiature, apart
from being open to the objections which 1
have Juat mentioned, It would imply 'Lsponsibility ta provincial or local authorltY
lnstead of ta Dominion anthority, which I
need nat aay would be a very serious matter, hiaving a parîlarnent or a branch of
parliament whlch would derive its appointment Tram a body which is not fedemni at
ail, but which would be altogether local and
provincial. And I ask hon, gentlemen ta
cansîder for a moment what would be the
effect of leaving the appointment of members of this Hanse ta members of the
legialature or to membera of the Hanse
of Gommons, jointly or separately ? What
guarantee wanld there be ? 0f course
there wonld be a great deal of caballlng done by the candidates, and the nespanslbillty would rest on go many people
and so many beads, that there wauld be na
responsibillty at ail. Would hon. gentlemen
dream for a moment of leaving the appolntment of a Judge, or the appaintment
ta any Important position to a body of that
klnd, ta an electorate of that klnd ? Surely
flot The election muet be done, the election muet be made by the people at large,
or it muet be made in the second degree by
the governxnent, not by the Crown lin virtue
of Its prerogative, but by the Governor
General under the recommendation of the
cabinet for the time being. Then the party
Who makes the appointment Is responsible.
Be Is bound ta ma-ke a good selection, and
experience has proved that the nppointments
have been good. It Is praved, as has been
shown by other members of this House, that
it bas remained representative of aIl classes,
and that we had nothing connected with the
appointments wbich wfls of a nature to reflect upou the character or upon the honour
of this House, or which was disparaging
to the honour of this branch of parlament.
I repeat, that whenever an important apBon. Mr. MEIQUE.

polntment is to be made, it is made by the
cabinet, whether it be a judge, a member
of the Rallway Commission or any other
Important position. It is flot lef t to the
House of Commons, or to members of the
legisiature, or ta different bodies ln the country, but It la left ta the gavernment of. the
day on theli own responsibllity, ta the
House of Commons and to the country at
large; it 1g the strongest guarantee possible
that they will be made ln the public lnterest.
The fact that ai appointments have, ta
this day, been made by ail governmen1Û exclusively from their political friends, that
the Senate is supposed ta be either strongly
Liberal or strongly Conservative, la what
bas princlpnlly led to this demand for reform. For niy part, I regret that there was
very early ln the workingof our constitution
a departure fram the expressed Intention at
the Urne of confederation In connection wlth
the appointnients, a violation of the raie
which should have been followed ln appointing members ta this Bouse It was the Intention that this Rause should be representative of the two political bodies in this
country. I would have much preferred that
it had been the case, and I hope that public
opinion will move so stranglY ln that direction that gavemuments, ln the future, willl
be obliged ta adopt that rule; but althaugh 1
would muchi prefer that course belng followed, I do flot think, when we corne to
seriously consider the mlschlef done, that
It la very serions. I incline to think that it
rather tendu ta dispel poliles Tram this
flouse. When the Bouse is about evenly
divlded between Conservatives and Liberals,
members are much more lncllned ta be party
men than they are when the House ls either
strongly Conservative or etrongly Liberal. I
arn aware that dnring the forty years of confederatian, on two or three different occasions, titis Bouse wns serlously crlticised. It
was taxed wlth being partisan. The majority of the members of this Hanse were accused of having tried ta help thelr own
political party; but If there has been anythlng of that ktnd, it was only ln one or
two instances. I ar n ot prepaired ta say
that there was, but If there was on one or
two occasions, It would flot be sufficient to
condemn this House or to warrant us ta
change the constitution because of any lnFor my
divîdual Instance of that kind.

MARCU 24, 1908
part, 1 believe that the mode of appointment
whichi bas been fellowed in the past is the
proper mode. 1 thnk the constitution which
we have is the proper constitution. There
were semne snggestions made as to the age
lmit. I do not tbink that this Bouse bas
snffered from oid nge. On the contrary as
was aptiy said, we are prend ef the old
men in this Mouse, especially of tbe hon.
leader of this Bouse sud et the late leader
of the opposition, the bon. gentleman frem
Belleville. They are, se te speak with thelr
82 or 84 years of age, almost I the prime ef
lite, as vigorous as they were, and it would
really hnve beeu a great loss te the country
If tbey bad been obliged te retire wben they
were 70 or 75.

atter the word 'followlng' be struck out
and be replaced by the felIowing :
Promn thie very serions objections which have
been raised te the aeveral -modes of reformn
which. have been auggested by individual memnbers of this Houe, and the. great; divereity of
opposition expiessed thereon, the present constitution of teSenate aeeme te be, on the.
whole, the best which cala b. devised £or this
couny: that however, ini order that this
honouireble Houes may give the full share of
its usefuineess it la very deoirable tliet means
b. adopted to keep it more constantly occu.pied, thereby relieving the. Houe of Commonso f p&rt cf its wonk and ahortening the
sessions of panrl&ment.

Hton. Mr. ELLI6-The hon. gentleman
alffrmns In bis resolution the varions schemes
which have been proposed, but I have been
au attentive listener, and I have heard no
proposed.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Ne chloroform for sciiemes
them.
Hon. Mr. COMEAU-The present -mode
given me a seat
Hon. Mfr. BEIQUE-I ceuld naine several of appolnting senators bas
lu this chamber. This rather convices me
ether members et the Senate, I tact ail tue
that the governiment of the
members, who have passed the age of eighty of two things,
day la ln good bands and that the method
years. Hewever, this is a mere detal. Fer
senators le aise goed, because,
rny part, wliat I think ls ef the most Im.- ef appoiitlig
I arn afraid that under any other conditions,
portance is that tbe appoint-ment be made
sittlng here. 1 would net
fer life, and that the appoIntinent be made 1 would nlot be
ie te affirm that this would be a calamlty,
by a responsible body, by the geverument,
or that the country would In any way suifer
by the cabinet, lu erder that the ceuntry
on that account; but I tbink It would. Now
niey look te somebedy who le responsîble
more serions.
appolnted te the to be
for It. Whenever a man la
I thLik that underlylng the efforts of the
position of Prime Mînister of this contry,
of confederatien, wlth respect to
lie muet be a man of large Ideas, of large fathers
the creation of thia honourable Chamber,
experience, of etrong character anid ability,
was a desire to provide what I may be
and whatever la bis pelitical opinion, whatpermitted to describe as an additional guaever may be hie political persuasion, I have
secnrity for three most Important
confidence that lu *the future as In the pat, rantee or
things, namely:
bie wilI be conservative lu the appoint(1.) Protection of provincial rIgbts;
meute that are made, and wlll sec that this'
(2.) Protection of religions rlghts ;
Senate la se censtituted as te represent ail
(3.). Regulatien of corporate and personal
classes of the -people and be composed of
rlghts.
men who will have beth experience, charThis, wlth respect te the first ls borne
acter aud abiiity, and who wlll be a credit
out by the fact that the representatien. of
te the country and a safeguard againet the
se arranged, In
dangers which I have lndicated. I am sure the varions provinces were
regard te members, as to afford an assuthat the Senate will, In the future mucli
of the pact of confemore than lu the past, remaîn the bulwark rance of the stabllty
dera tien, so that I need say no more In
of British Institutions ln tbis North AmerIca ef -ours, and that we should be jealous support of this contention.
The second, was ene whlch reqnired, and
ef our constitution as It Is. For my part, 1
amn net satisfied wlth cither et the motions ne doubt received, the most careful and
whbich have been presented te thls Mouse, delicatetreatment. There le nothing In this
and 1 desire te Invite the Bouse to consider lite that man helda more secret than bis
an amnendmnent which I noxv propose te offer. religieus convictions, nothlng more werthy
1 move that ail the werds in the amend ment of a just and scrupulous toleration, by

646

SENATE

those who mnay not be at unity wltb eacb
ot-ber ln respect t-o creed. The history of
nlmost every country and of every age,
bas sbown what dist-ressing results Invariably foliow any att-empt to quencb t-bis
sacred fire la t-be heart of man. It ls not
therefore surprising t-bat la t-be pre-confederatlon days, t-bis great question received
careful consIderation. It Is not t-o b. questioned t-bat what was then done, was witb
a t-rue and honest desire t-o allay any unrest, and t-o remove for ail tIme t-bis most
delicate subject from t-be suspicion,
or
breatb, of t-be politlcs and policies of! aay
poes!ble party ln Canada. SInce those days,
t-be two races inbablting t-bis country bave
become better acquainted, bave Intermlngled. more ln social and business lite,
and t-be conditions o! t-be present day are
sucb, t-bat t-be people of t-be east, t-be
centre and t-be west, are becoming famîliar
wltb, snd int-erested la t-be progress and
prospects of eacb ot-ber, regardiess of creed
and nationality.
Thus it is, t-bat tbe wise and Just
provisions made by t-be fat-bers of confederation, ln regard t-o t-bis important subject,
have borne out t-be bopes and aspirations of
those wbo designed t-bem, and that t-o-day
thbe cont-Ingency of any conflct o! t-bougbt,
upon t-bis ail Important subject o! religions
toleratlon, would happfly appear t-o be very
remote indeed.
I would now draw your attention to t-be
t-bird great feature, t-bat of t-be regulation
.
of capital and personal rigbts.
Tbe question of corporate, vested and private rigbts, Important as It Is t-o-day, xvIii
assume even greater proportions a few
years bence, and stili greater as time goes
on.
Tbe t-endency of t-be age, ln t-bis regard,
ln t-o be not-iced. la t-be United St-at-es, wbere
a confllct bet-ween t-be people and t-be corporations, seems likely to become a leading
feature of t-be firat decade of t-be twentietb
eentury.
Fortunately t-bere Is, as yet, no cloud of
t-bis character upon t-he borizon ln Canada.
But la a country t-bat is young, wbose
people are ambitious, and wbose national
resources are belng rapidly developed, [t
cannot be foreseen wben some sucb may
appear. It [s not Impossible, therefore,

country of sucb magnitude and Infinite resources as that of Canada, wben t-be representatives la a popular bouse stlmulated by
their zeal to see large Industrial enterprises
set on foot may for the moment lose sight
of the Individual rlgbts of t-be people; and
it would t-lin be a reasonable function of
t-bis honourable Chamber to see to It, that
no jindue privileges were accorded t-o organized capital whIch would prove unwholesome t-o t-he conutry or burdensome to t-be
people.
This House may indeed yet prove to be
t-be safeguard and the buttress of the people
against thbe arrogance and aggression of
capital as ht may weIl prove t-be sbield of
legit-imate corporate rights, against the two
democratic tendencies of the public ln an
age 'wbea it [s very easy to go from, t-be
danger lune of one extreme t-o that of another.
And, If hon. members of t-bis Chamber
so comport themselves, la dealing wvith t-be
business of t-be people, as to give the country an assurance t-bat t-bey stand for the
stabllity of t-he rlgbts of botb capital and
labour, corporate and personal, I do not
t-bink there will be heard any demand of the
people at large for the abolition of this
bonourable Chamber. On thbe contrary, I
feel assured, t-bey will cberisb t-be maintenance of t-bis body whlcb means much as
a safeguard and Is ln no way a hindrance
to t-be greatest affairs of t-be nation.
Great Britain lias Epent millions upon millions of pounds ln t-be counstruction of her
naval marine whIcb may neyer go t-o war.
In Canada we are spendlng large suma of
money year after year ln armament and
miiitary organizations, while we trust t-bat
a shot may never be fired except for practice.
But t-be people rejoice ln their freedoni,
and t-beir security, and wiiiingly defray t-be
coat of wbat their good judgment recogaize may yet prove to be their protection
and national salvation.

The supreme usefulness of t-bis Ohamber
depends ln my humble opinion, upon what
I may be permitted t-o t-erm lts 'national
character,' upon t-be 'broad out-iool' of lts
members; upon t-be maintenance of a just
t-bat a condition of affairs mny :irise, in a and equitable consideration. flot only of
Hon. Mr. COMEAU.

_MAROR 24, 1908
the rights of every class of men and Indus- tions, hon. members should see ta it that the
try. but of eacb and every portion of, the trust and confidence la flot unmerlted. That
the absolute Independence of thîs honourable
Dominion as well.
Chamber la preserved and maintained. Ând
Before .proceeding further, 1 wish ta place I venture ta believe, that to justify this
myselIf on record as being opposed ta an confidence and menit an ablding f aith In
electIve Senate, because 1 arn convlnced, as the usefuiness and Independence of this honhas been properly polnted out by the last curable Chamber, hon. members should use
speaker, that it'would, in a very large de- great circumspection. They should avoid
gree at Jeast, destroy its independence, and, becorning In any way, directly interested ln,
therefore, Its usefuiness.
or acting In the employment cf corporations
-Should this chamber be. made In any de- controlling vast anme of nmoney, and which
gree elective, would It be possible for those may corne ta this honourable Chamber askivho came as the popular representatives of ing for Important franchises and prvileges.
the electoral districts ; where the contest In rny judgrnt It le only by preservlng
may have been keen and ibitter, or during an absolute independence that thls honourwhich the purely local rather than the na- able Chamber can justity Its existence; only
tional idea of represeatation, xnay have by being ever ready to assert our ludepenbeen the baffle cry; would It be possible 1 dence can we gîve guarantee cf efficlency
ask, Sir, that the men elected couid cut them- when the exigeacles of the occasion require.
selves entlrely f ree trom, ail suspicion of
Lt may be, that during these bnief relocallsm; or Sir, could it be expected. at a
which la flot
later time, they would not proceed ta lay marks I have said sornething
re-elec- eatirely pleasing to sorne hon. members, I
ground, eitber to secure their own
case. But If It
tion, or the return of others of their party, trust that such le not the
exIgen- be so, rny slncere regret le that such should
upon whose shoulders the political
while the only apology that I
cles of the hour required that their mentie be the case;
cau offer la, that at least, 1 have honestly exshould descend?
pressed rny convictions.
I once entertained a strong opinion that
While 1 arn on my feet, I should like to
as every man, who lîves out bis f ull span of
lite. Is of necessity twlce a child, that there make a statemeat which may be somewhat
should In the tenure cf mernbership In this dlverglng tram the subject under conslderahonourable chamber, be an age Ilmît. But tien. Hon. gentlemen will remember that a
since cornag here and observing the keen few weeks ago I iatroduced a reeolution In
Intellect, and mature thougbt, such as ls this House which was lntended ta somedlgplayed by the hon. Secretary of State, what change the ruIes. That resolution was
Sir 'Mackenzie Bowell, and others whom 1 defeated; I have no fault to flnd with that.
1 have materlally It was opposed by the hon. senator tram
need noyt mention.
views ln regard ta the matter. Halifax. He was certainly wlthln bis rlght
changed my
Whlle 1 arn consciaus that rnyviews have In doing so, but during hie discussion of bis
that
been modified, I tliink that the fixing of an subiect he tbrew out the Insinuation
the direction as a young member of thla House 1 had no
age limit would be a step la
ta change the
of brnigng this Chamber more la accord right to Introduce a resolution
In dis- rules, and the same Insinuation was made
withý sound public opinion, for whiie
frorn Richcussing thîs phase ot the question, we are the other day by the hon. senator
In moud. 1 dId not know that there were any
able ta point wlth prîde ta the eldest men
under
this Chamber, as possessing soundness of degrees In this House; In tact 1 was
the Impression that when an bon. gentleman
judgrnent, and legialative experience, second
beta noue la Canada, we cannot but recognize was appointed to the senate he at once
a full-fledged senator, wlth equal
the tact that such conditions ln a Chamber, carne
where there ls no age lîmit, must be the ex- rlghts wlth those who had been here years
ception and cannot be regarded as the rule. before. 1 enu understand tliat the hon. senator tram Halitax and the hon. senator from
But, bon, gentlemen, If the people of Caa- Richmnond- should consider themselves in
ada are ta regard tbis honourable Chamber sorne degree the sPecial guardians of the rules
as the safeguard of their chenisbed Institu- of the Hlouse. I desire to say, however, that

SENATE
ln throwlng out sucli insinuations they violate a rule whlcli, ln my opinion, la far more
important than ail tlie wrltten rules o! this
House, and that le the rule of common
courtesy.

Hon. Mr. WOOD-It is not the first turne
tliat the subject of the reform. of the senate
lias been brouglit to the attention of this
House, nor le It the firat time that I have
liil an opportunlty o! addresalng some remarks on this aubject. My general vlews,
known to
therefore, are pretty well
I merely
a majorlty of thls Chamber.
say that 1 have a great admiration for the
constitution o! thls Dominion and that the
longer I have been ln parliament and the
more I have studled it, the more my admiration for our constitution growa, and If there
la one part o! It which, to my mmnd, la
more admirable than the reat, It Is the presIt la
ent constitution of this Ohamber.
grati!ylng to me, and I think It wllI be
gratlfying to others wlio thlnk as I do upon
this subject, that among tlie many addresses
whlcli have been delivered to the flouse
there lias been no charge of lnefficiency or
lack of lnabulity on the part o! the Senate
lu the discliarge of tlie duties'whlchbhave
been assigned It under our constitution. On
the contrary, the trend of ail the speeches
tliat bave been delivered ln connection wlth
this motion lias been to.show the abillty
and the efficiency wlth which the senate lias
dlscliarged is duties, the amoxint oU work
that lias been done, and the manner In
whIcli it lias been accompllehed. I do not
Intend to follow li the lineo0f tliose who
have addressed the Senate upon this question, as everythlng that can well be sald
upon that phase of it lias already been aUd.
I only wish to state, before passing fromI
tbat subject, that while I arn not opposed
to a re!orm. I am not prepared to support
any roforin until the necesslty o! It lias been
ciearly established. I am net ln favour o!
change mièrely for the sake of change, and
before I would care to support nny change
ln the present constitution of the Sonate 1
would desire te see some better reasons
for it than any that lias yot been given for
effecting that change and some-good reason
for believiag at least that the change proposed would bring about the reforin desired.
It wili be my desire in the very !ew remarks
I make to draw the attention o! the House
Hon. Mr. ('OMEAU.

to some of the advantages of the present
system. There are some features of it to
'which it appears to me it wonld be wise
that occasionafly public attention shouid be
drawn, for so far as 1 bave heard the question discussed liere or eisewhere very littie
notice has been given to these-p4ases of the
question.
No good reason cau be given why, under
our present constitution, the Senate of Canada cannot and sliould nlot be an Ideal legislative body. I do nlot know o! any Improvement that can be suggested on the present
mode of appolntment. The appolntment uder our present system Is ln the Crown. Thie
choice le with His Exoellency thie Governor
Generai, and lie makes these appointments
on the recommendation of his responsible advisera, practically under our constitution;
that la, he makes tliem on the recommendation of the Premier o! this Dominion. Now,
1 do not know where a person more competent te choose tlie members to sit I tlie
body cau lie found tlian the Premier. Hle
15 the one of ai otliers who lias been
chosen by the people te occupy tlie
highest, most lionourable and most, responsIble position in the country. Hle
chooses tlie cabinet whicli directs the
poiicy of this country, and the lieads of the
departments which administer our public
affaira. He le cliarged with the appointment of and le responsible for the selection
of those who sit li our courts of justice and
administer our iaws. Indeed, lie is the oniy
man chosen under our constitution as the
representative o! the whole people o! this
country, and wlio by tliem ls clothed with
the responsibllity of fLihing ail the positions
of power, aIl the executive and judicial positions tliroughout the country. Besides, the
power whlch thue premier and bis cabinet
thus exercises la not.an arbitrary power. it
la not and cannot be exercised 'with diaregard to tlie wîshes of thue people or contrary
to their expressed desire. The Prime Minister holda his position at the will and pleasure of the HRouse of Commons who are the
represeatatives o! the whole people o! the
country, and li the appointments to the
Senate, as in ail other acts for which he and
bis government are responsible, they are
bound to carry ont the will and wisbies o!
the people. That 1 consider one o! thue Inportant and one of the gond features o! our

MARCUI 24, 1908
la flot possible under any elective systeni.
Wbile, ln one sense, any person bas a right
to, offer as a candidate for the House of
Commons ln any election, yet we know as
a matter of tact the choice wblch thxe electors
are obliged to, nake la between the persons
wbom the two political parties lni the country place ln fixe fild. While, also, under
that system, we have ln fihe House of Commons, and have bail at varions times, soine
of the greatest statesmen.and some of tbe
ablest men which this country bas produce men who would do bonour to, sny
parliament of any country ln the world, yet
we muet ail admit that in a great number
of cases ln the constitueles fihe men best
fitted to represent tbe people in parliament
and fixe men wbo, perbaps, witb an nlmost
unanimous voice of fixe constituency could
be elected, are unwuhling, for varions rensons
to accept a nomination or to, enter into public lite wbere it Involves an election contest and too otten, as the experience of bon.
gentlemen must convince tbem, the choice
la made not so much from, the fitness of the
candidate for the position, as the resuit
of bis power to manipulate a convention;,
or perbaps he la chosen trom tbe tact that
he possesses special knowledge and skili ln
manIpulatlng fixe votes of the constituents,
and thus increasing tbe cbances ot securing
bis electIon. Under our system, the premier
ls not limited in this way. He bas fixe choice
of people of aIl classes and conditions, wbatever occupation and pursuit tbey may bave
been enguged In. It is bis duty to select
from ail these classes fairly and equitably,
and It is bis duty, above ahl other tbings, to
see that ln every case the best and mont
wortby persons are chosen. If tbat course
were .followed, It must be evident te everyone tbat the Senate would necessarily be
wbat I said sorne time ago, an Ideal legisiative body.
One word witb regardl to the criticlas wbich bave been offered ta regard
to the present Senate. Tbey corne, as the
preamble of tlxis motion Informa us, from
two sources-trom tbe press and public
througbout thxe country and from the other
brancb of parliament. I believe this quesChamber to see that ail the great interests tion was introduced into the House of Coniof the country are fairly represented. The mons durinz tbe Dresent session, but I r'epower of eboice to wbicb J bave referred, gret to say tbat I bave not tound time to

present constitution, to wbich attention is
flot; too often drawn. There la another feature to wbicb 1 should like to eal the attention of the House, and that le that, under
our present system, there 18 a perfect freedom of choice. It bas been remarlced by
nmre wbo bave addressed tbe House, that
there 15 too, mucb of a tendency to ûill this
4jbamber with persona who have hitherto
beld seats ln the House ot Commons. Wblle
it may be correct that very many who ait
ln this Chamber have beld seats ln the Hlouse
of Commons, I tblnk it is rlgbt and proper,
and only natural, that tbose 'who I positions ln this Chamber should be very largely
chosen from those wbo bave become prominent ln public lite, eltber ln the Hlouse of
Commons or in connection 'witb our provincial legisiatures, or ID some otber way witb
the public business of the country. I do
flot tbink tbat the tact tbat It bas been often
done is an argument against our present
method of appointment, it is rather an argument ln favour of It. But while It la desirable that appointments of this character
sbould be frequently made, fihe power of
choice ls flot; by any means llmited to those
wbo bave become prominent ln public lite.
There are prominent men wbo have neyer
taken an active part ln politics or ln connection. witb the public business of tbe country, men wbo have become prominent ln connection wltb our banlring institutions or Our
transportation systems, men 'who have
shown wondertul power and ability ln a connection witb mercantile pursuits, or have
given their time and attention to manufacturing Industries, or to the great agricultural
interests of the country, and bave become
leaders ln the pursuits wbIch they have
chosen for their lite work. It la fitting and
proper that aIl tbese great interests ln the
country should be .represented ln the Senate,
and under our present system of appointment, it is quite possible and, Indeed mucb
more probable, as bas been polnted out by
tbe statistics whicb bave been given, that
these interests would be represented ln tbls
chaniber under our present system tban
under any other that bas been proposed. It
Js not only the privilege but the duty of the
premier in making appointment to this

SENATE
read the debate which took place there,
so that I cannot say just what was stated
on that occasion upon this question; but
upon that phase of the question, I desire
to say, tbat If the House of Gommons were
dlssatisfied wltb the Senate as it stands
to-day tbey bave the remedy ln tbeir own
bands. The present premier bas appolnted
55 of the 86 members that compose thé
Benate at the present time. If hie bas
erred In judgment, been influenced by improper motives, or fallen short la bis duty
ln any respect ln the appoiatments be has
made to the Senate during the time be bas
occupied the blgh position whlcb he fils
to-day, it would be for those ln the House
of Commons who know of such a condition
of things to point out the fact to the premier. Further than that, It is their privilege, and, lni my opinion, their duty to point
out every case ln which the premier falis
short ln bis duty ln this respect, snd If
tbey are dlssatisfied wlth the standard of
efficiency of those who bave been appoiated
to the Senate et the present time. to flx
the standard of efficiency whlch should be
maintained and insIst that it shall be maintained ln tbe future. In niy judgment, If
the membera of the House of Gommons desire to reform the Senate, they would fffld
a ziuch easier and more speedy and effectuai way of iloiag so, If they adopted the
course wblch I bave suggested, tban devotlng their attention to, reforming or remodeliing the constitution of the country. Tbe
other source from wbich these crIticIsm are
said to come are from the press or public
tbroughout the country. So far as I am perfonaiiy concerned, I have not notlced very
many critlcisms froni this source. 1 amn
not as good a reader of the newspapers
and magazines as probably the majority of
those in this Chamber, and no doubt very
much bas been wrltten in regard to the
Senate which bas escaped my notice; but
s0 far as I have read any crlticisms which
bave appeared in the public press, they have
not been of a very serions character. Tbey
bave generaliy been made rather ln a jocuto, the remarks
lar vein, sometblng silar
wbich were referred to the other day, made
by the Mlnister of Customs la av afterdinner speech. However, If there is throughout the country any feeling that the present Senate is inefficient. that those who
Hon. Mr. WOOD).

compose It are Incapable or unwilling to
discharge the duties devoiving on this Chamiber as tbey shouid do, the people have the
power to remedy that evil, under our present constitution. They elect the House of
Commons. It is the priviiege of elther
political party to, adopt any standard of
efficiency 'whicb tbey consider desirabie for
members who wish to occupy seata ia this
Chamber. Tbey haire the privilege, and I
conceive it to be their duty to, Inslst that
their representatives ln the House of Gommons shall see that their wlshes lu this
regard shal! be carried. out, so that If any
reforni In thia Chamber la needed, or If
there are defecta hn the Senate at preseat
wblch should not exiat, the respoaslbiiity
under our preseùt constitution resta firat
with the premier of the Dominion, secondiy
wltb the House of Commoas, ât whose wll
and pleasure he occupies the position whicb
be does, and thirdly and lastIy, and most
Important of ail, it lies witb the electors
of thla Dominilon theniselves. I do not desire, however, to be conidered as thinklng
that thia -Chamber deserves any serions critlcism -with regard to, its efficiency or ability. I have aiready referred to, the fact
that speeches wbich bave already been delivered by those who bave addressed the
Chamber seeni to have answered any criticisms of that kiad very fully and effectuai]Y; 1 shall not, for that reason, take up any
further tume ln discussing that or repenting any of the.arguments which bave been
submitted to, the House. It may be said
that the doctrine I have laid down may be
sound la tbeory, but does not work out satOn that point I
isfactorIiy la practîce.
wouid merely say this : we bave bad 40
years experience of the working of our
present constitution. Whiie modesty would
prevent some of us at least ciaimlng that ln
every case the very best appoiatments have
been made, yet 1 think I may fairly say
that under our preseat systemn we bave bad
ia the past and we have to-day men occupying seats la this Chamber who would be
an honour.to any legislative body ln this
or any other country, men than whom no
better can be found to I the positions
whielh they occupy, and while we may
flot ail of us measure Up to that
highi standing of ability and efficiency, yet
1 think 1 raay, ýwithout vain boastlng, dlaimn

MARCH 25, 1908
that on the average, as a wle,. the premiers of this Dominion ln the past havé fairiy
weli discharged the duties whlch devolved
upon thema ini this regard. I believe It may
be fairly claimed for the Senate of Canada,
that for ability, Industry and efficlency In
the disebarge of the duties which develve
upoli them under our constitution, for enlightened and practical statesmansbip, for a
broad and comprehensiie knowledge of the
wvants and requirements of the people of
this country, and for a keen appreciation of
the sentiments and feelings of the people
of the country and the power te meld our
legisiatton into liarmony wlth the best
thought and the highest Intelligence of this
country, and what lu of equal If net more
Importance, for f reedom frem scÀndal, fer
freedom from the Influence of )eiFsonal Interests or political prejudice ln our
deliberatiens for honesty
of purpose
and lntegrity of character, the Senate
of Canada will
compare faveurably
with the House cf Ceaimons or wlth any
other legisiative body elected by the people.
Holding these vlews, which I might have
enlarged on, and weuld have under other
circumstances, I feel that I cannet support the motion which Is on the paper. I
shall feel It my duty te use what Influence
I have te maintain our constitution as It le,
and 1 shall adhere te this course until seme
better reasons have been given for change
than I have yet heard suggested. With regard te both the motion and amendaient
that appear upen the paper, I feel that for
different reasons I could net; give aiy supPort te either of them. Indeed, I think it la
unfertunate that thîs has been lntroduced
ln its present ferm, and It weuld be rather
unfortunate if the Senate were calied upon
te record a vote upon this question.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

Hear, bear.

Hon. Mr. WOOD-If we be required te
vote, I shall vote certainly ln faveur of
the amendment, which I have had the honour te second, but I should Ilke te say ln
conclusion that as far as my ewn feelings
are cencerned, 1 weuld very mucb prefer
after the debate has been cencluded te see
this resolutien withdrawn and the Senate
net be asked te record Its vote upon the
question.

Hon. Mr DAVID-In the absence ef severai members, and as I intend te, stick te
xny motion and te show that it la better
than the amendment meved by the hon.
senater from De Salaberry, and as I have
reasen to belleve that our worthy Speaker
wçuid speak If -he were InvIted te de se, I
have taken upen myseif te advise hilm te
speak,(because I know lie helds very strong
views upon this question.
I meve that the debate be adjourned until te-merrow.
The motion was agreed te.
COST 0F THE SENATE.
The SPEAKER-A message has been reeived fremù the House of Commons, which.
reads as follews :
That a message be ent to the Senate, te requst that Theïr Hoeiours w'ill be pleased te
furnish this House with a retiarn showing the
cost, outside cf the indemnity, of the Senate
for the sessions cf 1905 and 1908--7, resuectively.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-!-The Clerk will prepare
that I de not.know that it has been granted ln the past, but I can see no objection
toIt.
Hon. Mir. POWER-We have net had
any notice of this message, and 1 ebject
te It being dIsposed cf now.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I move that It be considered on Thursday next.
The motion was agreed te.
The Senate adjourned tilI three o'clock,
to-înorrow.

THE SENATE.
0rTANVA, Wednesday, March 25, 190t.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.

Prayers and routine proceedigè»4.
EXOHEQUER COURT JUDGE 0F CANADA.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE inquired:
1. Does the Honourable W. Cassels, recentiy
appoited judge of the Exohequer Court of
Canada, speak French and does he know the
civil law of the province of Quebec?

652

SENATE

2. If not, does the government propose to appoint a second judge of the said court who
knows French nd is csunted with the civil
law of the proce, of Quebec, se that FrenchiCanadian citizens shal b. upon an equal
~footing with English-Canadian citizens before
ail the tribunals of this country as prescribed
by the constitutionP
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Mr. Justice Cassels la
out of the clty. I notice that lu openlng
the court yesterday, la Montreal, lie stated
that havlng been born In Quebec hie was
famillar with the Frenchi language, and
that when hie took up the next case lie
would give an address to the bar In Frenchi.
I presurne we may take that as evidence
that lie Is quallfled to talk la the Frenchi
language.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE,-I prefer that
My answer shall stand, and that the hon.
leader of the House wll obtain
sorne Information about It. 1 saw It stated la the
papers that on the next occasion. lie would
try to make a speech ln French. I prefer
to have the question stand In order that I
may have a positive anl;wer on both questions.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Stands «îIl Tuesday.
The inqulry was alIowed to stand.
EXPERIMENTAL FARM REPORTS.
INQIJIRY.
Hon. Mr. CROQUETTE inquired:
Does the gevernrnent know that the Experi.
mental Farrns Report for 1906 has flot .yet
been published in French? A nd, if the answer
is in the affirmative, what means does it proPose to take to hasten suc~h Publication and
prevent similar delay in the futureP
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think I addressed a
letter to the hon, gentleman givlng hirn
fulliInformation, as hie did not happen to
be present.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-But rny lion.
frlend is mistaken.
The answer sent mie
Is that the report for 1907 is not ready;
-nY question is about 1900q.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn advised that the
re~port of 1906 was printeu and isüied.
Hon. Mr. CHOQUET'E-I have a letter
to the contrary from the departrnent, signed
by Dr. Saunders hlmself.
A gentlemani
from L'Islet asked for the report and he
received the following answer from Dr.
Sauinders, director, per E.T.:
Hoa. Mfr. CRTOQUETTE.

Dear Sir,-In answer to your card of February 24, 1 mnust tell you that the report of th.
Experimentai Farrns for 1906 is not; yet pubiiished ia French.

The letter is dated on the 26th February
last.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Âllow It to, stand for
a day or two. I had an answer, ImI-4t la
not among my papers. It can stand t111 -tomorrow.
The motion was allowed to stand.
THE TELE(4R.PH SYSTEM 0F
CANADA.
NOTICE 0F MOTION DROPPED.
The notice of Motion being called.
Ia the opinion of the Senate a thorougli investigation shoulà be made by the government

of the teleeraph systeme of Canada, with a
view to giving the people a more efficient ser-

vice and a reasonable and equitable rate.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.-This motion bas stood
for sorne lime In my name. I llnd that a
Bihl deallng wlth the subject has been
brouglit down In the other House, and, In
the course of time, Il wlll corne to the
Senate. I cau discuss the question when
the Bill cornes up for consideration here,
consequently there Is no object ia speaking
now. I would therefore ask that the notice
of motion drop.
The motion was dropped.
COMPANIES ACT ÂMENDMENT

BILL.

COMMONS ÂME.NDMENTS CONCURRE ) IN.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Before the orders
of the day are called, I desire to ask the
House to concur la amendments made to
Bi-1 (L) An Act to amend thue Companles
Act, which was returned to the Senate
yesterday, and, la may absence, put on the
orders o! the day for to-morrow. Very
important financial matters: are now in progress la France, In whlch Frenchi capitalists are advanclng money and they desire
to have the amoants stated la francs.
W. passed thîs Bill to arnend the Companies Act to ailow companles lncorporated
in Canada to issue debentures in francs,
marks or pounds sterling. It also authorized then' to issue debenture stock, which
is a stock that la occasionally issued In
Eng-lind and other countries. Whon the

MAROR 25, 1908
Bill went down to the House of Commons,
some exception was taken to the debenture stock because It did not describe
whether tee ho]ders o! debenture stock
'wouild be enüüted to, vote, or whether it
sbould be regarded as stock or security.
The parties interested consented to drop
teat part of tee Bill referring to debenture stock; so the only changes made ln te
HEouse of Commons te whIch I ask te
concurrence of tels Chamber are teat te
Bill corne Into force on the Ist March and
to strike out ai reference to debenture
stock. I ask for a suspension o! tee raie
lu order teat the amaudmeuts may be coucurred lu at once. A day là; of Importance ln tee passlng o! tee Bill ln view of
tee financial operations which are lu progress.
understand
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I
the objeet of getting tee Bill terough to
be teat au option between the company
and proposed purcha sers of securitles le
about explrlng and tee necesslty arises
teat tels Bill should recelve tee Royal
A usent, whléh' I understand lu to be gîven
to some Blis to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.-Yes. As tee financiai

year will termînate on tee Slst

mst,

it

la necessary -to take a portion of teeastimates. Tha Housa of Gommons bas conmented to one-eighte of tee estîmates belng
passed, and teat wlll probably corne up tomorrow and wlll be assentad to fortewith,
In order teat tee public service may be carrled on.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Wben does tee hon.
gentleman axpect tee sanction of tels Bill
te take place ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.-I telnk to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.-Becausa it la a
very grave move to go out o! the orders of
tee day and take Up au Item whlch appears
ln tee orders for to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.-We are
anything. We are deducting
tee House bas already assented
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.-I hope
be consldered a precedent.

flot adding
from whist
to.
lt wlll not

Hon. Mr. SCOTT.-No, certalnly flot

a

THE SPEAKER-I feel some diffidence
as to the regularity of the proceeding, but
if It is the desire of the House the order
can be taken Up now. There la a certain
gravlty ln recaflling the fixing of an order.
The motion was agreed to and the amendmeute were concurred ln.
STANDING ORDERS -COMMITTBE.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Before the orders of
the day are called, I should like to ask whoever la ln charge of the matter-probably
the Standing Orders Committee-lf a resolution passed some time ago, here, that a
certain matter that I brought before the
House wlth reference to, Bille going througli
Commlttee of the Whole House was referred to a committee? I have been lnformed
that It la the Standing Orders (Jommittee,
and I want to know If anythlng has been
It was ten daya
doue wlth the matter.
ago, and I have beard nothlng about It
sînce?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I may say that no far,
the Standing Orders (Iommittee have been
unable to take Up that matter, inasmueh as
they wish to have a specil day and speclal
notice, in order that those who wish to appeur before tee commltteu ahlould have an
opportunlty of dolng so, ln the sme way
as regard Is paid to the members o! the
House when Il ls suggested to change a
I feel that this malter
standing order.
should have beeu dealt with before, but te
days have beau fairly well taken up-te
forenoons--wlth other commlttee meetings,
and we have been trying to get a forenoon
that will be free, so that we may hraye a
We shall take
full discussion If necessary.
the first opportnIty to, caîl the commlttee,
ana my hou. friand wl]I receive notice wltb
In fact I will give notice lu te
tee reat
House.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-I should like to have
It taken up as soon as possible, because Il
lias been dragglng aIong for a couple of
weeks.
THIRD READING.
Bill (117) An Act to amend the Intercoloniai and Prince Edward Island Railways
Employees' Provideut Fund Act.-(H1on. Mr.
Scott.)

SENATE
PUBLIC OWNERSIIIIP 0F PUBLIC
UTILITIES.
DEBÂTE CONTINUED.
The erder of Vie day being called.
Resuming tee adjourned debate on the motion cf the Hlon. Mr. MoMullen, That in the
opinion of this Senate cf Callada, the public
ownership and operation of public utilities
would net be in tee interest cf this Dominion.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The operation by te
state, or by the munlcipallty, of what
are calIed public utilities la spoken
ef as partial socialism, which indeed
It la ieoked upon by bote
It Ia.
fiends and enemies of sociaism as beiug
an Important step lu tee direction ef that
It seems te, be only fitting,
consummation.
befere deaiing witb the subject matter ef
the reselution efthVe bon. gentleman frein
Wellington, te cail attention te the real
The socialists de net
nature of secialisin.
propose te, content Vicinselves with anything
short of Vie complete overthrow efthVe exlisting systems ef religion, domestic relations,
I couid read
governinent and property.
varions authorittes which bear eut that
view, as te which there is ne doubt, but
Mr. Belfert Bax,
I aîal rend aust eue.
eue of the recoguized exponents - f Vie
views of English socialists, writes as foi1lows:
Looking at tee matter broedly, and spart
f rom the question of electoral expediency or
vote catchiag., I think we may conclude that
the oft repeated saying of Tridon, te the effect
that socialism stands f or a.new theory cf life,
exprsig itself in economics us communii,
in elgin as atheism, and in politics as international republicanisin, taken in a wide sense,
cannot be regarded as deastitute of justification.
That is what an Engliali secialist of the
present day tells ef the views 0f bis party.
!darriage In Vie seuse lu which we understand lt la te be abelished, and children
are te be owned and cared for by the State,
It ls true that
and net by their parents.
the sociaiists de net, as a rule, place befere
the electors ef England Vie most startllng
Items ef teeir programme; but they have
Fer instance, on
gene a great distance.
Wednesday, 22ud ef January last, there was
a great labeur conference held at Hull,
England, where the following resolution
was adopted:
Hlon. Mr. DAVIS.

That the turne has arrived when the labour
party ehould have au a definàte object the
socialisation cf the means of production and
distribution and exchange, to, b. controlled by
a demooratic state in the intereet of the ontire community, and the complote emancipation of labour from the domination of capitalism and landlordiam with the establishment
cf social and economie equality between the
sexes.
The Louden 'Spectater' of the 25th
JanuMr, from which I extract thls resolution, miakes the following comment:
In other words, ' socialisation '-that is ' serialiai '-has become the defimite object of the
labour party. Further, we are able te, extract from t he resolution a working definition
cf socialisai, namely the possession by the state
-' socialisation' can hardiy mean anything
else- cf the meaiis cf production and distribution and exchaiige T h i full blooded collectivism, for if the state is the sole producer sud sole distrîbutor, it must in eflect
bie the sole employer, except possibly in the
matter of d'omestic service.
Socialistic experiments, hou. gentlemen
know, have been tried from time te time,
sometimes ou a small scale by what one
may cali l)rivate associations, and someies ou a larger scale, as In the case of
public - workshops whlch were established
In France under the revolutionary government ef 1848, and these experiments bave
This declaration, however,
alwnys falied.
at Hull the other day, constitutes the ifirat
declaration of a great national party lu
Engiand deliberately uudertaklug to comI
mit itselt te the policy of soclalisin.
have no doubt every hon, gentleman here
bas uoticed that Lord Rosebery, who bas
a faculty ef hittlng the popular sentiment
cf the M~oment, and probably influenced
somewhat by Vils declaration of the labour
party at Hull, warned bIs fellow-countrymen of the danger to wblclî Vie country
was exposed froin socialisin.
Hon. '.%r. BAIRD-But lie might ns au
expedient have to adopt protection.
Hou. Mr. POWER-Well, I suppose of Vie
Hon. gentletwo evils Viat la the less.
men will aIl feel, I have ne doubt, as I
do, that the progress of the world lu civilisatien and materlal welfare bas been due te
individual effort, 'semetimes te the efforts
cf Individual chiefs who contrelled Masses
whose wishes were flot cousulted as te the
work te be doue, as is the case Iu Russi
at Vie present turne, by the way; but In

MAROII 25, 190S
these later days, and ln countries existing
under Eurepean and American conditidons,
by Individuals making Up together the great
mass of the population. If the State la te
be *the owner, the planner, the superintendent and the paymaster, ef ail the work
doue within its bordera, We shall uaturally
look te see at an eariy date the cessation
of ail progress in weaith and clvlllzation.
The wih
The rcason la net far te seek.
drawal of the stimuli of ambition, of
rivalry, 0f the desire for the acquiaition of
the menus whlch minister te private reflnement, comfort, luxury and weaitb muet ef
necesslty brIug about the paralysie ef ail
effort aud end ef ail progreas.
If the soclalista have their way ail indlvidual effort wll cease together wlth lndlvidual liberty; and a comparatively short
time wiii see what we caîl the clvllized
werld reduced te a Étead level ef pevertystrlckeu seml-barbarism, tyrannised over by
men whose force or craf t or both have
placed them ln the position er leaders.

W

operation of what are knewn as public
utilities by the state or the munlclpality.
Increase of appetite grows by - what It
f eeds on: the experlence of several Eàigllsh
cities, goes to show that the tendency of the
municipal councils la to extend municipal
ceutrol te more and more classes of subjects,
and we ean feel assured that the final and
logical result of public owuerahip and operation lu aoclalism or collectivism.
Hon. gentlemen may thlnk -that thla
public ownership is not avowedly soclallam,
but it goes a long distance ln the direction
of soclallsm; and promiiient socialiste
have deciared ou various occasions that
they take this way e! induclug the public
te go Into those undertakings as a mens
-of brlnglng about complete and thorough
aoclallsm; so that when we are conslderiflg
the eperation of public utilities by municipalities or goverumeuta we have te bear
la mid that behind these la the vast and
tiireatenîng forai of soclaliam, which wll
come te the front ln due tîme. Taken ln
a uarrow sense, the termi 'public utilities'

In a country like England or like Canada,
such a change ln the existing dispensation
as would be invelved ln the whelesaie
adoption of the plan of the Hull labour
coufereace can be brought about only by
As 1 intimated just new, we
degreea.
have that condition ef tihigs ln Russie,
oniy there the secilism so te speak, starts
fremn the top and dûes not work Up frein
below; but there are the samne absence and
discouragement of Individual effort lu Russia which you will fiud ln the socialistlc
state, and the effect ln Rusas.a gîves one a
fair Ides of wbat the effect would lie elseOn this peint, I do net propose te
'where.
quete, but I wish te cite an autherlty. Any
lion, gentleman who la interested ln the
subi ect and wishes te see the condition of
thigs lu Russis. set forth in a clear and
sstisfsctory way, will find it at page 55 of
the work called the 'Dangers ef *Municipal
Mr. Porter
Ownershp,1 by Mr. Porter.
wss formerly a director ef the Ilth United
Sta tes Ceusus, sud hie is the author of vanous'important worka. Very cousiderable steps
ln the direction o! socialisin have alresdy
heen taken lu the mother country, culefly by
the adoption of the principie which the resolution of the hon. gentleman frein North
Wellington condemns, the ownership and

may be held te Include roade, rafiroads,
tramroads, water supply, llghtiiig, telephone
and telegraph service, aud, under the recent developmeflt of eiectriclty, the supplySome
liig of power te work machinery.
British municipalities have gene further
Imb the field of subjects geuerally reserved
fer private enterprise, s0 that the terni 'trading ' In Its wide sense may be applied te
them. Loeklng at the question, whether
conflned te public utilities or extending te
public trading generally, from the standpoint of business and commeil sense, one
would, at first slght, be incliued te look
with disfavour on any proposai te substitute public fer private operation.
It is common experience that a business
couducted by an Individual la, as a rule,.
nuanaged with greater econemy, care, capavity sud enterprise than one managed. by a
firm, even though ail the members o! the
firm have a direct personal pecuniary luterest ln the succesa of the undertakiuig.
And If there be any doulit in the case of a
co-partuership, there la noue ln the case of
a business corporation or joint stock Company. -lu such a case the expeusea of management or administration are grester, and
the werk and attention bestowed upon the
undertaking by the persens whose capital

SENATE
is inrested la It are less than wbere the
business is managed by these persons. The
supervision of the directors la flot enough
to hinder this result.
It is flot an unusual thing to sec an undertaking, wbicb bas succeeded when conducted by an Individual or a co-partnershlp,
fail when handed over to the management
of an incorporated company.
Wben we corne to the case of a business
conducted by a state or municipality, the
chances of ifs success are exceedingly smaILl
The persons wba direct It have no personal or
pecuniary interest ln making it pay. The cost
ot management and operation are sure to
be much larger than if it were a private
undertaking; wbat may be termed political
Interests lnduce the managers to secure or
retain the services of employees who wouid
flot be accepted by managers wbose chief
object was the efficiency or financial succeas of the business, and the desire to gain
votes leads to unnecessary increase in the
number of emplcyees and to the undue ln«crease cf their 'wages. A a matter of necessity, the political managers as we may
,ena them, are not ln a position to devote
ail their wcrklng hours or even thxe majority
of themn to the undertaklng, and even If
tbey were they have neither the knowledge
nor the experience to fit them to deal Inteligently and effectually with it. What, for
Instance, are the qualifications wbicb fit tihe
average Canadian alderman f0, be a direc- -or of an eiectrlc tramway ?
Another drawback la that tbe absence
-of strong personal Interest and of competition tends to kli Invention and to prevent the Introduction of modern and lmproved Instruments and methods of working. Let us leave theory and try to learn
from practical experlence.
1 ask hon, gentlemen to direct their attention to Great Britain where the systems
-cf goverament and municipal operation have
been trIed for several years under most
The country ls
favourabie circumstances.
tbickly Inhabited- by an enterprlsing and
The governecomparatively ricb people.
ments of fixe state and ef the municipalities
are bonest, capable and public spirited ln
a degree hard]y to be rivalled la any other
,country. Therefore, If tbere la any country ln the world where we should expect to
find the ownersblp and operation of publie
Hlon. Mr. POWER.

utilities by and on bebaif of thc cifizens
successful, thaf country la Great Brifain.
if liappens that we have at hand recent
and reliable Information as f0 the working
of the system under tbese favorable ausThere are two catrefuily prepared
pices.
works by United States wmiters, 'Municipal
Ownemship in Great Brifain,' by Hugo R.
Meyer, formerly assistant professer o! poiltical ecouomy, Chicago, published la 1906,
and 'The Dangers of Municipal Ownership,' by Robemt P. Porter, already mentioned which appeared la 1907; and theme
Is an Englisb work of the bighest autbomity
pubished lni 1907, 'On Municipal and National Trading,' by Lord Avebury.
Now, let us take a glance at the result
cf public eperation of certain utilities, and
first taire tbe simpiest one, water supply.
Water supply la a public utilify as to
wbicb there la less objection te municipal
In the first
operation than any other.
place, every Inhabitant of a city bas te use
watem, and it le; o! great Importance mhat
the 'water suppiy should be genemous and
pure, and that there sbould be no temptatien whatevem on the part of those who are
supplying watem to diminlsh Ifs quantity or
'But there
aliew Its quality te deteriorate.
Is some thing te be said on tbe other sîde.
I quote from page 88 of Lord Âvebury's
Certain companies were supplylng
bock.
London witb water, and the London water
board themscîves took over the service.
Lord Âvebnmy, after pelnting ont wbat a
vcry -large sum of money the public bad
spent i buying tbe companies out, concludes by saylflg:
The London Water board lias now been senetime in operation, thongh not 1 admit long
eaongh te enable, us definitely te judge as ta
the 'resait of tihe policy. It is a strong býoard
and they bave been fortunate in securing a
very able chairman, Sir Melville Beaclicroft.
The water is of course, the samne. There has
been no reduction inx price, indeed. two nf the
districts have been deprived of reductions
which they would have enjoyed. So far, then,
on. cau not say that London has demîved any
advantage frcm the purchase of the water cernpanies, and two of the eight districts are paying more than they would have don. if the
Water compaxxy had not been bonglit Up.
Tbat simply goca f0 show that evex iun
the case ef wafer, If tbe companies are
doing their work satisfacfcrily, if is a mistake for the municipality to take over fthe
supply. I did flot gef f rom Lord Avebury's
bock the cosf cf buying ouf fthc water corn-

MARCII 25, 11908

Mue Metropolitan Water Board
panies.
took over the water service from the comnpanIy for the sum of $181,372,610; atnd as
Lord Âvebury says, the public had gained
1
nothing by that tremenduus expense.
know of a city into which there cornes
water enough for a place of -flve times its
population, and the supply at the present
Urne In that city lo altogether insufficient.
The lire rates have gone up, and the mupply, even for domestic purposes, is not satisfactory, simply because the city council
will flot apply business principles te dealing
So
witb the supply ef. water te the city.
Then' take the gas service.
far for water.
ln England, the municipaities, in a great
many cases, have taken over the gas works
The ground generally taken was that the
cost would be less, and there would be ne
diminution ln the character of the ligbting.
Lord Avebury says, at page 80, 'Let us
compare prices,' and hie takes eight cities
sirnilariy situated, near coal mines. In the
first four, the gas works are ln the hands
of the municipalitles; Nottingham, rate 2-6
the thousand feet; Bolton, 2-6; Manchester,
Then comlng to the
2-4; Leicester, 2-4.
four where the gas supply is fromn coinpanies, the Bristel rate Is 2-that ts decidedly lower Vian any of the corporation
rates--Bath, 2-1; Newcastle, 1-9; Sheffield,
1-4j. Se Vie people of those places are
paying a great deal mere for their gas to,
the municipality than tbey would pay to
the company. Then hie compares two cities.
I quote frorn
Nottinghilm and Sheffield.
page 82 e! the book:
In Nottingham the gas is supplied by the
municipalitv, in Sheffield by a company. Fi!teen years ago the perice was the sanie in both;
in Nottingham it has gone uap, and in Sheffield it has gone down, tili now it is in Nottingham, on an average about 2s. 6d. per 1,000
feet, and in Sheffield only ls. 41d.
It Is desirable to show that the English
experience is adverse to Vie municipal operatien o! any of! these public utîlities. Electric
lightlng 1 take next. I just quote from page
115 of Lord Avebury's book what Mr.
Ritchie, afterwards Lord Ritchie, then president o! Vie Board of Trede, says:
It is true, 1 think, that the electrical enterprise of, this country is in an exceedingly
backward condition, it is inferior 'with regard
to light and certainly with regard to the couveyance of power, ta rnany European countries

657

are villages in the United States which are in

possession ef advantages in connection with
electricity which some of our largest towns
It cannot be doubted that
do not pessess.
there is a great demand for something te be
duone. . . . It mnust be remembered that it
was the Act of 1882 which more than anything
else delayed and hampered the developrnent1of
electrical supply.

The Act o! 1882 rendered It impracticable for a private company to,
deo- electric lighting in a town witho! the munieut the concurrence
cipal ceuncil, and the municipal council
generaliy threw obstacles and difficulties ln
Vie way. In Mr. Meyer's book, chap. 14,
page 221, Viere la a very Interesting report
from a cornmittee of Vie city o! Birmningham
against Vie corporation undertaking te supply electric curreùt for ligbting purpeses,
whIch wll very welI repay perusal. Then
there te the supplying o! electric power for
manufacturing purpeses, as te which I
de net propose te enter Into a, discussion. Ail sorts of obstacles and difficultles have been put ln Vie way ef
Viese cempanies ln England, chiefly by Vie
municipality, and unfertunately parliarnent,
ln the early days at any rate, seemed te
VIink It was more Important te protect
what Viey looked upon as Vie Jntereat o!
Vie municîpalities Vian te do wbat'was best
for the people o! Vie various cîties and
tewns. Juat look at what Vie resuit ln
England is as cornpared wlth Vie United
States. At page 122 of Lord Avebury's
boo0k, I find Vhils:
The result of the action of the municipalities
lias, in tact, been that whereas in 1902 there
were in the United States, 3,620 central electric

stations, in the United Kingdorn we had only
457-less than one-eight; as many.

At page 232 of Mr. *Meyer's book we find
the !ellowlng passage:
Ia 1903, there were in Birmninghami, a city of

552,000 people, only 2,135 custemera of the elec-

tric light plant, that is, in every 259 inhabitants, only one was an electria light consumer.

Ia Boston preper a city of about Vie same
size as Birmingham, ln every 73 Inhabitants

was an electric light customer la 1900, using
on an average, 49 lamps of 16 candle power.
Hon. gentlemen can see how much more
extended the use e! electric light la In
the United States than in England, and
aise how much more electricity is used fer
and it is greatly inferior to the United States power purposes in the United States than
and Canada. It mnay almost lie said that there
42

658

SE-NATE

l England; and it bas neen found thiat
Englishmen wbo have been discouraged by
the difficulties tbrown in their way by the
goverument and by municipalites, have
taken their capital away from England and
established great works lu Germany and
other continental countries.
Now, 1 propose to say just -a f ew words about the
telegraph aud telephone.
Thse Britias goverument, a good many years ago, determined to buy out the electric telegrapli company. Lord Avebury says at page 107 of
this book on municipal and national tradlug:
The country has lest over £10,000,000 by goveinment management of the teiegraph. Last
we
vear the deficit wiith £439,000, so thata iffree had
lenprese'nted. was thse systemn as
gift
P'e ahouid etili have iost heavily.
Then ln Englaud the telephone was held,
by a decision of the court, to corne under
the bead of telegraphs and was therefore
hield to be wlthlu tise jurisdlction of th<,
state.
The goverument did flot propose to
take over the telephone at once, and they
made un arrangement wltb the telephone
companles, under whlch the companies pald
them somethlng over $200,000 a year. That
system bas corne to an end, and now the
telephone service is losing money like the
telegraps.
Even the city or Glasgow,
whlcb Is supposed to be a sort of model,
made a complete fallure of thse telephone
business.
Porter, ut page 301, speaklng
o! the telephone, says:
Econoiioay oensidered, however, if the
State control of the telegrapli should be taken
as a criterion, the. transfer only means that
the telephones in ceasing to be a possible burden on municipal taxation will almoat cer.
t.ainly beoon a bu.rden ou imperial taxation.
The taxpayers stand to gain nothing but
rather to lose by thse change. Since thse state
took over the telegraphe in Great Britain, extraordinary annual deficits have been thse
rule, aud are on the incroase.
Tien at page 302, witb respect to the telegrapbs, hie Baye:
When the. telegraphs were taken ovei- f ron>.
the companies hY the goverament in 1870, th,
Profit îiu that yeair on company working w;

land, where they are conucted by private

enterprise, are mucis more up to date, the
trains run much quicker, aud lu every way
business is more satisfactorlly doue than
on thse continent where thse trains are slower
and fewer la number, where they are run
chlefly by the state. Iu Germany there
were a number of rallways whlch were run
by compaules.
Some years ago, the state
took over those, and now tbey do flot makre
as good time as they dld years ago wheu
they were lu private bauds. Take the case
ot tramways.
I do not propose to dwell
for auy length of time on that, because I
think any bon. gentleman who bas been lu
thse old country la aware that thse tramways
lu Eugland are flot to -be compared wlth
those lu thse United States and Canada.
1 wlsb to lllustrate the effect of thse
assumption of the tramways by the municipalities.
There were tramways In London. north of the river and soutis of the
river.
Thse London county council determIued to work thie tramways soutis of tbe
river themselves, and shlow a compauy
to work those on thse nortb of tbe river ut
s rentaI. Thse figures are as follows:
The, capital value was approximateir the
sain of £850.000 in the uorth, and £896,000 on
the south, but the. mileage on the north ws
about 18 utiles greater. Iu 1900 thse profits on
the. nortiieru aide were £39,000, aud on the
South, £43,000.
That was before tise inunicpallty got
to work.
Iu 1901. on tii. uorth £40,000, and on the,
south £14,325. Iu 1902, on thse uortii £39,000,
but those on thse soutis had fallen to £9,000,
aud. in 1905 £6,200.
So you can see wbat a bllgisting Influence
operation by thse munlcipallty bas on the
tram business. I shall read a few
statIstlcs giving a comparison between thse
United States and England.
of the book, I find:

At page 801

In 1902, tiser. were in the United States 21.302 miles of street railway track, giving rise
to the empioyment on the average of 6 -55 pe sons per mile of track. Rad the, urban popuF1,692,500.
In the year 1904-5, undor governsnent opera- lation of the, United Kiugdosu in Janun r1906, been as well supplied wîth electrie street
tien, the, deficit was $5,955,630.
railways as wss thse urban' population o! tise
A most renai-kable transformation.
UJnited States lu 1902, the. United Kingdom
1
amn not going to trouble the House witl would have isad, not 3,040 miles o! eiectî-ic
street railway track, but 14,000 miles. Eleven
many statistics as to railways. -I
just tljousand addàtional miles of lectnic Street
wlsh to say thiat, generally, Lord Avebury railway trac],, on the supposition of an averniakes it cle.gr tint the railways in Eng- age of 6:5 p6rsons per mile would have giveni
emnployment to 71,500 additional persolis.
Hon. M~r. POWERl.

MAROR 25. 1908
Hon. Mr. POWER-I badl sonie, but I
Mr. Meyer bas thus shOwn that municiould flot iay my hands on them now. I
pal ownership ls bad for the working people. c
w'isé to mention some of the other concoThen dealing with- the employmelit ln concitants of public ownership ln England.
nection wlth the matter, lie says:n
have shown that these utiities have
in190
There were in the United States
ieen operated at a loss as a rule, and
1,051 villages, towns and cîties, .with a pe 1900:b iave not been operated as successfuliy ln
tien et 4,000 people or more. 0f these places,î
not bass than 1,002 wore suppliod with tele- Mulgand as tbey have been ln the United
The lattr gave employ- States. In addition to that, there bas been
phono exehanges.
ment te the great bulk et the 78,752 persons
great and uni ustifiable increase ln the
employed in the tolephone business iu 1902.
On the other hiand there were iu the 'United wages of muicipal employees as compared
Kingdom in 1801 about 950 places with a pepu- with other workmen. I wili just quote oee
lation of 4,000 er more people. Rad the United
Kingdomn in 1905 made as muai use cf the tole- authority for that, Mr. Porter.
phone as the Uuited States had made in 1902
A littie while back Mr. Keir Hardie. leader
it weuld have lied at least 50,000 persons ema
ployed in the telephone business. As a matter of the Independent Labour Party, is portion
te give
ot fact there were in 1905 only 13,000 persans of whose programme, by the way,
milk,
employed in the telephone business in the municipalities power te sell coal, bread, this
and dairy and farm produets, discovered
United Kingdom.
tact, and regarded the dimensions the organI shail mast read a few observations cf ization had reached as very interesting, especithey represented 14 per cent ot the total
Mr. Meyer's, which I think hon. gentlemen ally as
wage-earners in Great Britain, who now nummay flud lnteresting. Ou page 302, lie says: ber 14,000,000. This leader ot labour congratulated them on the tact that in 1903, when there
wages all round, the
The figures pertaining te the telephone was a reduction' oft empleyees alone had inbusiness in the United Kingdom are iucluded wages ot municipal said had even doubled.
in this discussion for the reasen that the creased-it miglit be
British goverument fer years deliberately
They have what tbey cali a municipal
paralyzed the telephone business for the purThey formi a trade
protecting the state telegraphs tram employees association.
pose of
When the union wbich extende over the whole of
cempetition from the telephone.
British goverument became ready te wîthdraw Great Britain and make it a point te opits paralyzing hand, the municipalities provented that withdrawal. This matter will be pose the re-election of any city or town
set forth at length in a volume soon te be pub- counclior who dees net yield to their delished.
from
It has been shown in the toregoing discus- manda. Mr. Porter goes on, speaking
sion that had it net been for the paralysis et the point of view of a citizen of the United
industry infiicted by the spirit et municipal States:
ownership and state owuership in the peried
£rom 1870 te 1905, there miglit have been emThe creation ot such a privileged class ot
ployed. in gaintul occupations in the United employees in the United States would undoubtmore people edly constitute a similar menace te the public
Kingdom in 1905. some 11,00
In t he weal. Refleet for a moment what an erganizathan were actually se emplo-yed.
atoresaid peried, about the same number et tien like Tammany would beceme if, te its
people have been compelled te emigrate, frem present terce et officiaIs, an army et industhe United Kingdem or te remain in or join trial employees- should be added. In Great
the rauks of the uuempleyed. But that is net Britain their power is practically felt because
ail. Rad the electric lighting industr 1,the et the small percentage ot the other electers
ctric whe go -te the poil at municipal electiens.
e
electricity power supply indus r
street railway industry and the telephone iu- The percentage is well under 50 per cent and
dustry net been paralyze& from 1870 te the pre- is rarely abeve. The London County Counelec- .cil rejoices in 35,000 employees, and for the
slent day. the industr y of manufacturing have
trical machinery and apparatus would
whole London ares, there are 60,000 men in the
been vory muai greater t han it is. It weuld municipal service--a large proportion et whom
The electerate
have a larger domestie market in the 'United occupy municipal àwelhings.
Kiugdom itselt, and it weuld be in a mucli in Lendon tor municipal purposes in 1905
position to compete with the United numbered 742,000. Âs ne- more than hait, genbetter
States and Germany in supplying the inter- eraily less, exorcise their vote, say 371,000, the
national markets et Europe, South America 60,000 votes et the municipal employees repreand Âustralasia. In 1901 there wero engaged sent nearly 17 per cent et votes recorded.
in the Ujnited Kingdem in the manufacture et
There are a great many Illustrations given
electrical apparatus a total of 54,600 porseus.
Had the United Kingdom not entered upon the cf the unreasonable way in which these
policy of municipal ownership in 1870, the
I have ref erred ln a sort of
aforesaid total et 54,600 would h ave been very votera aet.
much larger.
Indirect way to the Influence and vote of
Municipal trading
Hon10.Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Has the municipal employees.
any figures ln regard to bas seriously interfered with private enterlion. gentlemn'an
1
prise, and burdennd foreign commerce.
the Atistraliiiu railways ?

SENATE
bave deait with that to some littie extent.
Then there has been a tremendous increase
ln expenditure and debt as the result of
this municipal trading.
I wlll give a
couple of quotations on that point, because
It la Important.
Our idea is that United
States cities are more extravagant tran BnitIsh cities, but the statIstice show that that
Is not the case, thiat the indebtedness of
American cities is very considerably less
which la largely due to the tact that
American elties have not gone ln for municipal trading. I quote a couple of passages
frein Lord Avebury as to the Increase of
expenditures. On page 1 he says:
In 1868, the date of Lord Goschen's Local
Taxation Report, the local expenditure of the
United Kingdom was about M3,000,000; but in
1902-3, the latest year included in the statistical abstract, this sum hiad grown to the gigantic total of £152,000,000-more than four times
the expenditure of forty years age.
Per'haps, it may be said that the sixtios are
rathor too far back. Let us then take the year
of 1891-2. At that time the amount was
£76,000,000, in the last complete year (1901-2)
it was £144,000,000, so that in ten years it had
risen to no less than £68,000,000.
That as te the yearly expenditure ; now
as te the debt:
Ia 1883-4, it was £193,000,000, even thon a
portentous amouxit, in 19034, the last complete
figures we have, it had risan to £469,000,000,
an increase of £276,000,000 in twenty years.
It is hardiy necaýssary te repeat that this incrosse is fax, groater than that of the rateable
value.

been but small, and that much more satisfactory sud remunerative results might have
beea obtained if the works had been leased
to private companies or firms.
5. That municipal trading has seriously interfered with privato enterprises and aur
foreigu commerce.
6. That the stato management cf railways
iopen te similar objections that on state
railways the fares are higxer, the trains
slower, fewor, and the fares are higher, the
trains sloeor, fewer and less convenient, and
that te introduce questions of railway management into the demain cf polities is open te
serious objections.
7. That it is unwise to give votes te these
who pay no rates and unjust te withhold them
f rom those who do.
8. That by reducing the demand for labour, while increaaing prices and raieing rates
it has net only injured the ratopayors generally, but especialiy the working classes; and
thDt if carried ta its logical conclusion, it will
involve theo bas of their freedom.
I cau show from page 175 of porter what
the Socialists proposed to du If tbey had
captured the couaty councl of London at
thie Mardi elections of 1907:
Thore were municipal workshops, stores,
milk and bread shops and dairy farms, free
travelling for workmen te and frem work,
municipal ceal stores and colliories, municipal
farm colonies fer the unemployed <paid for
by a direct tax on income derived from private
industrial concoras> and municipal clothing
factories.
The ' progressive' policy pursue<l by the
London Ceuaty Council is naturally a direct
incitement to the promotion of such a socialistic programme. The samne may be saîd of
the record cf the borough councils of the
metropolis.
That was what they proposed to do if
they had won in the elections of the
spring of last year; but the British taxpayer, aithough a patient sort of animal,
gets tired sometimes, and ln the municipal
elections at the begin.ning c f 1907 and of
1908, hie turned on the Socia]ists with very
satisfactory results. I quote fromi page 187
of Porter :

There is one observation, by the way,
that frequent elections tend to disquallfy
councillors for managlng thiese important
businesses.
Imagine the members of a
company or partnership or corporation
c..anging every couple of years; you can
realize how the work would go on. I shall
now give the general conclusions which
Lord Avebury cornes to, and which are
As far as the London berough councils
substantiated by the figures which I have are cecnerned, this fate (bankruptcy), tewards which many of them were unquoted frein page 174:
doubted leading their districts by the in1. That local expenditure is increasing more cremeat of lia.hilities they created oach
year, has been peremptorily checked. The
rapidly than rateable property.
2. That local indebtedness is increasing more electione in Nevember, 1906, resulted in a
lean sweep of the Progressiv~e (the ownArrapidly than rateable prioperty.
3. That municipal trading cannot fail te ship partv) and a remarkable accessien ef
strength to the Moderates. There are seule bar
give rise to awkward labour problems.
4. That profits are only made, if at ail, when oughs, once progressive, in which. hardly any
municipalities have a monopoly; they are con- members of that party have survived, and in
fined te business such as the manufacture cf wh'ich there is uow only one partv, the modgas, which has long been established and re- erates. Ail aloag the hile the anti-ownership
duced to regular rules; that even in sucli Party were at the top and the Progressives at
cases the accounts have been so kept as to the bottom, though indeed the labour emindimake it impossible to determine what the real dates were sometiýmes lou-est of aîl. Ili 1903
resit has been; that the profit, if any, has there were fitteen boroughs in London iii
Ion. Ttr. POWER.

MAIRCH 2,5, 1908
which the Progressives were in a majority; unfair in the way ef raising rate8 te toc
there are now two. The thirty boroughs that higli a figure or abusing their powers ini any
the Moderatos lied thus won are i.n ail parts way.
of London-in the. north as Ialington and St.
Paneras. in the south as Camiberwell-, in the
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Public ownersip
east as Poplar, Stepney and Woolwich, and
in the west as Fn har. The general. totals nnd operation cf public utilities are net lu
show 959 Municipal Reformere <or anti-own- the Interest cf Canada. This declaratien cf
orahip party>, 272 Progressives (the defeated
Socalias), 34 Labour and 97 Independent pollcy contateed. lu Vie motion of Vie hon.
members. In the provincial towns thore were gentleman from Wellington, la wide eneugh
aise victorias for the supporters cf private to cover aIl public utilities, whether they
enterprise. though the ownerohip defeat w*as
faîl under Vie jurlsdîctien cf federal, proleas crushing than London.
Glasgow ie supposed te be the one place vincial or municipal geverment. In tact
applicable to ail,
where municipal ownerehip and eperation it seems te be equally
jointly 'or separately.
bias paid, but lie says:
Thougli the federal aspect 19 Vie one
In Glasgow in 13 conteste, nina labour can'with which we are here more particularly
didates wera hopelessly beaten. One labeur
mavistrate lest lie seat and only three labour concerned, It may not .be out cf place te
mon out of 34 candidates who went te the pellîs examtee Vie 'question frem Vie local snd
"e returned.
municipal pointe of view as well.
When ene cendemne a system lie le hiable
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Leave Viat te the
te be aeked, well, what wculd you substitute ? I take the Teronto Street Raiiway ; local auViorities Viemselves te consider.
that la a moet fleurishing undertaking. I
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-htest cf Vie argubelieve there are certain members cf the
ment for or agateet le cemmon te ail Viese
Toronte City Council 'whe are nlot quite
spheres of national life ln Canada and te
satisfied with ail the things the Railway
modem civllized. nations. It le
Company do, but they bave a remarkably meet cf Vie
te say Viat the subjeet lurallway service In Toronte, bet- net toc much
good street
volves the consideratien. of Vie essential
ter, I think, than la te be feund te any
principles cf political economy and of sodity in England, and the company pay te
ciology generally. It is, therefore, net surthe city, they do net caîl It a rentai,
prIitg that the matter ls receiving Vie
a percentage cf the grose earnlngs.
moet earnest attention of the whole clviThat percentage laet year amounted. te
Is it net llzed world te-day, and it lias tound mauy
nearly haîf a million dollars.
advocates, especially among
Inftnitely better that that principle should disciples and
Vie Socialiste, Vie Socialiste who are Socialbe adopted, tbat these werks should be conducted by companies and that the cempa- iste pure and simple and Vie Socialiste whe
cf Progressive
nies sheuld pay te the municipalities a rea- give themeelves Vie titile
But some
senable rentai fer the use cf the streets ? Democrats, or some other name.
cf its adepte and proselytes are te be found
It seems te me that la the sensible and buvery conservative and even
sinesshlie thing te do, and the same way ale among Vie
Nationalization andl municireactlonary.
with respect te the electric ligbtlng busican truly be
ness. The city represents the people cf palizatien cf public utilities
said te be reactionary, Viough many of lis
the muuicipality and owns the streets, and
te be imbued with Vie Idea
If a private corporation wishee te maire use advocates seem
Viat Viey have made a disccvery, that Viey
of these streets fer t.he purpose cf lightiug,
a new and unheard-ef remedy
Bay, or stringing telephone wires, it le only have found
for the evil cf whlch Viey complaîn.
a resoemble proposition that that company
Neither Vie evil uer Vie remedy le new.
eheuid psy a reasonable ameunt for what
The evil-private mouopcly or trust-ie
they get from the municipality, cali It renof
tai, or whatever you piesse. And then doubt eue of Vie results cf the policy
remedy-publiC
Vie
indlviduallsm--and
agate, while the thing should net go toc
far, perbaps net the munlcipality but Vhe trust or monopoly-Vie goal cf collectlvlsm
Itself. The
goverumeut sheuld have seine rnower of -are both as old as histery
bistorical record cf the world shows that
regulating these services, se as te prevent:
monopolies,
companies from deing wliat is abselutely inl every successive civilization,

SENATE
both state and private, sometimes aide by
sîde, at other Urnes separately, have exIsted and flourished. Arlstotie tells us of
a steel trust and an oil trust whlch
flourished. in hic trne.
We know also that state monopolles have
been as frequent and at least as long Ilved,
and, of the two, the less arbitrary and oppressive have flot been those founded on
fehe record shows conciuslvely
capital.
that of ail monopolies, state monopolies
have unlformly been the most oppressive,
most difficuit to destroy and have most
progrees
retarded and lmpeded materil
and development, and In the case of the
Roman empire, were a potent factor In Rts
disintegration and ultirnate downfa-fl.
Before the Christian era, Roman had ite
trade unions. Pliny tells us that a Bakers'
Union was orgnnized about 200 years before Christ. It had also Its public utilities
owned and operated by the public and more
especially by the goverument of the empire. The system very soon developed elements of disorder, venality and corruption,
aud the great Catiline conspiracy was rendered possible and greatly helped by these
very elements.
The Roman Senate wae frequently coinpeiled to proscribe the variaus monopolies
of labour whIch from tirne to time were
fornied, because of their exactions and their
oppression. But the goverument of Rome
failed to abolisb, thougb it greatly mitigated, the worst of ali monopolies, sasvery ; and It ls weil to remember that this
.abominable Institution flourished. Iu modern
Christianity as late as the i9th Century,
therefore we ought to be charitable In our
appreciation of the Roman empire.
Wben the empire replaced the republic
and the people of Rorne had lost the spirit
of freedom, the State estabiched and maintained Its Imperia] factories, Uns Imperial
mines and lts imperlal industries and the
State provided the people with food aud
arnusernent, the 'panem et circenses' 50
often referred to lu Roman literature.
Bread, water and comestibles of ail kInds
were distributed. by the goverunent dally,
gratuitously, or at much reduced prices;
even public lotteries were arranged and
provlded at tlje expense and under the adrùinlstration of the State. All this led to
furtber venality, corruption, debasernent of
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT.

public character, destruction of the spirit
of industry, and it brought about nurnerous
strikes and revolutions, as for Instance
the revolution cornmanded by the slave
Felicissirnus, whose arrny caused the death
of 7,000 Roman saldiers In one single battle.
Wlth a population of a million coule and
the daily distribution of food of ail klnds
It became uecessary to organiz *e and maintain a large and expensive syctemn of public
administration for thls purpose alone. The
wheat and the cattie destined to the populace of Rame had to be transported from
the provinces to the metropolie; the wheat
bad ta be ground, the bread bad ta be
baked, the meat had to be cut and the
whole had to be apportioned. And where
dld the money necessary for this vast public
operatIon corne from ? Frorn the provinces
conquered snd piundered first by the Roman
generale aud later by a moat Inexorable and
oppressive system of taxation which reached
every css, even the beggar elemeut.
Thus IIt will be seen that the most strlklng exemple of public utility owned and
rnanaged by the State, a system which
ignored or discouraged or debased the freedom of labour, the freedom of industry and
the freedorn o! capital, flouriched neariy
2,000 years ago, aud with such disastrous
results that It distintegrated and fiually
brought about the downf ail of the great
Roman empire.
The whole of the German provinces early
had their numerous ' ghildes' and their onigin can be traced through the early Christian era and their existence dowu to the
century, when they
middle o! the l9t
flnaily dIsappeared. Guilde organIzed. aud
malntained by traders, mechanice and labourers are also to be found lu the variaus
countries of Europe before, ail tbrough and
cince the middle ages, ail of which had for
their principal object the establishment
and maintenance of monopolies, corporate
or pnivate.
During the centuries which followed the
downfall of the Roman empire, that le
from the 5th ta the 12th century, owing
no doubt, ta the disastrous recuits which
they had brought about iii the empire o!
the CSs'ars, and because of the grent barbarous invasions which marked these centuries, there were but few- instances o!

MATIOR 25, 1908
state or private monopolies. But w 'Ith the i'iiese corp)orations grew in great numbers,
origIn, extension and universal developuient strength and Importance; so much so, that
tey succeeded iu securing f rom, Urne to
of the feudal systemi there grew numberless monopolies, private, corporate and of time the approval and protection of the
State and of the feudal masters for their
state.
The feudal system with Its numerous corporations, and their sanction to the rules
masters-both lay aud cierical-aud its ndopted for their corporate governiment.
slaves at first iind at ail times its servants The Kings of Engiand and France, and the
-proauced and he]ped to maintain monopo- seigneurs througbout the wbole of Europe
It had Its aumerous and the British isies, were led to s0 treat
lies of ail kinds.
corvées, personal, miIItary sud of various these corporations because of the great use
It had Its common milI, whichi they were enabled to maire of them
other kinds.
where the whole people were bound to, for the government of their varlous states
briug their grain to be ground and their and their own personal Interests, and beflour to, be baked Into bread; its common cause the objects of these corporations were
wiue press where aIl the wine was to be considered In those days, as public or quasi
made, sud so on witb most of the com- public utilities.
As previousiy stated, the object, the
modities of Ilfe, mauy of which are nowadays calieci public utilities. A system un- basis, the constant aim of these associaHeuce, constant and
der which iudustry was constantiy hamper- tions was mouopoiy.
ed, material progressansd developmeut ever-growing restrictions aud Impediments
hiudered sud retarded, civilization delayed of every kiud to, trade aud industry, arbiand stuuted, a systemn wbich totally de- trary and oppressive mIles and euactments,
stroyed ail idea of competition, aIl Indlvi- unwarrànted interference with freedom of
And this system labour and freedom of capital and wItb
dual effort or Initiative.
prevaiied In Europe aIl tbrough the mid.dle private rights, constant quarrels, arbitrary
and oppressive interference, ail to, the detriages.
arts, Industry
Beside the public or quasi public mono- ment of labour, mechanical
were and commerce.
polies of the feudal system there
Besides the Guilds-Merchant, whicb were
fouuded sud organized corporate monopoprobably the first established In Engiand,
lies for the protection of certain Industries
sud of certain classes of labour. Iu fact, there existed on the continent, more especithese corporations, ail corporate monopolles, alIy iu France and Germany, the historiespecially the later ones, were formed for cally well-known 'Hanses.' There was the
the purpose of combating sud eludiug the 'Hanse of Paris,' whicb had the exclusive
mouopoly of the feudal seigneur, and to right to the commerce and ivig'ition of
-oppose sud prevent competition fromn the the River Seine and which wielded a huge
There was the ' Hanse of
outslde; each commuuity, each brauch of monopoly.
Rouen,' of Bruges, and many other cities
the mechanical arts, forming an association
for the protection of its particular industry also liait their Hanse.
Industry, commerce, trade and navigation
or trade, not only as against the feudal
master but aiso as against the neighbouring were ail expioited by the King or the seigconimunities eugaged lu the same Industrial nieurs or the corporations; the indivIdual
alose dld flot count; there was no individual
or mechaulcal pursuits.
Individual Initiative, Individual
And the weapou chosen by these corpora- enterprlse,
the resuit
desig- spirit or Individual, activity, and
tions, whatever may have been their
was that in the elghteenth century weaviiig
nations, 'ghildes' lu Englaud, Germauy sud
was done very much Iu the saine way as
the uorthern part of Europe, 'corps de
Ia the Mt century.
métiers,' ' confreries,' ' compagnonnage' 1 u
But the whole system, iuasmuch as it igthe
France. to combat the monopoly of
seigneur, kiug, duke, count or baron, sud nored or endeavoured to destroy the natural
the competition of .the ueighbouriug comn- aud Instinctive disposition of man to, thinik
munities, wnas that of monopoir itself; so for himself, to seek happixress according to
that there srose rnoiopoly by the side of lits own Intelligence and experience aud in
inonopoly, monopoly flgSifst mnopoly. bis owu wsy, because It failed to recognize

SENATE
the lnequaiity of intelligence, and of mental
and physical effort at ail times and under
ail conditions in man, was bound to, prove
disappointing at first and ultimately an
utter fallure.
The other element which brought about
the discredit, and later on the disappearance of these gullds and ladustrial associations, was the spirit of oppressivenesa whlch
tbey early developed and persistently maintained lu an endeavour to arrest the natural
progress of events and to tbwart. the new
conditions arlslng from the discovery of
machinery, the perfection of tools, and froin
techaical and chemical discoveries. And
la their effort to avold the inevitable, and
to malatain, the monopolies which tbey haci
so long exerclsed, they oaly succeeded in
maklng thexaseives hated and despised. As
their excesses coatlnued to grow, tixey became the cause of the removai of maay
trades to new places, where there was freedom from corporate control and corporate
And so the great Industrial cenmethods.
ters of Birmingham, Manchester, Leeds,
Sheffield, and others, unhampered by guiids
and thelr monopoiistic character, were
founded and owe their prosperity to the
freedom of labour and the freedom of capital, which they thea and bave since proclalmed and practiced.
Competition. witb state regulation solved
the difficulties created by the gulids la England long before the revolution la France
asserted and sanctioned freedom of labour
and of individual Initiative and actlvlty, and
utIli muchloniuger before tue industrial code
Temoved the iast vestige of 'ghildes' of ail
The historikinds la the German empire.
cal record shows abundantiy tbat at ail
times and la ail countries there have existed
and flourished public monopolles, quasi public monopolles and private monopolies. It
would be difficuit to determine whicb of
thiese bas been most exacting and most oppressive, but it is easy enougb to conclude
whlcb bas most lmpeded industrial deveiopment, trade and commerce, whlch bas m,)st
retarded national advance and progregs: if
la manifest on tue record that public monopolies have doue so-

did not seem to me to be gerinane to the
subject. It may be, but I did flot consider
it in that light.
The constant lesson taught is that the
one and universel remedy which bas cured
or mltigated the evil consequences o! these
monopolies, bas been freedom o! action to
both labour and capital, aad justice compels
me to edd that Eagiaad was the first o!
the modern nations to discover, at ail events
to resoluteiy apply, the remedy. A marvelbous industriel and commercial development has been tbe coasequence and the resuit.
The lndividualism, thet la to say
absolute freedom of action for the citizen,
of ail classes, bas made Englaad great,
powerful and prosperous and has eaabied
lier to fouad aad maintain prosperous f ree
and happy communities la every quarter o!
the globe.
Individuallsmn bas been the greatest factor
la Eagiand's prosperity at home and* la ber
The genius, tbe temperapossessions.
ment and the modern habits of Englishmen
are the ieast o! any adapted to, not only
collectivlsm lalits wlder sphere but also,
la the form and as advocated by the more
moderate Soclaliats, to the polcy of public
utilities owaed and operated by national or
It Is tille that no
municipal goverument.
British polilal economist aad no statesman o! prominence bas advocated the adoption of a pollcy o! general and comprebeasive ownersblp and operation of public services by the state or the municipaiity, except poýsibly, la the Austrelasien colonies,
whlch have gone !er-much too far already
In the opinion of many-in the path of
modemn soclalism.
For the purpose o! the~ present clebate,
the discussion must be llmited to, a consideration of wbat la generally understood
byv and supposed to be comprised la whet
l- termed public utilities la Canada. Those
terrni, whatever else tbey may include, certaiiy cover eit leat the field of the supply
of water, electric iight, eiectric power, gas,
transportation by tramways, relways and
otiier mneans, telegraphs and telephones.
TIhat la the minimum nuw demanded by
tîjose who

advocete state

end municipal

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Did religion flot (ixration.
have a good deal to do witii it?
is to water, if mnay be left ouf tor

e
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I hatve not coi- discussion altogether, as it is generaiiy considered it la the iight of religion, andi t eeded thaf it is as mnucli public property
Hlon. Mr. BELCOURT.

MARCH 25, 1908
as the rainfali and because everybody uses
water.
As te the remainlng subjects, noue
of -%hich is lu as universal use as watet,
they ought te, la my mmnd, be considered
la the liglit of the general proposition, that
ne geverument, national, provincial or municipal, should undertake any business that
.may be as well and economicaliy conducted
by private enterprise.
The reverse of this proposition, carrled
te its logical conclusion, would leave nothing te individual enterprise and effort and
would deprive the majority et the citizens
ef any hope and auy ambition beyond that
of securing an otlicial position of some sert.
It would create a commuuity composed very
largely of public servants.
No geverament, national, provincial or municipal,
suLould undertake any business that may be
as well and as econemlcaily couducted by
private enterprise, for ameng other reasons
the following wbich I propose te refer te
separately but brlefiy:
1. Because the natural and legitimate
function of govemument la te govemu, te
administer Justice equally te its citizeus, te
provide protection te the state, te its members and te thefr lives, property, health and
education; and, because It is contrary te
the prîncIples of sound and Just government
fer the state or municipallty te indulge la
commercial or industrial speculation with
meney raised by taxation.
2. Becausè on general pelitical grounds,
nationalisation and municipalisation would
establiali an nrmy of public officlals, breed
corruption, demoralize the voter and destrey Individual effort.
3. Recause on economic consîderatiens
this pollcy Is Inherently unsound, as the resuits almost unanlmonsly show.
4. Recause assumlng that state or municipal operation of"public utilities may lu
certain rare instances have proved te be
successful, under exceptional circumstances
and extraerdinary favourable conditions, it
dees net follow that the same policy, except
Ia exceptional cases, would prove te be
practical, beneficlal and successful la Canada.
5. Recause state monopolies off er much
more serions danger te the nation and te
the people, te the welfare ef both and to
responsîble goverament, than do corporate
or prIvate monopolies.

fifiu

6. Because the remedy to the evil coinplained of lies flot in state or municipal
monepoly, but In state and local control
and regulation.
Such lias been the constant and universal
opinion of ail political economists and
sociologlats.
Time and the occasion do
flot permit of a disquisition on political
econoîuy; nor can I dlaim the required
competency to do so.
It may be well,
bowever, to remlnd the iSocialists, the faddists and the opportunists of Adam Smlth's
conclusion on this pregnant subject to the
effect that:
The fnction of government. la to proteet
society against. foreIga agreffion, to defénd,
by wiso adinitrtoc
justice. each of its
mnembers against every unjuet enterprise and,
finally, to prot~ide the commnnity with certain indispensable establishments which do
Lot appear te the goverament to be susceptible of individual creation or maintenance.
In support of that opinion, I have bore
the views of John Stuart Mill, Pierre LeRoy Beaulieu, Herbert Spencer, 'Mr. Balfour and other economlsts, modern and
contemperary, but 1 wIll not trouble the
u.ouse with these quotations.
They are,
I have no doubt, famillar te every memaber
ef this Heuse.
I pass on to the second
cons1deration.
The world has progressed, and wlll continue te pregrese, and civilization will develop ini proportion te the encouragement
given te the efforts of the individual.
Advance in pelîtica, I science, la arts, la Invention, ia manufacture, la materlal and In-~
tellectual attainment. has always been
brought about by the activity of the Individual, net by Act ef parîlament, ner by
municipal by-law, net by resolution. ef cernmîttees ef citizens er ef town meetings.
lt la net the state nor the munîcipallty
which bas discovered the use and made the
application cf steam and electrlcity and perfected the mean&of transport nor made ner
applled any ene ef the many useful discoveries lu arts, Ini mecbanica, I Industry,
ln medicine, especially lui modern Urnes.
Lt la ne mere ce-Incidence that the great
Inventions which have revelutlenlzed Industry, commerce and many of the sciences and
created and prevIded absolutely new metheds of ail] kinds, came at a time and la
countries where individual effort, individual energy and individual ambition received
their greatest encouragement and ampiest

S LX AT E
rcward. On the coutrary, lu every country
wbhere there has been a failure to recognize
the inequality of Intelligence and the inequality of labour and the inequallty of individual initiative, wlbere an attempt bas
been made to make ail men alike, to destroy individuaiity, there bas been very
slow, If any, advance at ail la Industrial,
commercial and scientific progress. ln mntcrial betterment, to say nothing of Intellectual improvement.
A ntotable example of this resuit of stagnaUtion consequent upon government Initiative outside o! Its legitimate field, as opposed to private enterprise, la to be found
ln Itussin, where millions and millions bave
-been spent"in establlsbing state and municipal enterprises and where the legitimate
fuction o! goverameat bas been subordînated and made subservient to that o! a
buge trading corporation, into wblcb tbe
goverument bas been turned. In Russia
the state operates the ralways, tbe mines
and tbe steel works (and tbere are not a
few lu Canada wbo are urging our national
goverfimeut to do likewlse). Tbe local goyerumieuts sell horses, cattie, agricultural implements, sewing machines, text booka,
medicînes, magic lanterna, &c., &c., and ln
somue of tbe uiuniclpalties, as lu Rome o!
oid, tbe local nuthorities compete wltb their
retail butcbers. Russin's condition, financmal, industrial and agricultural la well
known to-day. Everybody is aware o! the
financlal straits to whIcb Russia, owing
largely to its bureaucracy, bas been
driven. It la a very short time ago since
tbe great Parisia» daiiy 'Le Temps' intimated tbat the great nortbern empire Is
on the verge of bankruptcy and la now,
ln fact Insolveut. The social, politîcal and
economical condition of its Immense population la too wei known to need any extended reference.
Now as to Australia, wbose colonization
was commenced at the time o! the French
revolution ou tbe foundation of individual
energy sud democratic principies; it achieved for a tîme great and substautial progreas,
it bas become a great colony. But signa are
not wantiug that ln adoptiug and trying to
put into practice the socialistic ideas and
methods. it bas seriously retarded its progress aud compromised its future. Australia off ers to-day the spectacle of the exHon. Mr. BELCOURT.

traordinary and unprecedented attempt to
establish and maintain Bide by side, or
rather to unite Into barmonious and efficaclous action, democracy and bureaucracy.
It Is easy to foreteil the result of sucli a
monstrous union.
Ât present Australla
owns and operates railways, tramways, telegrapbs, waterworks, sewers, jetties, &c.,
&c., and the nationalization of ail Industries
la very strongly urged and confidently expected.
And what bas this policy accompllsbed ?
Thirty-five yeara ago, Australia's publie
debt was $150,000,000, ln 1905 It was very
close to a billion and a haîf, to be exact It
was $1,450,732,W8.
Let us compare that wlth the position of
Great BrItain, the United -States and Canada:
Debt.

-Popul-

ation.

United Kingdom...
UJnited StateB.
Canada ..... . ...
Australia (includingl
New Ze....d....

Per
capit'.

43,317,687 3,ffli,682,455
76,0,0
989,866,772
6==0,
267,000,000

91.68
11.91
45.

4,846,202 1,450,732,85

309.66

Hou. Mr. FEB.GUSON-%1But la there flot
another aide to that? Does not Anstralla
owu the ralways, and are they not paylng
the interest on aI their first cost, and a
handsome surplus?
Hon. Mr. B:ETAOURT-1 shall deal with
that ln a moment; 'witb one-eleventh
of the population of the United Kingdom,
Australia's debt per bead is more than ttiree
tlines as large as that ,of the United Kingdomn. Australia has about one-twentieth of
the population of the United States, and its
debt per Ùead Is twenty-four times largýLr
than that of the United States.
Canada witb over one-fifth -more ln population bas a debt per head which is seven
times smalier tijan that 0f Australasia. But
1 ohahl be told ttiat Australla owns large
and remunerative public works ! Well, let
us see! Statesman's year-book for 1906,
shows that the w'hole debt bears a mean
rate of Interest of 3-57 per cent. The net
returus of all these public works amount to
3-34 per cent of their coat of construction,
and to 2-49 per cent 0f the existing public

MARCII 25, 1908

)

attempted a great deal of the Russian and
Australian programmes Lu Great Britain,
and the hope la entertalned by its disciples
l±iat the whole of liiese methods wlll at no
distant date be adoçted, If flot actually extended. It la a fact that Brltlih municipal
authorities are cunsluntly applylng for tlie
power to manufacture steam englues, dynamos, gas and electric fittings and paving
materials, and to provide hotels, culd storage, bathsand concert rooma and ta supply
milk, Ice, &c. Municipal telephones have
been munlcipally erected aud municlpally
operated and most of them have been
Municipal lire luingloriously burled.
surance bas been estabiished, and the
extension ut a generai and most compreheusive systemn of lire insurance la
urgently advocated; and are also advocated
mu'nicipal banks, municipal prlutlng bouses,
municipal bakeries, municipal stores, muniSummiug up the financlal history ut West cipal work shops, dalry farms, coal atboves,
Australia, the same journal says :
collieries, municipal clotblug factories, &c.
The State has had a royal time for about
Has this municipal trading, a lt la called
sixteen years, and that time shows signs of
not lastiug £orever. Iu 1891 Westraiia owed lu the British laies, justified the argumeilt
Only £80%pZ head ot a very small population; made agalnat the systemn to whlch I arn
Dow it ows£67 per head or a much larger
ane. There have been sume years when the now addressing myselt, namely: Has It
amount borrowed equslled the amount raisedl tended to destroy ludividual effort and iuljy all forme of taxation. There were one or peded substantiel progress ?
tva gorgeous years when the. amount borrawed, if il had been divided eqalaonth
Let me auswer by quoting the opinion of
population, would have enab ed everybody to an eminent electrical engineer, as to an
live in a humble but honest laahion without
doing any work at ail. Iu a handful ot years ackuowledged tact With refereuce to that
Westralia exhausted most of it8 boroeowing one brauch lu which Industrial activlty has
powers' aud dt has now ta go very slow iu the
mnatter of bcans. The railwe.ya in 1896, at thse accompllshed su mucb lu the last tweuty
sum mitaof the boom, were alleged te yield 11J years, I mean electrlclty, and I have chuper cent profit-largely through chargiug reIt stands ont prep airsat lo ans; li was duwn te 4j per cent sen tus bran ch because
vy1899 sud is uow only "bout Si per cent. emineutly as the une lu whlch ludividual
Westralia learned e0 thoroughly how te have effort bas been inoat productive and most
%good trne that iu 1898 it had a reveuue o!
£17 per inhabdtaut. and spent uearly £20. effective. Mr. Fleming, a noted British
Other States oould live on a revenue ot £6 or electrical engineer expresses blmself as f ol£8 per head, sud even scratch ont a surplus;- 1ows:
W estralia had got inte such au imperial. trame
of mind that il spent a revenue of £17 sud
Nineteenth Century, Feby., 1901.
had aver £500.00 deficit on tep thereot. 0f
In reviewing the natiouality of those who
course this incredibie revenue oouldu't lait;
the gold is fading, the loans are fading, the have thus helped te make tihe electric current
days of siotaus eating sud hilarious -drinking the nimble servant of mankiud, it is imposand the times when uobody's accounts were sible not tu b. struck with the tact that
audited sud uearly everybody helped himself, British uaines do not prepouderate. In the.
.pure scientific research, iu the
region of deveiopment~~
are passing away.
-icrciter,~r
aI

debt.

Se It appears that the State's public

utilities lu Australla yield a returu whicb
is insufficient to psy interest not only on the
publie debt,..but even on the loans raised to
pay for these utilities, aud the peuple have
to be taxed lu consequeuce aud lu proportion.
Austraila and New Zealand levy heavy
direct taxation, sud wlth Its protectionist
tarlif collects about _$50,000,000 lu customs
duties alone. But I shahl be told that Anstralasian goveruments not lufrequenLtly are
able to announce fluancial yearly surpluses
sud I may be remiuded that lu 1906, for Instance, New South Wales declared a surplus
uf nearly five millions. The Sydney 'Bulletin,' Auguat 30, 1906, tells us of the very
simple metbod adopted ln order to make up
this particular surplus, about tour snd a hait
mions uf dollars.

But ma
butoldwe re ot lvin ~
My answer ls
Russia, nor lu Australla.
that the Rdvocates of public owuersbip sud
uperation of public utilities are urgiug the
adoption by aur national goverument of moat
of the Rtussian policy or ut least that of Ansf urtiier aùswer la
trahia lu this matter. M.%y
a
led
alnst 'Fabanis'bamicrad
that the pollcy ofu

as unquestiouably held her own with the.
world. Iu detailed improvemeuts or adaptalions we have not been backward, but if
Lord Kelvin lu
w. except the inventions of telegraphy, Mr.
counection with submarine
Swan lu electric iightiug, sud the contribulion which the. late Potressor D. E. Hughes
made te telephony dby the invention of the
it is difficult te name any first
new adaption of electrical discovery for
rate ophoe

SENATE
prscticaily useful purposes in the last thirty
years whieh has net corne to us first £rom
non-British sources. It cannot be said that
thse country which has produoed a Watt, a
Stephenson aad an Arkwright is deficient in
mechanical inventiveness, but it is impossible
te deny that thse period of time since 1870 has
not been markad by thse evolution of distinctly novel electrical inventive ideas prooeeding
from Britishs minds:
Thse writer concludes witis the words:
The matter is not eue te be lightly dismissed; the development of national inventivenees is at least as important in thse worldetruggle of nations for existence as the prservation of national physique. We are apt
to consider that invention is the resait of
the spentaneous action of some heaven-born
genius whose advent we must patiently wait
for, but net artificiaUly produce. It is unquestionable, however, that education, legal enactments, and general social conditions have a
MLtupendous influence on thse development of
the originative facuity present in a nation,
and determine whether it shail be a fountain
of new ideas or become simply a purchaser
froin others of ready-made inventions.
Whilst thse United States and Canada,
tbrough individual activlty, were perfecting electric ligist, telephone and electrlc
tramways, Engiisb and German municipalities were content to purchase these perfected plantsansd systems 'readymade'
from tise American communities.
Has tisis policy of municipalisation ln
England bred corruption and dexnorallzed
thse voter? 1 could easily amid conclusively
prove tisis tisrougis thse moutis o! Lord provoats and magistrates of that city where
municipalisation bas made Its best exhibition ln the Britishis les, and througis otiser
higis officiais of otiser Scotch and English
cities where municipal tradlng bas been
carried on.
And It la said that in Glasgow public
servants make up one-sLxthi of ail tise names
on thse lista of votera. I amn opposed -te
thse poiicy of public ownersilp and operatien of public utilities, because, on economnic
considerations It la inherentIy unsound,
as tise resuits almoat unanimeusly show.
The term publie 'utilities whicis is given
to sucb thinga as I snentioned before,
and wbich I purposely limited to electric
ilght and power, gas, tramways, ralways,
telegrapis and telephones-is net ln fact
a proper description of these utilities. They
are net really public ln thse sense that
everybedy makes use of them, because it
la net true that thse whole public makes
use of even any one of them. Lt is true,
lion. Mr. BELCOURT.

on the contrary, that many do not use
either electric light, or electrie power, or
gas or thse tramways, or thse railways, or
the telegraphs or tbe telephones,. even among
people who resîde lu the large cities. And
it la true that oniy a few ln thse whole
community make use of ail these utilities.
In order to establlsh and maintain tisese
public utilities, It la necessary for the State
or thse municipallty to raise thse funds by
means of large loans on thse national or
municipal credit. Thse re-payment of these
loans bas to be provlded for out of thse
revenue of thse enterprises, and If thse revenue Is lnsuffIcient, as It so far almoat ln-.
variably bas been, by means of taxation.
Every one knows that taxation msust be
ratabiy and proportionately apportloned
among ail the citisens. Wbat justification
la there for taxing the whole community ln
order to provide a utiity whlch only a section of thse community la going to make use
of 7 Wbat justification la there ln sound
politicai economy for helplng a section of
the people to provide itseif, out of the public
purse, for something wblch It alone desires
or ia going to utiie for Its own beneflt
aud advantage ?
But assuming that these services constitute reai pubic utilities tise state or the
munIcipality is forbidden ýon thse beat of
economical grounds to unidertake tiseir creatien and operation uniesa ît least it can be
shown tisat tbey have proved profitable undertakings.
It being six o'clock, the -Speaker ieft thse
Chair.

Âfter Recess.
non. Mr. BELOOURT contlnued :Â brief
reference te thse record as it applies to thse
United Kiugdom as a whole, aud to a few
of the best local Instances, such as London,
Glasgow, and other places, wfll show concluaiveiy, I tink, tbat these undertaklngs
have not proved te be profitable investments.
In tbe ' FortnghitIy Revlew' 1 f August,
1906, It is stated, on the autisorlty of an
expert, that thse profIts realized by public
utîlities operated lu the United Kingdom
and consisting of waterworks, gas works,
eiectricity supplies, tramways, markets,
docks and harbours, burial grounds, bats

MAROR 25, 1908
aud wasb-houses, dweliings, bridges, canals, )ose that a method far better and cheaper
painful wouid be tbe
s
ferries, cold stores, crematories, race 1 invented, bow
Are tbey
Illemma of these authorities!
courses, estates, marine baths, concert
millions
theatres, golf links, &c., for four t o0 confess that they have wasted
rooms,
of the ratepayers' capital lu the past, or
years from 1902 to 1906, Is as follows:
Or
1 are they to reconstruct their works?
In 1902 there was iuvested in theSe iuider- ire they to saddle the municipalities for ail
takings $60,000,0OEL
time witb metbods and Inventions whicb
Average yearlyIncome............62000
are old-fasbioned and worn outl'
4145'000
.
Workiu epue
Now, as to London, the situation there
Payme nt ef i;trsto
witb reference to Its municipally operated
Aountstaiefodtramways eau be summed up ln a few
5,00
preciation .... .. .. .....
words.
Expenditure..........6,1,0
Tbougb It has a population neariy as
large as that of Canada, most tbickiy setNet profit...........,9,0
1905, It was
a returu of less than one-tenth of 3 per cent tled, for the year ending March,
by the Tramways departmnent of the
claimed
Yet less tban $1,000,00, as shown aboie,
London county counicil that tbe whole sysis set aside for yearly depreciation. Depre- tem wbicb cost nearly $15,000,000, realized
of water aud
ciation of plant and machinery
as an alleged profit tbe inaguificent sum of
gas works, electricity supply and tramwaysi, £7,084, after allowIng only i per cent for
should be figured as not lessa than 5 per depreciation-when at least 5 per cent
cent and on that basis we wouid bave the should have been ailowed.
The previous
foliowlng resuit:
year there had been an acknowiedged. deficit.
,Average yeariyÂnd it must be borne lu mlnd tbat by arIncome.............$85,200,000
rangement between the London county
$41,145,000
Working expenses ....
counei and the twenty-eigbt, borough counPayment of interest.. .. 21,200,000
Amount for depreciation
cils, Into which London is divided, the latet 5 POT cent on $M0.ter are saddled with one-third of tbe cost
0,250,000
000,00.... .... .. ...
92,595,000 of tbe tramways, and anotber one-third is
cbarged to the streets improvemelit departLoss..............27,39,0
go that the tramway departmeiit's
ment.
To meet this loss there is only $2,8W,,- figures, as above, are based on only one000, wbich would show a net loss of $24,- third of the actual expenditure on these
540,000.
The figures of the tramway
tramways.
Then no account is taken of the pro- departmnent, therefore, prove what a dismal
gress of Invention, of the substitution of and costiy failure la its operation of Lonnew methods whicb may at any time, es- don tramways.
pecially in the supply of electricity or gas,
Fortunately this mad course was effeclu tbe operation of electrlc tramways, ln tively checked by tbe municipal elections of
telephones, &c., render completely useles November, 1900, when tbe party of municithe plants aud machinery upon whicb a paization received a crushing defeat, tbe
large portion of this expenditure bas been London 'Times' having largely contrlbuted
In private enterprise, when in- to this resuit by a systematie and brilliant
Incurred.
render antiquated capital expendi- campaigi'.
ventions
ture, a company winds up Its affairsansd
It must be concêded that the municipal
a new systeni talces the place of the old
tramways of Glasgow are well managed,
one.
and, unlike nearly ail municipal enterprises,
To quote Mr. Balfour 'supposing a muniTbe gas
it yields R substantiai profit.
cîpality bas embarked an enormous amount
just pays its way; the electric
undertakiiig
of the ratepiiyers' money on improved tranlighiting hardly so, and the telephone lnsit, suchi as an overhead electrie system, or
dustry bas turned out to be a dismal faillet it be granted that the inunicipality may
It is quite clear
ure aud a big blunder.
have spent its money wisely at the time
nchieved by flic tramw ays
the success
on wbatever may be considered the most that
not the resuit of their municipalization.
advinced forni of electric transit-then sup- is

S ENA E
It is entirely due to the geographical situation of Glasgow, its very large and very
thickly settled population, and that lt is the
great commercial and industrial centre of
Scotland.
Glasgow, with its suburbs, lias a populatlon exceeding 1,100,000, and la surrounded
by a large number pf populous Industrial
Over one-haîf of
and agrîcultural towns.
the population of Scotland can reacli GlasThe success of the
gow withln an hour.
municipal tramways la Glasgow, whlch la
due to the exceptional circumastances just
referred ta, is the one ray of hope and encouragement ln the otherwise very dark
sky of municipal trading ail over the world,
and tbough It stands out alone as a success
among the other municipal undertakings of
the great Scotch city, It bas been used and
abused as an argument for municipalization elsewhere under vastly different conditions.
Glasgow's last municipal electlons have
shown concluslvely that a majority of the
electors consîder that the pollcy of municipalization has been carrled quite far
enough, If indeed not too far.
Because, assumlng that la Glasgow or
perhaps elsewhere la Europe, state or municipal trading may ln certain very rare Instances have proved to be successful, under
exceptional circumetances and ,extraordinary favourable conditions, It does flot follow that the operation by our national or
municipal authorlty, except in very rare
cases, would also prove practîcal, beneficlal
or successful ln Canada.
If ln old and well settled communitles
such as those to be found In the British
Isles, havlng a thickly settled population
enjoylng the improvements and betterments of an advanced civîlization, and
great commercial, Industrial and sclentiflc
development, ta say nothing for their well
known progressiveness, their great commercial abllity and their eminently practical conception of miodern 11f e, with their
and practicai
capacity for organization
statesmansliip, municipal trading, as It is
there called, has been generally unsuccessfu and In many cases woefully so, is it not
manif est that such a palicy would prove to
Assuming
be a dismal failure in Canada?
that we have the same capacity as that 0f
aur co-citizens of the motherland, are ilot
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT.

ail other conditiolis entireiy different? Let
me refer only to a few:
London alone withln Its area of about
75,000 acres lias over 6,000,000 people, ivhilst
ai Canada with Its area of over 3,600,000
square miles bas a population of about equal
to that of London. Qnly one-quarter of
Canada's area la occupied.
Cannda's proportion of population Is 1.5
ta square mile.
Australla's proportion of population is 1
to square mlle.
United States' proportion of population is
21- to square mile.
England's proportion of population Is 55S'
to square mlle.
Canada Is 3,500 miles by 1,400 miles in
ares. If Canada were as tbickly populated
as the British lsles, it would have over one
billion people. Three-fourths of Canada's
area Is awaltlng to be filled up, settled and
provlded with the many requirements of
modern prosperous civilized lfe, and what a
task that Implies ! We have our raiiways
to complete, and new ones to build, our
waterways to perfect, and new ones ta
create, roads and hlghways ta open up or
to Improve, agrîcultural, dairying and other
Industries of ail kinds to assist, establlsh or
dei-elop, the products of the mines, the forest
and the fisheries over this vast area to take
ont, manufacture and market. WNe have to
provide Improvements to navigation an~d
shipping; trade ana commerce to extend,
financial Institutions to promote, organize or
expand.
We have to asast present educational,
scientlfic and philanthropic institutions, and
to provide additional facilities to ail of them.
We must asslmilate and acclimatlze the
large number of foreiguers who are now
comlng to us, and who wUll ln greater numbers stili land on our shores to I up and
culonize the unoccupled lands. We have to
propagate harmony, good feeling and unity
among the oid ana the new elements especially of our population. A broad, virile and
sound national sentiment is to be created
and fostered.
In this vast programme, ln this tremendoua task, Is there not enough and more for
the full exercise of ail energies and activities, the good will, -the devotion, the ambition and the patriotism of governinelit, nationai, provincial or municipal, and of the

MARCU 25, 1908
Individual, each withln their legitimate
scope and natural sphere? The burden of
government la nowhere la the world heavier
and Its task more difficult than it le ln Canada to-day, and it must continue to be so
for a very long time. What justification,
what excuse, what reason would there be
for any Increase ta that burden? What reason la there for taking fram the individual
the doing of that which he can with profit
to himseif and advantage to the community
accomplish, to band It over to already overburdened public functionarles and representatives whose whole time, energy and
attention are required for the performance
of their public trust? What justification
would there be for diverting the attention
and energies of tbese public functionarles
fram the performance of duties, which they
alone can perfarra, to objecta which the
Individual can discharge as well ?
None, I submit, unies. it is tai incrense to,
a dangejus extent the activities of government and as a connequene the Immediate power of governmeat and i Indirect
influence. None, unies. it i. desired to erect
an ail pervading and omnipotent bureaucracy, to multlply to a very dangerous degree the already unbearable burden and
nuisance of palitical patronage. None, unless it la deslred to revert back to the conditions which prevalled durlng the middle
ages, to stifle ladividual effort, the spirit of
enterprise, to destroy the rewards due ta
individual energy and ambition-in a word,
ta go back to serfdom.
This language may appear ta some exaggerated. I shall endeavour ta prove that It
is nat by dealiag wlth one of the subjects
included, ln the minimum programme of the
advacates of nationalization in Canada, that
of the railways.
Canada ha. over 22,000 miles af railways,
wbose capital investment is about $1,200,000,000, whose net earnings are about 3i
per cent and which give employment dlrectly
and indlrectly ta at least 300,000. Besides
the business of carriers and shippers, the
railways are -engaged ln the business of
realty (ta dispose of the areas granted to
them. as subsidies), ln irrigation work, ln
operatlng hotels, steamboats and ocean vessels, telegraplis and telephones, in the manufacture of cars, locomotives, rails, ties, lumber, paints, oua nand ather materials.

64-1

What would natlonalizatlon of Canadian
rallways mean ? It wauld mean, among
other things, that the federal gov'ernment
would become the comman carrier of its peopie, bath on land, lake, river and ocean.
That it would aperate, 'run,' to use the
vernacular, hotels, and engage ln the manufacture of the varions articles I have just
mentloned, and na doubt ln many others
froma tixue ta time, such as clothlng, boots,
&c., and the erectian of dwelllngs for Its
legions of mecbanics and Iabourers--all
things whlch can as well and as emlclently,
indeed much better, be done by private en-e
terprise. It would mean that tbe goverument'a attention would be diverted from its
legitimate field so as ta encroach upon the
legitimate activities of the Individual.
The acquisition of the railways, which
natlonallzation would entail, to say nothing
of the telegrapbs and telephones and exclusive of the steamship companies operated
by the raiiways, would Increase the national
debt five or six times at least, s0 that the
debt per capita Instead of being $45 per
head would be at least $300.
Nationalization of railways, te-legraphs and
telephones alane would probably add 400,000
employees of one klnd or another ta the public service of Canada, who,.with those at
present so employed, would farm a huge
bureaucracy numberiag nearly one-tenth of
the whale population and possesslng almost
one-haîf of the total national voting power,
a bureaucracy with ramifications from end
ta end of the cauntry, and which could easily
be mobllized Into a salid coalition ta effectively direct and contrai the whole gaveramental function.
Naturalization and munlcipallzation of
public utilities ln Canada would plit a
severe check upon that Individual energy and ambition which have given the
country s0 many of Its necessary and
prosperous undertakings, and which have
been and must continue ta be for a
very long time essential ta lis development
and is progress ln every branch of human
actlvity. If the policy of IndivlduaIism, as
oppose ta collectivierm, bas enabled the
British empire ta be what it Is, If It bas
wronght the iirvellous progress, prosperlty
and strength of the'United States, how
much more Is it necessary ta Canada, wlhere
s0 many things remain ta be done and whilh
no gýovernment could bave undertaken in

SIENATE
thie fpast and .which niust In the present and
ln the future be Jef t to private enterprise.
Nationalization or munielpalization of tbe
general utilities would tend to make o! us
a nation of 'state-made'1 or ' municipal-ïnade
men' Instead of a nation 'where every man
la or cau be a 'self-made man.' Nationalisation and municipali7ation would intensify
the disposition of so many to ahlrk the
duties and obligations of citizensbip and
greatiy lu-crease the temptations and opportunIties for jobbery and corruption.
Two years ago Mr. Dalrymple, the managlng expert of Glasgow's railways, was lnvlted. by the Municipal Ownersblp League
of New York and the then Mayor of Chicago
to belp tbe cause of municîpallzatlon; lie
delivered blmself of two opinions, one shortiy after he landed on American soul and
the otber upon leaving America.
-Mr. Daîrymple la the man who, more than
any one else bas contributed to make of tbe
Glasgow tramways thie success whlcb undoubtediy tbey have proven to be. He ln
a strong advocate In Sectlsxid o! municipalization. On Iandlng In New York, be was
intervlewed by representatives of the newspapers, and I bave here an expression of
bis opinion, reprinted lu tbe 'North Americaim
Revlew' 0f 1906:
I see, no reason why Chicago, or any other
city of this country should not be able te own
its street railways, and to run them, with as
mucli success as we have achieved at Glasgow.
I admit that the proposition at Chicago in a
much larger one than the one we had to tackle
but at the bottom it is the saine.
The pope of Glasgow would not go back to
the old days of private ownership for anything in the worlà. I am not saying that a
company would not do as well by the public.
I know, in fact, that it could, but it would be
doing so with a somewhat; different end in
view. For the company lias always the shareholders to consider. And I have to admit
that you will find people in Glasgow to-dayquite influential people, too--who say that the
street car service is not profitable.
Noiw, Mr. Daîrymple went to Cbicago, and
aise spent quite a time going over the varlous cities 0f the American union. Hemza'ie
a very extensive and exhaustive study of
municipalizatlon, se far as Chicago was concerned, and sbortly before returning to
Glasgow, bavlng fulfilled the mission lie
iras sent to accomplish, and having thoroughly examined into the irbole question be

city that would be simply impregnable. These
political machines are already strong enough
with their control of policemen, firemen and
other office holders.
If in addition to this, they could control the
thousands of men employed in the great public utility corporations, the political machines
would have a power that could not be overthrown. I came to this country a believer in
public ownershîp. What I bave seen here,
and I have studied the situation carefuiiy,
makes me realize that private ownership under proper conditions in far better for the
citizens of Âmerican cities.

deliberately gave this for publication:
To put street railroads, gas works, telephone
companies, &c., under municipal ownership
would crente a political machine in every large
Hon. Mýr. BELCOIJRT.

in

Now here la the matured opinion of the
gentleman wbo bas made the OucceaS of the
Glasgow tramways system wbichbhas been
beld up as the one stray silver linlng to
dark Cloud of munleipalizatlon aIl over the
world.
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-Have not ail
the municipal enterprises of Glasgow been
sîîccessful?
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Tbe tramways
have undoubtediy been succesaful; but tbe
telephones of Glasgow bave proved a decided failure.
Hon. Mr. blcSWEENEY-Wbat about the
electric ligbtlng?
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-They bave been
only -partially successful.
Glasgow bas a
population of over a million. 'The City is
suvrounded by a large number of smali
municipalities In wbich reside, witbin an
bour's ride of the City, one-baîf of the total
population of Scotiand.
Hon. Mr. McSWEDENEY-Tbey bave bulit
houses there toïo for the poor people.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Tbey bave. I ar
givtng you tbe view o! a gentleman who
knows ail about It, the vlew of the gentleman wbo bas, more tban any one else, contributed towards any success whlcb bas
been achieved by municipal ownersbip In
Glasgow.
Hon. Mr. COMEAU-Did be give the difference in the conditions betweeu Glasgow

and Chicago?
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I do net know
whether lie went further tDan the quotation
wbich I have read.

of

The view which I take of the policy
public operation of public utilities
Canada

does

not

make

it

neces-

sary for me to assert that in no instance.
and under no condition could it be suc-

MAIRCH 25, 1908
cessfuily and profltably adopted. On thet icial and is, in fact, ln many cases, necesof the Sovereigu Bank
contrary, I amn quite free to admit thlat in s.nry. Tbe case
and striking example of
conimunities, especlally favoured aLfords a recent
certain
his.
by nature, or by local conditions, certain t
Preedom of labour is sure to give,
of these utilities migbt be operated by the
-Ise to coalition of labour. Like capital,
provincial or municipal autborlty wlth, per- 1
by wbich sucb coalition
haps, greater advantage and profit to thei tiiere i.s no means
eau be prevented. And it le quite clear
people than by private corporation. It ls,
that there is no good reason oppoeed
for Instance, quite possible that the distri- to me
to coalition of labour.
bution ,of powver ln the nleigbbourbood of
An eminent Frencb statesman and ecothat vast store of energy wihich Niagara
aifords may be beet and more profitably nomist, Mr. Ollivier, expressed this conmanaged by the provincial government tban slusion s0 aptly tbat 1 feel compelled to
by individuals or private corporations. But give a translation of bis conclusion on the
we must flot forget that we have only one subject:
Ie it conceivable that the meane to concert
Niagara and the bomely saying as well,
another upon the question of wages,
that 1it takes more than one swallow to with one to say upon the question that they
that ie
make a summer.' Nor arn I compelled to nay know best, be denied to those, who by
Ignore, must less to deny that Individual- 'rirtue of the force of their numbere and the
weight of their suffrages, exert a considerable
Ism like other things buman, bas Its Im- influence _upon the conduct of publie aff airperfections, wbich I bave no desire to min- and who by their wisdom or their folly. their
any more than I wisb to deny Its moderation or their violence, contribute to
lile,
mnakç our destiny sucoessful or unsuccessful.
lnberent dangers. It facilltates the creaPreedom of capital la not opposed to
tion of trusts or monopoilce, thougb it canfreedom of labour or vice versa. The lnnot be sald trutbfully that so far we have
liadt much to suifer In Canada on that ac- terets of botb con be mnade barmonlous.
Both capital and labour sbould co-operate.
count.
Both require supervision, regulation and
But I venture to assert tbat State monocontrol. And It ls the legItimate and napolies offer much more serions danger to
tural function of governmeflt, botb national
the nation and to the people; to the weland enforce the negovernment and local, to exercise
fare of both and to responsible
cessary corrective to abuses of the one or
than do corporate or prîvate monopolies.
the other or both. Just as it le the legitiState monopolies once establisbed, are apt
and natural function of the public
to bo the most tyrannîcal of ail and most mate
autborities to extend reasonable and prodiMeiult to destroy, as ail bletory shows.
per protection to botb capital and labour.
Corporate monopolies cau be controlled
Such bas been the policy of the sucand regulated.
cessive and more especialiy of recent
And it Is ln regulation and control tbat goveraments of the <3anadian confederalies the solution of Uic whole problem. I tion. Time will not permit of showsubmit with confidence that the only policy ing the varIons ways In wbicb this policy
consistent witb Uic Interests and the bas been given effect to. Let me mention,
genlus, the temperament and thc aspirations for tbe purpose of Illustration only, some
In more
of the Canadian people may be summed of thc ways ln 'wbicb parliament
recent years, has aiforded protection to,
up tus
enforced regulaPrivate exploitation of public utilities and at the same time has
with goverament control and regulation, tion of labour. By abolishing the sweatlng
made a etep in ndvance
or, In other words : freedom o! capital and systeme, we have
where the system
o! labour; botb eubject to control, of the mother country,
freedom
stili flourlebes. By tbe creation and mainand regulation. Freedom of capital will
of Labour. By
no doubt produce concentration of capital. tenance of a Department
adopting sud enforclng the provisions of the
There la no menas by wblcb concentration
Disputes Act, and the Inof capital, big or smali, cian be prevented. Railway Labour
dustrial Disputes Investigation Act, it has
And It must be apparent to every one that,
and regulate differences
in many cases, sucb coalition can be bene- tended to control

SENATE
between labour and capital. Also by creating the Rallway Commission, probably the
rnost Important tribunal lu Canada to-day,
a tribuaal which I think, has the largest
power outslde of parliament of any court
that I know of lu the wîde world.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-There was one ln
the United States before ours.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-The Iuterstate
Commerce Commission, but their powers are
nothlng compared with the powers of our
Rallway Commission, and that is due largely to the distribution of powers lu thxe
.nelghbouring country, wbere the States are
soverelgu and the federal goverumeut has
only those powers delegated by the states.
Â tribunal sucb as the Canadian Railway
Commission Is constitutionally Impossible
ln the United States, and one bas only to
follow the trend of discussion lu tbe neighbourlng country to see how much It Is desired there and how gladly they would
welcome- the creation of sucb a tribunal as
ours.
Hou. Mr. SULLIVAN-They adjudicate
the saine subjects as ours.

initiative and activity, tempered by wise and
Our. govvigilant regulation and control.
erumental Institutions, both -national and
local, provide or cau, if they are not as yet
sufficlent for that purpose, be made to
ainply provide the means for affordlng and
effectuatlng both.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-I happened te
corne luto the chamber when the h-on. senator fromn Ottawa made seime reference to
Australla. 1 have kept myseif ln very close
touch with affairs Iu that country, and la
New Zealand aise. I ouglit to have an lnterest lu New Zenland, because I have three
of my brothers burled lu the northern Island, lu Auckland. -However, about Anstraia, eince Mr. Tait was sent out to take
charge of the rallways lu that country-the
railways, as hon, gentlemen know are al
goverument ralways, and telephone and
telegraph Unes also-bhe dlscharged qulte a
number of unniecessary employees-men
were of no benefit to the work, and he put
it under a new system, and since that lime
the railways lu Australla bave become a
source of revenue to Vie Com.monwealthi. la
New Zealand, government rallways have
paid, and are paying now three and a half
per cent on the total expendlture of the
work, and they are encouraglng lower rates
ln order to get the produce, wblch Is, perhaps, one hundred miles froin thxe shipplng
port, produce to be exported to London or
Liverpool, at cheap rates. You can bave
a message sent lu New Zealand a thousand
miles for ten pence by the governint une,'
and everylblng Is worklng very smoothly. I
do not know -that there is any place lu the
world that is so well governed at the present day as is the now called comnionwealtb
I have a letter fromn a frlend
0f kustralla.
here, and It explains the operation of thse
Compulsory Act la connection wlth strikes.
* He wrltes :
* The legisînture of the present goverument
lias been favourable to the working classes. A
law was passed in 1894 to prevent industrial
strikes. Under this law ahI disputes between
employers and employees are referred to a
board oonsisting of two memabers appointed
by the Union of Workers and two appoiated
by the Union of Employers of Labour and the
chairman appointed by the goverument. If
the division is not; satisfactory, a judge of
the Supreme court with two assessors, one
appointed by the workers and one by the em-

Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Thiey have tried
to, but have failed, because they have corne
ln conflict wlth so many state laws, and
have corne into couflict with State Commissioners of the samne character. The Canadian
Rallway Commission, as we ail know, bas
under its jurlsdiction the rallways, the express companles, and the telegraphs, and lu
tbe present session the telephones will be
placed under their jurisdiction also. I do not
*wisb to delay the House any longer, but the
subject Is one on which 1 have entertained
strong views for some years, one on whichi
I have bad very few opportunities of expressing myself, and 1 thougbt that the
House mlght be pleased to bave an enthusiastlc young member of the Senate,
one who Is desirous of contributlng, la his
humble way, to Its debates, give the HousE
the benelit of bis study and Investigation,
Iu conclusion I beg te repeat that the oni3
pollcy consistent -with tbe temperament, th(
genlus, the aptitudes and the aspirations ol
the Canadian peopre, the only policy sulteÉ ployers, hear the case, and the decision of this
is final and
to Its conditions geographical, industrial boardconsequence is binding on both parties.
that we have no strikes,
The
and social is freedom of labour and the working classes are in an excellent
commercial
position.
freedom of capital, freedom of individua
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT.

MARCH 9,5, 1908
Tbey are working under the Compuisory
Act ln New Zealand, andi mucb as we praise
the present Act in Canada, we would be tui
a fiar better position if we followed the example of New Zealand. The Intercolonil
Railway is doing so mucli better since Its
extension as -far as Montreal, if It could be
extendeti to Toronto, or Into the heart of
Ontario, to bring the traffic of the west
down east, 1 amrnft so sure but that even
ln tbe hands of the governîment It would
be found to pay -better t±han it Is doing at
present.
Mon. Mr. PERLEY-Hear, bear.
Hon. Mr. McSWEENEY-I did nlot Intend
to say anytbing upon this matter, but I have
beard a number of gentlemen speak against
the publie ownership of publie
urilities.
We have ln the city of Moncton, the gas,
water andi the electrie iigbt owned by the
city, and we find that It Is a very profitable
Investment for the city. We find that for
the iast twp menths the water service shows
a profit of about $5,000 dollaýrs. The electric ligiht shows a profit of $2,000 dollars,
andi tbe gas service a s]ight loss. I understand that in Kingston a simlar resuit bas
been obtaineti.
Ttiey own tlir waterworks tbere, their ga and the electric llgbt,
anttey bave eut the price to the consumer
ln two and still bave a surplus. They have
takcen over the water and tbey own thelrgas and electrie llgbt, and I understand
frorn the hon, gentleman from Brockvlille
thiat the saine state of affairs exists there.
They get their 'water at haîf the price they
paiti before, and the electrlc light much less,
andi the gas less, anti tbey are earning a
gooti profit. Sherbrooke bas taken over the
electric light. Tbey bave just paiti $220,000
for It. Thorolti shows a profit out of their
electric ligbt. I tbink some one spoke about
govemniment ownership of raiiways on the
continent of Europe. France owus, 1 thl'nk,
about haif their railways aud will own the
whole of them ln forty years, as they Intend to take tbem over. Germany already
owns haîf of tbeir rallways, and they are
paying. SwItzerland is in the same position, aud I think If yon look ail over, not
only in this country but lu tbe <ld country,
you will finti that publie utilIties are a very
gooti lnvestment: for tbe public. Take the clty
of Glasgow, there Is net the least doubt that
the city of Glasgow, aecortiing to the memo431

randumn just reati by the bion. senator from:
Ottawa, is one of the best governed cities
ln the worlti.
Birmingbam and various
other cities laEnglanti are ln the same position. There are two sIdes to the story. r
do not tiiink that the dire rulu the hon, gentleman tiescribes will take place by the govemnimeat andi municipaities takiug bolti of
the public -utllities. I think it is in the interests of the people. You get water, ligtt
andi the essentials ln a greater quantity and
mucb cheaper, andi I certainiiy think that in
this country, so far as I know, It bas been
a public benefit where the cities have taken
over anti are ruuning their public utilities.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN--I Lave ouiy to say
a few words in moving the adjoumument of
this debate. I cannot resume my seat withOut saying bow mucb gratified we must ail
feel, and how inuch lndebted we are to
hon, gentlemen who bave gone into this
very crItical and difficuit subject witb so
mucb earnestness and so tboroughly that It
leaves notbing more to be said.* Notwlthstanding tbe fact that tbe Secretary of
States does not approve of tbe discussion
of these tidactie subjeets, we must feel
soinewbat Indebteti to the hon, gentleman
fromn Wellington for bringing Up such Important questions, no less than tbree or four
of them. It gives the young mem bers wbo
are undergoing tbeir novitiate i the -Senste, an opportunity which Is most congenial
to themselves to get an opportunity of airlug their eloquent facuities before the
House.
I arn sure the speech 0f the bon.
gentleman from Ottawa bas been most satisfactory, anti is a valuable contribution to
the debates of the Senate. 0f course there
are tbiree parties to be consitiereti ln discussisg public ownersbip: there Is the
niunicipality, the provincial goverament, and
the federal government.
Each of them has
Uts own pecullar function anti field of operation.
1 do not know If the federal government bas any rigbt to luduige in ownership of any utilities.
I think they have
iitillty enougb te mInd themselves, andi to
guard the general lutereats of tbe country.
That Is enough tu occupy their attention
fully.
1 have no doubt the proper power
to use those, or at least that formi of goverament wbich shouiti own anti operate
those public utilities, Is the municipal form
of the citles sud towns.
Wbere these are

SEINATE

rnanaged with ally degree of hionesty and
intelligence, and have the proper regard for

the welfare of their fellow-cltizens, and
especially whiere the elections to office are
hield every year, they are operated as satisfactorly as tbey could posslbly be in Glasgow or any othier part of the world, and
tue result of it is as the hon, gentleman from.
Moncton bas stated. In Kingston we had
been bothered a great deal wlth the water
service, and the city took over the waterworks. The charter whlch the company got,
f ortunately was about ended a few years
ago, and about that time it was desired by
those who thought most on thue subject to
Water
get it into the bands of the city.
la a substance whicb is essentially necesSometimes we like
sary for ahl people.
something dlluted la the water to moilifi
it, but If you knew how much your body
is coniposed of water it would astonish you,
and If a corporation provides a good water
service It does ought to make them happy
during 11f e and to send them ail to 1Heaven
Wheu we took over the
when they die.
works, we extended the supply pipe out
luto the lake, so as to be beyond uny currents where sewage inight pass, and we
now have an abundant supply of the purest
water la the world, fromi Lake Ontario.
There is no water la the world that has so
mucli the properties of pure distilled water,
It is colorless and tasteas Lake Ontario.
leas, and free from any contamination of
I have neyer seen
any kind whatever.
water of any spring or stream or any other
As
place that could surpass or equal It.
to anything else that a municipality ought
to undertake, I think they should give their
people good dlean roads and streets, and
comfortable aide walks, and ail that sort
That Is
of thing, and attend to drainage.
If they give light they
next to pure water.
we have a trInlty of subjects to deal with
which certalnly ought to satisfy every one.
The mnunicîpalization of the water service ln
Kingston resulted not only ia a better
quality of water, but consumers got it for
haîf the price, and better stiIl, they have
been able to extend the service to a poorer
class of people, because they devote any
profit they make to the extension of the
waterworks, and they have been able to
give It to a number of poor people who
otherwlse would flot have the great luxury,
1 may cali it, of a pure and plentiful supply.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN.

*Light is another niatter that is essentialiy
They
These are flot utilities.
necessary.
are necessities, and if any authority can
supply them to the people at a reasonable
The same thlng
rate, they ought to do so.
occurred wlth regard to the gas and the
Both are there, and you
electric llght.,
can have your cholce. Gas is cheaper there
than in any other part of Canada under
the saine cîrcuimstances and the samne popuraition, and these utilitles under municipal
1
ownership have been a great success.
would flot aliow any municiplhity or any
government to go beyond that. I think
that is quite sufficient, and If tbey do that
and do It weli, they need flot occupy thernThis subselves wlth Rny other becheme.
ject may flot be altogether within the purview of tbis Chamber, and thîs government.
1 ar n ot surprlsed. at the Secretary of
State getting a littie out of temper over
1 'wouid be the saine
these discussions.
way myseif, but I rose to tell the hon. gentleman from Ottawa that the Secretary of
State only does that with persons-for whom
bie has the greatest regard, and hie does it
Ia my case at times.
Hon. '.%r. SCOIT-Hear, hear.
Hon. Mr. SU LLI VAN-I bave no idea
of going lpto this subject any further. 1
amn sure we have llstened to these gentlemen in their very exhaustive speeches, and
have admired the great Industry they have
shown In preparing them. I hope hon, gentlemen 'wlll ail sleep 'well atter the disceussion we have heard, and that they wll
treasure up la their minda ail the arguments they have heard.
Hlon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I presume that
my hon. f'rIend from Kingston has moved
the adjourument of the debate, to meet the
wishes of the bon. gentleman from Wellington.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Yes.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seemed to me
It would be very desirable to wlnd Up the
debate to-nlght. I amn satisfied that the
sense of the House [s that subjects of this
kind, which are largely academic ln their
nature, wahile interestiag to the House,
should flot remain long upon the paper.

MARCil 25, 1908

Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-The subject is
one that I think bas engaged the attention
of the House, and the discussion that bas
takea place wviil be of great intereet and
will amount tu an education for the people
of tliis Dominion.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I think the debate
should be closed to-night. We have had
ample education and have received a great
amnount of Information on this question. I
cordially agree wlth the leader of the opposition. This motion bas been upon the
Order Paper for a long time, and adjourned
a great many times, and It will be bardly
fair tu dely or to thwart the goverament
mensures by permittiug It to remain on
the Order Paper amy longer. I can forgive
the lion, leader of the House If hie sbowed
auy disposition to feel annoyed or perhaps
tu reprove me for occupylng too much time
just now ln discusslng this matter.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Hear, hear.
lion. Mr. WILSON-My hon. frlend f romn
We know
Wolseley cries 'heur, hbear.'
that hie cau occupy the time of the House
with as long speeches as almost any one "
and I do not know whether they are aboundImg la wisdom to us, or wbether we can be
thorougbly set ou lire after listenlng to
tlhem.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Wbile mot wlshing to
be discourteous to the bon. gentleman ln
any way, 1 trust hie will close the debate
to-night, .if not, I shahl veuture to inove the
foliowiug amendmeut tu the motion to adjouru:
In the absence of any practicai proposition
in regard to public utilities, further discussion
of this subject during the present session is
unnecessary.
Reaily it le mot a question whlcb la
touching us nt aIl ut the present moment,
and su mnucli bas been said about It that
when we have to approacb It practlcally we
wvili have as a basis of discussion the admnirable addresses wlich have been deliI should judge thiat the Senate
vered.
would flot waut to decide uponl this question niow, because ln our varyiug mouds,
next year, we might be of a diff erent opinion, or perbaps twenty years fromn now.
Hon.

'-%I. LANDRY-I

should- ltke tu

tiï

know if we are allowed to move an amiendment to a motion to adjourn the debate.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I rise to a point
of order. The hon, gentleman fromi Kingston cannot move the adjouramnent of the
debate after having spoken.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-If 1 am ln order,
I will close the debate now with a few remarks. 1 have listened with a great deal
of pleasure to the addresses that have been
delivered upon the subjeet that I had the
honour of introducing. 1 must confess that
I was grently pleased withi the able and
eloquent address of the hon. gentleman« who
occupies the chair at the present moment
(Hon. Mr. Power), also wlth the address of
the bon. senator from Ottawa. These were
two addresses that dealt with the question
ably and weil. I listened also tu the-remarks
that dropped from the hion, gentleman fromn
Moncton. He says that Glasgow ls one of
the best governed cities la the world. No
doubt It la, and the reason why it ie, la because la Glasgow the wealthier and Intelligent classes have ever taken an active and
an earnest interest la the welfare of the
clty, and a great many of the men who
stand la the front rank of citizens, fimandiai
and otherwise, are chosen to be aldermen
of that clty because the aldermen are elected by the council, and not by the popular
vote. Another reason why, as I outiined lu.
my previous address, Glasgow has been so
very successful in Its ownership and operation of publie utlies, the council are not
in as close touch with the electors as they
are under our municipal system-at lenst
the systema ln Ontario. In Ontario we elect
our council every year, fromn the mayor
down to the lowest member of that body.
That le not the case la Glasgow. The councillors of Glasgow are elected every three
One-third retires every year, and
years.
the board of aldermen of Glasgow are elected for six years, and one-half retires every
three years. So that there is a more extended office by any person who Is elected
to the council that there is in Canada, and
they have more opportuuity to work out
t;;e generai welfare of the municipality
tina they would under our system, where
tliey are only elected for a year. 1 contend
that la the efficient and advantageous management of municipal utilities, you want to

SENATE
lilht and street rallway service. The bealth
of the people Is not dependent upon lighting
or the street rallway. 1 have no desire to
extend this debate. 1 have been greatly
pieased at the manner ln whlch it has been
conducted. There has been a lesson ln It
that I earnestly hopewll prove of advantage to the people of this country. 1
Introduced this resolution with a désire to
educate the people wlth regard to the advantages and disadvantages of municipal
ownershlp of public utilities. There are
papers ln the clty of Toronto that have taJken
this question up and have gone so far as
vlrtually to tell the people that they are
belng robbed because a great many utilities
are owned, operated and conducted by prlvate corporations. Other papers have been
rather disposed to favour municipal ownership. The people at present are studying
thls question. I tblak we have contributed
a very large amount o! good, solud, sound
information on the subject, and it Is for
the municipalities now, after reading the
facts and figures that have been submltted,
to, say whether lu view o! the experience ln
Great Britain, the United States, Germany
and France it would be wise for the citizens
of Canada to adopt the methods which have
been adopted ln other countries. They have
now an opportunlty o! decidlng Intelligently
for themselves wlth the figures and facts
before tbem, that they would flot have had
if this resolution had flot been Iutroduced
and discussed. They have more Information
now and can decide what they should do.
With these remarks, I leave the matter ln
the bands o! the House.
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Will the hon. gentleman wlthdraw the motion?
Hou. Mr. McMULLEN-No, 1 thiuk the
House should express an opinion on the subject.
Hion. Mr. BEIQUE-The hon. gentleman
lias attaiued his object, whlch was a valuputtiug
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-If the municipality able one, au expression o! opinion,
can give pure water and good drainage, why information before the country. 1 do flot
-wouid it flot be able to give cheap lighting think he should lnsIst on haviug a vote of
this House on the resolution, especlally tosud street railway service?
nlgbt.
Hou. Mr. McMULLEN- My hou. friend's
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I should like to
question is wlthout any point whatever. I join the hon. senator from De Salaberry lu
of the water supadvocate municipal coutrol
the hou. senator to withdraw the
ply and drainage, because the heaith of every asking
upon motion. I see no reason or occasion for
individual ia the community depends
dividing the House.
It, but it is not the same with regard to
Hon. Mr. MeMULIEN.

have the same board o! men to continue to
handle them from year to year, because
men get educated into the best methods and
the best ways o! handllng municipal utilities, and if the board is changed every year
under our municipal system, you are sure
to elect some men who will not so !aithfully
dlscharge the duties the coming year, as possibly the men dld the last year. It wli
take a man about a year to get educated
to know how to.handie some of those utilities. Consequently, Glasgow has an advantage we do not enjoy la this country.
Then as 1 said before, It also eujoys the advantage o! havlng men of high standing
eiected as aldermen, because they are eleeted by the municipal council, and as a rule
the very best men lu the city are chosen.
Another advantage enjoyed lu Glasgow is
this: The city is very compact. As was
stated to-night, there are about a million lnhabitants there. 0f these about 750,000
are -within the clty, but la the Immediate
district around it, It is hemmed iu wlth
other corporations that wlll not come Into
the clty. The resuit Is that instead o! Glasgow spreading out, it has had to build up.
wards lu order to find room for the people,
and ln that way the numbers carried.
by the street cars are very much larger
lu proportion to the mileage than ln
any clty ln this country or even lu the
United States. AIl these things tend to
make Glasgow a model clty as f ar as municipalizatio n o! street car service Is concerned.
Wltb regard to some public utilities, 1 f rankiy admit they should be under municipal
management, especialiy water supply and
drainage. Pure -water is au absolute necessity for the health of the people and should
be uder municipal coutrol, even though the
charges for the service were excessive. The
same remark applies to drainage. We canflot afford to leave elther the water suppiy
or drainage to private enterprise.

MAROR 25, 1908

679

Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-I arn willing to are killed othier,%wkie than througb the negliwlthdraw the motion, If It Is the desire of gence of the owner, the Crown shali be
liable. Then, In reference to fires arlslng
the House.
f rom railways, the government wll be hiable
The motion was withdrawn.
except it eau be shown that they have adoptNORTHERN EXTENSION 0F MANI- ed th1e most modern apphiances In the way
of screens for preventlng sparks escaplng.
TOBA, ONTARIO AND QUEBEC.
They wll be lhable up to the amount of
MOTION WITHDRÂWN.
$5,000, and lu case of a judgment being reudered agalnst them, the $5,0O0 la to be disThe Order of the Day being called.
It
the parties lnjured.
the mo- tributed amongst
Reauming the suspended debate on
Landry, that in the opin- la a concession made by tbe governament
tion of the Hon. Mr.
ion of the Senate the limita of Manitoba, On- rallway to the people. There ls aiso a clause
tario and Quebec should be extended to the requlrlng the government to keep tbe land
north s0 that each of those provinces ha
bounded north by at least the sixtieth degree -wlthln the rallwey lunes properiy oleared
of latitude.-Hon. Mr. Landry.
and f ree f rom weeds, so that the tendency to
fire will be less.
Mr. LANDRY-I beg leave to wlthHon.
The motion was agraed to, and the Bill
draw this motion.
xçwas read the second time.
The motion was withdrawfl.
IRRIGATION ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
IN COMMITTEE.
The House resolved ltself into a Coinniittee of the Whole on Bill (99) an Act t)
amend the Irrigation Act.
(In the Committee.)
lIon. Mr. SCOTT-The changes in the
Irrigation law are such as are called for by
the experlence of th1e last twelve years. Tha
first Act was passed In 1894 and bas been
nmended only once since thet time. Other
The
changes have been found necessary.
principal changes are, glving power to the
mniucipailes, to de2d wlth comipanles wbere
they are crosBlng hlgbways, and It provides
machinery, If the water company and the
muulclpality cannot agree, for an appeal to
the Board of Railway Commlssloners. That
really Is thie most important provision ln
the Bill.
,Hon. Mr. McKAY (Alma)-Fromi the committee reported thie Bill without amendment.
GOVERNMENT RAILWAYS ACT
AMENDMENT BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readIng of Bill (27) An Act to amend the Governinent Rilways Act. He sald: The ohject of this Bill is to brlng the law I reference to accidents on the Intercolonial Railway more into harmony wlth the general
law, prevaling, and affectlng ether rallways.
The first clause provides th-at where animais

SECOND READINGS.
Bill (7) An Act to Incorporate the North
Empire Fire Insurance Cornpany.-<Hon.
Mr. Young.)
Bill (35) An Act to Incorporate the Tiravellers' Lufe Assurance Company of Canada.(Hon. Mr. David.)
Bill (56) An Act to lucorporate the Bank
of Hamilton Pension Fuind.-(Hlon. Mr.
McMullen.)
Bill (62) An Act respectlng the Suboldiary
Hlgh Court of the Anchent Oirder of Foresters In the Dominion of Canada.--(Hon. Mr.
McHugh.)
Bill (82) An Act respectlng the Niagara,
St. Catharines and Toronto Rallway Com.puny.-(4Hon. Mr. Kerr.)
NORTHERN BANK AND CROWN BANK
0F CANADA BILL.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG, ini the absence of Hon.
Mr. Ross (Middlesex), mnoved the, second
i endlng of Bihl (GG) An Act respectlng the
Northeru Bank and the Crown Banki of
Canafda. Ha sald:- There is some urgency
fn.' he pnsslng of this Bill, and I therefore ir.cve that rule 119 be suspended 4n
order that It may go as soon as possible
to the Committee on Baukiug and Commerce.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Will it go to the
Committee on Banklng and Commerce tomorrow ?

SENATE

680

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Uhere Is a bure possibllity that It wlll be reacbed. It bas
been represented to me that ail the arrangements bave been made, aud tbe parties are only awaiting the passage of this
Bill for the two banks to ba amalgamated.
The Bill orlglnated lu tbe Senate, and It Is
ndvlsable that- It be passed here and sent
to the Commons as soon as possible.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not see wby
we should set our raies aside because a
Bill originates here. 1. thought It was an
advautage for a Bill to origluate bere.
Wbere la tbe advantage ?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Tbere bas been an
extraordlnary delay on account of extra
advertlsing whlch bad to be done by the
prornoters, of the Bill through no fault of
theirs. As I understand, tbey advertised
ouly a portion o! their agreement of tbe
amalgamation and tbe Finance Department
exacted that tbey sbouîd advertise the
*whole of the clauses tbey proposed te, legalize, s0 tbat they sbould give notice to
the shureholders. Consequently, there has
been longer notice than usual, but mnasmuch as ail the shareholdera bave sanetloned thib agreement, sud no lnjury can
arise, and the Bill bas to pass througb the
House of Commons before It eau be sanctloned, I arn urglug the suspension of the
rul.
Mon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose the hon.
gentleman, ln future cases, migbt give notice n day before moving.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-I bad not charge of
the Bill, aud dld not pay any attention to
it; otherwise I shouhd have done that.
The motion was agreed to.
GEORGIAN BAY CANAL.
The Order of the Day being called:
Resuming the adjourned debate on the motiou of the Honourable Mr. Casgrain, That
hoe will caîl the attention of the Sonate to the
importance te Canada of the early construction of the Georgian bay canial, and wifl inquiro of the goverument if the report of the
eurvoy made of that waterway will be laid
before the Senate duriag the present session?<Hon. Mr. Bernier.)
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-Comiug frim the
west as 1 do, 1 desire to place myseif on
record as a supporter of the resolution lnHon. Mr. LANDRY.

troduced by the bon. senator from De Lanaudière. 1 do so, wlth ail due deference
to the views expressed by the hon. gentleman from Kingston, and also wlth much
regret that a great deal of what be said
wbiie maklng bis speech 'was lu favour of
the Welland canal and the city of New
York. There la no conflictlng interest between these two works and I arn sorry
to see tbat It Io intended somewbere to
ralse rlvalry between these two, waterways.
For the western people, the construction
of the Georgian Bay canal is of prlmary
importance. It Is agreed ou ail parts that
e'-en nt present, there is ait immensç amount
of produets comiug from the plains. Two
years ago tbere was a congestion of traffic.
Observers have then seen the sacks of
wheat piled up around the stations, aud
about the western towns and villages wltb
no buildings ln whlch to store tbem, Ilable
to moisture and deterioration. Wbat wil
it be lu 5 or 10 years from now, wheu the
production lu ail lkellood wlll bave doubled If not tripled? What will It be, when
lastead of 100,000,000 bushels of grain, we
shaîl have to export 200 millions or perbaps
300 millions of buabiels7
It is true the Canadlan Pacific wIll double their tracks, but please notice tbey will
double oniy a part of their tracks, uamely:
from Winnipeg to Port Arthur, leavlng the
remalning part as It le to-day.
It la true also that we shall bave otberl
railways, at lest ' two others, viz.: the
Canadian Northeru and the Grand Tru.nk
Pacifie. But any one knowing sometblng
about tbe west and about transportation,
realises that these railways wiII be insufficint, well equipped as they might be.
Lt is very otten urged both witbin and
without parliament, tbat this immense trade
belongs to Canada sud should not be dlvertWeil aud
ed tbrough any other country.
We agree to that proposition. The
good.
west, bon. gentlemen, is as Canadian as
We feel
any other part of the Dominion.
like you about sendlng our trade by Canadiau channels. But, hon, gentlemen, rlht
bere tbere Is a question of ways and means.
To be able to send our products tbroughb
(_aiiadian chaunels, we must first bave such
channelis. Otherwise trade will take some
Wbien it cornes to financial
other course.
or commercial inatters, there is nio senti-

MARCH 25. 1908

mientaiisrn about it.
Trade is lhable to
take the best course that is avai'aole aud
the cheapest.
Hence Canada must provide proper transportation faclUties from the west to the
east. If it does not, trade will ta.ie soine
,ither direction to the loss of Canadian Interests.
Otlier transportation facilities are
ti7cre, comiag from the south and eager to
get Our exports.
And If once our trade
la di vcrted and gets used to a certain direction, it w'ihl be exceedingly difficult to
brlng it back.
Then It becomes a matter
of the greatest Importance that wc should
preveat such a drawback by constructing
ourselves chinnels through whicb our trade
coulci be carried ou.
It Is said that the construction of that
waterwny will take seven or elght years,
and inay bc, ten yenr".
Well, by that time,
our protection will be more than double of
what it Is to-day.
It is not too soan
then to begfia the work.
In the oralnary
course of events, our country wiil then be
ready ta supply that route wlth ail the
freiglit that It can carry, before It la completed.
-a to the financial advantage of
bnving- this waterway for the farmers and
trade generally, It la &0 longer a debatable
question; railways cannot offer transportation for as low a rate as the water routes.
I do not need ta go Into that aspect of the
question.
There wlll be fia competition
between the two.
Railway experts, sucb
as Sir William Van Horne, bave given
their opinion as ta tbat. Sir William Van
Horne went s0 far, once, as to say that the
construction of the Georgian Bay canail
wouid be welcame by the Canadian Pacific
Railway, and would flot consider It as a
competitor.
As ta the teclinical part.0f
this question, I arn not concerned. Firat of
nll I arn not an expert la snch matters,
and secondly, the feasibility of sucli a route
lias been fuliy denionstrated by the previaus
speakers la this House.
Moreaver, I had
myseif the lionour of belag a member of a
cotamittee of the Senate of eight or fine
years ago, whea an Investigation was made
la connection wlth this proposed work.
The Investigation lasted du ring many aittlngs, and when It was over, there was fia
one wlio was not convinced of the feaalbility
and practicability of the canal.
True, we must be prudent. The country
la- already engaged la constructing many

heavy works. But as a set-off for the expenses Canada wili have ta make, there
will be the undoubted development in Industrous undertakiaga, in mlning lndustry,
ir, water-power iadustry, ln wealth of ail
klnds that ls ta take place as a consequence
of the builng of the proposed canal. It
will benefit the whole country. Tihat brings
me ta anather aspect of the work. There
It will go
is fia sectionallsrn about it.
tbrough the two greatest provinces of the
Dominion; besides It will be a llnk between
the east anfd the west, and thereby the national life will receive n further impetus and
will be streugthened; we could not estimate
too hlghly such a resuit.
* Let me ndd, tInt there shauld exiat no
sudh rivalry as between the varions provinces of this Dominion. Sncb a rlvalry
la not a saund policy with which ta gavera
Canada. There shauld be a greater solidarity among us ail.
The constructing of this canal should be
a goverament wark. Apart from ail other
reasans that might le given in support of
tînt proposition, there la one whicb, ta My
mind, la a paramount one. Thet waterway is
destined ta be one of aur most important
military rautes. We bave as ta tbat the
evidence givea by a former commander of
aur Canadian troopa, General Gascoigne.
This alane should Induce aur gaverument ta
undertake tuis grent work as n work Of
their own.
In conclusion, I would insist an tbe work
beiug commenced nt na distant day.
Ia connection with that 1 must express
my regret that the governmefit has not yet
put before *parllameat the final report of the
commission that was inteiy appointed ta explore tbe route. We were promiaed that repart last yenr and it las not yet been tabled.
It ls very unfartunate. Let us hope tbat
we shall have that complete repart at an
early day. In the meantime perbapa It
might be proper ta appoint another speclal
committee so that the subject miglit be gone
into mare fully and differences of opinion
well coasidered, so ns ta fiaally bring parliament ta a definite action, wbich I bave fia
doubt would be for the general pragreas and
welfare of Canada as a whole.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (H.ilifdx)-There are twe
pramiueat schemes before the Hanse. One
la Hudson Bay, Fort Churchili wharfs,

SENATE
electric lights, building steamers, and everything o! that klnd. 1 have no sympathy
with that scherne frorn the flrst to last, and
I doubt very much if It will ever prove to
be a successful experiment.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-The hon. gentleman Is rlght.

more of $100,000 than we do now of millions, and the country can afford the expenditure of millions of money now better
than they could the expenditure of $100,000
in the early days when I was a member of
the other House. 1 wish to express my
opinion that I arn much more ln favour of
the Georgilan Bay canal scheme than the
Hudson Bay scheme. The hon. gentleman
f rom Wolesley almost appears to flnd fault
with Providence that he did not place the
Hudson Bay further south, so that it would
be f reer from Ice, but Providence, perhaps,
was wiser in the dispensation of the order
of things than the hon. gentleman from,
Wolesley.
Hon. Mr. WOOD-I move th-at the debate
be adJourned.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-I was going to
eall attention, whlle hon. gentlemen have
been spealdng of the great things In the
western part of the country, that we have
a place nt St. John, a winter port, a terminus, and I should like to give some of the
reasons wbhy that port should be bult up;
but sorne other lime will do.
The motion was agreed to.

Hon. Mr. ROSS--I arn In favour of the
Georgian Bay canal, and will do anything
In my power as a'single member of the
Senate to support that scheme. Anything
that would tend to bring the large and the
gro,%ing volume of produce of the west by
the cbeapest route to Montreal, must be a
benefit to the who]e country. It means the
growth of Montreal In its population. I
differ sligbtly from my hon. friend, the
senior member for Halifax, la supposing
that there Is no advantage ln this scheme
to the lower provinces. The cheapest route
frorn the west to Montreal and Quebec will
also be advantageous to the lower provinces,
and as the population of the west Increases,
the population of the City o! Montreal will
be proportioniitely increasing, and the advantage then would be that we wouid
send our fish up to the different markets,
SUPREME COURT- ACT ANIEND'MENT
and perhaps it would not injure the people
BILL.
with aIl their great and brlght.
0f the west,
FIEST READING.
the
Ideas, to get sorne of the flsh from.
A message was receîved froin the House
maritime provinces.
or Commons with Bill (121) An Act to amend
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-It would give them, the Supreme Court Act.
more brains.
The Bill was rend the fIrst time.
Hon. Mr. ROSS-I foilowed the speech of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill be
the hon. senator f rom. Kingston very close- read the second time on Friday next.
ly, and fearing that I did not understand It
He sald: This is a Bill amending the
properly, ktoolt the trouble to rend It after- Suprerne Court Act In only one particular.
wards, and the conclusion I came to wns Lt classifies the appeals to that court sornethat he wns throwing cold water on this what differently from the mode In which
scheme, and he put me in mind of a pro- they were clesslfied before. OrIginally, In
position like this: SupPosing that a Man the Act tbere were only three classes, the
went to my hon. friend for consultation ; he maritime provinces, Quebec and Ontario.
did not know what was the matter with According to this measure, tliere are five
the man, and he would wait future devel- classes.
Election appeals take precedence
oprnents, and perhaps In the course of time over alI other appeals:
Thien corne the
he would find whether an operation was Quebec, Ontario and the new provinces, AI-.
necessary or nQt.
berta and Saskatchewan and Manitoba,
making up the five. They are aIl allotted to
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Oh, no.
a particul-ar position on the list.
Hon. Mr. BOSS-I do not think that It
'Ple motion was agreed to.
would be wise, ln the interests o! this counThe Senate adjourned tintil three o'clock.
try, to delay tijis work. It is a11 very well
to speahk about the cost. We used to think to-m orroiw.
lion. M. ROSS.

MAROR 26, 190S68
wlth regard to the disbursements on the
Descbambault wharf, and the correspondeace that took place between Colonel PelOTTAWVA, Tbursday, March 26, 1908.
lait and Mr. Davidson. Ail tbese were
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three moved for a few montlis ago, and I thlnk
e'clock.
wben an order of the House Is made, to
bave these papers brought down, that the
Prayers aud routine proceedings.
governmeut should have shown a little more
respect for the ordînances of thls House,
ROSS RIFLE.
and that these returus should have been on
INQUIRY.
the table long ago. I thlnk It Is time I
should ralse îny volce and complain of
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY inquired:
these Interminable delays.
Bas the goverament concluded aiiy arrangement whatsoever for the manufacture of bayHou. Mr. SCOTT-I make no complaint
onets adapted to the Ross rifle î
wbatever of the hon. gentleman brlnging
If so, wxth whom ?
For what quýantity V
the matter under the notice of the House,
At what price each ?
Has the goverament asked for tenders for the nor bave I any apology to offer. I cannot
get those things of Mny own motion. I
manufacture of these articles ?
And if so, which are the papers which have direct them to be sent to, the Senate. I
pubiished in their columns the notices given by
send messages and telephone over repeatthe goverament to that affect P
edly, but ln many cases I amn powerless.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe Minister of MiliHon. Mr. LANDRY-I thlnk I could sugtia bas been indisposed for some days. I
believe the subject Is under discussion, but gest a very efficient way to, obtain those
returns promptly If the hon. Secretary of
flot concluded. The luquiry may stand.
State wlll allow me. It would be ta have
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It wlll stand tii! an addltlonal minîster la the Senate who
tbe mînister is well.
could answer ail those questions and see
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbat mnay be a week about the returns. The hon. gentleman Is
too much occupied.
or two.

THE SENATE.

The inquiry was allowed ta stand until
Tuesday.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It would require the
whole fourteen ministers.

Hou. Mr. LANDRY-That miglit be a
popular reform -for the Senate. Some of
Hon. NMr. LANDRY-Before the orders of our esteemed friends from the province of
the day are called, I wouid submit to the Quebec would perform the duty wlth crehon. leader of the House, what I thlnk Is dit.
n grievance on my part la regard to, the
delay la producing tbe returns I have asked MONTREAL, OTTAWA AND GEORGIAN
for. I asked for a return ln the month of
BAY CANAL COMPANY'S BILL.
January hast, (letails of the subseription of
THIRD READING.
the $200,000 by the Quebec Bridge ComHou. Mn, BELCOURT moved the third
the contract ln 1903
pany, whien they made
'wlth the goverament. Sînce that *day we reading of Bill (47) Au Act respectlng the
have seau that details of a -similar cha- Montreal, Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal
racter bave been given ta the Bouse of Company.
~Hon. Mr. SULLI VAN-I do not thlnkz
Commons as soon as they were asked for.
I asked for them ln the month of January, we should proceed with- the third readîng
There Is a discussion
and the return is flot fortbcoming yet. In of this Bill now.
the montb of Jauuary last I asked for a going on about this very canal, and it Is
I
return showing amouats payed ta Mr. SI- an order f nrther down on the paper.
méon DeLisle, and that would take about think we should postpone thîs thIrd reada day or two ta prepare, I suppose. I have lng, because If we pass this -Bill now It wll
not recaived the answer yet. The same have the eflfect of removing the discussion
DELAYED RETURXS.

SEN_ E
7AT
on the canal altogethier fromn the order
We migbt wait until the discussion
paper.
is closed before passing titis Bill. I suppose I migbt take the view that It is considered there is no need of furtber discussion, since we are passing a Bill extending
the time for the construction of the work.
The Ottawa and Georgian Bay canal is an
Important project, and every one wbo lives
along the route of it and on the route of
the St Lawrence and Weliand canais sbould
have something to say on the subject. Perbaps the lion, gentleman wvill allowv the
third reading to be deferred until the dis2ussion of tlue subject Is over.
Hon. M1r. OWENS-eThe Bill before the
Honse huas no connection witb the discussion to which the lion, gentleman refers.
Thtis Bill is simply for an extension of the~
time of a charter passed years ngo.
The SPEAKER-Does the hon, gentleman from Kingston move an amendment
to the motion for the tlîird reading of the
Bill?
Hon.' Mr. SULLI VAN-I move that tbe
order bie discharged and that it bie fixed
for Wednesday next.lion. Mr. POWER-We have a mile whichi
provides that an amendmnent cannot hie
moved at the third reading of a Bill, without iiotice.
The SPEAKER-I arn of a contrary opiniton as to the right of any mnember to move
a motion to adjourn the third reading. The
rule to whicb the bon, gentleman fromn
Halifax refers applies to amenduients to a
Bill. Does the lhon, gentleman fromn Kingston lnislst ution his amendmnent?
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Not if it is not ln
I do not wishi to go against the
order.
opinion of the House.
The SPEAKER-The amendment of the
hon. gentleman is ln order.
dIon. Mr. SULLIVAN-If it does not
meet with thec approval of the House, I do
flot came to press it.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I (d0 not think it
should mieet with the approv-nl of the
The bon, gentleman bas giveni no
bouse.
sufficient reasonl for postponing the third
Hon, Mr. SULLIVAN.

Tihis is a Bill merely to extend
reading.
the time for constructing the canal, aud
has nothîng whatever to do with the debate
whicb bas been befome the House. I thlnk
the Bill should be rend the third time without further delay.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-I bad no Intention
I therefore
of offering any opposition.
withdraw my motion in deference to the
hon. gentleman's wlsh.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read thc third time and passed.
THIIRD READINGS.
Bill (FF) An Act for the relief of Editil
Maud Rosario Gammell.--(Hon. Mr. Jones.)
Bill (81) Ail Act respecting the Canadian
Nortiema Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Young.)
Bill (R) Anl Act respecting the Manitoulini
aîîd Norttern Shore Railway Conmpany.(lIon. Mr. Kerr.)
Bill (83) An Act respecting the Owen
Sound and M-Neaford Railway Company.%r.
(Hon. -. McMullen.)
Bill (50) An Act respectlng the Dominioni
Atlantic Railwny Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Power.)
Bill (99) An Act to amend the Irrigation
Act.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
GILMORE DIVORCE BILL.
Hon. Mr. KIIIOHHOFFER-If there Is
no objection, I should like to inove the
adoption of the report of the Standing
Committee on Divorce me the Petition of
Edlth May Gilmore. Lt is the next order
on the paper.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-A senator, who bas
Just left the Chamber Is very anxious to
dlscuss that nintit order, and hie asked me,
wlth the consent of the House, to bave it
put over until next Tuesday or Wednesday. He is obliged to take the outgoing
train for New York.
The SPEAKER-If thé Senatc, ls not
unanimous, we will follow the order paper
-when we reach the Item.
RAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT

BIILL.

IN COMMITTEE.
bouse resolved itself again luto
,The
Comrnittee of the W'hole on ftue report of

MARCH 26, 1908
the Standing Comrnlttee on Railways, Telegrapbs and Harbours, to 'wboin *as referred Bill (3) An Act to amend the Rallway
Act.
(In the Committee.)
The CHAIRMAN-Tbe question la on
the amendment moved by the Hon. Mr.
Beique to the report of the Standing Committee on this Bill.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-Before the amendment la carrled, I should like to say a
few words, If the chairman would tell me
what we are discussing. I bave been trying to follow this matter, but we bave a
surfeit of amendments, and whle I arn not
a stlckher on rules, it seems to me the whole
proceedings are out of order. I do flot
know whether the arndments are before
the Flouse. Has the Bill ever been read ?
Are we discussing the Bil or wbat are we
discussing ?
The CHAIRMAN-The second reading of
the Bill was adopted by the Flouse and
the motion was rnade to refer the Bill to
the Committee on Railways, Telegraphs
and Harbours. The committee reported'
the Bill with an amendment, and that report of the commlttee ~Vas sent to a Comrnittee of the Whole House. The Committee of the Wbole la dealing 'wlth the Bill
as the House would have dealt wt! It, the
same as'if it had not been sent to the
committee. We are discussing the report
of that comrnittee. That ls the Bil as
amended, and now the question ls on the
amendment rnoved In the commlttee by
the Hon. Mr. Beique to the report of the
committee.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Hua the Bill been
reported by the committee ?
Etou. Mr. LÂNDRY-I have just explalued IL
Hon. Mr. WILSON--Tbe Bill bas not
been reported to tbe House.
Hon. Mr. DAVIS-If the chairman rules
that we are perfectly In order we shahl
proceed wIth the discussion. I wisb to
say that 1 bave been sornewhat nt sea on
this question. We have bad ainendrnent
after amendment proposed. Iu the first

US5

place, 1 thiuk, w'e adopted rather a peculiar
proceeding. As thîs is a pubie Bill, au
amendment to the Railway Act, it should
neyer have been sent to the ]Railway Commhttee. I objected to sending it there. If
it had gone to a Committee of the Whole,
where It is now, we would have saved
time. We have discussed this measure for
three or four days In tMa House. The
bon. gentleman from De Salaberry, wbose
ameudment we are now dlscussing, after
labouring for about a week on the Bill,
bas taken one word out of ft and added
about elgbt, and I arn In the judgment of
the Flouse If he bas not made about eigbt
ameudments to the eight words. There
bas been a great deal of discussion witb
reference to clause 275 of the Railway Act.
The original Bill proposes to repeai this
clause. Exception was taken to this on
account of the fact, as was explained by
hon. members of this Flouse, that It
was very essential to have thîs clause
As far as I
lu the Railway Âct.
think lt
I do not
arn concerned,
makes very rnuch difference wbetlier we
keep It lu the Rallway Act or not What
we are interested Iu at the present time is
protecting the lives of the people who are
The other
crossing the railway tracks.
oniy deals with the fencing of the rallway
throught towns and villages. It appears
to me that the railway people could be
I do
trusted to look after It themselves.
not tbink tbat any person ls likeiy to drive
over the raiiway wbere there ls no crossIng. Therefore, it cornes down to the fact
that this clause In the Railway Act ls there
to keep cattie from golng on to tbe rIgbt
Every one knows that a railway
of way.
company Is as mucli interested In keeping
cattie off the track as nny person else.
They do not want tljeir trains ditchéd or
their passengers Iujured, bercnuse If they Injure tbem to any extent, their business
Raiiways have no souls,
would drop off.
but they have pockets, aud when you corne
to touch their pockets they wll ook after
themselves. So tbat as far as section 275
of the Raihway Act ls concerned, wbile It
does no barrn, I arn bound to say It does
Wben the Bill came up
very littie good.
hast year and the year before, I took very
strong ground on the mensure for the reason that after the Flouse o! Comimons iiad

SENATE
As far as the other amnendpâssed Vie Bihl Vhe second imie, Vis House responsibie.
This ments are concerned, they are ail out of
bad no business Vo throw it out.
House is, as the Americans would say, the way, and for my part 1 think I wll
dolng itself proud because It is sending Vhe support the amendmnent moved by the bon.
Bill back to Vhe Commons where it cau be gentleman from De Salaberry, so that the
There 15 very little difference Bill can get over to the other House and
dealt with.
It Is be deait wIth there. If the people's reprebetween auy of Viese amendments.
merely' Vie difference between tweedle-dee sentatives lu the Gommons wlio bave passed
My hou. friend, froiri the Bill tbree dIfferent tîmes are flot salieand tweedle-dum.
amend It or reject
I thiulk fied wlth It, they eau
Halifax moved an ameudment.
the amendments we have made, and we
gentleman from Glengarry moved
Vie hon,
In the menushall know whiere we are.
an ameudment and ail along Vie same Une.
time I tbink we should dispose of Vie Bill
get nt, and what 1
What we are trying to
and let It go back to the House of Gomwant to see Is Vint Vis question should
We have lad ail ameudments thnt
Vie Rallway mous.
be placed.under Vie control of
are necessary, and nny more ameudments
We bave a Rallway ComCommission.
that mighit be proposed would simply be
mission, and -the country is paying a good
obstructions.
deal of money to maintala Vint Rnllway
We are goîug to enlarge It
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I rise ilot for
Commission.
by several members, and Vie country should the purpose of moviag a amendment but
expeet that commission Vo attend to these rallher making a suggestion. I suggested
matters. Thnt Is what they are there for, the other day that the word 'order, reguiannd if Vis Bill eau be amended lu such a tion and direction' should be made plural,
way Vint IV whll assure the Railway Comn- and that the clause should read :
'Protection lu accordance witb tihe ormission baviug absolute and sufficlent
power to dei wilth this question, tIen Vie ders, regulations and directions of the Railrespouslblity wlll rest on the shoulders of way Committee.'Vie Railwny Commission, and trun mue Iu order to meet the vlews of the hon.
Railway Commission Vo the parties whio ap- gentleman from De Salaberry entirely and
If Vie Rallway Commission completely, 1 would renew this suggestion,
point them.
allows thie state of thlngs to go on, after lu the hope thnt lie may accept, and the secthus Bil is passed, Vint bas been complalu. tion amended as I propose-as 1 hope the
ed of for some time, then the fault wlll rest bon. gentleman will accept it la thnt way
wlth tbem. We have dlscussed the nmend- -would read as folows:
ments now close on to a week, and, as far
No train shail pass over any highway crossas I can see, there Is very littie difference iug at rail level in any thickly peopled portion
The ameudment of any city, town or village at a greater speed
between any ot 'them.
than ten miles an hour, nnless such crossing
moved by Vie hon. gentleman from De is constructed and thereafter duly maintained
Salaberry, In short, cuts out the words and protected in accordance with such orders,
specially issued by
regulations
' properly protected.'
He takes it off Vie the Railway and directionsPrivy Council or by
Committee,
That the board enforced with respect to sucb crossonto Vie tail.
neck and hitches IV
igr
Is, I understand, for Vhe purpose of not gulation ness permission is given by some reor order of the board. The board
is a may at auy time fix the speed in any case that
havîng a judge and jury decide wbnt
proper protection, leavlng thnt la the bauds it deems proper.
of tie Rallway Commission to judge wiat
Hou. Mr. BEIQUE -1 would have no obAs far as jecti.on to that. I think it wll Improve the
coustitutes proper protection.
Vint Is concerned, I have no objection at aIl. gramnmar.
H1e adds at Vie Inst, Viat the trains shahl
.Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Before the question Is
noV rua faster than ten miles an hour, unhess Viey obtala some rîgit or order from put, I desire to make an observation. 1
Vie Raihway Commission. 1 have no Ob- *stand In regard Vo Vhis matter just as I
As I said before, stood when It came before the House on the
jection Vo Vint either.
Vie Rahlway Commission Is the proper tribu - first occasion Vhis year. The House of
If they do nol t ommons bavlng passed Vhe Bill three
nal Vo make tînt order.
it having been twice rejected by
make tInt order, the country will bold tieni itimes,
Hon. Mr. DAVIS.

_MARCH 26. 1908
the Senate, it cornes to us for the third diffcreut States, but If tbe matter were
Urne. I arn of the opinion the Seuate fixed by law ln the manuer soughit by
should pass the Bill as it carne to us. 1. the rallway commissioners there wvould In
have f elt this very keenly, and I arn afraid I tirne grow up a uniformn systern by whlch
have been perhaps a littie shy about ex- ail the crosslngs would be protected lu the
pressing myseif In regard to the arnend- saine manner. The commlttee, ln their rements which have been off ered, although port, have given statistica for a number
some of tliem 'would comrnend thernselves of years. They show that la the year endto my judgment If this were an initial pro- lng June 30, 1906, 1,884 persons were In.
ceedlug. The objeet of the Bill ls to pre- jured at grade crossings, whlle 99-9 o! thîs
vent rallroads frern passing over tliese cros- number were killed. These cros«singa mean
uIngs at n [,reater rate of speed than te» aIl klnds of crossings--crosslngs o! hlghmiles an bour, uu]ess certain regulations ways, electric railways, and stU-arn raillaid do'wn by the Railway Board have been ways. A good deal of difference bas been
expressed as to the actual nuinber of per.
c'mpIled wlth.
Now the protection of railway crossings sons kllled at raiiway crossings lu thîs
la a question which la agitatlng the coniti- country. The returns show that thxe figures
nent fromn one end to the other. The num- given by the hon. senator frorn Marsh.
ber of persons who aire kiled at rallway field are correct accordlng to the report
crosslngs, the dlfficulty of overcomiug the I do not for a moment assume that Mr.
obstacles whlch present therneelves, are ob- Mountain made an intentional error; lie
sorblng the attention of rallway men every- probably gave the figures from ies own
where. I have here the report of the Na- department, and while they were net cortional. Association of Rallway Commission- rect hie no doubt belleved they were. 1
ers of the United States, givlng- the pro- whtsh to direct the attention of bon, genceedinge of the 19th annual convention held tlemen to the recommendation submltted
ln October last at Washington. Hon. gen- lu this report:
tlernen are no doubt aware of the fact
It je conceded by ail well regulated rajîroade
that lu most of the States, If nlot In al that notwithstandiug the. additioaal costs it je
economy in the long rua to abolish grade crossof them, there la a body called the Rail- ings, and I amn reliably informed that statistics
way Commission. As the hon. senator show that by the abolition of such crossings,
frein Ottawa sald last nlght, when address- the expeuse inourred by thea railways has iu
every instance proved to be most profitable
lng the House on another subi ect, ail those iuvestment and greatîr reduced the number of
States *have, sornewhat different systems. accidents and loss of life. Your committee je
in every
opinion and
The Interstate Commerce Commission can- of thethe question ofrecommeade that whether
grade crossinge,
state
and control the whole rallway of one railway crossiug another, steamn or
net manage
business o! the Uuited States; therefore electrio, in some city or country, or of a railWay, Eteam or electric, grade crossing at a
each State bas a commission of Its own. highlway should be put exclusively under the
The convention held lu October lat at control of the Railway Commission.
Washington devoted considerable attention
The roll of States was called tipon the
to the question of rallway crossings. At reception of the report and a gentleman
a session held the previens year the matter trorn each State spoke explainlng the posiwas remltted 'to a cormlittee of the Asso- tion ln whichi bis State was wlth regard to
ciation, and they reported at the rneeting It. I will take the liberty for a few molast October. The object, o! course, Is to ments to read frorn two or three of them,
get a *unlformn system. .The underlylng because 1 ttiuk It la desirable that there
Idea is te band over te the rallway com- sbould be some public opinion created on
miasioners of each State control of the the subject here. Mr. Seymour, o! Conmatter. It la now, as was polnted out by necticut, sald
lion, gentlemen on different sides of the
The State of Connecticut in the firet place,
question, under thé control sornetimes of a
has a law prohibiting the creation of grade
some- crossings, prohibiting a eteam. road fron crossmunlcipallty, sometimes of the State,
Urnes o! the Court of Cbancery, aud soine- ing au electric road at grade sud prohibiting
of electric
times the Court of Cornron Pleas. Thus ithe construction sud ail uewroads acrose steamn
stearn roads must
roade at grades,
there Is a divergence 'of system in, the be buit either so qs to carry the highway over

SENATE
the creation of
or under the raiiroad. nat at grade. We have ever, wiii hardly tolerate that aur principal
aiea a grade crassiug law which permite grade future grade crossings. So
the elimination of those which. aicraesing naw existing to be rernaved in three probiern je
The law which we ready exist, and 1 have an idea that that is
dilferent ways .. .....
have prescribed that every raiiroad company iargeiy true of most eastern states.
The most difficuit part of the proposition je
in the state shahl remove or apply for the removai of every year of at least one grade cross- to settie upon the question of where the burden
ing for every sixty miles of road operated by of expense shall fali. I understand that in
it. There is a third methad by which the rail- Massachusetts sornething like 65 per cent of the
road commission can of their own mbtion re- cost of changing grade crossings is piaced upon
move one grade croesing every year on every the railroad. We have had the Connecticut
lino of raad in the etate. Thase are the three law very clearly explained ta us. The New
methode. In 1887 there were one 1,526 grade York law as my recollection serves me, places
crossings* in the state. Under the operation of something like 50 per cent of the cost on the
this law the number of grade crassinge has xailroad. 1 think it je the samne in Ohio. In
New Jersey we have no iaw giving power to a
been reduced to 977.
commission or to any other body, to require
the elimination of a grade crossing or ta apMr. Khlpatrick, of Illinois, said
portion the expense. The further extent to
This is a very serious question in the Statt which the etate goes je to permit municipaliof Illinois. W. have more main line raiiway- ties and rajiroads ta carne together and conin the State of Illinois than in any other state tract for the elirnination of grade crossings,
in the union exoept Texas. They have four and, persumably, bargain at arrn's length as to
times aur area, and lest year, I think, they the appointment of the expense. A number of
had six miles mnore af raiiway than we had. grade orossings have been aboiished under that
W. have aver 1,000 miles of main line of tracks scheme, but it has not proven satisfactory anid
of interurban and electric raad. They are it does flot receive the support of public opinbuilding thern at the rate of about 300 miles ion, and probabiy there wiil be very few crossper year, and they want ta crase steam roade, ings eiiminated through this achaine of conand want ta cross them cheap, and so, natur- tract in the future.
ally, desire ta cross at grade in most cases.
In New Jersey the roade, as originally inBut for the last few years the policy of the corporated under their special charters, have
committee--without being directhy told ta do a peculiar duty. They are permitted ta cross
so by legisatin-has been ta separate grade, the streets and highways at grade, but they
wherever possible, wherever the physicai con- muet maintain good and sufficient paesageways
dition of the country wiil permit, and for the over and under the public highway, s0 that
lest four years I do not think they have trade on the highway shall not be, impeded. In
permitted a grade crossing at any place in the other words they may maintain a grade crossState of Illinois, with one exception, the ex- ing until conditions"require a change. They
ception being the main street of a city.
can be compelled by proceedinge in a court of
The question of highway grade croseinge has9 equity to change a given grade crosslng, crossnot been adjudicated by the legislature nor by ing over or under.
the commission. I do not think the commissThe difficultv with that proposition is that
ion has any juriediction aver that matter et elimination muet be extremnely slow. The
ail. But I believe it would be right, because compaflies eliminate grade crossinge when from
we have thousande and thousande of grade their p oint of view it seeme wise ta do so, and
crossings. The raiiroad companies themeelves, when f rom their point of view it seems unwise
in recent yeare, have corne ta the conclusion
to do so they wili not elîminate them until
that it is a goad thing ta have a separatian of they have exhausted the hast resource of the
grades. In the city of Chicago, for instance, iaw'à delay.
they have spent from $4,000,000 ta $10,000,000
for track elevation on purpose ta get rid of
Mr. Keep, of New York, said:
grade crossinge. I think the recommendation
Last session, 1 thînk $300,000 was appropriatthis
of the committee le a very good one at
b-e ad. Any railroad company or municipaiity or
time, and that more 1egielation ought ta
had along. that line. W e have haed. a great village which desires a certain grade crossing
rnany accidents at grade crossinge, and so elirinated may petition the state raiiroad
those grade crossinge ought ta be, abolished if commission or the public service commission
in their partîcular district for the elimination
it can possibiy be done.
of that grade croesing.
The matter then cornes before the commiss-Mr. Whiting of New Jersey sald:
ion for a hearing. Plans for the elimination
Our laws in regard ta the elimination cf of the crossing are submitted by the petitioner
grade crossinge are nat very satisfactory ta us in detail with estimates of cost. If the recuit
in New Jersey. Perhape the eubject can be of the hearing is that that particular croseing
casiiy divided into twa parts, namely, preven- shail b. eliminated an order of the commission
tion of grade crossings in the future and, is made for the elimination of the crossing,
second, the elimination of those which aireadY and the matter is proceeded with according ta
exist. As ta future grade crassinge, they are the plans and estimates. The state pays one
proh.ibited in cities withaut the consent of the quarter of the oste, the municipality pays onemunicipality. As ta crossinge of steam roads quarter of the cost, and the raiiroad company
and eiectric roade, those can be brought with- pays one-haif the cost. The state commission
in the discretion of the court af chancery. In is not ailawed tu enter into the elirnination of
other words, the court of chancery has the the orossings so as to obligate itself ta pay any
power ta permit or forbid a future crossing af expense beyond the existing appropriation.
stearn and electric road. Public opinion, how- For instance, if $300,000 is appropriated thîs
Houi. Mr. ELLIS.

MARCU

9.6. 1908

689

year that will permit the abolition of grade of Washington we have to-day but 3,200 miles
of main track line, but we have projected and
cressings, the cost of which will be $1,200,0O0.
There are other Questions of course, arising actuaily ia course of construction over 2,000
in New York ail the time in connection with miles of rail. The commission felt that we are
grade crossings, and this leads te the question net ia a position in our new etate ta enter upon
of whether there should be further legisiation the elimination of the existing grade crossings,
upon the subject. For example, the early elec- but we did think that we were in a position
trio raiiways were located on highways en- where we ought, if possible, ta prevent loading
tirely. The electrie roads that are now being upupon the future such an awful burden as
built are largely buiît upon private rights of the records show te have been placed upon
New York and Connecticut and the other
cross
way andalways highways at varions points, and eastern
almest
at grade. The trains on these
states, the burden of paying millions of
eiectric roads often run as high as at the rate dollars in eiimiaating the grade crossings, and
of 50 miles an hour, and they make much less we ought te prevent in the future, as.far as
noise than locomotives. and altogether those possible, the construction of grade crossings in
electrie roads are quite as dangerous perhaps the new railroads te be constructed.
Unfortunately this is what we met, and I beas the steam roads. The question is as to extending the state law so as to provide for the lieve the commissioners seuth and west and in
elimination of grade crossings in connection the middle west wili appreciate that, in ail of
our sctions, interurban lines are starting up.
with electric roads.
If an overhead crossing is created the law of They etart out from the city and are performiNew York places the maintenance of the apfunction, and they are a wonproaches upen the municipality. That is upon ing9 a wonderful the people ia that immediate
derful benefit to
the theory that the railroad company pays vicinity. They come down to the legisiature,
highway taxes and that they become a new and they say, 'Gentlemen, if that law passes
street.
it is going te be utterly impossible for us te
float our bonds, we cannot raise the money te
New York State Is divided luto two di*~ build this road,' and every community that has
trlcts, for each of which tliere is a rallway a legislator who seels the road about te be built
against the ameadment and we do net get
commission.
The next speaker from whose voteslaw.
the
remarks I shall quote is Mr. Gothlin of
Mr. Spofford. of 'Maine, said:
Ohio. He sald:
'We have a law that requires that there shail
In Ohio we have a statute which provides be. ne grade cressings
that a municipality or county can have grade railread commission. unless permitted by the
crossings elimiaated on the basis of their board 1 think 'that weSince, I have been on the
have net permitted any
bearing 35 per cent of the cost of saige. That
has been on the etatute book for a good many grade crossings of steam railroads. In f act
have
years, but has not been taken advantage of te wvhere new roads to go beea built we have reover another. In one
any extent. The county conimissioners are quired one road
instance at a cost of something over $100,000.
very economical and prefer te take the risk of But we have a great many cressings
of highcontinuing the crossings. In fact. there have ways and in the more sparsely settled portions
been some cases where the commission hall of the state, where
called the attention of counties and municipali- travelling over the there are net many teams
highways, we have perties to crossings that the commission deemed
were dangerous, and in soinse cases the railroads mitted grade crossings, but we have had more
were entirely wiiling te expend their 65 per or less to do of late with the eliminating of
by the changing of highways.
cent of the cost to abolish such crossings, and grade crossings initiative is generaily
We find the
taken by
the counties or municipalities would not be the railroads themselves. They are net afraid
willing te bear their 35 per cent of the cos4r. te pu out large suma
eliminate
Personaliy I am of the opinion-and it seems grade crossings, and we of money te us now in
have before
te have been the opinion of those gentlemen our state two or three decisions
that are hangwho have preceded me-that the power ing because of the fact that the towns thenishould be lodged in the railroad commission
sves are opposed
te require the elimination of a dangerous cross- necessary expense te payiav, their mite of the
of eliminating a crossing.
ing alread,! existing, or to prevent further These littie towns through
which they pass are
grade crossings.
poor and the seiectmen dislike very much ta
go te any additional expense, and they say te
Another quotation which I wish
to make, us, 'This is being done for the good of the raille f rom the remiarks *of Mr. Fairchilds of road, they are the ones that want it done, and
Washington.
In an Illustration whichi lie we don't care for it.
gave lie spoke as follows:
I mention this to show the atate ef public
One thiag that I want to cali attention of opinion wlth regard to the matter, ani while
this body to--I dare say you are all familiar
with the condition-is the condition existing, there have been many observations made
for instance, in the State of New York. I re- lu this Senate with regard to the United
fer to that because 1 had occasion te examine States iaw, the tendency of public opinion
it. I found- that there were in the state of
N'ew York approximately 8,707 grade crossings. la the United States and the tendency of
I found that since 1898. when they started in the management of the rallroads themselyes
to abolieli them, they had aboiished 160 out of and the railway commissioners is that these
the 8,707 at an expense te the state of New
York of more than $817,000. Now, in the state level crossigs should lie entirelv abohishied.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Wbat was the general withi the opinious expressed by Mr. LancasWhat we have te do Is te deal wlth
proportion contributed by the municipali- ter.
the Bill wliceh came from the House of
ties? Was it nlot 35 per cent?
Commons and treat it on its Ideas and
Hon. '.%r. ELLIS-It varies lu the dif- principles and not on the Ideas and prinferent states; but 35 per cent is about the ciples of any who have expressed opinions
I have stated upon it.
general portion contributed.
I had made preparation for a
my position witli reference to the action I speech mucli earlier, but I do nlot think It
iL sfail not
propose to take on the Bill.
aecessary te go furtber into it, but merely
vote for any arnendment, for the reason 1 te state the view I take upon It.
I will
think we sliould pass the Bill as a whole. take an opportunity, If I can, to have n
1 do not thlnk we can amend the Bill. In direct vote upon the Bill.
rny judgment noue of the arndments are
Hon. Mr. WOOD-I sbould lIke to say
any good. With aIl due respect to the lion.
senator from De Salaberry lie does nlot li- just one word before a vote Is taken on
prove the Bill as lt came from the House, the arndment. I amn In the sarne posiIn the first place, tion, In one respect, thiat the bon. senator
but rather weakens It.
hie strikes out the word 'limit' and substi- frorn St. John occupies. This Bill %vas
tutes ' fix,' but the main Idea. of the Bill Is twice before this Chamiber la previons years
to limait the maximum of speed on a cross- and I voted against It on both occasions.
ing te ten miles an hour under certain con- I have not altered my niind wlth respect
ditions, while 'fix' opens the door for any to It since. 1 arn of the sarne opinion tospeed over crosslngs whicli are nlot protected day that I was last session and the sesaccording to the plans of the commission. 1 sion before wlien I voted against il. In
was rather amused at the argument ad- rny opinion, the legisiation we have on
vanced by the bion. senator from Picton. Hfe our statute-book at present la amply suffireferred to the fact that we have I Ilfe to dient to render ail reasonable protection at
take certain risks. The hon. senator frorn hlghway crossings over railways. It must
Halifax and the hon. Secretary of State took be remernbered that under the provisions
the same ground. If we were to say to the of our atatute a sign board must be erectpeople on ail occasions yon must look out ed, a whistle bas te be blown sme 80
for yourselves and take care of yourselves, yards before the train reaches the crossthere would not be much need for a Senate lng, and the bell lias to be continuously
or for legislation. One of the rnost Important rung. Tbese requirernents were conaidered
measures with which my hon. friend's when the Act -was passed as belng suifficient
name, la assoclated, the value of which will warning to the public wlien they were apsurvive long after he bas gone, would neyer proaching bighway crossings te put tiern
have been on the statute-book had that view on their guard, and If tliey taire reasonable
prevailed. We have to take smre care precautions no accident would ocenr. Wlien
of the people when we find that so rnany tlie Act creating the Railway Commission
are killed and Injured on our railroads, and was passed It placed an additional power
that It la due to the indifference wlicl pre- in the banda of that Board. It gave them
AIl that power to make special orders with regard
vaille with regard to human life.
we can do is to make the best arrange- to any crossings where, la their opinion,
ments we can. It la very xiecessary, un- furtber protection for the public was needfortunately, to safeguard the people against ed. Since this Act bits been la operation,
tbernselves, and we are ail subject tbrougli- a large number of crossings bave received
out our lives to the application of that pria- additional protection. and, as I understood
The hon. member from Halifax also frorn the evIdence given ln the Railway
ciple.
made the observation that the cornrittee Cornrittee, the Board is constantly, as
lias amended the Bill, and sorne of the circumatances la their opinion require It,
amendments whlch are offered, bis own I ordering additional protection to be given
belleve Included, would bring the Bill back at the several railway crossings. Ia rny
te the condition lu whlch the Lancaster Bill opinion these provisions are ample for the
That ls no protection of the public, and if we were
stood two or three years ago.
We have nothing te do votIng on the Bill itself I should vote
part of our duty.
Hlon. lfr. ELIIS.

INIARCII 26, lû0S
against it. If I understood correctly the
authorities whicb my hon. friend opposite
bas just rend this la practlcaiiy the opinion expressed by rnost gentlemen *who
gave their views at the convention to -whicb
lie referred, and whicb have been embodied
in the extracts that he bas read from the
report of the convention. If I gathered
the meafing of the report wbich lie read,
the Raiway Commission In the United
States practically recommend the adoption
In the different States of a ]aw almost
precisely similar to that of our own, as it
is to-day. 1 did flot hear everything very
distînctir, and If I have made q mîstake,
1 trust my bon. friend wiii correct me;
but that is what I understood to be the
purport of what the hon. gentleman read.
Witfr regard to the arnendment of the hon.
gentleman from De Salaberry, wbich I
intend to support, I wisli to give niy reasons, for doing so. This Bill has corne
bere for the third time, and while I do
flot think that it Is necessary to amend the
present law, If we reasonably cau, we
should endeavour to meet the wishes of the
House of Commous, with regard to this
matter, and I for one tee] quite 'willing to
support any ameudment to the Raiiway
Act wbich -wlIl brlng about that result. I
do not support the Bill as it came from
the House of Commons, because lu my opinion, it is very defective. I do not agree
Nvitb the idea suggested by the bon. gentleman from 8t. John that whatever cornes
fromn the House of Commons we sfhould
accept just as it cornes.
Hon. '-%r. ELLIS-I did not say that.
Hon. Mr. WOOD-Tben I must have misAt ail
understood the hon, gentleman.
events, I do not tbink we are bouud, no
motter hoýw often a Bill may corne from
the Gommons, to accept it just because
they sent it to us, and where In our opinlou It bas an injurlous effect, I sbould lîke
to state *my views as to the defects of the
mensure as sent us from the House of
Gommons. It uses the general words properly protected as bas been pointed ont in thîs
debate. I arn lu the judgnient of legal gentlemen of the House, wben I put this interpretation upon the clause, that under the Bill
as it wouid bave stood If not amended,

691

the railway companies thernselves wouid
decide, lu ail cases 'where the Railway Commission bad not passed a certain order,
wbetber thue bigbway crossiug was properly
protected or not. Tbey could put a different protection from wbat tbe Act requires,
or leave It with the protection that the Act
o! parliameut requires, shall be at the
highway crosslngs, or tbey could put additional protection, If In their ,Judgmnen4
tiuey thought: it necessary. No one couid
quertion that except the Railway Commission, and they would bave to either act
upou thelr own Initiative or Ia response
to a rerpresentation from a municipality, a
clty or town, and perbaps from a number of
indivîduals or a single individual that tbe
rviiway crossing was dangerous aiid ln
ueed of protection. No other person bad any
power to interfere, and no question could be
raised as to whether that crosslng was
daugerous or not, or any further protection
was needed or not, until an accident ocThe only remedy then for tbe percurred.
son who was Injured, whether ia bis property or lu is person, or Injury to bis farnlly, was to nppeal to the courts o! law.
Wbatevee mar be the opinion o! other parsons wlth regard to that, I shouid strongly
object to leaviug our legîisiation ln that
To leave It In a position that the
form.
railway conipanies could decide for tbemselves what the proper protection shouid
be, sud that a person injured, bad
to go to tbe courts of iaw to recover
damages wouid be the worst form lu
wbicb he could leave it so far as
'We all know
tbe public are concerned.
what It mens for a private individual to
go into tbe law courts to recover damages
froni a rallvay corporation, especlly tbe
We knoçw. that la any
large corporations.
case, wbetber tbey are successful or not,
it mens a great dea] of trouble, tume and
cost. The suits tire carried fromn one court
to anotber, until tbey reacb the bighest
The resuit wouid be tbat
court of appeal.
la the majority of cases, ladîviduais would
ratber suifer the damage ur Injury, whatever it mighit be, than undertake to recover
damages from a raiiway company tbrougb
I say that to leave our leglstbe courts.
lation Ia that position would be the worst
form in wbicb Tou could leave it, so far as
the Interests of the general public are con-

SEINATE
ceruued.
The auuendment moved by the
lion, gentleman fronu De Salaberry appears
to nie to carry out what I understaud
f0
be the intention of the gentleman
wvho iatroduced this Bill ln the flouse of
Gommons, and the Intention of the flouse
of Commons geueraiiy when they accepted
It. In this ameadment we enact that no
train shiah pass over any highway crossing
in aniy tbickly peopled portion o! any City,
fown or village ut a speed greater than ten
miles an hour except nder two conditions;
excei)t there bas been some speciai order of
the board, and It is buîlt and maintaiued.
ln aecordance with that order, or uniess the
railway conipaay bas obtained permission of
the bourd to rua thue train ut a greater
speed.
If I understand the Intention of
the proliioters of this Bill, it w-as to pince
the -whlîe thing ha the bauds of the Railwvay Commîission, and miy opinion is that
tbat i., a laudabie object, and thuat Is the
tribunal wbcre this miatter shouid be deuit
çwith.
This ameudment places tue whiole
malter lu the bands of tlie commission.
No trainu. under this nuuendment, cau ruii
over a high-way crossing in any thickiy
peopled portion of any City, town or village
at a greater speed than feu miles an hour,
-except
under two conditions: one whiere
there bas been a special order of the board
muade respecting that highway cr0551 ng, and
the other. whien permission bias been given
by the board. They must have special permission froni the board before they can
rua at a higu rate of speed across any of
theize erossings. Thiîs, therefore, appears to
aie to cover the whole grouad, and to niford
the public the very iigest degrec of protection that tbey cati under any reasonable
conuditions expect.
I am quite wiiling to
accept the lurinciple o! the Bill and support the ameadment. hecause 1 think it carries out ftue principle of fthe Bill and the
Intention of ftue gentleman who introduced
It, aad the flouse o! Comnuons that sent it
to ns.
Hon. 'Mr. SULLIVAN-I have bcd à
good deal f0 do with tiiese crossings for the
last forty years, and probnbly more than
aay one cIse in this flouse, because 1 live
ia a City where the worsf highway crossIng-s exist in the wliole Ieng-th of the railw9ys, both iu the entrance f0 the c1ty and
ln the exit. Therefore, 1 have some idea
Hotu. MNr. WOOD.

of the number of accidents wiîich occur
there, and If thiese accidents wlich are
given for the year were tabulated and properiy arranged, it would make the minds
of hon. gentlemen mnch clearer as to the
cause of these accidents being the crosslags
entirely. I was neariy run over three
times myself, and it was the fault of the
driver ln every Instance. Had he waited or
gone straight on at first, It would have
been ail rIght, but It ls delay or hesitation
that generally causes the danger.
He
should not have attempted It, because
one of the express trains was coming la.
The statistics are of no value whatever,
becanse they do not tell under what
circumstaaces .these accidents occurred.
There Is' a branch of the Grand Trunk
which muns Into the City to take 'passengers and freigbt ln and I do flot
k-now how many crossiags or etreets it
ruas ovcr. The trains go over these Crossings three or four times every day and
every nigbt. 1 bave flot heard of an accident there for some time. The last 1 heard
of was four or five years ago, and It was
the case o! a boy who liad been piaylng
at thue station. The crossings are ln the
most crowded part of the City and aloag
thue water front. There are a aumber o!
places where parties have bult dangerously close to the railway. There was one
person I ivent to see, Mr. Maloney, and I
could step froni bis hall door on to the railway. I thlak it ls a good plan to allow
the municipalities and the railivays to each
pay a share of the protection where the
crosslng is dangerous. The party who is
to pronounce wlîetber a crossIng is dangerous or not sliould be perfectly free fronu
auy bias. It sbould be one who would have
no reason tu do anytbiag at aIl but what
is fair, and to do it for the protection of
the City. I was astonished nt the ardour
-witb which tlhe lion, gentleman from Marsbfield took up this question. I was surprised
at his energy and Industry. Hie was occupied -with no iess than five gentlemen ln
succession, and I could flot belli recaîling the words of Richard. at the battie
of Bosworth field: that -there be six
Richmonds lu the field, and five have I
slain. I do flot know whIether mny hon.
frieud siew aIl the five, but at ffIl eveîits
lie made a desperate attenipt to do so.
I

MARCH 26, 1908
MAROR
was afraid lie wouid injure bis health ln
the effort. I was amazed to see hlm
take the position he dld-a thoroughly
sensible man sucli as lie Is. I do nlot see
how any man could object to the Rallway
Commission. Tliey are the best men hn
the country-at least they are supposed to
lie the best. They are paid a remuueration
that makes tliem independent, and they
are selected. wlthout reference to politlcs.
That la the best tribunal to go to, and the
most Independent that can ha found ln the
country. These statlstics are very erroneous. I have liere the report publshed
ID the year 1905 of the Âmerican mortality,
similar to the report of the -Registrar
General in Engiand; but they do flot give
the'exact cause of the accidents on railways. Therefore, 1 could nlot apply It
partlcularly to this case, but these statistics do away witli tlie fallacy that more
accidents occur ln rural districts tlian ln
the towns. In many cases the figures are
largeiy ln faveur of the clty as compared
with the towns. In fact they are very irregular. There are aise statlstics w1th regard to the State of New York and New
Jersey, I was anxlous tliat my hon. frlend
from St. John sliould particularly give the
way ln which tlie accidents occurred, but I
do nlot think lie lias the report here. I will
nlot take the time to read tliem to yen, but
any lion, gentleman who wlshes to see them
cau flnd the llst of sucli accidents for five
years. The rallway accidents ln Canada,
which we are told are so numerous,
compare welI wlth those la the States,
which are so well protected.
There was
one crossing on the boundary line between
the couiity and the state.
Both corporations agreed to sbare the cost of this crossing.
The rallway was wiliing to go on
with It, but the others could nlot agree, so
tlie crossing remains the same. The greatest danger in the crossings is not from the
striking of the railway trains.
It la the
running away of the horses and the injury
and fatalities that occur from that source.
I ivould be sorry to thlnk there was any
hon. senator In this House who would for
a moment advance any argument against
any provision or regulation by whlch death
If protection can lie procould be avoided.
vided I should be very criminal lndeed If
But no comI advocated. anything else.

.. 693

.693
26, 1908
I canpany an preveat fatal accidents.
nlot see nny proposition whlch. would ensure
The raiiways must run,
against accident
and I cannot see how they can get down te
ten miles an heur comlng Into town. Trains
iimlted to ten miles an hour will kilI as
many people as If they went faster. These
crossings are so numerous I would not expect any company to 'protect them ail at
once. The hon. Secretary of State put the
matter very fairly in bis remarks.
He said
that ail tlie mualcipalities were anxlous to
Tliey do not contribute
get the roads.
It does not matter whemuch to tliem.
ther the railway runs Into the town or whether there la a crosslng or not, there is no
munlcipality ln thîs country who wlll not
sign a bond wlth the railway company, If
they only have the foresight te ask them.
to give them Immunity from any possible
damages at crossings afterwards. I know
very well that the raiiway companles aire
not to blame ln the Instances I have observed. In most of the cases whlch came to my
knowledge, the victims were drunk. Most of
the accidents were at niglit, and other cases
were due to the wilful blundering of drivers,
who wQuld persist in going across when
they should not have done se. Sometimes
the danger Is great of the 1iors~e runnlng
away, particularly at Kingston; but I
would sooner take the chance of the horse
running away than the train runnlng over
If the railway
It 'would be safer.
mie.
companies will do their duty, as I am sure
they wlll, and If tlie municipalities wlU
complaln, as It la their duty to take up these
matters, the resuit wlll lie beneficial. But
when It comes to the question of expense,
the municipalities are flot anxlous to change
I think the railthe railway cressînga.
ways wlll meet tliem la a proper spirit, and
If they do there wi]l be no trouble.
Hon. Mr. POIRIER-My notice of motion
is stIli on tlie orders of the day, and I
simply rise to call the attention of ee
House to the fact that it lias heen disposed
of by the hon, gentleman from Marshfield.
and that It Is just as well to strike It out.
I need noit put the motion again, because
the sense of the House lias already been
taken on It. I wish to say that If -I do
not press lt, It la not because I have changed my mInd.
I am of the same opinion

SENATE
De
I was when I gave notice, that this Bill, It lie ameudment of my hon. friend fromn
lu Salaberry to section 275 wlll pass. It bas
which was forced upon us, is somewhat
and lit
the nature of a mouey Bill and the other Ibeen agreed to by the committee,
certain will go ou the statute-book. .My view is
House insista upon its riglits to bave
possibly it wlli
legislation affectiug the people enacted by t hat it wll do no good, and
do very Ilttie harm; but it 'will leave the
They have expressed their
that chamber.
It is sufficient for 1aw essentially and practically as it is at
Intention three times.
If there )resent. It Imposes no duty upon the board,
me to accept- their declaration.
give a
were principles at stake I would not sub- "xcepýt that t gives them power to
but permission witbout examination, and for an
mit to the diètation of the other House,
of* time, and without
1 submait to it lu tbis case as I consideri adefinite period
any evideuce being necessary to, be put
It pretty mucli ln tbe value of a money
238 is one of those
The Commons are more in toucb before tbem. Section
Bill.
permissive clauses that after a railway Is
-with tbe people than we are bere; tbey luBoard may call upon the
sist upon their rights. and I bow to their constructed the
raiiway company to lay before them a plan
I bave again to express my redecision.
and then the
gret that we dld not return the Bill as they and profile of their road,
Board may pass rules and regulations ln
sent it to us, and leave theni to take the
the same as they
responsibility before the country lnstead of regard to the crosslngs,
when a raliway Is under construction.
amending it iu no dignified manner-I use do
they
the expression witb aIl deference to my hion. When a raiiway Is belng constructed,
they shall pass
colleagues aud no enhancement whatever to shall file the plans and
rules and regulations concerning the crossthe prestige of tbe Senate.
It
The .commlttee divlded on tbe amend- lngs, but after a rallway is constructed,
says that the Board inay ask that the proment, whlch was carried on a division.
file be submltted, and tbey may make
The CHAIRMAN-Shali the report as ordeyrs and regulations. This is my pro-amended be adopted ?
posed amendmaent to section 238:
The board shahl from time to time cause exHon. Mr. FERGUSON-Before that mocrossings
ail
be
of an aminations to andmade ofmakehighway
tion is put, 1Iintend to give notice
such orders and
shall
at rail level
ameudment that I wili move on the third regulations for the guarding or protecting of
necessary for the
such
readlng of the Bill. I will read the motion safety crossings as it deems
of the public.
is no use la dupiicating the
now. There
Trhat the Act Is shamefully weak at the
argument, and 1Initend to submit my argu- present moment ln the respect whicb I have
ment lu faveur of the amendmnent~ wben mentioned, Is beyond doubt. Then I prothe Bill comes up for third reading,, but I pose to follow it up by adding another
wlll read it now so that hou. gentlemen subsection.
wi]l understand exactiy wbat T propose
Until the board has made an order aud redolng. My contention-aind I thit"k hon. gulation la respect of such crossings and the
the company
gentlemen understand very weli-ls that company has complied therewith, in respect of
shall be hiable at common law
the Railway Act as it stands uow imposes such crossinge.
no duty upon the Railway Commissioners
The judgment of the Suprenie Court
It
with regard to highway crossings.
ail doubt. That
power. They may puts that matter beyond
gives only a permissive
judgment is rlght-and whether It is
do this and they may do that, but wltb
rîglit or wrong, It Is the law of the land at
the single exception o! clause .237, which
the present time. A father who bas a son
deals with rahhways under construction,
whose- father
permissive na- klilled at a crossing, or a son
they are entirely of a
is kilied at a crossing, bas not an action
ture, and there is no declaration within the
before a jury ualess someRailway, Act Imposing a positive duty and caunot go
thing bas bappened, and what Is that ?
on the Railway Commission with regard to
been made to. the
hlgbway crossings. Wlth that view, which That an application bas
and tbe Board bas passed in order
I think 1 wili be able to show bon, gentle- Board
the crossing, aud then
men is a correct one, I intend to move thîs witb reference to
the railway
ameadment to section 338. 0f course that he ls able to sbow tbat
as an
Hon. Mr. POIRIER.

MAROH 26, 1908
company has flot carried out that order
properiy aud effIciently, and then the railway company la hiable.
My hon. friend from De Salaberry pointed
out again and again that the passlug of the
Bill as It came to us from the House of
Coinmons wiii cause a great deal of litigation. At present ail the lîtigation that can
arise under the judgment of the Supreme
Court is on the question as to whether the
orLlers of the board with respect to any
crossing have been properIy carried out or
That ls the only question than caiî
not.
go to a jury with regard to the crossinga,
aud that wiil only be with regard to the
level crossings, wlth regard to which there
are orders of the board, and these ouiy
aniount to something over 200 out of 13,On ail the other crossings of the
00M.
country, according to the judgment of the
Supreme Court, the court cannot be successfully appealed to aud the case canuot
go before a jury uniess the board has stepped
lu and made an order with regard to them.
Then, If the railway has flot carrled out that
order, the case can go before a jury. I thiuk
that la a deplorable condition ln which to
Wheu four years
leave the law of Canada.
ago we passed the Railway Act, I will yenture to say there was flot one man lni either
branch o! pariameut who had the sllghtest
Idea that we were shaping the law lu sucli
a way as wouid permit o! such a decislon
lu the Supreme Court as was arrived at lu
I
the cnse of McKay vs. Grand Trunk.
do flot thiuk that one hon. member in this
}Iouse or In the House of Commons had
the slightest conception that we were leaving the iaw ln that deplorable condition;
yet that la the condition In.which the Supreme Court found it, ln the case to which
1 re!erred, and that Judgment has flot been
uppealed frorn, and It remains the iaw of
I amn not surprlsed-athough
the land.
I arn realiy lu one sense-at hearing my
lion. f riend from Westmoreland telling the
House that the Bill was amended by my hon.
f riend froni De Salaberry must fulfil the
Intentions of the gentleman who had the
Bill lu charge ln the other House. Hle beileved it was Just what was lu the mind of
Mdr. Lancaster, the gentleman who lntroduced
Iu repiy to
the Bill in the other House.
that, let nme say that the representatives of
thec railway companies, before our commit-

tee, told us that the puttiug o! the Lancaster Bill luto operation would cost them $50,000,000. We do flot hear a word from theni
now as to what compliance wltb Mr. Beique's
ameudment wiil cost. Wflere ls the story
about the live million dollars to-day?' I cannot see that this Bihl lu goiug to cost thern a
dollar, except the expense of going to the
commission and gettiug this permission,
which may be a blanket one. It dlues flot
say it shahl be a special permission. They
can go to the board and get an order for each
raiiway compauy that wlll cover ail lts
highiway crosslngs that are flot already provided for, and the only expense they would
be at would be the expense of their legal
employees ln going to the board; beyoud
that ht does flot Impose auy duty on Mhe
board or any obligation ou the rallways to
The plain readlug
protect the crossings.
of the clause wUll convince auy hou.
gentleman that it dolue not. The provision 'Unless such crobriing la protected,
constructed, and thereafter duly maintalued.
according to the orders of the old privy
coundil,' appiies to two bundred odd crossings already coustructed. Others eau corne
in nder it, by an application. But
what pressure is there tu uaai&, thern
corne lu ? Parliarnent as rnuch as said to
the board, 'Give theni permission to run es
fast as they like over ail these crossings
and you need flot examiue thern. 'Thalt i.
I read lu this mornlug's
our verdict.'
paper that Presideut Roosevelt addressed a
message tu Cougresa Iu the United States,
and he polnted out to Congres. that owing
to the recent decision of the Supreme Court
with regasd to the Itàbility o! the employers,
he recomrnended a change ln the iaw. There
you have an instance o! a goverument alive
to the Interests of the emphoyees of the
A decision of the Supreme Court
country.
-the tehegrapb summary does flot tell us
wbat It was-was made whiech affected the
iiability of employers, sud at once the preaident of the United States calis the attention of Congreas to It wlth a view tu having
leglalation passed on that matter. 1 could
hardly introduce this amefidment wlthout
Possibly I may
making thîs expianation.
not address the House again ou the subi ect,
but 1 rnay say, before resuming iny seat,
that there bas been an extraordinary set of
circumatances co-operating with reference to

SENATE
We have bad a most power- to, or approached in any otber way. 1 thlnk
this measure.
fui lobby wlth regard to lt-a most power- the hou. gentleman bas no rlgbt to cast
an Imputation upon this body broadcast
fui and Insistent lobbywlthout narnlng the man wbo bas been lobHon. Mr. WATSON-No ! No!
bled or canvassed. The statenient Is unworthy of rny bon. friend, because he bas
Sorne hon. MEMBERS-No! No!
no rIgbt to narne this honourable House ln
Hon. Mr. POWER-I rîse to a questionl a body lu the manner ln whlch he bas,
of order. Tbis ls the second time the hon. witbout mentionlng the Individuals whom
gentleman bas made that statement lD he knows bave been lobbled.
connectlon wltb the Bill. Speaking for
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Wltb regard to
myseif, 1 resent the Imputation. I have
flot been Iobbied ln any sense, shape or way, tbe point of order, I dId not make the asand I arn not aware tbat any bon, gentle- sertion wltb regard to ýany single member
of the House, nor wlth regard to any lndimnan bas.
vîdual lni the House, but I state what Is
Sorne bon. MEMBERS-Hear, hear.
as well known a Tact as anytblng can be,
tbat thls lobby was carrled on.
Hon. Mr. CÂ-SGRAIN-Hear, bear.
Hon. Mr. POWER-If tbe bon. gentlernan's own parIlarnentary vîrtue bas been
ternpted by any lobbylst, tbat ls to be
regretted.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Speakîng to the
question of order, the hon, gentleman frorn
Halifax says thls ls the second tIrne I
bave made that reference. Let me teli
my hon. frlend that it la not. It la the firat
tume. Sorne other hon. gentleen dld It,
but I dld not do It. I arn perfectly parlarnentary ln saylng that a lobby bais been
carrled on agalnst thls Bill.
.Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I tblnk It Is the
duty of tbe hon. gentleman to wltbdraw
bis statement, and accept the staternent
made by the bon, gentleman from Halifax.
I bave not been approacbed or wrltten to.
I have not been canvassed dlrectly or imdlrectly as to my course la regard to this
measure, and I tblnk It la unfair that the
bon. gentleman should cast such R refiectlon on tbe entîre House.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I amn speaklug
now wltb due consideratîon of my word.

Hlon. Mr. WATSON-No!
Hou. Mr. MeMULLEN-No!
Sorne bon. MEMBERS-No !
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Hon. gentlemen
are qulte satlsfled as to wbat was golng
on, but I bappen to know tbere bas been
sucb a lobby, and tbat tbere bave been
gentlemen la the corridors wbo bave been
pressing thelr views ail the tîme It bas
been golng on. I do not say that any
bon, gentleman was swerved from bis loyal
duty to hls country by this lobbylng. I
dld not make that staternent at ail. If I
had made It agaînat tbe House collectlvely
or Indivldualiy, It would be an easy matter
to say I had reflected on the honour of
the House; but I bave flot sald so. I referred to tbe tact wblch is plain and evldent that there bas been a lobby, and tbere
was a lobby last year, sWfl more apparent,
wltb regard to tbls matter. I leave It
tbere; I do not go beyond that and I bave
notblng to witbdraw or retract. If bon.
gentlemen want to get the judgment of
the chair on thîs subject tbey eau dernand
It but I amn satlsfied that I bave not made
any staternent whleh I arn called upon to
wltbdraw or retract.

Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I rîse to a point of
order. Tbe bon. gentleman says be Is
speaklng 'wltbt due consîderatlon of bIs
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Hon. gentlemenword. I thInk my bon. frlend would do
Hlon. Mr. FERGUSON-If the judgrnent
hliseif a justice la the rnlnds of bis bon.
colleagues ln tbis Hlouse If be would name of the chair Is to be lnvoked, I arn wlllingan hon. member wbo bas been lobbied. I to take my seat until we bave the decisioni;
for one bave neyer been spokea to, written if not 1 dlaim the right to proceed.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON.

MAROFI 26, 1908(j
Hon. '.%r. BEIQUE-I have oniy one reIt
mark to make on this point of order.
seema to me It sbould not be open to any bon.
member of this House to cast reflections
upon the mernbers of the Senate in a genAs far as 1 amn cour
erai way like'that.
cerned, as the mover of the amendment, 1
say wlthout fear of contradiction that ever
since 1 bave been In tbls House I have not
allowed anybody, rallway man or banker.
te canvass me or Inquire as to wbat are my
opinions upon any Bill coming before tbis
House, and I afFirm that nobody bas, to my
knowiedge, canvassed any member of the.
Senate, and, anyway. I have flot consorted
wlth any one for that purpose.

nny voice raised in the House of Gommons
against the Bill; but when it came to the
Senate as It had corne last year, they
approached the Senate with ail the Influence that they could control on the
members of this House. Wby, L asired
was flot that pressure brought to bear on
the House of Gommons as weli as on the
Senate? Wby sbould we be slngled out
for the purpose of deallng with such ia very
Important mneasure as thisHon. Mr. McMULLEN-I rise to a point
1 ivant to know firat what la
of order.
before the chair?

The CHAIRMAN-The question before
the chair is, shall the report of the commitThe CHAIRMAN-In my opinion, the tee, as amended by the ameudment of the
statement made by the hon. senator from hion. senator from De Salaberry, be adoptýuarshfieid does nlot apply to nnybody ln ed?
partîcular, and I thlnk be shouid accept
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I amn speaking to
wbat the hon, gentleman bas said, that they
that amendmnent.
That does not
bave not been canvassed.
destrny the fact that a lobby may bave
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-The hon, gentletaken pince, but wlthout any effect at ail. man made an Insinuation some time ago
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-I want to go one that lobbying- had beeu carried on in the
Ail the lnfluences-perhaps Senate.
step further.
that wouid have been a better word to use
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-That question bas
-ail the Influences which the railway com- beeu settled.
panles could exert legitlmateiy-I do not
Hon. Mfr. McMULLEIN-The bon. gentiecharge that they approached anybody wlth
ne says It is
a base consideration-bave been used for xÂan ls repeating It now.
the purpose of defenting thîs Bill la the well known that Influence was exerclsed ln
Senate, and I thlnk It an extraordinary this Senate by the railway men to secure
tbing that a similar effort was not made the defeat of this Bill.
In the House 0f' Gommons durlng the lat
Hon. Mfr. FERGUSON-The hou. gentleWhen this Bill was passed for
two years.
He is
man bas no right to take the floor.
the first Urne In the House of Gommons two referring to a matter that bas been
years ago, the rnllway companles appeared already declded.
It la an exhibition of lnbefore a select committee of that House tolerance of the opinions of everybody 'who
and urged ail the reasons they could sug- opposes bis views.
He la tbe most IntoiergesI, I presume, 10 defeat the Bill. Their ant man I bave ever met in thîs House or
operations were enîlrely directed at that anywhere else.
lime to the Honse 0f Commons, and they
Last year the House of
An hon. GENTLEMAN-Order, order.
did not succeed.
Gommons again passed the Bill with reHon. Mfr. FERGUSON-If hou. gentleThe Bill was the men knew.anytbing about the rlghts of a
markable unanimlty.
work of a commlttee conslsting of four eml- member of parliament in debate, tbey wouid
nent lawyers on the goverament aide of not cali lorder.'
the House and three of the opposition, and
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-I rise to a point of
last year It came before the House of Coinand the Bill was allowed to pass with- order; the bon, gentleman bas no right to
nions,
out any Interference or pressure of any klnd. adêIress a senator across the floor of the
Again il came before the House of Goni- House and tell hlm be la the most Intolerant
mons tbis year, and we heard nothing of man ln the Senate.

698

SENATE

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I sald he was inDoes
tolerant of the opinions of others.
the hon. member want a ruling of the
House on that ?
Hon. Mr. WATSON-If the hon, gentleman wili look at rule 46 he wlll find that
ail personal, sharp, or taxing speeches are
forbidden.'
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I have flot been
making a personai, sharp or taxing speech
Hon. Mr. WATSON-The hou. gentlemnan's sense is flot as fine on that point
as othera, perbapa.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It will be better
for hon, gentlemen ta exerc lac patience.
You have a very strong majorityHon. Mr. WATSON-Haw do you know?
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-My bon. friend
ought ta know, because It la withln my
knowiedge tbat lie bas interviewed a number of members of this House and tried
ta persuade them to vote agalnst this Bill.
I do not aay that la lobbying. Perhaps the
hon. member knows more about these
questions than others, and bas a right ta
Instruct them bow ta vote. I do not find
fault with that; but when bon. membiers
challenge my statement that I made a few
moments ago that the viewa of a majarity
of thls House are against me, tbey ought
ta show that they are not. AU this opposition does nat deter me from standing
firmly lni my position. I have stoad
struggle alrnost
lu the Confederation
alone, at public meetings ln Prince Edward Island, wben people were as opposed ta me as they are now; but I
bad the good fortune ta find my vlews pervail lu the end. Not only that, but pressure bias been brought ta heur agalnat this
Bill, politicai pressure, and no anc knows
that better than my bon. friend wha bas
rnised the point of order. I bave beard
fram t-wo or threc quartera that members
of the government lu the other Hause bave
Intimated that they are willing ta acecpt
the motion, and that bas been given as a
reason ta members of this House, why
they should vote againat the Lancaster
Bill.
Hion. Mr. CASGRAIN-Tbe hou. gentleman says he bas been told; wiil he say by
whorn he bas been told ?
Hon. Mr. WATSON.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-If I amn shown
that the statement la flot correct, I wili
takze it back. It la flot necessary that I
should say who toid me. I have bad it
fram more than one source, and that the
politicai wbip bas been cracked ln order
ta get a vote on this question. I have
good reason ta know that at one stage In
the progress of this disussion, my views
were supported warmiy by a large number
of gentlemen who support the goverument
usually ln this House. I arn not quite sure
whetber sny of them remains ln that consistent position with regard ta It except
tbe bon. senator frorn St. John, who bas
Juat addressed the House. I refer ta these
thlngs because the responslbillty wIll have
ta rest somewhere with regard ta this
question, and, If, as I have mentioned ta
hon, gentlemen the state of the law la
that common iaw liability does flot
lie against the rallways on ail the
higbway crossings of this country with
regard ta wbich the board bas flot passed
an order-if that la the correct vlew
of the law, and it cannot be dlsputed ln
view of the decision ot the Supreme Court
-this House will hear from the people on
this question very often ln the future. As
the Hon. Mr. Graham said lu tbe House
of Commons, when he -warmly supported
the Bill, it la a question that will flot
down, and he polnted out that It would
be necessary soon ta go furtber than the
Lancaster Bill and apply the same principie
to tbe rural crossings that tliis Bill sougbt
ta apply to urban crossings. I ar nt the
Judgrnent af the House ln putting my
views s0 sfrongly, knowlng that the support I had at the start bas been cut from
under my feet by the politicai action that
bas been taken, and knowing the powerfui
arguments that have been addressed by
It might be
the railway companies.
thought that I have exceeded prudence ln
pressing rny views sO strongly. When 1
read that 3udgment of the Supreme Court,
I became deeply, strongly convinced that
lt was thxe duty of parliament to deal with
this question, and to deai with it lu the
right way. It is my practice wben a question cornes up and I conceive it ta be one
of Importance, ta. go to the bottom of it,
ta study It as weli as I know how according
ta the degree of Intelligence given me.

MARCU 26, 1908
after ail biis bard woric and sacrifice of~
healtli, that lie bas faîled to couvince the
House that lie alone is rîglit and ail otbers
We ail respect the bon. seiaiare wrong.
tor front Marsbifield, but bie sbould flot get
angry at bis feliow members because tliey
do flot bappen to share bis views. We ail
differ from one anotber on many -subjects,
but tliat is no reason wliy tliere sbould be
Let birn take
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbiat decision to wlicl bard feelings between us.
the bon, gentleman lias referred la not wortb bis llcklng like a littie man, and say that
The law does flot exist to-day his judgrnent bas flot been accepted by the
anytbing.
I cauliot understand Ilouse, but let blim flot tlirow insinuations
its it existed tlien.
tbe position taken by iny bon. friend.
against tliose wlio cannot see eye to eye
witbi bini, and wbo are lionest lu thieir exHlon. Mr. GLBSON-I could understanid
It does flot follow.
pressions of opinioni.
tbe position of tbe biou. senator frorn Marsli- because we cannot see the subject as lie
field if bie bad refralned from offering any does, tliat we bave been canvassed and iiinrnendrnent to tbis Bill as it carne from the fluenced.
It la a very unfounded cliarge
Hie says that amendHouse of Commons.
If bie bad referred to otber bis
to makre.
nients bave been proposed by bon, gentle- wbicb bave been iobbied ln tbe House, he
men lu tliis Honse witb a vlew to killing
miglit not bave been so very far astray;
Wliat effect would bis owni
tlie Bill.
I bave my eyes and ears open and I
if tlie BiIU was s0 good but
amendaient bave?
mnust say ln falrness to tliose lnterested ln
ns it stood wben It carne to us frorn the
the Bill that I -fancy tliere lias been iess
Hlouse of Cominons, wliy did rny lion. friend
lobbying on tbis question than on any otber
venture to move an amrndment? It wouid
tbat bas corne to my notice, consldering tbe
bave been more consistent if lie liad off ered
Tt la true that this Bill
of It.
If lie will take a micro- Importance
no arnendment.
lias been passed by tlie Ilouse of Commons
scope and compare bis amendment wltli tliat
tbree Urnes, but it la flot against the House
of tbe bion, gentleman frorn De Salaberry
It la tbe duty
The of Commons we are acting.
lie w-i fail to find any difference.
to try and
the members of every member of tliis House
lion, gentleman lias accused
perfect legislation whlcb cornes to us frorn
of tbils House lndlscrlrninntely witli being
and tbere la no barmn In
ililifienced by tbe rallway comipanies lie- tbe Commons,
sending back a Bill amended wlien we flnd
cause they do not liappen to view thie matwas lu a defective state wlien it
ter froin the saine standpoint that lie does. tbat It
came to us. Are we bere sirnpiy to ratlfy
Tie lion, gentleman is flot new to parliaus. simply because
nient, and lie knows tliat lie bas the saf e- the Bis that corne to
tliey bave been passed two or tbree times
guarding of tlie lionour of parliarnent; if lie
We are bere as free
knows of any IndivIduai case of tliat kind by tbe Commons?
citizens la a free country wlth tbe riglit
it is openi to lili, or to aily other member,
and to make amendto niake an accusation, but lie lias no riglit to tbink for ourselves,
ments to any Bis wblcli corne to us wlieto tbrow accusations broadcast agalnst
apIf it«is true tliat ther tbey have received the unanimous
rnernbers of the Senaite.
proval of thie House of Commons or flot. I
lie stands alone, as lie lias said lie does.
if my -bon. friend bad bad
lie is, no doulit, verd mucli disappointed, amn sure tbat
some experience at the otber end of the
because lie bas stated that lie also stood
be wouid know tbat many Imalone' durlng last session of parliament. building
portant matters have slpped tbrougli the
The bon, gentleman sliould not inake Invery qulckly, and, perbaps,
sinuations; tbey do not strengtben bis case. otber Cbarnber
In a very defective state, because nobody
A great rnany of the members bave rernaînto take enough ilnterest ln the legised sulent and given full consideratlon to seemed
Wben sucli a Bill
intion to study tliem.
We ail agree that le lias
bis remarks.
sorry that bis cornes to the Senatè, would It be Improper
worked bard, and we are
Tt is a pity, for us to amend tbe defective Bill or sbould
work lias proved abortive.

Wben I came to tliat soiemn conviction, 1
studled tbe question at tlie sacrifice of my
bealtb, worked on tbe subject to master It
tborougly, and bave corne to tlie conclusion tbat tbe law as it, stands to-day Is lu
a dîscredîtable position and should flot lie
ieft so, and I arn ready to support tlie Lancaster Bill.

SENATE
*we sirnply bow to the dictumi of tbe House
of Commans?
If we admitted my bon.
friend's jildgmlent and theory, the Senate
woul(l certainly be anl entirely useless body
and not fit ta occupy the position it does lu
the country.
I give rny hon. friend froln
Marsbfield credit for bis work ln this
Honse.
Nobody upholds the dignlty of
the Senate more than he does; but sometinies hie lets his toague rua away wlth biis
judgment, and he is afterwards sorry for
It
If I thought tbat bis ameadment was
better thani the amendmeut of the bon. gentlemanl frorn De Salaberry I wvoild give it
iny support. I bave the utmast confidence
ln the member from De Salaberry as a
lawyer of ability and hlgb standing ln the
province from wbich be cornes, and arn
prepare to accept aay ameadment he offers la a matter of this kiad. We do not
always agree with hlm; at the saine time,
w'ben a question of legal Interpretation
arises, I thlnk, I would rather take tbe
chances of accepting bis view than the recommeadation of Inymea when It coules ta
rnaking an ameadment to a Bill of such
Importance. Every member of this House
regrets the loss of ]Ife at railway crossings.
I have spent many years of xay ]Ife ou
the rail-wnys, and know that a great maay
accidents are falrly traceable ta the fanit
of our railways; at the saine time a great
mnay accidents occur througb the foollsbaess of people thernselves. Young people
golng out for an evening, seeing a train
approaching, try to, cross the railway track
abead of the traia. A great mny accidents happea that way. I bave seen accidents happen ln Hamilton, and more freqnently ln Moatreal that were due entlrely
to the recklessness of the victims tbemselves. ln the thickly peapled parts of
Montreal, wliere there are gates and watchimnen, and great care Is exerclsed by the
railways to prevent accidents, I bave seen
people crawllag undfer the bars and crosslng the track even against the advlce and
waraing of the rallway employees. I for
oae, would lîke to see the saine condition
of things wltb regard ta crossînga here as
In the rnotberland, but we are a young
country aod If these conditions had been
lmpased on our raîlways In the early construction of tbem we -would. not bave been
able ta build one-half of the ronds that we

possess to-ay. What 1 sbould like to see
and I arn sure 1 voice the views of a great
rnany members of this House, ls that the
rallways should wltb ail possible speed
remove those dangers.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Why flot say so
in the Bill ?
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-It Is weIl sometimes
to make haste slowly. A great many difficulties have to be eacountered, and in many
cases physical difficulties preclude the posslbility of constructing an overhead crossing or making a subway. I know that
myself from rny long practical experlence
ia rallway construction, ln the thlrty-eight
years or more that I have been connected
with such work; at the saine time I know
how anxious the railways are to, remove
those physical difficulties and proteet their
crossiags. We are going a step ln the
right direction to make them protect these
It would be unplaces; at the samne tie,
reasonable to expect thern to do so, wlthin
a year. No better metbod of settliug that
could be suggested than to put the whole
inatter Ia the hands of the Raiiway Coinmissioners, because they have engineers
who wjhl be able to point out to the Coinmissioners those crosslngs which ia their
judgment should bie attended ta, first. They
should protect tiiose that are really dangerous first, and I arn sure the railway coinpailles are as auxions to, do that part of
the work as the hon. senator fromn Marshfield.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I latend to, move
my ameadment la committeee, but, before
dolng so, let me say ta my hon. frlend
perlhaps I may have dropped the expression la the debate that I stood alone. If
sa, I did not mean to makce such a statement. I said I have stood alane on maay
occasions la rny lîfe, and bad the satisfaction lu the end of seeing my views prevail. It would be unfair to boa, gentlemen
who sympathize wlth my views If 1 sald
that I stood alone, when 1 kaow there are
sorne hon. gentlemen who support them,
though a large majority, I kaow, Is agalist
them. I do not wlsh to be understood as
setting my frleads aside and saylng that
tlieir support couats for notblng. 1 know
1 bave pressed my vlews wltb a great

MARCU 26, 1908
CoeaI of pertinaclty, but I do not tbink 1
lie ve sald nt any Urne ln the debate or
lî'sinuated ngainst any hon. member in
tlhis Hlouse that bie was moved by iînproper
motives. One bon, gentleman, wbom I
greatly respect, thought I bad doue so,
%, reference to hlmself. I have looked
.tli
over my speech from beginning to end,
and 1 cannot see one word that would bear
that Impression. I made no reference personaliy to any bon. gentleman In the House.
What I sald about railway companies and
the Influences they were using, was simply
stating what tbey were dolng. 1 did flot
say that any member was lnfluenced to take
any improper attitude against this Bill.

701

Hon. Mr. SC OTT-Let tbat be substituted for a report of the committee.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I shouid tblnk.
the proper procedure at this stage would
lie that the bon, gentleman sbould make
a motion thiet the report of the Comittee
of the Whole sbould not be concurTred la,
but thiat the Lancaster Bill as It came to
tlie House should be re-cornmitted to the
conmnttee.
Hlon. Mr. POWER-He may move that
it bie plnced on the Orders of.the Day for
tlird rending to-morrowv, but hie cannot
iinove the third reading now.

lion. 1fr. ELLIS-The lion, gentleman
w'ho introduced titis Bill wben it came up),
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON rnoved thnt the desired that the Bill should not go to the
following subsections are hereby added to Coinrnittee on Raliways wbere It w-ouid lie
section 238 of the Railway Act:ernnsculated. I wvant to get a vote on
2. The board shall from time to time cause the Bill If 1 cati.
exarninations to be made of ail highway crossings at rail-level, and shall make sucli orders
Hon. Air. WILSON-I wouid like to*
and regulations for the guarding or protecting know wthelu the Bill Ias conmnîtted to
of such crossings as it deems necessary for the
the Committee of the Wbohe House ? I
safety of the public.
S. Ijatil the board has made an order and can understand full well that tbe amenidregulation in respect to any such crossings,
and the company has complied therewith, the ments, after they carne back from tie
company shall be liable at comrnon law in re- Standing Committee, were submitted to
spect to such crossings.
the House ; but the question iu my mind
The amndment was declared ]ost on a is, bas the Lancaster Bill, as it origlnally
division.
apî>eared bere, and as It went to the Railwvay Comrinittee been committed to Vie
Hon. Mr. LANDRY, from the committee
consideration of the Committee of the
reported the Bill with amendments.
WVbole ? I have looked over the proceedHon. Mr. YOUNG inoved that the report ings, and I cannot find a motion to refer
it f0 the Committee of the Wb'ole House.
be -coacurred ln.
1>erhaps tise Speaker is ale to lnformi me
Hon. Mr. ELLIS moved that the report wlien Vint %vasdone. If Vie Bill bas not
of the Cornmittee of the Wbole be net con- heen submultted to a Comittee 0f Vie Wbo]e
curred la, but that Instead thereof the Bill Hoeuse, ive certainly only have to report
as read the second Urne on January 28, upon tlie amneidmeuits made in flie Standand referred to the Standing Committcee ing Coiuniittee, and if Vie Bill lins been
on Railways, Telegraphs and Harbours be cornrnitted, 1 sbou]d Iîke t0 know wben
now rend tlie third time. He said : 1 arn that was.
mot lu faveur of the element of time ln
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-In answer to the
that Bill. I would extend the time to the
railways to tiiqyear 1915, but If the Sen- lion, gentleman, If lie wilI refer to page
ate concurs ln this view »of It 1 bave no 212 of the Minutes and Proceedîngs of the
Senate, lie wil fiad a motion by the Hou.
doubt that time wIll be allowed.
by the Hon. Mr.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The bon, gentleman Mr. Casgrain, seconded
Mihls, that the sald amendment-that is
cannot inove that as an amendment to the
the report that came from the Standing
motion to fix a date for the third readlng.
Coimmttee-be taken Jnte consideration on
The SPEAKER-It can bie a notice of Thursday next. To that motion 1 moved
motion to lie taken up at the third readlng. in amendaient, seconded by the Hon. Sir
The amendment wvas adopted.

SENATE

Mackenzie Bowell, tbat the consideratIon
of the report be flot 110w referred to the
Senate for Thursday next, but that the
Bill and report of the Standing Comnmittee
of Raiiways, Telegrapha and Harbours on
the sanie lie conimltted to a Committee of
the Whole House on Tbnrsday next.
Hon. ',%r. ELLIS-I
foliowing motion:

beg to

make tlie

Resolved that the report lie not now adopted,
but that it lie dsent back te -the Committee of
the Whole wjth instructions ta substitute
therefor the Bill as it came froni the House of
Cominons.
The House divîded on the amendmnent,
m-bich was lest on the following division:
Contents 14, non-contenta 42.
Contents:
Ronourable Messieurs
McDonaid,
(Cape Breton),
McKay (T-ruro>.
McLaren,
meSweeney,
Miller,
Montplaisir.
Nison.-14.

Bernier,
Blduc,
Cioran,
Coffey.
Eluis,
Fergusoa,
Land ry,

Non-Contents:
Honourable Messieurn
Baird,
Baker,
Béique,
Beif h.
Belcourt,
Bostock,
Bowell
(Sir Mai2kenzie),
Campbiell,
Carling,
(Sir John),
Cartwright
(Sir Biàharc1).
Casgrain,
David,
Derbyshire,
Dessaulle,
DeVeber,
Fiset
Frost,
Gibson,
Gilmor,
Jaf ray,

Joues,
Kerr,
King,
Legris,
Lougheed,
Mdllugh,
MeMuhien,
Perley,
Power,
Riey,
Robertson,
Ross (Halifax),
Roy,
Scott,
Shehyn,
Sullivan,
Talbot,
Thonipson,
Thonipson,
Watson,
Wood,
yeo,
Young.-42.

Hon. Mr. POIRIER-I shouhd like to
state thaf I wvas paired on this motion witb
thie hou. gentleman from Rothesay, and
that I would have voted ln favour of the
I sbouid like to
ameudment decidedir.
bave that on record.
Hlon.

r.LANDRY.

Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I beg to move,
ns au amendment, that the report of the
coînmittee be net concurred in, but that
the foliowing section lie added to the Bill
(3) Au Act te amend the Railway Act.
are hereby
The following subsections
ndded to section 238 of the Raiiway Actf
2. The board shahl froni time te tume cause
examinations to lie made of ai highway crossigs at rail-level, and shall make such orders
and regulations for the guar ding or protectingof such crossings as it deenis necessary for the
safety of the public.
3. Until the board has made an order and
regulation in respect to an-y such crossings,
and the company has complied therewith, the
cornpany shah lie hiable at common law i11 respect to sucli crossings.
The amiendient was dechared lesf on the
saie division.
The report of the cornmittee was
concurred in.

then

GILM.\ORE DIVORCE CASE.
CONSIDERATION REPORT 0F COMMITTEE POSTPONED.
lion. '.\r. LOUGHEED uioved the adoption of the report of the Standing Cernmittee on Divorce re the petition of Edifli
'May Gilmore.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think we sbouid
bave the evidence in that case before we
adopt the report. I bave not received It
3-et.
Hon. M.Nr.LOUGHEED-It
buted days ag-o.

w-as distri-

Hon. '-Ir. CLORAN-I have been requested by an bon. senator who had te
take flie train at baif-past three for New
York to asic to have the consideration of this
report postpoîîed. He is very nnxious to
discuss it.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-It seern- t0 be
extraordinary that the motion shouhd lie
pressed wlien a request of this kind la
urged.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I cannot very
weIl understand that because an bon. member desires to go te New York, that therefore the business of the House must be
suspended until bis return. This Item bas
been upon the Order Paper for some fime,
and bon. gentlemen wbo rnay lnferest tbemselves in It bave had notice that it wil
corne up to-day.

MKfRCII 2t3. 190S
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The bon. gentleman
wIll have an opportunity of discusslng It
when the Bill cornes before us.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-On more tban one
occasion, wbhen an hon. member was absent frorn this House, we have grante<l
similar requesta. My bon. frlend was absent and we willingly deferred the consideration of a Bill until bis returna. If thc
Governor were coming here to-morrow, I
could understand that relief could be given
In this case very soon, but as the Governor
Is not coming, 'we can discuss this next
week.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Then I move
that the order of the day be discharged
and that It be placed on thc orders of the
Day for Tuesday next.
The order of the day was allow-ed to
stand until Tuesday.
FRENCH TREATY BILL.

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA,

Fr!iday, March 27, 1908.

The SPEAKER took tbe Chair nt Tbree
&clock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
LEVEL CILOSSINGS.
MOTION..
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON moved:
Thitt an order of the Senate do issue for a
return showing, separately, the highway crossmngs at rail level on ail railways, except railways under construction, witin the jurisdiction of the Riailway Commission in respect of
which highway crossings, protection has heen
ordered by the board since its organization,
said return to give the character of the protection ordered ia each-case, the name of the
railway company, the local designation of each
hi.ghway crossilng, and the county and province in which it is situated, and the date of
thc order and regulation in respect thereof.
Also, a similar return giving the highway
crossings ordered to be protected by the proper
Puthority in each case on ail railways not under the control of the board, including the Intercolonial Railway, and including orders made
regarding railways under construction.
Âlso, a sirnilar retura respecting ail highway crossings, which had orders and regulations in respect to them in force, on the lst
day of February, 1904.
The motion was agreed to.

SECOND READING.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT
moved the second reading of Bil] (57) An
A.ct respecting a certain convention between His Majesty and the President of
the French Republic.
lie said : Probably it wonld be more
convenient. under the circumstances If I
THIRD READINGS.
were to tal-e this stage now, and we could
enter Into the discussion of it in CommitBill (32) An Act to Incorporate the Bank
tee of the Wbole. If my bon. friend from
Bostock.)
of Vacue.(o.Mr.
Belleville does not object, I wIli ndopt tbat
Bill (S) An 'Act respecting tbe Pacific
course.
and Atlantic Railway Company-(Hon. Mr.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-When Kerr.)
we are in Committee of thc Whole, we are
Bill (67) An Act respecting the Canadian
commltted to the principle of the Bill1, and Nortbern Ontario Rallway Cornpany.we are confined to the discussion of Uic (Hon. Mr. Jones.)
particular clause under consIderation ; but
SUPREME COURT ACT AMENDMENT
it -will be clearly understoodBILL.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRGHTSECOND READING.
It la clearly understood that we cau discuss the whole Bill.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readThe motion was agreed to, and the Bil] lug of Bill (121) An Act to amend thc Supreme Court Act.
was read the second Urne.
He sald:- The object of this Bill is to
SECOND READING.
establish R rule ln the court regulatinig the
Bill (37) An Act to Incorporate the Can- position tbat the appeals from the different
ada Weatber Insurance Cornpany.--(Hon. provinces shall taire. At preseut there are
Mr. Belth.)
three classes: Ontario, Quebec and the maIt Is proposed to bave
Tbe Senate adjourned until three o'clock, ritime provinces.
fixe classes, one affecting election appeals,
to-morrow.

SENATE
which will have priority. The whole object
is to give the profession an opportualty
of knowîng wben the cases wiil corne la
their regular rotation.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was read the second trne.
GOVlERNM1ENT RAILWAYS ACT
AMENLDMENT BILL.
IN COMMITTEE.
The House resolved itself Into a Committee of the Wbole ou Bill (27) Au Act to
arnend thie Governiment Rnilways Act.
(Ia the Cornmittee.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thie object of the Bill
is to bring accidents on the Intercolonial
Railway more Into Une wvlth the law as
respects the ordiaary railways of the counIt provides that sbould any animal
try.
be killed on the track, the goverument are
hiable unless the accident happens through
the negligemîce or -%vîlful act of the owner
or bis agents.
On the second clause.
2. Section 61 of the said Act is repealed and
the following is substituted therefor:
61. The cleared land or ground adjoining
the railwvay and belonging te the railway-shall
at all times be maîntaiaed and kept f ree frern
dead or dry grass, weeds, thistles and other
uiiîiecessary combustible material.
2. Whenever damage is caused to crops,
lands, fences, plantations or buildings and
their contents by a fire started by a' railway
locomotive working on the rail way, His
Majestv, whether his efficers or servants have
been guiltv of niegligence or not, shall be liable
for such damages: Provided that, if it is showîi
tlîat mîodern and efficient appliances have
been used and that the oflicers or servants of
His MaIijesty have flot otherwise beeln guilty
of any nlegligence; the total amount of compensation recoverable under this subsection
shall not exceed five thousand dollars, and it
shall be apportioned among the parties who
suffered the loss as the court or judge dotermines.
rc ERGUSON-Thîs clause Ilimîts
Hoii.
the liability of thse gov-erniînent witti regard
That should
to damages arisîng from fire.
be exl)lained to the House, because 1 do
not thinl. it is the saine provision thiat we
bav e in the general flailway Act, aad, even
if it were, we oughit to know exactly o11
mwhat l)Iineiple thie goverarmnt railwny
siiould lie relieved of the responsibility foi
lires occasioned through the negfligence of
Why should the goveramnent
its officiais.
not be responsible for thie full extent of the
ulamage that may be raused in this way?
Hon. M. SCOTT.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There is the principle
that the Crown is flot liable ia any case,
and this is just a concession made to the
Section 61 of the Act, provides
people.
that thie riglit of way of the railways shall
be kept free frorn weeds and rubbishl.
There is no penalty attached, but just a
direction to the offliaIs, and it was thoughit
that it was siot fair to plovide'no penalty.
The danger of accidents is znuch greater
where weeds and dry rubbish are allowed to
rhVlere bas been
accumulate on the track.
ai limitation made, because my bon. friend
iznows that wberever the Cro*wa becomes
liable la any penalty the aniouat recovercd
in such cases is usually rnucb larger than
;t would be against an individual. Juries
wiil take 1Db) consideration the ability of
d'e Crown to pay, and the damnages are cons1derably exaggerated.
lion. '.%r. FERGUSON-But apart froin
that section, by petition of right grantedHon. Mr. SCOTT-I presume If there
were a l)etltioa of right granted, that would
be another channel througb whlcb It could
be done.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I do flot pretend
to know, and 1 bave not given it any consideration, but it is a question as to wbether the usual course in holding a goverament liable for damages by a petition of
right would not be superseded by this
clause.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Ohi no, that will still
he open. That is not taken away that 1
arn aware of, anywbere ia the Act.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-Tbe liability is
$1,000 more than in the Act. 1 think It is
$4,000 Ia the general Railway Act applying
to ahl the railway companies.
Hon. Mr. POWER-No, it is five thonsand dollars. It ls puttiag the goverament
raîlways on just the saine footing as the
others. I remember the clause.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Section 29S of the
Raîlway Act reads:
Whenever damage, is caused to, erops, lands,
fences, plantations or buildings and their
contents by a fire started by a railway locomotive, the company making ise of such
locomotive, whether guilty of negligence or
x10t, should be liable for such damages, and
niay be suied for the recovery of the amount

MARCof such damages in assy court of conspetent
jurisdiction: provided that if it lie shows tisat
the railway conipany lias used modern snd
efficient appliances. and is isot otherwise guilty
of negligence. the total amount of auy one or
more dlaims for fire started by the eamne loco-

27, 1908

705

taissed a limitation of $5,000, tisaI le no messon w-by tiiere sisould lie a limit lu tis
Bill of that amount.

Hou. Mr. WATSON-When tise general
Rallway Ac-t was under discussion, tis
matter was pretty falrly threshed out sud
Thse main point is using modern ap- tise meason tise limit was made -wliere ail
pliauces--a proper fire screen nt tihe top modern appliances were used lu prolecliug
of tise smoke-stack.
tise locomotive from lisrowing out lire ws
for tise purpose of encouraglng tise ralwncy
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Wsll tse hou, leader compauy to use ail tisese appliances. Out
of thse House expiain to me wby It le tisat lu tbe ivest sometimes, a fire wlll start
If thse damages are proven. and tise gov- frosu a locomotive and cause $100.000 damierumnent la heid respousible for tliein, that ages. Il will rua over tbe prairie for thirly
tise amount of damages is limited to $5,000, or forty miles, aud iu tbial case there la no
Instead of tise full amount ?
lisuit to thse amnount of damages wisere negliHon. Mr. SCOTT-If it la proven tisat gence can lie proven. But where tise railthiey have efficient appliances and that tisey way company uses ail modern appîlances
have taken ail proper aud ressonabie came, for the purpose of protection, tben tise
thaI limit is fixed. There lias beess a good limit le piaced at $5,000.
deal of discussion as to w-bat are proper
Hon. NIr. SULLIVAN-Tbiat le satisfacappliances. W'e ail kuow thiat thse draft tory.
frosu tise locomotive cannot lie cliecked
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I muet congratulate
unduir, asnd If the sieve Is too fine tbere le
iso draft practlcally to lt: so tsatIt I s a nmy bon. frieud, If lie le the leader of thse
inatter of guaging tise nisel practicalir, House.
to w-bat sized mesi ivili ailow a locomoHon. Mr. WATSON-Not at ail. I thlnk
tive to gel up a proper steam. By law I have as mucis igbt to expiais as tise
tbiey are eatltled to bav-e steam, sud eu- hou, gentleman bias to ask questions. Protitied. to have n mesh tbat w-ould enabie babiy -svlen tisat Bill ias before tihe House,
If it Is too large lie dld not psy as mucis attention to b s
tisem to make steam.
sud shlows thse tire to escape, tlhen the rail- somue otiser members lu tbe Cisamber.
w-ny becomes lhable for tise consequences.
Tise clause iras ndopted.
Hon. Mr. WILSON-I understand that,
Hon. Mr. McKAY (Tmuro), from tise combut the question tisat rises lu my mmnd Is mittee, reported the Bill iithout amendthut If lise parties owning lthe property ument.
suifer certain damages, sud tise goverumeut
Is lseid responeible for tise damages caused
FRIENCH TREATY BILL.
by the locomotive, wisy sbouid tbey lirmit
REPORTED FROM COMMITTEE.
the amount to $5,000 wisen tise damages
milit be mucis larger tissu that ?
The House mesols-ed Ilseif luto CommitHon. Mr. SCOTT-It le brlnglng Il Into tee of tise Wisole House on Bill (57 ) An Act
lise wltis w-bat parliameut tisougbt sisosld respectlng a certain convention betireen
be the iaw appiylug to ordlnary ralways. Hie Majeety and thse Presîdent of tise
I just rend tise section as sppiied to tise Frenchs Republc.
genersi rallways.
(la tise Comnslttee.)
Hon. Mr. WILSON-Tse facl tisaI ln the
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTgeneral Ralway Act It le limlled to that tIon. gentlemen are aware tisat neltiser
amount le no meason why tisat limit sliouid Houses of pariameut cau amend a treaty.
be piaced lu Ibis Bill. You are ameuding Ail tisat we cas do le t0 accept or to reject
the Act aud trylng to do justice to tise it, ne tise case may lie.
Tise House of
parties aifecled, and If tbe Act before con- Commong, isaving fully considered tiise
motive and on thse same occasion should not
exceed $5,OO0.

45

706

SENATE

treaty bas adopted It aud sent it up for Our to tlue articles w-hieh are covered by the
I believe there w-as no dif- treaty, but in relation to everything else.
consideration.
ference of opinion lu the House of Com- Canada w-ould be obllged to extend to
mons; they w-ere practically unanimous. France also. On the other baud, It w-as
Only five bon. gentlemen voted against stipulated lu the same treaty that the mostthe Bill. I would desire to say ln favoured nation treatment shouid be extendthe first instance, that the House w-Il ed by France to Canada only ln the articles
That was an iuobserve that this treaty aud ail treaties rnentioned ln the treaty.
of thîs kind are of necessîty more or less equaiity rather to our disadvantage w-bich
WVe hope that bas been rernoved in the present treaty.
of a tentative character.
considerabie results w-i be obtained frorn Hon, gentlemen w-HI see that w-e bave sucit. but it would be very dangerous to enter ceeded in obtaluing the minimum French
into minute detail as to what those advan- tariff on one hundred aud fifty-two different
tages might be. The House knows that for articles. Now. as I have saîd, I do not preteud
a long time back, in fact from the very na- to say that It would be possible for us to
ture of the case, the commerce betw-een carry on agreat trade ln many of these artiourselves and the people of France bas been cles et present, but there are hopes that as
more or less of a one-sided character. Our Canada grows lu population and develops
imports froin them. have always been very generally, a consîderable number of these
That is w-I be brought Into the market. Moreover, it
much la exceas 0f our exuorts.
malnly, as I said, in the nature 0f the case, is worth nothiug that by this treaty w-e ohWe import f rom them large quantities of tain at any rate the best terrns that France
articles which may be very fairly descrîbed grants to ans other country with respect to
We import, for aIl these articles. I amn perfectly aware that
as articles of iuxury.
Instance, a very considerable quantity of wlth the exception of our staple products
silk goods and of the fine class of cottou it is a diffcult problemi for us to undertake
and w-ool]en goods, and also fancy articles to compete in rnost Uines of manufactures
M~e im- with any old European country like France.
uind rlbbons and ladies' apparel.
port also large quantities of w-lue, brandies In the first p)lace, the cost of living ia CanAccording to a curions
and matters of that sort but w-e imnport very ada Is very higli.
On the statement w-hidi w-as submltted to the
littie indeed of stapie articles.
other baud, up to the present tirne, our ex- French Chamber juot very long ago, Canada
ports to them have been very srnnhl lu com- rauks, I think, nrnoug the second or thîrd
parison wlth the amountt that w-e import. dearest countries, so far as it la regarded
The total amount of our exports for the by their consular service.
Likew-ise, w-e
tw-elve calender months of 1907 amounted have very bigh w-ages to pay, and in addito $1,746,000, and these w-ere aimost ex- tion to that, at this distance the question
W e of freight of course cornes largely Into concluslvely composed of two articles.
sent them a large quautity of canued lobs- sideration lu an atternpt to lrnport our
ters, and a very considerable quantity, aIl manufactures into France.
1 might add
things considered, of agricultural Implements. that, durlng the course of the tariff comWe sent a moderate quantity of animais mission discussions, a very large number
and oniy a very moderate quantity of bread of the manufacturers w-ho appeared before
stuifs, and although there are a considerable us, made it their plea that they w-ere quite
number of other articles, there are noue of unable to produce articles at the same cost
any considerable moment, wlth the excep- as they w-ere produced by their competitors,
tion perhaps of undressed fura. The objecta notably by Germany, the United States and
that we chiefly deslred to attain lu negotiat- Great Britain. and It Is worth notlng perIng this treaty w-ere, first of ail as follows. haps that the one Canadian manufacture
lu the treaty of 1903 1 am advised that which bas been successfuily pushed under
only seven French articles and tweuty-two ail circurnstances la France, Is that of agriCanadian articles were covered. Moreover, cultural implements, on w-hicb there Is a
It w-as specially provided ln that treaty that 10w-er rate of duty than on almost any
ail the ndvantages that Canada should give other irnported article in CanadaIt Is
to any foreiga power, not merely in relation very much to the credit of the agriculture]
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

MAROH27 10
linpleinent mnanufacturera that theY have
displayed this energy lu pusbing thel? goods,
flot merely lu France but ln other countries,
and, as I noted before, a very large proportion indced of our exporte to France consIsts of that one particular line of manuI amrn ot aware that there are
factures.
many points that It would be worth our
while to discuas at lengtb, but any Information which hon. gentlemen desire to have
that I posseas 1 shall, of course, be very
glad to give as the discussion Is prolonged,
1 might, however, before sittiag dowa, make
this observation; every one knows that
France la a very rich couatry; that probably
nt the preseat moment France la among the
very richeat of ail European countries, and
ls an extremely large investor ia various
waya. Now, anything that would brlng us
into touch with France and with French
capital, would be likely to be a very considerable advantage ln the long rua to the
people of Canada; and one reason whlch bas
actuated the goverament lu pronioting Intercourse with France and negotlating this
treaty is the belief that they wiIl aucceed
ultimately ln directing a good deal of attention on the part of French capitaliste to
Canada. They have already, 1 nderstand,
begun to Inveat to a coasiderable extent In
many enterprises here, and we trust that
la the not distant future Canada will rank
well lu the eyes of French Investors as a
place of Iavesting their surplus capital.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-WhLt articles
does the rigbt bon, gentleman thtak thie
export of can be increased ? Âre there an
new oes ?had
aew onestrade
Hou. Sir RICHARD CART'1WRIGHTThat la a tentative question. I would not
Ilke to appear la the roll of a prophet as
ta what articles we can Increase, but 1
think ive could probably do a good deal
more than we are now doing la tat partîcular article to 'which I have alluded,
tat la to aay the Importation 'of agricultural implementa. Probably we could extend that conaiderably. 1 trust that In
wooden manufactures we may ultimately
be able to secure a consîderable trade, aithough I amn obliged ta say tat In the
article of wood pulp, lu which we 'hoped ta
deal witb them, we do not seem ta have
mnde rnucb progress, and I do not know

707

that as far as that article la concerned
we gain any speclal advaatage under
thia treaty which we did flot possesa under
the former one. Whether we can or caunot aucceed lu doing any considerable business In such staplea as provisions, le a
The French
somewhat doubtful matter.
tariff la atill high on ail these articles. We
get the benefit of their lowest tariff it la
true, but unlesa they could be Induced to
lower their tariff very materlally, I hardly
see that we can hope for any great expansion In that direction, but 1 bave no
doubt our people will be on the alert to see
what can be done. 0f course, hon. gentlemen are nware that France itself ta an
agricultural country, aad that It exporta, la
favourable years, a considerable quantlty
of agrîcultural produce. It has flot unfrequently exported wheat to a consIderable
extent and butter, cheese, eggs and poultry
to England, and as these are also articles
ln which we compete, 1 do not know that
we can do much wlth France. 1 am n some
hopea that we may extend our trade ln
animais, but I amn bound to say we are met
there, altbough we get a reduction under the
minimum tariff, with a considerable tariff
stili. 1 do not know that we ca hope
for a éreat deal In tbat quarter.
Hon. Sir mACKENZIE BOWELL-I. do
not see tat any possible objection can be
takea to the manner In wbich the right:
bon. gentleman rnoved the adoption of the
firat clause of tais tariff. I may premise
by sayiag tat, tadividually, I have neyer
much coafidence In any treaties or
arrangements tat have bee.n made
wita France In the past. The tiret and only
treaty negotiated by Sir Charles Tupper
has not proved of that advantage to canada tat many of those who favoured Rea
adoption anticipated. I amn aware tat la
tae treaty now before us, tae aumber of
articles with which taey make to a certain
exteat a reciprocal arrangement-that la
while we give them tae beneftt of our lower
rate, we receive la return taerefore the
advantages of tae minimum tariff of
France-la tat respect It la ta* be hoped
tat tae prediction which he bas thrown
out, though he declines ta be a prophet, may
be rehalized. 1 was very glad ta hear sorne
o! tae remarks which feil frorn hlm In ref-

708

SENATE

erence to the advantages which may accrue to Canada through the adoption of this
treaty. Hie said it was flot to be expected
that in a new country like Canada we coutd
suceessfully coxnpete wlth tbe manufacturers In older countries where the Industries
had been establisbed for, perbaps. centuries. I have learned in looklng at the returns made before partiament that in agricultural Implemeuts we are qulte able to
compete flot only with the manufacturers
In France, but In ail other parts of the world,
and that is saying a great deat.
If we
examine the trade returas affecting those
counties w'hlch are to have the advantage under this treaty, that is the favoured
nations clause, we Eind also that on the
Pacifie coast our exports to the Argentine
Republic and othier countries, which It ts
unnecessary for me to enumnerate now, that
out of about $600,000 worth of exporte to
tbose countries, ln agricultural Implements
atone, there la about $3100,000 sent froin
Canada, showlng at least that In that article Canadians under a good stroug protective policy bave suceeeded la establishing a trade w'lth the outer world competing
'wt] manufacturers ln every part o! the
waorld. I may atso w-hile on this topte,
add that I have been informued by the
mianufacturera of agricultural implements,
lu Canada, that as soon as this tariff was
confirmed by France, their orders for exp)ortation of agrieultural implements Iacreased materiatly, that Is la this section
of the country as w-cil as in the west I
also noticed a statement made by those
connected wlth the very large lndustry lately
establisheci at Hamilton, that they expected
to transfer a large proportion of the export
trade of agriculture Implements from the
United States to Canada to the extent
of $1,500,000 under the reduced tariff which
is treaty provides.
Having said that
mue]> la favour of the tariff, I amrnlined
to think, from examining ht In a cursory
w'ay that there are a very few other articles Ia whlch the samne advantages wll
accrue to Canadian manufacturers and producers. I desire It to be dlstinctly understood that any commenta I make on the
treaty are Dot w'ith a view o! opposlng It
or asking for a division on the adoption of
It Ttie righit hon. gentteman has proper]y
sald that wve have no power to amiend the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

Bill; w-e mnust accept or rejeet lt la Its
eiitir2t3-, and thouffh soine of us w-ho
have studied tliis question may objeet to
sorne of the termes and conditions of the
treatye I trust that my nlght hou. frlend
witt not fottow the exampte of the Finance
Minister in the other flouse w-ho taunted
those wbo used the rlghts and privileges
fiey euJoyed la the flouse by flot demandlng a division on the Bill; that ttiougb they
9poke ngainst It they bad flot the courage
to vote againat It. Even If It came to a
vote, I arn not so sure that I. should vote
againat l, owing to the desire w-ic
have atways ha-d and from my experience
particularly lu the Departmneut of Trade
and Commerce, and knowlng that those
w-ith w-bon 1 acted In the past are mnost
anxtous to extend the trade o! Canada as
fast as possible. It w-i be remnemtjered
that w-heu this question w-as before the
flouse on a former occasion I cal]ed the
attention to the hon. Secretary o! State te
cablegraina w-hic> were puh]ished In Canada, statiug that the privileges o! thie
treaty %vould apply to ahl countries that
enjo3- ttie favoured nations clause In their
treaties -ilth France.
My hon. friend at that time rather doubted the truth of that staternent.
In fact
hie went s0 far as to say that newýspaper
men were always concocting some sort o! a
atory, in order to throw doubta on w-bat parliament w-as doiug.
Now It la a faet that
the treaty applies to every nation, whether
amati or great, to ail nations enjoying the
benefit of the favoured nations clause. And
la tooking at the rcturns of the exporta and
impotsa, it w-lt be foinid that it -witl be
materially to. the-advantage of those coulitries, niot ouIll- to the nmateriat .advantage o!
these nations, but a niueh greater advantage
than It w-lt be to Canada.
But before
deallng w-ith that portion of the question,
there are one or two points to w-hich I
desire to enti the attention o! the House, and
I desire t0 repeat the regret that I have,
and w-hieti I think every hion. senator w-i
bave, that the clause providing for the Importation o! gooda Into this country, and
the clause provlding for the entry o! gooda
f rom Canada into France la not more lîberai
than it is. I refer partieularly to the question o! trans-shipmient' of gooda. On rending the clause it la. to my iuinid dlean under

11ARCI- 2,7, 1908

709

the present tariff as under the former tariff, that we derive froiu being enabled to enjoy
But, to n'y
that ail guoils shippeti fromn Canada to the minimum tariff of France.
The aniswer- made by
France must go directly frin a Canadian mmnd, not withont.
port to a Frencli port, or tliey ivili flot be the Finance Minister to that point is this:
entitled to the benefits of the French mini- If the wording of the trenty ivili not permit
mni tariff.
I know it is argued by the that, It certainiy wns the Intention of the
Fintince M-Ninister tlmat that Nvas flot the In- negotiators In framing the treaty. We
tention, that goods sent from Canada to Eng- ail know' that courts of law, if it cornes to
land and transbipped to another vessel, and a question of deciding a point of that kind,
then sent to Paris could be adniitted under wlill fot consider what the Intention of parthe minimum tariff. I think anyone reading liament was, but wili say that there is no
-the
clause must corne to a different con- provision hli the Inw upon whichi they caii
celusion.
We k-now%that in our uwn tariff corne to sncb a deciszion.
Those w-ho have
we provide for direct importation of gootis, watcbed the question of tlue reduction of
*and where it is deemned advisable that iicenses in Ontario of late, wiii notice that
goods could be considereti as a direct lini- Chief Justice 'Meredithu laid dowvn that priziportation, the provision is miade that the ciple.
Those wli: argue lu favour of the
transhipicnt rnay be* madie lu a forelgul reduction of lîcenses, or rather those ivho
port.
For Instance, tea iirnported fromn the argue In favour of tlue legality of the bycountry of production or growtl imust corne law whlcb was passeti by the cîty couneil
dlrectiy to Canada, if It la to receive the of Toronto, reducing the number of licenses,
benefit of the iower rate of duty. If lt Is qaid their Intentions were so and so. Chief
hat
transbl-pe at Boston or New York, then a Justice 'Meredith saiti, '-I do flot kaw
highier rate of duty is imposed upon It. the Intentions of parliarnent were, but tue
Sugar can be imiported fro, the country of law provides so and so, nti you bave n'i
production and transhipped !in Boston or power to pass sncb a by-law.'
I nierely
New York anti corne to Cnnada at the io-wer point this out as an answer to the staterate of duty. Specil provision Is iade for ment of the Finance M-inilster on that point.
that.
There is no sncb provision made !i
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-If
titis treaty Nwitli France, andi I know that
under the olti treaty-anti the wordlng of my hon. frienti wiil pardon nie, I underthe present. treaty is precisely the same ns stand hlm to say that bis rernarks apply
the olti treaty-goods exporteti froin Canada to goods exporteti froun Canada to France?
to the French mnarket must go direct to a
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Yes.
Frenchi port. otherwise the high rate of duty
is imposed. There are mauy disadvanHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTtages that present themnselves ln Canada, Not so mucb
to the case of gootis iunported?
particuiariy In the winter season, that wiii
militate against a successful export trade,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-1
owing to the provisions of the treaty as I amn coming to that in a monment. I conhave painted them out.
It is true that tend that articles shippeti froni Haligootis inia be shippeti froin this country fax *or St. John for sale in the Frencb
via the Ilntercolonial Railway. In the market, if the ship goes to Liv-erpool, and
witer. but unless the freigbt rates fromn the gootis are there trans-sbipped, even
Montreal over the Intercoliniai Railway are without eutry being made, that tbey would
as iov to a port on the Atlantic, St. John not be enabled, under this treaty, to reap
or Halifax. as it is froin Montreai, eay to, the benefits of the minimum tariff. That
Portland-. then the disativantage would be is the position that I take. The saine proagainst the' Canadian sbipper. If, however, vision exIsteti in the old treaty to which I
the goverurnent will adopt a tariff which calleti attention. I do not know whether
wiil enable the shipper froin Montreal to my bon. friend bas examinei the eigbtli
senti bis gootis, whatever they rnay be, to a article of this treaty. If he looks at It,
Canadian port nt the saine rates for wbilb he wll flnti that articles imported into
they cali be shipped froin 'Montreai to Port- Canada. fron' France direct can be enland, then we wonid reap the ativantages tered nt any sea. or river port In Canada. I

SENATE
Hon. Sfr RICHARD CARTWRIGHTshould like to Inquire from niy hon. friend.
shIpped ln Does my hon. friend not think that such
wrlat position a cargo of goods
a vessel from France direct to Port a port as Toronto miglit lie consIdcred as
Arthur would lie ln ? Could the Importer, lieing on Vie -St. Lawrence ? The River St.
under the wording of this tariff, receive the Lawrence la held by some to commence at
benelit of the Intermediate tariff that is Port Arthur.
upon our statute-book ? The article says
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL - No
distinctiy : Any sea or river port.' We
knows better Vian my hon. friend. that
can- one
know that through the deepening of our
the contention lias been ln the past that
ais we are cuitivating a trade to as full an
Vie St. Lawrence route extends from Duextent as possible from the lake ports, say
luth or Port Arthur down to Quebec.
from Port Arthur or from rnsny other ports
on the lakes-from Toronto for Instance.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTVesseis drawlng fourteen feet of water Exactly.
can now pass tbrouglî our canais from the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL - I
west, and they bave been sent to Europe
with loads of grain and other articles whicli scarcely thlnk that Ihat theory lias been
we have for exportation. If a cargo of accepted by the people of Canada. Toronto
goods cornes from France, shipped direct la certalnly a lake port, and so la Hamilto Toronto which is neithier a sea-port ton, but If Vie vesaei went a littie f urther
nor a river port, couid it, m-ithout a viola- west, up the Niagara river, under the provition of the wording of that treaty, lie en sion of Vils section of Vie treaty, they could
tered under the advantages whlh wouid make the entry and have ail the advantages
accrue to the Importer, under the provi- that would accrue.
sions of this tariff ? If tlie law la InterHon. Mr. McSWEENEY-Whiere wli the
preted as strlctly as courts have construed
ports of entry be durlng the w'inter monthls?
the provisions of the Tariff and Customs
Acta iln the past, I contend tliey could not
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tliey
Then, ln order to reap the benefit of It, wvilI be Just in the position I pointed out
they would bave to, make their entries ln to hon, gentlemen when I commenced îny
Montreal or some port on the St. Lawrence remnrks.
They will have tu corne in
river. It la quite evîdent to me that when through Halifax or St. John, or some other
the negotiators, Vie hon. Minister of Fin- way over the Intercolonial Raiiway. They
ance, nnd the lion. Minister of Trade and could flot go through the United States, beCommerce were negotiating and framing cause that wouid involve a trans-shipment.
this clause, they neyer thought of the lake 1 thlnk my hon. friend lias lmported goods
ports that existed ln Canada, or, If they enougli to know that fact.
Looking nt the
did think of them, they hiad forgotten that effect that this will have, I thlnk it -,as
vessels could be sent witli goods from Eu- very clearly polnted out and ndmîtted that
rope to those ports without trans-shipment this treaty wiIi be, for soine time to cor-ne
However, I know that ln Vie past, where nt leat, to the advantage of France rather
diflicultles of Vis k-ind have arisen we bave than of Canada.
ln lookzing nt the figures
been told by the Secretary of State that If whichi have been laid before parliament, N-e
It Is to, the advantage of the country, they find that the imports from France for the
do not pay much attention to the iaw. nine month ending the 31st Mardi, 1907,
Our exports to
But, If a merchant had lmported a quan- amounted to $6,679,349.
tity of goods upon which lie hbad paid the France during the same mionthis were only
higlier rate of tariff, and another Importer $1,409,572, showing a balance of trade
had brought similar goods Into the country agnaInst us of $5,269,777 ln nine moatlis
The advantages whlcli thus treaty
and liad entered them under this treaty alone.
at Vie lower rate, tien It would lie a case gives to France over tiose given to Canada,
for the court to decIde whetier lie was to my mmid wili double, probably quadentitled to the
tariff or not.

benefits of

tie

minimum ruple, the advantages to France as indicated
In looking- a little furMiy these figures.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

MARCH 27. 1908

711

ther at tbe trade with those countries tliat which miglit be exported froin this country,
enjoyed the favoured nations clauses, bon. :he product of the farin, the duty la not
gentlemen wiIl find the imports for those owered at ail. Even ln the case of borses
this
countries ln a very exhaustiv'e return that -and my bon. frlend called attention to
wben lie was speaking--on five year-old
bas been laid before parliament. I will
flot lam tbat ht la tbe result of a sugges-. iorses the duty la stili, under the minimum
Tbat ls a very higli
tion I. made, but It carnies out a suggestion 'ariff, $30 per bead.
I made when we were discussing thls mat- luty; upon colts $10, and on cattie 2 cents
That is, giving us the rate of ?er pound live weigbt.
ter before.
duty lmposed under the minimum and maxiHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTmuma tariff In France; it also shows the el.75 per hundred pounds la the duty on
percentage of reduction on each article, but live cattie.
referring to the trade with tliese countries
BOWELLwhich enjoy the favoured nation clauses, 1
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
ftnd the Imports f romn these countries Elorses live years and over, each $28.90. 1
amounted during the saine perlod of nine think I aaid tbirtY. Under five years It is
Then oxen,
montbs to $3,274,567, and the exports to $19.30, and upon colts $9.65.
thein only $1,24.2,169, or a balance of trade live weight 220 pounds, cowvs are $3.65.
agalust us, so far as these countries were That ls a reduction of f3l per cent.
That is the reconcerned, of $2,032,398.
Hon. Sir RICHIARD CARTWRIGHTsuit 0f Our imports and exports to these
f rom?
the benefit of the favour- What is the bon. gentleman quoting
countries enjoying
ed nation clause as it exists at present, or
Hon. Sir MIACKENZIE BOWELI[-Scllerather during the fine months to wbichi I dule A of the return laid before parliainent
And niy Impression froin eltber the Departint of Customs
have called attention.
[s that with the advantages given to France or the bon. gentleman's departinent.
on these articles, many of wbIch are speciHon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTalties wbicb we do not produce ln this counbalance of trade will be mna- The maximum tariff la $2.65 per hundred
try, that that
we
terially Increased against us. There is, for pounds, and the minimum tariff wbicb
ln addition to these Frenchi special- would enjoy la $1.75.
Instance,
ties. a very great reduction ln the tariff Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW7ELLe-On
imposed upon liglit wines, lower than the ln- wbat ?
termediate tariff as it exista upon our
Hon. Sir RICHIARD CARTWRIGHTThe effeet o! that will be
statute-book.
the Importation o! a very mucb larger quan- On oxen, live weight.
tity of that particular article into this counHon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWVDLL-By
try than was lmported under the old tariff, the return laid before parliament for our
and It will have the effeet I fear-because Information by the Department of Trade
if you wll drink wine we may as well and Commerce or the Departinent of Cushave home-made wine instead of imported- toms, oxen live weight la $3.86, and the
of! injuring to a very great extent the manu- maximum $5.79 being a reduction ln that
facture and production of that* article ln article of 33j. Tben next cornes cows and
Be that as it may, it ts an Inci- bulîs, steers, bullocka, heifers.
There ls
Canada.
dent of trade, and It ls a result which, to about the saine proportion of reduction upon
my mmnd, wIll flow f rom the lower duty ail these articles as upon the one to which
Looking at I have juat called attention. Stili the bon.
upon these particular articles.
the treaty itself for a few moments, I find, gentleman will aay that the rate o! duty
this fact, whicb la to be regretted: that there imposed under the minimum tariff is upon
are very few advantages that will accrue the basis of 220 pounds; so that If an oxen
to the agricultural producers of this coun- weighs a thousand poundstry. The reduction of the tarit!, so f ar as
Hou. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTIt affects the agricultural interests, la very
it you will find The hon. gentleman ls quite rlgbt when
smaîl. and If you examine
I was taking It
that on a very large number o! articles putting it nt 220 pounds.

712

SENATE

fid that ahnlost every article, the product
of grain, remains at a maximum tariff:
Oats, grain meal and barley, rye maize, and
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL - If muckwheat the saine.
-Malt, an article
the bon. gentleman wll look furtber lie which we could export very largely, rewlll find that ponltry, an article whlcli we mains at the maximum, and groats and
export very Iargely, tbousnnds of tons of 11, grits-I do not know that that means the
turkeys aad fowls are sent ont of the coun- politlcai Grits ln this country. If It does,
try every fali, and there is no rednction at I sliould favour their being admitted Into
ail lu that article. The French mraximum France free. We can spare a lot of theni.
tariff is $3.86, upon w-bat weight Ibis returui l{owever, these are articles %vhieh woul1
does not indilcate.
affect mnatcrially the agricultural products
of tbis country. May I asic my lbon. friend
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWý%RIG HT-and I do not do it ln a captions w-nyI thîak the duty on ponltry Is on the net w-bat time word 'otmer' means which ocno rew-elglt 100 pounds, $1.75. There is
curs so of tea la the tariff. It goes on
duction as my lion. friend states.
enuilnerating ail the articles to whlch I
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tben have called the attention of the Senate,
the grain, dethe figures I bave before me are based and then it says 'other '-a
upon 220 pounds mentioned above, and I corticated; ln flour, and so on.
find meats, preserved la tins, have beted
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-As
reduced from $3.861 to $2.89. Tbere Is no I understand that, It menus othier descripprovision here as 10 w-hether the tins are tion3 of grain imot hieretofore ennrnerated.
to, be Included la that rate of duty, or
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOMIELL-I
wlhetber the tin cans, w-hatever It may be,
containlng the article, w-i be subject 10 linow it occurs in a number of places, and
another duty or a biglier dnty, or a sepa- that there Is no explanation as to -,bat
I have inentioled
rate dnty as the case may be. I shonld like the real nieaning w-as.
to refer to the fact that under tbe Wasli- one or two points that I think are very imington Treaty certain provisions w-ere portant, and Il w-as an oversight on the part
made for the Importation into the United of the negotiators not to have made plain
States of canned fish; but there w-as no and clear w-bat the meaning and intention
provision made that the packages contain- of 'trans-shipment' is. Difficulties may net
lng the fisli should bo ndmitted free, and arise, but uader the tariff il seeins to mue
the result was that the cans containlng thie tbey may possibly arise in connection w-itm
the United the importation of articles into this couinfish sent trom Canada mbt
States was cliarged an extra dnty. Wliether try Into the lake ports other than the river
I w-l refer for a moment again 10
the French w-i put that interpretation upon ports.
this treaty or not, I amn not prepared 10 say; an article to w-hicb my lion. friend called
but there Is no provision la the w-ordlng of attention, and to w-hil I alluded a few
That is agricultural ImpIethe treaty 10 indicate that the tins sha! lie moments agi.
I find that the Canadianl manuincluded ln the value of the meats preserved ments.
ln tins. That is a question, I suppose, that facturers exported during the ainie months
10 w-hicli allusion lias been made, already.
w-i have 10 be decided hereafter.
to the Argentine Republic, $238,662 wortli of
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGIIT- agricultural implenients. To Austria-HunI think I mnay tell my lion. friend that I gary, $23,99-1; Denmark, $6,000l; Norw-ay.
understand the w-eiglit of the receptacle $2,630; Persia only ý23, but Russia received
forming the Interlor of the package is lxi- from Canadian exporters $172,211. Spain.
clnded, which w-ould cover the tins.
$;,000; Sweden, $13,259. I refer to these
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW'ELL-So it figures witb a great deal of pride, because
w-ould, If there !s a provision of Iliat kind. those -ho have watcbied the course of
I must confess that if there is I bave failed events and those connected xvlth the trade
to find it. Then if yen go dow-n to of Canada witb foreign countries knowthe bottom of that samne page, yon wnu and 1 know that those interested in the
at a linndred pounds. Taking it at one
liundred It would be $1.75.

Hon. Sir RICHIARD CARTWRIGHT.

MARCH 27, 1908
trade know the interest thc late goverument and myself lu particular, took-lu the
cultivation of thîs tradc, and I ani quite
sure that if the mianufacturers of Canada
will turu theîr attention lu the saine manuer to other articles that we manufacture,
as the manufacturers of agrîcultural impiemeats have done lu the past, that there are
other branches of trade lu wîîich the same
good showing cau be made. While both goverumeuts bave taken an interest lu securing
foreign mnrkets for Canadian manufactures,
the manufacturers tbeniselves have not met
them-I ani speaking of them as a body,
îlot indivldulîy-in the nmanuer In %vbicl
They bave
tbey should have met tbem.
expected the government to be too paternal
lu their policy, and not ouly to open tuarkets for them and give tbemn protection for
the manufacture of the goods, but almnost
'Most people who
to seil theni for tbeml.
kuow auything of my lbolitical career know
that I have alwvnys been the very opposite
of my bon. f rlead on the question of trade.
I have been a protectiouist froni my boybood up. and I am strougîs of opinion, particularîr lu a new country like ours, that
It Is the only pollcy whlcb would build up
this Dominion to the position we would al
like to see it ln. The very tact that that
bighi protection that w-as givea origiually to
the agricultural manufacturers lu Canada,
with au ndditional drawback-whicb was
condeumned lu tbe strongest possible mauner
by meînbers of the present governmentupon the duties paid ou the materials which
entered Into the manufacture of the articles,
assisted themn la competIug wlth tbe output
of the United States manufacturers.
Iustead et carrying out the pledges whielh
they bad made and adbering to tbelr condeuination of the pollcy of grauting drawbacks, they have Rctually lncrensed the
drawhtcks. We gave tbem a refuud of 90
per- cent of the duties paid upon articles
luiported into this country aud used lu tbe
manufacture of agrîculturai Implements
exported to toreigu countries. Tnstead of
abolishing that, they exteuded the drawback te 99 per cent. Tbey bave seen better lighit and I compliment tbem on baving
profited by our exampie aud on haviug
doue even better. A continuation of that
policy towards ail manufacturers lu this
country will have the effect to which I

have called attention, of opening Up markets lu forelgu countries for Canadian manufactures. I could nanie the different articles that we export, but I forebear, tak-iug It for granted that every bon. member
bas this analysis of the treaty and cn
judge it for blmself. I have sImpiy te,
extend the hope that our trade may lncrease to a greater extent than it did under
the treaty negotiated, by the late government; ;but I mnust recognIze this tact, and
s0 wlll every one wbo bas studied the quesition, tiîat in a country Ilke France ivith «i
liigi protective tariff, it is flot an easy
iatter to uegotiate a treaty whicb wll affect their Industries.
Hon. ?.r. SCOTT-Hear, hlear.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL, - My
righttlion. friend said that France is one
of the richest countries lu the world. We
ail know how It emefged form tbe war witb
Germany, thougb stripped of two of Its
Important provinces, Alsace aud Lorraine.
It paid off the war lndemnity la full,
and the abillty of France to do so Is due
to the tact that they have a protectIve
policy. If France can become the ricbest
country lu the world by followlng the poiicy of protection, let us pursue It here,
and become as rich as France, and then
thé rigbt lion, gentleman wbo moved the
adoption of this treaty will go dowNv to bis
grave rejoiclag that through the policy
which hie condemned the most of bis Ilte,
Canada bas become one of the richest colonies la the British empire.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTMy bon. triend wll ]ive for a very long
time If he lîves until he sees me converted
to beilef lu the benefits of protection. However, I have nothiag te complain of lu my
lion. friead's crIieismns. Probably ne man
lu thîs House bas had better opportunities
than lie of judglug of the difliculty of formIng such a treaty and of tbe possibility of
good ivhich ay arise If our anticipations
are tulfilied, tromn cuitivatlng dloser relations with France. He is quite right, I
admît, Iu sayiug that on agricultural staples
we have not been able to obtain concessions. He knows wvell that the agricultural
interests lu France are very strongly op-

SENLATE
posed to makîng concessions ln that direction, and we were obiiged to do the best
we could. Posslbly we may be able to do
soniething in the way of introduclng Canadian meats and certain classes of animais;
but I amn free to admit that It Is not llkely.
we shall do mucli in the way of introduclng
our grains and flours. That, I may point
out to hlmi, Is partly due to the tact that
France ltself is a great grain producer,
and on occasion-I arn not qulte sure whether it was flot la this very year-France
exports a considerabie quantlty of wheat
and flour to other countries. Perbaps my
hon. friend bas noticed that tact, and also
that France, la the matter of poultry and
eggs, exports very largely to, England, and
while we would have been glad to obtain
admission on reasonable terms to bier markets, I do not know that, for the present
nt least, It would bave benefitted us much.
However, ln a generni way, iny hon. friend
Is rlght ln saylng it would bave been very
desirable to have obtained more concessions. Ail I cau say is. the two gentlemen
who negotiated that treaty did their very
utrnost to obtain thein, and m-hat they
bave got, I trust and hope, wlll prove of
considerable advantage to the people of
Canada. At any rate, the ladies of Canada, w-ho wlll get thelr gloves, rlbbons and
other articles dear to the feminine mind,
cheaper, will congratulate the country and
the two bouses on havlng given themn some
smRll adrantages ln these matters.

PHOENIX ASSURANCE COM-\PANY.
PETITION PRESENTED.
Mr. BOSTOCIC moved. that miles 24,
Hon.
110 and 112 be suspended for the purpose
of presentlng the petition of the Phoenix
He said:
Assurance Company, Limited.
This la an Englsh assurance company, and
they have lately taken over the business of
another Enghish assurance company which
was doing lite Insurance lu this country.
The counsel for the company only found
ont la Jannary last that it was necessary
for tbem to get special legisiation to, enahie
tbem. to carry on the business that this coinpany they have bougbit out were dolng ia
Sînce the time that be found
Cjanada.
ont this was necessary, it is only now be
bas been able to get the properly slgned
and sealed petîtions ready to submnit to the
House.
The motion was agreed to, and the petltlon was presented.
THE CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
REPO RT.

Hon. Sir INACKENZIE BOWELL-Bef ore the House adjourus, I should lîke to
ask the hon, leader wben be lntends to lay
the report of the Civil Service Commission
I mlght further ask bilm
on the table?
wbiether lie lutends to follow the precedent
set ln the lower House, hy making an explanation of the nttacks which that commission bas made on the dIfferent departments. and point ont the fact, as one of his
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL-I amn colleagues dîd, that tbey are not correct
sorry to learu that my hon. frieud Is Incor- 1 know that it la an unprecedented mode of
rigible ln matters of trade.
deallng witb a question of that kind, but
The clause was adopted.
as we live ID a new age, It migbt be well
will be followed.
Hou. Mr. WOOD, from the commlttee, to Iznow just wbat course
reported the Bill w-thout amendment.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Civil Service CoinThe Bill w-as then rend the third tîme, mission did not furnish us with a duplicate
There was but the
and passed uîîder a suspension of the mIle. copy of the report.
one original, and that was presented ln tbe
BILLS INTRODUCED.
ncopoateth Shs-House of Commons, and imedlately sent
o, u
At
Bil (4)
Until it is printed, lit will
Bih (an) An Act o Rin ooat tCemphus- to the printer.
be Impossible to lay It hefore the House.
an. Mr. oson ierkoo.oma
-ap
that the newspapers have puhllshed
Bill (86) An Act to incorporate the North- I seemain portions of it. so the public wll
Rilwa
ern mpie Copaiy.-(on.Mr.the
e familiar wlth the report.
r
Empre) Ralabopn.(ol
e
Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
Bill (11) An Act respecting- the Nipissing
Central Rallway Conpany.-(Hon. 'Mr. Mc- bon,1 gentleman bas Dot answ-ered my question.
Gregor.)

MARCR 31, 1908
Hon.
do so.
reading
printed

715

Mr. SCOTT-I amn quite unabie to
I have nlot had an opportùnity of
the report. The object is to get it
and distrlbuted as soon as possible.

'They have not.' Senator Landry's questions are put differently f rom those ln the
House of Commons. They are misleading,
and quite difficult te obtain answers for'
That la the statement hie made to me, and
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday next
I frankly tell the hon. gentleman.

nt three o'ciock.

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Âre the
rnisleading or the questions ?

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA,

Tuesday, Mardi 31, 1908.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o*ciock.

auswers

The motion was allowed to stand.

QUEBEC BRIDGE DEBENTURES.
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
The order of the day being calied by

Hou. '.fIr. Landry :
That he will inquire of the governmentWhat is the total amount of debentures issued by the Quebec Bridge Comipany?
QUEBEC BRIDGE.
How maay of these debentureâ have been
negotiated and at what rate of intereet and
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
discount, and how much have they brouglit
The order of the day being calied by inF
How inany of. these debeatures have been
Hon. '-%r. Landry :
givea as gua-rantees for loans miade by the
company with banksP
That he wiil inquire of the goveramentWhs.t amount lias the company obtained in
From its formation until the moment wheiî
Mr. Simon Napoleon Paarent became one of this manner from banks?
What rate cf interest is it paying
the members of its board of direction, how
When is each of these boans payable?
muci lias the Quebec Bridge Company paid to,
Has the government intervened in these
its directors for services rendered?
Since the company caused Ufr. Parent to negotiations and financial -opera«tions?
In what manner? Ras it given hanks its
enter its board of dfrection up to this%
day,
how mucli has it paid each of these directors guarantee for the re-paymeat cf the capital
borrowed and for the payinent of in-terest
for services rendered?
thereuponP
What je the nature of these services?
For what ainount is the government so reHow mach has its seoretary cost it P
sponsibleP
How much lias its engineer received?
What are the sunis of money whieh the govHon. Mfr. SCOTT-I have not an answer ernment lias already advanced (a) either to
the compaur, (b) or to baaks, ini payment of
to tuis question.
obligations for which the governument was responsible?
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Whien can we exHas the goverument in its possession aîiy
debentures of the compaay in exchange for
liec an nnswer ?
sums which the government has disbursed or
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-It is impossible to for guarantees which it has given?
Prayers and routine proceeding-s.

say.
The hon, gentleman asks questions
which the members of the goverument canflot posslhly answer.
They have to be
sent outeide. Many of them have to go
to Quebec, and it is very difficuit to obtain
answers.
H'on. 3Mr. LANDRY-How does it hap-

pen that when those questions are asked ln
the House of Commons, they are answered;
but when they are asked ln this Cliamber
they are not answered ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I had the official of
the Finance Department ln my office, and
I said to lmn: 'Those questions have been
answered lu the Coinmons,' and hoe said:

For what amount?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thnt wili

have

to

stand.

Hou. Mr. LÂNDRY-These mnatters belong to the government They do not bave
to send to Quebec for Information.

We

should obtain answers te these questions
frein the government.
Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-Weil, It was poiuted
out that It was quite Impossible to answer
those questions lu the shape ln which they
are, and I asked 3fr. Ross to prepare an
answer to meet the inquiry as far as practicabie, because there are a number of
questions that are not in accordance with"

SENATE

716

the facts. 1 cannot possibly explain it to 1 Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers to the
my hon. friend. Ahl I can tell hlm is thatt lion. gentleman's questions are as follows:
1. J. McGovern ls an employee of the
Mr. Ross of the Finance Departmient, sald
auîswers were so misleading and governuient, as trackmaster on the Interthat the
confused that it was quite Impossible to colonial Railway between Lévis and Rivière du Loup.
get an answer to tbemn.
2. $120 per month, w'ltl $10 per montb
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Çan we not replace for travelling expenses.
thiat officilal and get a man wbo can underýt. The government is not bound to furstand these questions ?
nish a lodging, nlthough it lbas supplied a
Honi. 31r. SCOTT-The slîorter way w'ill iiumb--r iu Lévis for the convenience of
lie to inale the questions more intelligible. its officiais, partlcularly, the superintendent.
It not being possible to secure a residence
lion. Mr. LOUGHEED-How does the
convenient to the railway station, autliorlty
hon. 'Seeretary of State sug-gest wve should
-,as given to fit up the upper storey-0f the
do it?
old freiglit shed.
lion. '%r. SCOTT-I have doue ail thiat
Tep rooms are beinig fit±ed on
4. No.
I eau to sugg-est.
the second floor, and it was neces,-Mfry to,
Hon. Mr. LA.NDRY-Will the goverii- build a stalrway fromi the ground floor to
ment give mie their nid lu formulating the the second floor, ln order to bave approacli
to the roims.
questions ?
5. The fitting up Is belng done at the
Hon. Mr'. SCOTT-Leave it over tili ain- expense of the Ilitercolonial Rallway.
otlher day, and 1 will1 try and get it. I
Ci. No.
liad Mr. Ross iii my office, tryling to get
7. No reports baving reacbed tlîe govain answerernuient, there does flot appear to, le anyHon. '-\r. LANDRY-Tell hlm ne miglit thing to Investigate.
answer Is a littIe misleadlng.
The lat
get a man w-ho vili understand.
came to the
bon. gentleman I did not ask If any reports
Hon. M.Nr.SCOTT-The
goverament, but asked If the intention of
nîay tell him hlmself.
the goverument was to bave an Inquiry or
to ask, the superintendent to miaice a report
INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY EMou the question. The answer Is no.
PLOYEES.
INQUIRY.

BRIGADIER-GENERAL OTTER.

LANDRY inqnired:
\r.
Hon. -Ras the governument in its service on the
Intercolonial Railway a person named McGovera who perforîns the fuactions of section
foreuian froni Lévis to Rivière au Loup?
What ia the salary of this employee?
Is the gzoveramient bound te furnish a lodging to this eînplovee?
Ia such case, has it put st the disposai of
M-Nr.McGovern the whole height of the oid
station of the Intercolonial st Lévis ini order
to serv-e him as a private residenceP
Is the governient bound to psy and, in fact
has it realit*paid the cost of the worknianship
and materials which this installation involves?
Does the governuient know that with respect to this there are in public circulation
rumours of such gravitv that the interests of
Mr. M-%cGovern and that of the governuient
impose the necessity of an inquiry?
la it the intenti'on of the goverument te
order sucli anl inquiry, or st least to -require
the superintendent of the Interoolonial at
Lév-is td ma-e a report upon the nature aud
the exteat -of the accusation, ia order to shlow
the governuient to take sncb measurea afterwards as the public interest msy suggest?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired of the governnmeut.
Who has been appoiated in place of Brigadier-General W. D. Otter to the oommaad of
the territorial division of Western Ontario,
aince the promotion of this Brigadier-General
to the coinmand-in-chief of the General Staff?
Hon. '%r. SCOTT-The question of the appointment of an officer to succeed Colonel
and temnporary Brigadier-Generiil W. D.
Otter, C.B., as Officer Commandlng the
Western Ontario Command, Is recelving the
consideration of His Excellency in Council.
COMMf-ýANDS-IN-CHIEF.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired of the government:

717

MARCU Il. 1908
(a) Who are the officers of the militia nomînated ta -the conimand-in-chjef in*each of the
following territories:
1. Ontario West.
2. Ontario East.
3. Quebec.
4. Maritime Provinces.
And what rank does each of them liold in
the militia P
(b) Does the government intend to give the
persan who c>mmands the militia force in
the Province of Quebec the same rank as that
whioh. was granted ta the commander of the
forces ini Ontario East up to the end of February last, and which has been actually
granted ta the comimander of the forces in
the Maritime Provinces?
Hon. Mr.- SCOTT-The answers nre as
folaows:
(a) 1. Western Ontario: Colonel and temiporary Brigadier-General W. D. Otter, C.B.
2. Eastern Ontario: Colonel W. D. Gordon.
3. Quebec: Colonel L. Buchan,C..,
A.D.C.
4. Maritime Provinces: Colonel and temporary Brigadier-Generai C. W. Drury, C.B.,
A.D.C.
(b) Colonel Buchan, Cammanding the Quebec Command, at present lds the same
rank as- the Officer Commanding Eastern
Ontario <Clolonel W. D. Gordon); the rank
lield by tue Officer Commandlng the 'Maritime Provinces Command Is that of Colonel
and temporary Brigadier-General.
The question of granting the rank of
brigadier-general ta the Oflicer ComrnandIng the Quebec Command is receivlng the
consideration of Ris Excellency lu Council.

For what quatitity?
At what price each?
Ras the governiment asked for tenders for
the manufacture of these articles?
And if s0, which are the papers which have
publîshed in their columas the notices given
bv the government ta that effect?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I answvered that quesI said it was under
tion the other day.
consîderation. but nothing lias beeu done
for the present.
Han. Mr. LANDRY-The lnst question 1
asked was whether the rifles lssued had
-Now,
bayonets, and the answer was no.
I arn asking- another question.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I understood my hion.
f riend hand asked the question about the
supply of bayonets, and I said it ivas undei
coulsiLerEtiofl.
Hon. -Mr. LANDRY-I neyer asked. this
question until now..
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-W5ell, that is the
answer now.
Hon. '.%r. LANDRY-The hon, gentleman
was niisled by .my question the other day.
Perliaps I miglit give hua a littie information and tell hlm that the contract has been
given ta the Ross rifle factory.
TRE QUEBEC BRIDGE.

INQIJIRY.
Hon. '.%r. LANDRY inquired:
What is the amount of the interest due, of
Hon. Mr. LAND)IY-That is the answer, which meution.is mnade in the fallowing declaration isen by the government on the 25th
gîven ta-day.
March instant:
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.,

<d) The Bridges Company advises that the

cost of the bridge, including Chaudière bridge
and the railway approaches, te March 1, 1908,

Hon. 1lir. LAND1IY-I see by the papers was $6,899,033.03 ta which is ta be added inissued yesterday that Colonel Buchan lias terest f rom June 30, 1907, on the advances for
I suppose which. the bonds of the company were pledged.
been named Brîgadier-General.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-I have nat the Inforwe are a Ilttie behind time.
niation.
Hlon. M~r. SCOTT-I think muy lian. frienfi
Hon. '.%r. LANDRY-Is it very liard ta
It is a
lias the lntest Information always.
get?
littie in advance of what I bave.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It looks Ilke tlint.
THE ROSS RIFLE.

Hon. luir. SCOTT-I have not yet succeeded la getting It at ail events.
The lnquiry was allowed ta stand.

.INQUIRY.
THE EMPLOVNIENT OF SMEiON DE
'Hon. Mr. LANDRY Inquired:
LISLE.
Has 'the goverament concluded any arrangement whatsover for the manufacture of
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I sliould ilke ta know
bayanots adapted ta the Ross rifle?
from the leader of the Hanse If there Is any
If so, with whom?

718

SENATE

That Is one of the inconanswer to an order of this House of the 29th black.
january last for a return la the case of Mr. veniences of legal lghts in the Dominion
of Canada as well as ln other countries.
Simeon De Lisle?
It ls one of the Inconvenlencee brought
Hon. Mfr. ISCOTT-Mbere is he employed? about by the loose way lu whlch we draft
our- laws, by the obscure terme ln wblcb
Hou. Mfr. LANDRY-In the House of
and wants on bebalf
1 want to know what amount we express our desîres
Commons.
but It le a tact.
recelved, outslde of hie ln- of flhe people. It la a plty,
of money he lias
It has been so yeare and yeare gone by and
demnity, between certain dates. As I have
1do not suppose that by my humble efsald, the House ordered the return ln the
fort I shall be able to remedy the evîl
month of January Iast
flue year or next year or ten *years to
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I wHll try and find out corne; but I hope, If Providence epares me
loiî. enough, to be able to ask my colIf I can.
leagues la the leglelation of thîs country
RAILWAY ACT AM2ýEND.NENT BILL.
f0 have their laws so clear and plain tliaf
there wlll be no Interpretation neceseary
THIIRD READING.
on one aide or the other, that the courts
Hon. '.%r. YOUNG mnoved the thîrd read- of our country shall be called upon to
ing of Bill (3) An Act to amend the Rail- apply the law and nlot Ixterpret it.
In
way Act.
view of the position whlch I hold, I asic
Hon. Mfr. CLORAN-I have given notice fis House to take niy amendment Into
of the followiug amendrnent, wfllcti I now conelderatIon; but we have the word o!
amendment. I admit that It goee a little
mnove:
Rail- beyond the Rallway Act whlch la under
Thst notwithstanding'anything in the
way Act of Canada or in -any Act of the consîderation, but we have the word o!
Parliament of the Dominion of Canada, and the bon. leader of the Bouse thRt substannotwithstanding any judgment of the Supreme
Court or of any court of Canada, every person tial amendmenta have been Ineerted la Bills
in Canada shail have the right to take action of whlch he knew nothing for years and
at iaw for the recovery of damages against ail years. I remember hlm quoting on two or
individuals, oompanies and corporations when
his or her rights in regard to person or pro- three different occasions that a clause was
perty have through neglignae or otherwise passed some twenty years ago, of whlch
on the part of individal, companies and he knew nothlng, regardlng certain lande
cornorations been trespassed, upon or injured
in any way whatever.
in the Northwest, granted as rallway subsif0 that
I have found-during the past four or five diee. If was a substantial. àmendment
under con- Bill and he knew nofhlng of It untîl he
weeks that this Bill has been
So that If
sideration ln this honourable BHouse that found It out years afterwards.
my proposition le a lîffle ont of the way,
the authorities on both sides are divlded
upoin a very esseatial. principle of justice lf la not a precedent; If la a proposition
whlch should obtain In Canada. I find to hold good la any law that we may pase
I regret te
that the leading authorlty on the goveru- ln the Dominion of Canada.
say, as one of the leglelators of this counment side holds that the judgments of the
Suprenie Court regarding the rights of citi- try, that It la necessary here to eetablieh
zens t0 sue for damanges are nlot lnterfered by statute what existe by common law rlght
I amn not goiag t0 discuss whether la Engîand. I regret f0 have to say that laws
wlth.
the leader of the Bouse is riglit or wrong; are so obscure here that the hon, leader
but I find that, on the other side of the of the government telle us one thing and
question, one of the most promineat men one of the leaders of the opposition telle
ln the political. ]Ife of thîs country holde a us another. Where are we to stand 7 A
different opinion nnd holds it seriouely and client cornes to me and asks me: 'What
That means that judges shall I do ?Il I wll say : 'Here le the opiconscientiously.
ia this Bouse can be divlded ia opinion just uion of the leader of the government.' He
the sanie as judges oa the Supreme Court sald: ' Yes, you have a rlght,' aud then I
One may hold turn over f0 the other page, and one of
beach can be divlded.
that this is white, another that it is the miost promînent authorîfies on legîsiaHon. Mr. LANDRY.

M.ARCH 31. 1908
tion says: ' No, you have no right;' and
then I take up the judgment of the Supreme
Court, and I arn bound to admit notwithstanding tbe declaration of the hou. leader
of tbe House, that the judgment of the
Supreme Court takes away froin every citizen ln this country the right to take action
at law for the recovery of damages under
certain circumatances. That law should
not bave any existence under our consti-i
tution. Under ail conditions, under ail cIrcumstances, every citizen Is entitled at law
to take action for the recovery of damages
agalnst anybody. Fils case may be no
good. It la for the courts to decide, but
tbe essential fact remains, that every citizen ln this country bas a right to takei
action at law. Accordlng to the Supreme
Court judgment ln the case of 'McKay vs.
tbe Grand Trunk, that rigbt Is taken away,
Dot taken away according to the bon.
leader of the House, but taken away occording to the interpretation of the hon.
gentleman from Marshfield. This amendment Is to make tbings simple, and it will
not cost mucb to put It ln the statute. It
gives everybody the Initiative rigbt, the
essential rlgbt whicb we have yet to place
on our statute-booke; altbougb tbrougbout
the rest of the British empire, every person
bas already the rlgbt to go to law to recover damages against tbe person or
agalust property. Tbat la the meanlng of
this clause. It mens no more and no
less. It simply gives the rigbt to every
person lD Canada to seek redress at. the
hands of tbe tribunats of this country
witbout consuiting any lawyer as to whether he bas the rIgbt to do no or not. It
la a fundamentai rigbt and an essentiai
riglît which 1 arn asking this bonourable
House to give to every citizen wItbin our
borders.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The bon. gentleman bas
not quoted me correctly. r did not make
I stated
the statement that be alleges.
that the case of McKay vs. Grand Trunk
The law that
can no longer be quoted.
was ln existence ln 1888 was amended lu
1902, and that case was trled upon the law
as It stood ln tbe Railway Act prlor to
1 stated that the Railway Act had
1902.
since'been cbanged and It surely does not
require any logic or argument to prove that

719

vhen we change the law, on1 whicb a case
iliad been decided, the previous law bas now
In
io effeet and In no longer lu force.
r eference to the hon. gentleman's proposit ton, It is flot ln any way germane to this
3111, and It may be regarded as a very Im1 roper Interference wlth the rlghts of the
9;everal provinces, they baving control of
c~ontracts and agreements. This amendment
ias no rlgbt whatever to be connected witb
t :he measure before tbe House.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I snould 11k-e to ask
the hon, gentleman from Victoria one quesUnder the Rallway Act, as he la
tion.
îware, tiiere is rlght given to rallway companles to expropriate lands belonglng to InHow far would the clause that
lividuals.
lie proposes Interfere witb the rlght of the
Would it
cornpanies to expropriate land?
have the eff ect of wiping out the rlgbt of
expropriation?
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I understand botb
the bon. leader of the Senate and the bon.
gentleman who bas just resumed hie seat.
To answer the
My mmnd Is clear on that.
lion, gentleman from De Salaberry first, I
rnay say that my clause runs along criminal Uines practically, where there Is negligence amountlng to crîminal negligence.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Damages are flot criminal.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-No. The bon gentleman la an attorney from H~alifax. Does he
not know that damages are recoverable for
criminal libel every day lni the week? 1 canflot .-Ive the hon, gentleman a course of
training ln law here. Tben, ln answer to the
hon, leader of the Senate, I have this to
say: He admits that an Injustice was done
under the old law, but the law bas been
1 say it Is a shame, and an outchanged.
rage upon tbe rights of citlzens tbat parIlament ever passed a law to prevent a poor
Tbe hon.
man from recoverlng damages.
leader of the Senate wlll admit that, wIll he
-Dot? But bis argument now is tbat that
law Is cbanged. I care flot whetber the
law bas been changed. Wbat I want to
place on the statute-books of our country Is
a declaration clear and above board, wlthout any contravention of thought or Idea lu
regard to the matter, that every citizen of

SE _ ATE
Canaida shall ipso fateto, unider the British
law, urider the laiv' of comimon right and by
our statutory declaratiou, have the right to
follow Up an individual or a corporation for
damages %ihenbis riglits have been tresThe Secretary of State lias
passed uj)of.
admitted that our parliament bas put a law
on our statute-book under which men have
been deprlved of their rights.
lion. '-%r. SCOTT-No, 1 did niot.
Hon. '-%r. CLORAIN-Thiea I should like
The hon, gentleto have an explanation.
man bas admitted that the decision lu the
case of McKIeIay vs. Grand Trunk was due to
un old law, wliere the Supreme court of
Canada told' thîe widow ani orîhans of
?McKay that they had no recourse, owing
to the law that exlsted ia tIse statutes of our
country.
lion. Mr. ROSS (M.Niddlesex-W'iIl the hou.
gentleman 'îuote the clause lu the Railway
Act wlîich covers that?

grouîîd: that if the coiîîmissioî1ers of expropriation gave a wviong judgmnent against
au injvjduftl. that that individual would
have the right to appeal to the tribunals of
this country.
The nniendmnent was declared lost.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-It may be well
wlthin the recollectiou of the House that the
hon. senator from Marshfield argued for a
long time that the report of the Railway
î,epartment and that of the Board of Railway Commlssioners should agree. The hon.
gentleman was very persistent in makiug
that dlaim. NoNv, I have compared the two
reports very carefully and have prepared a
list of rallways which are flot under the
control of the Rallway Commissioners, but
which are included in the report of the
Railivays and Canais Department. They are
xiot lncluded la the report presented before
the committee by M-Nr.G.vu. A. MNountalii.
chief engýineer of the Railway B.oard. They
are as follows:

Hon. 'Mr. CLORAN-It is not la the RailOttawa, Norember, 1, lf 07.
If the hou. gentleman from
svay Act.
List of railway companies not within the
Middlesex liad been hiere, lie would have jurisdiction of thieBoard of Railway Coimissioners for Canada.
heard a two weeks' debate ou this question,
Bruce Mines and Âlgoma, 17 miles.
gentleman from Marshfield
and the lion,
Canada Coal & Railway Company, 12 msiles.
Cape Breton, 31 miles.
made bis case good, and all the hon. SecreCaraquet Railway, 71 miles.
back upon was
tnry of State had to faîl
Crows Nest Southern. 53 miIrs.
Halifax and Yarmouth, 369 miles.
that the law had been changed; but under
Halifax and Southwestern, 369 miles.
the old law the widow and orphans had no
Iatercolonial Railway, 1,449 miles.
I waat to put it on record
rîglit in court.
Inverness Railway & Coal Company, 61 miles.
Irondale, Bancroft and Ottawa, 48 miles.
Iu the statutes of our country that notKaslo and Siocan, 32 miles.
wlthstauding nny judgmeuit of the Supreme
Kent Northern, 27 miles.
Lotbinière and Megantic. 30 miles.
Court or of any court, that every citizen
Midland Railway, Manitoba. 23 miles.
should have the common law righit to sue
Mor-issey, Fernie and St. Michel. il miles.
for damages when the rights of bis ilerson
New Westminster Southern, 26 miles.
Nosbonsing and Nipissing. 5 miles.
or property have been trespassed upon by
Nova Scotia Steel & Coal Company, 13 miles.
Individuals, companles or corporations. It
Phillipsburg Ry. & Quarry Coy., 7 miles.
Prince Edward Island Railway. 267 miles.
Is not subverting the judicial system of the
Quebec Central, 222 miles.
It Is maintainîng It, and
British Empire.
Quebec and Lake St. John, 241 miles.
glory ln belonging to the
Sydney and Louisburg, 54 miles.
one reason why I
Temiskaming and Northern Ontario, 139
empire Is that the British law has more miles. of any other
sease in It than the legislation
Victoria and Sydney. 17 miles.
Victoria Terminal Railway and Ferry Coniparliament.
pany, 18 miles.
Washiugton County, 1 mile..
Hon. MIr. BEIQUE-Would the hon. genWellington Collîery, il mile,.
tleman answer niy question? I desire to
York and Carleton, 6 miles.
k-now If, uccording to his understandlng
Hon. Mýr. CLORAN-Are they ail ruathis law would Interfere with the right
?
to ning
whlch la given to the railway companies
ýHere we
Yes.
Hon. '.%r. CA-SGRAIN.
expropriate land?
have over three thousand miles Of rallwaY,
Hon. MIr. CIýORAN-M,\y answer is no.
the accidents whichi lappened on those
And if It did interfere, it would be ou this and
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

MARCH 31, 1908
roade are ln the report of the Department
of Rallways and Canais, but flot ln the
report of the Board of Railway Commissioners. It may be within the recoilectlon of
this House that the bon. senator from
-Marsbfield said lie had carefuiiy gone over
the reports, and bad found there lied been
cniy three deaths on the Intercoioniai Railway, and that lie could flot account for
the mucli larger number of persons kilied
at crossings and the discrepancy sbown
between the report presented by Mr.
Miountain and the report prepared by Mr.
Payne, of the Departuient of Railways and
Canais. 1 regret very mucli that the hon.
isenator froni Marslield ls flot ln bis sent,
but 1 want te make It perfectiy clear that
many railways were omitted from the report froni wbicb Mr. Mountalu prepared
bis return.
I have taken the trouble
to look up those railways and make sure
that ail of tbem appear in one report and
not ln the other.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is the hion. gentleman prepared to give the number of deatbs
or accidents wbicbi occurred on those- three
thousand miles?
Hon. Mfr. CASGRAIN-No, I bave flot
prepared that, but they appear in the report.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tben the statement
whichi tbe hou. gentleman submits establishes nothing.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I do not rise with the
intention of opposing the Bill. There is no
use of one butting bis head against a stone
walI ail the turne, but 1 shouid like the stone
wali to Incline towards what Is proper ln a
hegal sense. I arn not golng to oppose the
Bill on its merits. Probably the petitioner
deserves wbat the committee recommends
shahl be given ber, but I wish to point ont
that divorces are granted here toc, easihy.
I hoid ID my baud a copy of the evidence
in tbîs case, on whicb you could not obtain
judgment for five cents la any court of
I leave it to the bou. senator
Canada.
froni De Salaberry, the hon. senator froxu
Mille les, or any other senators accustomed
to weighlng evidence, to say If that le not
so. We are asked to grant a divorce on
bearsay evideuce. The bon. senator from
Bedford division (Hon. Mr. Baker) well
knows that If lie were a judge on tbe.
bench lie wouid be the first to ruhe out
sucb evidence. Hearsay evidence ls of
no account eltber ln clvil or crlninal courts,
aud the entire action of this divorce
comnittee ls based on bearsay evidence.
If that bearsay evîdence were of an ordinary kind, I migbt not bave so mucli objection to it; but lt ls evidence glven by
a axedici man la violation of fils oath of
secrecy. The evidence whicli justifies divorce la the estimation of this lionourable
committee, le this-that If a certain Individual goes to a certain doctor and deciares
a certain thlng, that Is sufficient evidence
for grantlng a divorce. The medicai man
sliould regard Information obtalned ln that
way as the ciergy ls bound to respect
tüe confessionai, and as tbe legai adviser
ls bound to respect the confidence of lis
client.

THIRD READINGS.
Bill (74) An Act respecting the Ottawa,
Brockviile and St. Lawrence Ralway Coinpauy.-(Hon. Mr. Derbyshire.)
Bill (87) An Act to Incorporate the Vancouver Island aud Eastern Rallway Coinpaniy.--(H-on. '.%r. Bostock.)
the medicai
Hon. Mr. POWER-Was
Bill (J> An Act to Incorporate the Bank
of Canada, London and Parig.-(HIon. Mr. man to whose evidence the bon. gentleman
refers, the medical adviser of the liusband
De Veber.)
Bill (27) An Act to amend the government [a tbis case?
Rallways Act.--(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Unfortunately lie
was medical adviser for botli, and lie spiit
GILMORE DIVORCE BILL.
tbe difference.
REPORT 0F COMMITTEE ÂDOPTED.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER, noved the
Hon. Mr. POWER-It does flot appear
* adoption of the report of the Standing so froin the evidence.
Committee on Divorce to wbom was referred the petition of Ed!tb A. Gilinore,
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-If the bon. gentletogether witb the evidence.
man wll take the evideuce as printed, lie
46

s E N AT E
will find that it does appear su, and that
tbe respondent went to the doctor and
That
made certain statements to bim.
doctor should bave kept that information
as secret as tbe tomb; he had no right
whatever this side of the grave or tbe
otber aide of It, to divulge what bis patient
told him. I am n ot going to dispute tbe
facts, but I arn calling attention to this
fact, that divorces are grauted ou grounds
on w-hich you could flot obtain a judgment
ln the 1awv courts for five cents.

Hu. 'Mr. PERLEY rose to introduce a
Bill based upon flhe report.
hon, gentleman
The SPEAKER-The
should w-ait until the orders of the day
Lt is contrary to the ruies
are disposed of.
to Interfere w-ith the orders of the day.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The pmactice of
the House is tbat a Bill Is introduced and
read the Lirst time after the adoption of
the report of the Divorce Committee.

POWEVI-Still I thiuk bis bonHon. M-Nr.
Hon. MNr.WILSON-I rise to a point of oum's view is the correct one.
order. The hon, gentleman is niisstating,
Thê ISPEAKER-I knowv there is a gexiwbether intentionally or not, the evidence
eral rue thant tiiere shouid be nu interferflint was taken before the comnîittee. He
ence w-ith the orders of the day.
quotes %vlat%vasstated by the doctor. He
is not quoting the resu Its that proved the
RESTRICTION 0F EVILS 0F DIVORCE
criminality of the individual.
BILI, REJECTED.
I
Hou. Mr. CLOZA-I-ýliat is NwhyN do
Huit. ',%r. CLORAX iîîoved. the second
not wvant to dispute the merits of the case.
reaIing- of Bill (H-H) An Act to restrict the
The hon. senator bas called my attention
(Vils of divorce.
to a point which I w-as going to develop.
I-le said: Thei Bill w-lich I subiiit for the
I arn not dlscussing the resuit; but 1 arn
coissideration of lion, gentlemen rends as
discussing tbe conduct of the doctor w-ho
follows:
v-iola tes bis oath of office.
Whereas it i-ý iu the interest of society that
Hon. ,%r. WILSON-If a doctor violated the evils of divorce be restricted: Therefore
His Majesty, bv and with the advice and conbis oath of office ln tliat way, It may be selît of the Senate and Honse of Commons of
the case in Quebec, but It is not the case Canada, enacts as follows:
1. The offending and guilty party to a
in Ontario.
niari age contract shahl have no right to reHon. Mr. CLORAN-Then I arn sorrv for nia rry iii the Dominion of Canada after the
obtenstionî of a Bill of Divorce through the
family secrets and fainily ties in Ontario. l'aiaîient of Canada; _and further if sucli
I know tbat, ln civilized contries, profes- paît-r remarv- ontside the jurisdiction of the
Canada, such remarriage shahl
sional men are obllged to keep sncb secrets, IParliaînent of for ail purposes, invalid and
be considered,
and If tbnt is not the case in Ontario, theu iliegal; and such party remarried shah, be
so much the worse for the people lu On- considered a bigamiat witbin the terriitory uf
Canada.
The point la this case Is that the
tario.
I w-ish to call your attention to the subrecommeadation of the committee ia based
bave been ject of this Bill on grounds lu no way conLt would
on bearsay evidence.
I do not w-isli, and I do not ask
very easy for the comrnittee to have sent tentions.
hion, gentlemen to consi(her this froîn a
for the respondent and nsked hlm If be ever
I
authorlzed the doctor to make sncb a state- theological or religions point off view.
ment, or if la fact he bad ever made sucb do not even asic the Senate to consider it
I ar n ot going from a civil point off view, as there are
a staternent to the doctor.
to dispute the rights of men who disagree otiier tribunals m-hîere a divorce can be ohwltb me on tbe fundamental princîple of tained la tliis country outsidc of the parliaI asic bon, gentlemen to
tbe sacredness of the marriage tie. 1 leave ment of Canada.
tiat to their consciences and bringing up: consider the snbject i the lîsterests of tue
but w-hen I arn asked to consent to a divorce fatberliood anid motlierliood of the nationi of
I w-ant it to be based on more solid grounds Canada, ou gronds lîiglh and boly, aithan hearsay evidence, and especially a vio- thiongh, as I hiave said, not under Divine
sanction nos- evetn civil sanction outside of
lation off professional secrecy.
Ail I asic
on-siei~ country.
f thîis
the
The motion w-as agreed to.
Hon. Mr. CLORA N.

IMARCH 31. 1908
the House ta conaider la the deiuaud.berein, aotherhood and fatberhood o! this coiutry.
basai on natural iaw. I asic this House I hold lu my band an endorsation of mY
to, say that wheu a divorce la granted on a ttitude lu this matter, and I knowv that
the grounds that one of the parties is a from far sud wlde the people are looklng
Take the woman who
scoundrel, knave and debauchee. that the for tbis remedy.
shall fot be aliowed ta go into 1ias beeu uutrutbful sud dîsloyal ta, ber
gulity party
lier busband is grsnted a divorce
some other home and bring shame and dis- hîome.
Fortuunteiy there are few lu
By wbat rlgbt f rom ber.
family.
bonour on another
do we let a debased character loose on so- t bis country of that klnd, but take the exciety ? We ail know that men wbo obtain c~eption: wli you grant that woman the
those divorces are, as a rule, flot the every- i ight ta go into your home or ta Invade your
day scumi of life, but men bigh up lu posi- 8oiai circle, or ta luveigie your youug men
1 see sailles on bbe faces o!
tiou, iu finance, lu law, and even lu the iuta crime?
I, oy my vote, givei ion. gentlemen wbo evldently do not apchurch, and why should
sucli a persan the»rig-ht ta, go int iny nelgh- 1sreciste the difference; but 1 know whereof
bour's famUly and bring gloom and dishionour I speak, aud one of the msny hundreda o!
upon them? Ail 1 asic is that wben parlia- f ~athers sud mothers bas expressed their
ment grants a divorce lt shall be only to, views la this letter whicb I wiii now read
The letter la wrltteu la
the Innocent party to the iiarriage contract, t oa the Hause.
French, but translatai Into English it rends
and ta deciare that the guilty party shahl
flot have a rigbt ta do further daniage, else- as follows:
Dear Sir,-I wish ta make known ta you
Not one of us would permit a
whcre.
which
and if we our adiration for the project of law regord
divorcee to enter aur homes,
you have introdnced in parliament in
wvouId flot shlow hîhua loto auir own homes, to, divorce. Ib dos you a great deal of honour
more
why should you let hlmi bita the bornes of aad lb wili do iparliament zouch ta be honour
able ta,
if they accept ItL I regret flot
people lesa acquainted with bis character? express ail the gratitude I have for such
these ini regard ta divorce.
You brand hilm as a man unfit for ordi- actions as
nary society, yet you gîve hlm equal prîviThis letter waa written at the request
leges with the poor 3voman over whom we of a large number of persons wbo are luspend s0 much sympatby lu granting a di- tereabed ln tbis legIsiation.
You say to bier, 'You>can marry
vorce.
I am only quotiug one out o! dozens o!
again if you want to,' and by the very expressions o! opinion tat have come ta nie
It la not a consamie act, you say to the brute wbo bas lu regard ta this matter.
I arn not dealing withl
demoraized lier and ruiued hier famiiy and tentiaus mabter.
brouglit disbonour upon them, that bie bas the theologicai aide o! lb, because If I dld
I asic hou. gentlemen lu I would be prohlbited tram dolng sa. I do
the sanme rlght.
the names of the fathers and mothers of this not want ta Interfere with the rights of
I do not asic parliamelit
country ta put a stop ta that traffic in Innocent parties.
We bave enough of legal ta interfere wlth anytbig that la legitilicentiausness.
debauchees witbout further iegaliing tbem. mate; but 1 ask hou. senabors, you grandWe have enough scoundrels goiug sround on fathers. if you have not bast the sentiment
their owu bîook. without parlament beiug of paternlty, the young men are with me
cailed upon ta give theni a certificate of ln this movemient-you wbo ougbt ta kuow
character and the rIght ta go over tbe field wbat it mnens ta have wolves of the kind
0f uîatrirnony agalu. But 1 arn told 'Oh, ta wbicbi this Bill refera raving around sobut otberwise bie wlll carry on bis career ciety seeking for other food. Ia it not tinie
of crime. He wll luduige blis passions.' we shonid put a stop to If. la it flot tîme
1 asic hon. gentlemen who tell me that ' Do wben parliament says 'Divorce shall be
vou waut hlm ta Indulge bis passions In grnnted.' that the Iberties, beneflts and adyour housebold, or lu the slumus of vice vantages a! that divorce shail appertalu
That la for you ta soiely ta the innocent party sud not to the
wbere hie belauga.'
Whien you accord ta a brute a man wbo was the cause of the dishonour,
answer.
divorce by Act af parliament, sud thereby discredit and downfali of the Innocent parti.
give hlm bbe rlght to go ino other homes, That la the sum and substance of the Bill.
then yau are nat doiug your duty by the T hope lb will apWea ta bon. gentlemen's

7U4

SENATE

feelings, not so mucli as tegisiators, because
there Is nothlng contentions lu II, nothlug
affecting civil or religious riglits. It simply
affects the 'riglits accorded by this partiament In grantlng a Bill of divorce, and al]
I ask this honourable Flouse to do Is to
restrlct the evil, to, prevent a demon froin
doing elsewhiere what lie lias doue ut home.
Hon. Mr. McKAY (Truro)-I should lîke
to kuow what effeet the carrying of this
Bill will bave on the provinces that have
divorce courts of their Own?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-None at ail.

Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I cati attention to
the fact that the lion. senator froni New
Brunswick did not vote.
Hon.
did not
a riglit
question
I would

Mr. COSTIGAN-The reason 1
vote Is that I did not thiuk 1 had
to vote, not being lu wlien the
wvas put. If I had a righi to vote,
vote for the Bill.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--The
hon. gentleman from St. Boniface bias flot
voted.
Hon. Mr. POWIER-Tlie bon. gentleman
froni Kingston dld not vote.

Hon. Mfr. CLORAS-Lt affects no court
Hon. Mfr. BERNIER-I have not voted.
ouptslde the parliament of Canada. I say
that any offendlng party to a marriage con- 1Itntended to niake my staternent before the
tract who lias obtaîned a divorce from the question wvas put, but apparentty I was
too late. I hold that this Bill is utterly
Dominion parliament aloneunconstitutional. otherwise I woutd have
Hon. '-%r. POWER-The lion. gentleman voted for It. If tliis Bill were to become
cannot dlscuss the question afteu the motion law, It would lie lhable to be set aside by
bas been put from the Chair.
the courts on tlie ground of unconstituThe SPEAKER-The motion bas been tionalty.
put from the Chair, which would preclude
Hon. Mul. LASDRY-If an hon. gentleany furtber discussion.
man gives good reasons, the House may
The House divided on the motion, whlcli excuse hilm froni voting.
was tost on the following division:
The SPEAKER-Shahl the lion. senator
from St. Boniface lie exciised from voting
Yeas 22. Nays 24.
for the reasons asslgned ?
Contents:
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-I do not ask to
Honourabie Messieurs
be excused. I do not shtrk the vote. I
Baird,
Fiset,
arn quite willng to vote against It on the
Bèique,
Landry,
ground that If the Bill became law It would
Belcourt,
McDonald (C.B.),
Casgrain,
McGregor,
lie unconstitutional.
Cloran,
McMillan,
McMuhlen,
coffee,
Th 'e SPEAKER-Then the lion. gentlePerley,
Comeau,
muan votes ?
David,
Power,
Dessaulles.
Ross (Middlesex),
Hon. Mr. BERSIER-Yes.
Scott,
Dornville,
Watson.-22.
Elhis,
Hon. Mfr. CLORAN-The hion, gentleman
Non-Contents :
froni New Brunswick is entltled to vote.
Honourable Messieurs
The SPEAKER-Tlie bon. gentleman lias
Baker,
Kirclihoffer,
declared tlîat lie w-as not present wlien tie
Bernier,
Leeris,
question wvas put.
Bostock,
Lougheed,
Bowell
McKay (Truro),
(Sir Mackenzie),
Hon. '-uI. CLORAS-There were others
McLaren,
Carling (Sir John),
Merner,
who w-eue not puesent wheu the question
Cartwright
Biley,
w-as put.
(Sir Richard),
Robertson,
Derbyshire,
ROSS <Moosej awi),
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think the hon.
DeVeber,
Boss (Halifax),
Douglas,
Wilson,
Speaker did not -ive the reasosîs why lie
Edwards,
Wood,
hîhmself did not vote.
Gibson,
Yeo.-24.
Hon. M. CLORÂN.

MARCH 31, 1908

7.

The SPEAKER-I inake it a practice thiug ou tliat subject, wbichi ls n subject
flot. to vote except when there la an equal I bave flot studled, and upon wliich I do
flot feel competent to say very mucb; but
division. Tbe motion Is lest.
I must say that I bave neyer entcrtained
auy serious doubt as to the feastbillty of
OTTAWA AND GEORGIAN BAY CANAL.
this proposition. It would appear to me
scarcely credible that lu this age, witb
DEBÂTE CONTINUED.
the advaucement which has been made lu
The order of the day being called:
science, sud withi the skili whicb modern
Resuming the adjouraed debate on thse mo- engineers possess, that this scheme eould
tion of the Hon. Mr. Casgrain, that ha will
cail the attention of the Senate to the im- flot be carried out. I was very glad to
portance ta Canada of the eariy construction bear what the bon, gentleman who introof the Georgia bay canal, and wili inquire duced tbe measure sald witb regard to
of the. goverument if the -report of the. survey made of that; waterway will ije laid b.- the water supply. If lt bad been found
fore the Senate duriug the 15resent sessionP
necessary to resort to pumping or anyHon. Mr. WOOD-This question bas al- thing of that kind lu order to obtain a suffiready been deait with so tully by the bon. dient water supply for operating this canal
gentleman who lntroduced the matter into at tbe summit level, it would certainly be
tbe House, sud by the bon, gentleman trom a very serlous objection to It, and perbaps
Ottawa, as well as other hon, gentleman one tbat wouid render it undesirable that
wbo have spoken that tbere seemas te be it sbould be undertaken. I was, therefore,
very littie now left to be said ln favour ot giad to. hear tbat engineers ln late years
this scheme, and se fam as I arn concemned have discovered tbat by uniting various
I have nothiag to say agaiust lt. I may sources of water supply they can obtain a
say that I have always teit tavour- sufficient drainage area to furnish a suffiable to this project. The attention ot the dient supply of water for tbe continunus
House bas been cailed to it almost every operation of the canal. It ls thie commersession for a great number of years. I cial features ot the uudertaking wbich has
bave listened fmequently, In tbe House, to principally attracted my attention. This
the late Senator Clemow discussing this feature of the scbeme bas also been dwelt
question sud presentiug the memits et this upon at very grent length, and I desire
scheme for the consideration ot this Hlouse, to avold wbat bas been said by the bon.
aud I bave always sympathlzed with the gentlemen who bave discussed this quesview that he expressed, sud with the de- tion since it was drawn to the attention of
sire whlcb he had to see this sciieme an the House. There seems to me to be one
accomplished tact. It appears to me, sud fact wbichi stands out prominently aud
it will appear evident I think to any one .which is reaily tbe fact that decicles the
by merely glanclng at the map, tijat this commercial value of this undertaking, that
la the sbortest sud most direct sud natumai is, that witb this water route open, grain
mens of water communication betweeu from the lake ports or other western prothe great West and the seaports on the duce ean be dellvered at Moutreal at the
Atlantic coat. The hou. gentleman wbo iu- same rate, practlcally, that it la now cartroduced this question traced the bistory ried from the lake ports to Bufralo. I do
of the. couutry, sud lu bis reterences to not thlnk it is necessary to say auything
past history he referred te the fact that in support of that p)osition as the hon, genit had beeu fromn tbe eslest dlscovery of tlemen who bave spoken have quoted autbe country the route by whicb explorers thorities ef the very hlghest character on
sud traders travelled-to sud fromt tbe grent the subject, and there seems to be a unaWest, and I cau see ne meason wby, If it nirnous concensus of opinion that this would
wns a natural course of travel for them lu be the result ot the construction et this
earler times It should not under modemn canal. It theretore tollows, as they dlaim,
conditions be made the great highway for aud reasonably dlaim, that that tact
moderu commerce. That hou, gentleman establisbed, it must uecessarily follow
St. Lawrence route would
also deait wlth the engineering teatures of that the
the sciieme. 1 do not propose 'to say auy- became the great hlghway for the ex-

SENATE

726

p)ort of the proclucts of tlie %vest and
that 'Montreal, Quebec and other cities
on the St. Lawrence wouid become the entrepots for the imports of whicb the population of that country wli be the consumers. Aliowing tixese facts to býe establlshed, 1 shall fot say anytbing furtber wlth
regard to, that feature of the case. Indeed
my only excuse for saying anything on
this subject wvas to draw the attention of
tbe House a littie more fuliy than It bas
been drawn to the effect wblch tbe construction of this great work wouid have
upon the luterests of the maritime provinces, and flrst, I shonld like to point ont
titat with the fact to wiceb 1 have already
referred establisbed-tbat is that grain can
be delivered la Montreai at the same cost
that It Is now deliv-ered at Buffalo-it follows tlîat the port of St John and other
ports la the maritime provinces wouid be
la a position to compete on equai terms
with New York and other United States
ports as the sbipping ports for the winter
export trade of this country. Ua<ler tbose
conditions, they could hope to secure for
this route a very considerable portion of
that great and growing trade. The most
serlous corapetitor whicb the ports of tbe
maritime provinces would bave would be
Portland la the State of Main. That port bas
tbe advantage of a rail baui considerabiy
shorter than the rail baul from Miontre'ai to
any of the seagports of the maritime provinces. It wouid evidentiy be with this canai
open for traffic to the advantage of sblppers of grain or other western producta to
brIng tbem to, Montreal, Quebec, or other
ports on the St. Lawrence during tbe summer season, wbea tbey could get the advantage of flie very cbeap rates of transportation -whichi this canal couid afford and
to store thein there, and for this reason:
stored la Montreal or Quebec, tbey would
be luan position where at very short notice
during the wiater season they could be
placed on board the ocean steamabipa and
couveyed to any market of the world that
the Atlantic ocean reaches. Tbey would
thea have this advantage, that tbey would
be la a position to take the fuliest
possible ndvantage of any rise la the
products.
these
of
market .price
Thev would be ln a position aiso to talze
advantage of any over snppiy of tonnage,
Hou. Mr. WOOD.

with the consequent reduction in oceaîî
freight rates; and they wouid be in a position in winter as weli as ln sumumer, to place
these products lu the best market whichî
could be found for themi la any of the coiintries which cnu be renched 1)y the Atlantihocean and to get the hlhest prices for their
products, wbvile the cost of transportation
would be quite as ceep during the winter
montbs. and some tbree or four cents
cheaper ns was poiated out by bon, gentlemen during the sumîiner season as comipared
w-lth Boston and'New York. With these advantages, it must be evideat that sucb cities
ns 'Montreal w-ouid become great storeThey w-onul
bouses for weistern products.
become great distribntiag centres f rom
which tiiose products, botb summer and
winter. wonld be shipped to ail the market,
of the wvorld. I snid a moment ago that the
most (langerons competitor wbich the maritime provinces wonid have, w-onld be Portland. la the State of Mainie, on account of
Whiie the ieag-th of
the slînrter rail baul.
the rail bani to differeat ports, if It varies
very coasiderably. Is a determining factor
lu fixing the course o! trade, a smali difference la tHe length of the rail baui does
nlot always have that effect, and tbe difference ln the rail baul between St. John and
Portland, for instaace-which if 1 remealber rigbit ls about 200 miies-is flot suffiMent to determine the course o! trade
wbere there are other Influences operatiag
to take It towards maritime province seaThis is proved, I tbiak, conclnsiveports.
]y by the course of trade during the hast
few years, that Is the winter export trade.
ln the latest report of the Board of Trade
la the City of St. John, wbich I was able
to flad la the llbrary, and wbich is for the
year 1905-O. 1 find that the growtb of this,
trade durlng the last ten years bas been
ns foliows: in 1895-6 the winter export w-as
carried by 36 steamers, and amonnted to
$3,000.000; lu the winter of 1905-6 the export trade w-as carried. by 113 steamers, and
There bas been
amouated to $24.000,000.
a graduai growth of this trade under existIng conditions, n very satisfactory growth.
sufficient to estabiisb the fact that the City
of St. John eau compete successfuhly w-itiî
the city of Portland for a very considerable
The causes
portion 0f tîxis export trade.
w-hidi ennbled this trade to be carrîod to

-MARCH 31, 1908

727

St. .Johti 113y varions.
lie
Lt uiirt resuit no0 reasoii why these eargoes should flot be
froni the supplY of tonnage nt différent transferred to the ocean steamships nt ports
times. from the price of those produets ln lire Sydney and Halifax, as well as at
foreigu miarket, froin facilities for hnandling Montreal and Quebec.
There is no doubt
them, and other causes, but, ln my opinion, that If this class of vessels proceeded that
the Important Influence which bas directed far and delivered their cargoes there, they
this trade la tbe past lias been the estab- could be deli 'vered at a very mucb leas cost
Illment of a continuous lune of euommuni- than If lef t at Montreal, to be carrled to St.
cation where the iniand transportation and John or other ports by rail, and that so, far
the ocean transportation are under the samne as there is any otber competing route at
control.
Since the extension of the Cana- the present time, such cargo couid be put
dian Pacifie Railway to St. John, this trade on board the ocean steamahipa la the winter
bas grown up, and I believe it Is due to tbe time at a cheaper rate than .tbey could
at
Influence of that great corporation and re- any othier seaport la the Atlantic coast,
lncentiy to tbe faet that they have steamers cludlng seaports of the United States. Unof their own connecting witiî tbeir raiiway der these circumstances, the tseaporra of the
at St. John, that this growth of trade is maritime provinces, I believe, would derive
largely due. These products consiat large- a stili greater share of ibis trade from the
ly of flour and meal, of provisions, dairy development and extension of this service
produiets and live stock.
It is a business and the transfers of the cargoes ln the way
which Is controlied principaliy la Montreal. I bave mentioned.
Another advantage of
The products are gatbered f rom Ontario tbe development of trade of this kl-nd
would
and Quebec, to this great
commercial be thîs, that these steamers would be able
centre, Montreai. whicb lias the principalý to carry back coal and luwiber, and flali, as
control of the business, and if the trade- my bon. friend from Halifax polnted out
originating at Montreal nt the present time the other day, as well as some manufacturca be carrled by the Cauadlan Pacifie ed goods f rom the maritime provinces, and
Raflway to St. John, and that city Is made they would be la a position to place those
.the winter shipplng port for that trade, commodities ln the laterlor of this continent
there is no0 reason why, when tbe vaster at a cost .whlcb
would enable the
products of the west are brought to Mont- manufacturera
and producers of the
real by this proposed canai and stored there, maritime provinces to compete successthey should not also flnd their outiet durlng fully with the producers la any other part
the wlnter season by the St. John route. 1 of the country. I beileve that tbe resait
believe that that would be one of the re- of that would be an enormous development
suits which would follow the construction of the Interprovincial trade between the
of this very Important work, and la that est and far west. Another point of adrespect It would resuit la very great ad- vantage would be tbe impetus wbieh
vantage to export trade and business to the it would gîve to maufacturing indusmaritime provinces.
But this is not the try la the eastern parts of the Dominion.
only benefit wbich, lu my judgment, the That bas been touched upon by the gentlemaritime provinces wouid derive from the men who have addressed the House.
construction of this great national work. It and they have spoken of the power that
Is not necessary that the lake frelghters would be developed aiong the canal and of
when tbey arrive at Montreai or Quebec the enormous Industries that would spring
sbould unioad their cargoes there, and that up as the resuit of the cheap power to be
the transfer from them to ocean steamsbips obtalned. But 1 think it would flot only
should ahWays be made there.
No doubt a affect the manufacturlng Interests of tbe
very large* portion of the transfers will be section of country throughi whlch the canal
made there, but it occurs to me, and I ad- itself passes, but It would have an equal
vance It as my own opinion on the subject, Influence la developing the manufacturlng
that while thîs ciass of steamship may -fot futerests of tbe eastern provinces, and for
be very weil adapted for crossing the ocean, this reason, we bave many advantages for
they would be adapted to going down the carrylng on manufacturing la the eastern
river and Gulf of St. Lawrence. and 1 see part of the Dominion. We bave cbeap

SENATE
power obtaînable lu ail the provinces, whether water or steam-power. We have natural advautages whicb enable this power
to be produced as cbeap or cheaper than
it cau be produced iu any otber country
lu the world. Tben we bave a class of
people la the eastern provinces who are
naturally adapted for maaufacturlng. They
make good artisans and good operatives.a
It Is well knowu that the western provinces
have for many years past supplied a very
large proportion of botb skilled and unskilied operatives la the factories of the
United States, the newv Eugiand States
particularly, und these persons woixld ratber remuin ut borne if tbey could get employmeut lu factories ln our country. We
have, lu addition to this, a good climute,I
well suited for the developmeat of manufacturiug Industries; but wbat la essential
to the success of mauufucturiug Industries
ou a large scale, or for the developmeut
of a large variety of mauufacturing Industries, Is to have the means of bringing together the raw materini whicb may be required, ut the cheapeat liossible cost sud,i
at tbe sanme time to have these factorles
establlshed lD a position wbere the manufactured produet ca be distributed genera]ly to the larger markets 0f tbe world
at Vie lowest possible cost. WItb thls
canal constructed, the maritime provinces,
and the eastern provinces generaliy, wouid
be placed in a positioa wbere tbey would
bave this greut advatage. Not ouly tbe
nutural producta of their own country,
aucb as lumber, tron and coul, but the vat
variety and grent quantity of minerai products that are to be fouad aloug the shores
of the great lakes and lu the northern part
of Ontario could be assembled at any one
point of tbe maritime provinces, at very
Ilttle more than the cost of uctuai proTbey would also be Ia a position,
-duction.
wbea converted Into manufactured goods,
to be distributed from the point of manufacture not only to our own great west,
but to foreiga markets us well, ut the
very lowest cost of transportation. Wbut
Is, la my judgment, very desirable for the
developmeat of grent mauufacturiug centres Is to have vnriety of industries. We
may have large industries for instance lu
a lumber sectioa ýwhere powýer Is very
cbeap and wbere there is a quantlty of
Hou. Mr. WOOD.

t ijuber available %vitlîin a very short dist auce, but otber manufactures do not grow
i a tbat neigbibonrbood. Wbiat Is esseutial
Iii order to get a variety of munufacturing
1nidustries-and. we know that where oue
naufacturiag industry 15 It is hiable to,
e~reate another-is to bave tbese centres
ffhere a varlety of raw products can be
ssembled ut very low cost, and with tilis
!anal coastructed as I bave already sald,
hle ruw materlals of tbe west could be
.irougbt at Vie very cbeapest coat of transîortation, for nuy maaufacturing purpose,
1
tbe
t o0 eastern provinces. But, besides that,
we would be able ut very iow coat, to,
bring the ruw products of sauthern or eastern countries to tie sanie point, and we»
kuow thiat to carry on maniy of the bigher
classes of tbe manufacturIng industry It
is essential to bave a variety of raw mLateriai for use in tbe ame factory If tbey
enter Into the manufuctured products. If
iny theories are correct, and I place thein
Lefore the House as the resuit of my own
Iudgmnt on Vie subject, tie eastera section of bis Dominion would bie placed ln a
position to become one of the grentest manufucturlng couatries la the world, not ouly
inanufucturing our own lumber to soine
exteat as w-e do to-day, establishing manufactures for wiîih our own minerais are
adapted, but great manufacturing centres
fr011 whlch raw products of our owu country as well as others could be assembled
and converted Iato manufactured goods
and distrlbuted flot only to Vie vat population growiag up ln Vie west wbo will be
great consumera of manufactured goods,
but foreigu countrles -aa well. There la
only one other point whlcb I wisb to make
ini conuectIon with this question and that
is, I do not see that Vis resuit ca be
obtaiaed by any otber mens of transportation Vint bas been suggested. I do not
thlak that auy transcontinental railway cai>
brlng the grain or other producta fromn the
west to Vie seabourd direct for abipment'
abroad. I do not believe Vint nny railwuy
company, wbutever may be its advautages,
cau compete successfully witb Vie shorter
and cheaper routes from Vie west to the
United States seaporta. I do not believe
eitber tbat the extensions of our goverument system of railways to the west would
have any

Important influence

la diverting

NIARCT- 31, 190S72
this trade. My own Judgmeut is that te
aeuxme uow before the House la the. only
acheme presented te the country test wll
lead te tee great develepint ef trade
aud manufacturIng lndustry te which 1
have referred aud I, therefore, regard lt
as a werk of national Importance. 1 re,gard It as a werk deserving the earnest
censideration of the governinent at the
earllest possible day. I censîder that Its
advautag-es wlll be feit by almost every
section of this Dominion. It wll benefit
tee western producer because it wll en,.oducts efthfie
the
able hlm te gt
to mnarket at the cheapest possible
fan
rate and give hlmn tee best net resuits
for his labeur. It wlll benefit the country
ail along tee route et tee St. Lawrence
nnd tee route of this canai by making It
the great bilhway for the export et the
products of the west and for tee Imports
whlch are te come in for the supply ef that
grent ceuntry. It will benefit the eastern
provinces et Ontario, Quebec and the maritime provinces by develaping, as can be
doue lu no ether way; manufacturng industries lu these provinces and It wlll also lead
to a very large sud mmiprtaiit developinent
of our interprevincial trade, and I have only
te say la conclusion, tîmut I hope that the
geveramieut will take tels lnto their serious
ceusîderation and that they nxay see the
way open te secure the construction of this

great sud impartant work at tn eariy aay.
Heu. Mr. MecMULLEX
journmnt et tiie debate
next.

moved tie aiduntil Tbursday

The motion w-as agreed te.
REFOR.M% 0F THE SENATE.
DEBÂTE CONTINUED.
The order ef the day beiug called:
Resuming the furtiier adjourued debate on
the motion of the Hou. Mr. McMulien, that
in view of the. agitation rogardiug the services -rendered by the Sonate as a part of our
legisîstive system, sud in view of the criticism beth in parliament aud the. prose with
respect te appointmouts te this Chamber, it
is, in. the opinion cf thie House, desirable
that the question cf the method cf appointmonts aud the termi for which appoiutments
are te ho made in future should bo considered aud the system recast, and the motion in
amendmeiht of the Honourabie Mr. David,
that ail the. words after 'that' iii the main
motion be struck -out and replaced by the

following: 'the Sonste, while not deeiring to
pronounce finally uposi the numerous' and
varions projects cf reform whieh have been
proposed and discussed in counection with
the Seiate, yet in view cf the differonces of
proopnin on the su.bject and uptil those
ject hve had trn. te mature, believes it
in
that it
opDortune te declare efficiency lecf desirable,
the Senato.
orer te increase the
in this
that more legisiation be initiated
House, that more ministers of the Crown
have seats therein, and thot env minister
may personally introduce aud defena gevernment measures on the floor cf both Houses,'
and aise the amendment ini amendment of
the Hon. Mr. Béique te the proposed amendment of the Hon. Mr. David, t hat ail the
words in the said amendmeut after the word
'foilowing ' bo struck ont and repiaced bv the
follewine: 'f rom the very serions objections
which have been raised te the several modes.
of reforms which have been suggested by individuai members cf this House sud the.
great diversity cf opinion expressed thereon,
the present constitution of the Èonate semis
to b. on the whcle the best which can be
dev ised for his countrv; that moreovor, in
order that the hon. House may give the fuil
meesure cf -its usefuiness it is greatiy desirable that means b. adopted ta k-eep it more
constantiv occùpied. thereby reiieving the
Houe cf Commons cf part of its work and
shortening the -eessions of parliaruent.
Hon. Mr. DÂVID-I would Ilke te moe
the adjeurnmnt cf the debste, but I leave
It1to His Honour tee Speaker te take my
Place If lie tbinks proper te do Po.
The SPEAKER-It Is sorne tinie iuc.the Speaker ef the Senate bas stepped
down froni bis sent to nddress the Uouse,
but, ns It is one et bis priviieges, 1 ivould
crave the liberty et exercislng that privilegefor a few minutes. thîs belng a nencententious propositio n cf a somewhat acsdemicnature. The first Urne 1 bsd the sdvautageof addressiug thîs House, sorne ten years
age, I expressed an opinion In faveur or,
1 dld net state
reforming the Senate.
lu a very clear wny what 1 tbought that
I thoughit the eiectlon.
reforin slxould be.
ef senaters by the legisiatures. or by a
systein sinmular to the one wbicb prevals
lu France wouid, perhape, be the oue most
Since then I have
satisfactery te me.
somewhat aitered my vlews on thxe euhject, and, althouglh it is net the prlinnry
cause ef xny speaklug, I may as weli explain new that my experlence wveu1d leadf
me te believe that If we transfer the nomination of senators frein the federal cabinet te the provincial legislatures, we wouid
simply bie trausferrlug tee selectien of senCtors te the provincial cabinets aud, tbere-

SENATE
fore, 1 have thoughit that if any reform
should be adopted it should flot be exactly
on those liues. The complaints against the
present constitution of the Senate are main]y two lu number. It bas been alleged that
this body lacked independence, because It
wvas coinposed of l)srty mien. 1 do flot intend
to dlscuss at iengtb that assertion. It may
be true or untrue. It contains a certain
element of truth, because we are, to a
certain degree. blased by our party association. 1 do flot suppose that n single
senator bas been selected since 1867 who
had flot party affiliations or proclivities. 1
believe that nil tlic senators who have been
appointed ýsince 18617 were party men. Tbey
had a known political record, and, geuerally,
had fought the battles of their party; s0
It Is no0 extraordlnary thîng to admit that
we are somewvhat affected by our party
affiliations. But is there a systemu whicbi
would l>ring about a change lu this respect!
Is there a systein of nomination, selection,
or election of senators %-bici lias been
discussed hefore the Seixate or elsewvhere m-hich %vould alter this situation!
Could there be selections of inen aurwhere in Canada to-day who would not
have n political faith and adhere to elthpr
one of the two great p>arties that divide
1 do
public opinion lu the Dominion?
flot belleve IL The election of senators
by the people xvould brlng here citizeus
of Canada wlio would belong to, elther the
Liberal br Conservatîve party, or, perhaps,
lu years to coine, to the labour party. I beleve that if the people, as before 1867, were
called upon to select senators, you would
find the saine party divisions and the same
nominations by conventions as bold sway ln
thue election of coinmoners, and that you
w-ould bave here senators belonging to
one of the two parties that divide public
opinion lu Canada, so that the complaint
thaï the Senate is not composed of men
absolutely free froin party bias would stili
be heard. 1 do flot belleve that a selection
of senators by the people -would alter the
present condition of tbings.
Now. if we confide the election of senators to the legisiatures, I again ask if we
would flot there lhave ai party inu selected,
a nîan froin one of the two great parties?
1 put thîis further question to those who
bave hiad somne knowledge of politics in this
The SPEAKER.

country, if the election of a senator froin
the legisiature would flot practically be the
electioiî of a gentleman whose naine would
be proposed by the cabinet îtself? W'e ail
know that n cabinet, having a majorlty i
.a legisiature, bas at its back party men,
The cabinet is coinfaithful foilowers.
posed generally of the stronger men, who
would Impose their wlll upon their on
foliowers, and again we wouid bave the
selection of a party muan by the cabinet,
w'ho %vouldpropose a candidate who would
lue invariably elected, and this Is the reason
why-although ten years ago I favoured the
nomination of senators by the provincial
legislatures-L would rather leane the selection to the federal cabinet, If there is no0
other meaus of getting the election of sellators nearer to the people, without going to
the provincial cabinet or legisiature. I uioubtedly prefer the selection of senators
directly by the federal cabinet thau by
the provincial cabinets. I do flot favour
thue election of senators by the people
theniselves. The reason given by semiators who have spoken on this point are,
i think, qulte satisfactory. We alreadv
have a House selected by the people.
and 1 thluk we have already elections enough and 1 do not belleve that the selections
that would be made by a large electorate
composed of two or tbree coutiles, would
be conducive to raising the average of the
nominations that have been made to the
Senate since 1867 by the present*-systeni.
The systein which prevails lu France Is one
Tbey
w-hlch 1 belleve to be admirable.
have there the municipal councils, as we
have throughout our land, but abone the
municipal councils tbey have general coumicils, represeuting a whole departinent coniposed of five or six counties. These general
councils have very large powers, a very
large budget. sud they are composed of men
-ho bav-e already masde thpir mark lu their
town. village or municipality. When a seat
in the Senate is vacant, each municipal
council sen'ds, a delegate and a body Is
formed of froni fixe hundred to one thonsand electors to select the senator. There
are fine or six niembers of parliament representfng that departinent la the 'House
of Assembly. Thpse senatorial electors wihl
select for the Senate three tures out of four,
one of the wlser or more proîninent members

MARCH 31, 1908
of the House of As-emb]v. Wh-lo bas been ered by tbese tluree or four countieq would
perliaps the longest there, or lias bad the be so great tbat the men selected would
inost lmriliant career. It nas this effect lu already need to be ln the public eye. But
thue proc'ess of going up the ladder ln France, again, I ask, would tbe selection made by
for one wlio wants to follow a political tbls body of municipal councillors covercareer. A mnu is elected to bis town or ing three or four countles, be made outside
village counceil, and. if be is ambitious, be of men bavlng party affiliation ? I do flot
will ru for the General Council. Once believe It. Thue men who would be In the
elected there, be wii. wheu a sent becomes public eye would be the men who bad been
vacant lu the Scuate for bis department, ln tbe House of Commons or were leaders
strlve very otten to make place lu the 'flouse of their respective parties lu tbat district.
of Asseuubly for some of the unembers of If we are looklng for a system that would
that coucil and perhaps bimself, and wiIl bring Into thue Senate more Independence
vote to send from tlue flouse of Asseinbly a of party affiliations, there ls no system connieniber lu order to mnake a vacaucy for one ceivuble lu our present state of public
of the niembers of thue General Council; so opinion and party divisions, that would
thnt one goes froin the municipal councl to create a different state of affaîrs from wbat
the Generai Counceil. froua tbe CGeneral Coun- bas prevailed. ln the Senate since 1867. If
cil to the House of Asseuubly. aud, lu course we did conflue tbe selection of Sentors to
of time, luy that proeess of election, be is se- sucb a body, there would be the danger of
lected for a nuiuber of years for the Senate. lntroducing party politics ln our municipal
This is the forun that is followed lu France. councls. I am n ot prepared to say tbat It
ý, e have bere lu Canada no similar system. would be for tbe best interest of our muniWe have our couuuty cotncils, composed of cipalities, that- our municipal business
the mayors of the different munucipalities. sbould be conducted on party Unes. Tben,
It would be soniewbat a sunali body, If we If this selection of senators was miade by
took the couinty councils of three or four municipal councillors or county concillors,
counties. to make of theun a senatorial or a body of men, it would mean tbat a
electorate. Pcrliaps we could jota three senator would be elected for a Ilmited
counties. We could bave eacb municipal time, and I do not belleve that tbe election
council send a delegate, or we could give of senators for a llmited period wouid make
to tbe inunleipal councils the selection of a for a greater Independence lu the Senate.
senator, by getting ail tbe municipal coun- Tbe very raison d'être of tbe Senate, as
cillors of two or tbree counties to form a constituted by the fathers of confederation,
1 readlly be- would disappear. Tbe fatbers of confedebody to select tbe senator.
leve that thîs would be a much less costly ration agreed that tbe Senate sbould be
system. and a better systeun, than to go formed on the liues it bas been formeddirect ho the people for tbe election of the that It sbould resist violent movements of
If tbls systeun of election by public opinion and stop basty legisiation
senators.
tlue second degree, Is favoured, the selection from tbe Couamons. 1 ask If under the elecby the municipal concillors of say tbree or tive systeun. we would not bave less indefour counties would makre an electorate of pendence than we bave to-ijay, wben we are
two or three hundred members who would not amenable to public opinion, or. not
have the selection of a senator for tbat obliged to subunit our conduct to tbe elecI think it would be a very torate nt large ?
division.
The second complaint -%vbieb bas been
of people, a body
respectable body
baving a greater seuse of responsibillty, made against the Senate Is perhaps a more
auud kuowing better tbe muen that tbey Important one, and one wbicb cau percould select from., aud ou the wbole, baps be cured. It is tbat tbe present
perbaps. It would work satisfnctorlly. systern gradually wipes out ail opposition.
I believe If you called together tbe muni- in the Senate, or neurly aIl opposition.
cipal councillors of tbree or four coun- Auy systeun wbicb bas been î)ropouuded
ties for tbe election of tbe seua tors, tbat wiil bring parhy men bere as it lias
you would bave lu that body a greater ia ail otber countries. I shouici iike
sense of responslbilit-y, and the area cov- sonieone to cite to me the case of a Sen-

732

SENATE

by
very likeiy one proposed
mnen
the cabinet itself. Every second or every
thîrd appointmaent should be fllled by one
having a majority of the votes of the opposition so that every second or third senatoriai
appolntment wouid belong to the opposition. I say, a majorlty of the votes of
the opposition, because the opposition would,
perhaps, have two or three candidates,
as the goverament party couid have
more than one candiate. 1 would give
every second or third appointment to the
candidate receiviag the majority of the
votes of the opposition. So that every
second or third appointment would belong
to the opposition. I will be met with the
objection, tbat If we started this system
to-morrow, of glvlng. every alternate nomination ln the Commons to the opposition, that
the present party wouid remain wlth a
large majorlty ia the Senate forever. That
la wbhy I arn suggestlng that every second
or third appolntment should belong to the
opposition la order to allow the government to attain and malatain la this Chamber a workIng majority. It wlll be objected
again, that if you gave two appointments
to, the majority la the Commons and
one to, the opposition, it %vould perhaps
take ten years before the government of
the day would bave a majority ln the second chamber, and that the end to be secured, wbich is, to give a small majority to
the goverament ln power, couid perbaps not
be attained dnring the life of2 that viery cabinet. I do not know if the suggestion wbIcbi
I am about to, make Nvouid be workable;
but I wouid be disposed to say, lu order
that tbere shouid be but a majority, say of
five or ten at the utmost, la favonr of the
goverument la the Upper Chamber, that,
on the formation of a new goverument
the majority ruie should reign supreme ln
the House of Commons tili the govemament
hiad a majority of five or ten la the Senate,
and when that limit would be attained, 1
would be ln favour of the aiternate appointments being made by the majority rule and
by the opposition. If this system couid be
ivorked out, then no goyerament could ever
have a majority of more than five or ten
la this Chamber. 1 belleve it would be
conducive to a heaithier state of things ln
select the Senntoî-s, one the Senate. It would maintain a stronger
thwarted. I Nvonld
by the majorîty ruie, w-hlch wouid opposition, and ivould give to the few
The SPEAKER.

aite, la America or la Europe, wvhlch Is
iîot composed of men attached to one of
the great parties which divIde public opinion in those countries. I should like to
kuowv a seator, let It be Lni Germany,
Italy, France, or let it be la the House of
Lords, who la not affillated to one of the
great parties dividing public opinion. Ia
ail second chambers, as weil as ln popular
chambers, we find men who have grown
up la the party, ivho have a politicai faith,
and who bav-e been associated with a party.
If w-e are to have men here who are not absolutely dislnterested from party strife, then
siiould we uot try to bring about ln, the constitution of the Senate a greater equilibrium
between parties? It seems to me that If
,%ve had la the Senate coastantly two strong
parties. where the majority of one over the
other would be sliglit, that. tis body's usefuiness would be Increased. I wouid be disut
potsed to favour the electiû.or euators by
the Hlouse of Coîumous. That body is composed of men seiected by the whoie DominIon, caming direct from the people, representiag the whoie people and the whoie Dominion. The highier the electorate which selects
the Senate the better the selection, because
I have notlced that one does not generally
choose his inferior for a p)osition whlch is,
nt ail events, equai to the one he fuls. If
the election was made by the Commons,
the majoritr would continue to mule. There is
no doubt that durlng the debates on confederation, the fathers of confederation, the
niakers of our constitution, weme agreed that
the Senate shouid be sympathetic to the goverament of the day. It is quite natural and
just that it shouid be. The govemnment of
the day represents the will of the people.
The goverameat of the day Issues froni the
people, and It la quite natural, as a genema]
principle, that the Senate shouid be rather
sympathetic to, the goverumnent. Hence 1
draw the conclusion that it would be natumal to find a smali majomity In the Senate favouring the policy of the government
of the day. How ean this end be attained,
n smali majority favourably Incllned to-%vards the goverrament of the day, ready to
xecognize that the wiil of the people is
supreme, and that as expressed b3- the
preceding electio'î, it sbould not be

3IARCHE
more ludependeut senators, senators wlth
au Independent turu ef mmnd, a greater lu-.
fluence lu this Ohamber. I tbrow out the
Mdes for what It Is worth, as 1 cannot flnd a
system by wÉlch we will get Into this
Chamber men who are absolutely Independent of pa.rties. As we are bouud to
have party men lu thîs Chamber, we
shouid try and have the majorlty of senutors favourlng the party lu power qulte
smali, I wouid say five or ten, sud I wouid
shlow the workIng of that system, which I
bave mast explained, to ga ou lu tbe H1ouse
of Gommons, by whicb the goverument
would have the selection of one senator,
and the opposition the selection of the
second.
There is a third grievauce, wbich does
not affect the constitution of the Senate.
It la alleged that the Gommons do most of
the work, and that the Seuste seem to have
s0 much leisure and to glve so littîe time to
the Important questions that come here that
its usefuiness is doubtfui. The question
arises as to how to bring about a better
division ef the work ef parliament. I think
It would be very easy to give the Senate
as much work as Is doue by the House
of Gommons. As a matter of fact, the
Senate does about the same work as
the Commons performs, except votlng
supplies sud discussiug lu detail the Items
in the estimates lu Commlttee ef the Whole.
Outslde of the Supply Bill, whlch takes
about two months of .the tIme of the Commous, and whicb justifies the 'Senate lu adjourulng during most of that time, huasmach as thîs la work speciahhy done by the
Commons, ail the work that passes through
the Gommons comes to, the Senate. We do
It lu less time, I admit, than the Commous
We are but
do, aud the reason is obvhous.
Si members, or shouhd be, and there are
214 members lu the other House. The senstors feel hîke addresslng themselves exclusively to the question before them, whiîe
the Commoners feel tbat they should adMany memdress the ehectorate as Wel.
bers want to put themmelves ou record ou
live Issues, whihe senators do net generalîy
use arguments àîready uttered by precedIug speakers. There are very many
obvIous reasous why %a question debated lu the Commous before being
taken up lu the Senste, should occupy but a

31, 1908
quarter of the tirne here that It took ln the
On the other baud, there are a
Commons.
number of lmportan' questions which are
wlth private Bis
raised ln. counection
whicb are sifted and settied ln the Conimous after proionged discussion lu the commlttee and la the House, and which reach
here wItb the principal contentious clause'
eiimInated, so that the Bill passes wlthout
the Senate appeariug to, show as, much luterest ln It as wns rnaultested lu the ComI have seen, lu a number of cases,
mous.
Important private legislation settIed iu the
Gommons by the wltbdrawal of the Bill
after a bard struggle, wht.-n naturally prevented it comiug to the Senate and beiug
0f course, 1 respect the
dlscussed here.
vlew of soute who bold thiat the Senate
should not strive to get more legisiation Iuitiated here, because we are a House of
review and that the work sbould corne to us
from tbe Commons for us to pronounce
Judgmeut upfou it. This is a vlew that is
worthy of consideration, but lnasmucb as
the sessions are tendlng more aud more to
lengtbeu, we should, perhaps, put this argument aside, sud have more legislation luitlated lu thîs Chamber so as to help expedite business. As to private legisle.tion, 1
would suggest a meaus that would be very
simple to dîvide It equally between the two
At present. wheu an outside
Houses.
party sends a petition for private legisiation
before the opetding of the session, the Cierk,
who receives the petîtion and the deposit
caiied for by the regulations initiates It lu
bis chamber, so that if ninety out ef every
huudred Bills are Iitlated ln the Commons
It Is purely and slmply because the deposît
requlred bias been sent to the Clerk ef that
If the money had been sent to
House.
.the Clerk of the Senate, the Bill would
1
ittated lu -the Senate.
bave been
wouid suggest the appointmeut of a joint
committee of both Houses to, make regulations s0 that only one clerk sbould recelve
the mouey, aud that the Bis should be
uumbered as tbey came lu, aud that those
rith odd numbers sbould go to the Comnions. and those w.ith even numbers to the
Senate, or vice versa. Iu that way, we
would have 50 per cent et the private legislation lultlated here automatically.
I have spoken of tbe lnterest wlich thé
people at large would take ln the debates

SEN AIE
in the Senate w-lien important
questions would arise, as tley naturally
would with hiaif of the private legislation
inltlated here.
I believe we are now at
the very root of the mlsunderstanding between the outside public aud the Senate.
The Important questions wlcih arouse public opinion are lultlated in the House of
Commoas, and there you finti representatives
of ail the large newspapers wlring dally reporta of Important debates on niatters
affectlng the country.
Why does not
that interest centre on the
Senate?
For tbe simple reason that there are
eleveii members of the cabinet ln the Coinmous and oaly two in the 8enate. Eleven
cabinet minîsters Introduce their Important legisîntion ln the Commons, aud there
It reains la the public eye until absolutely aIl] iterest lu tlîos, questio.iu 1d4.vC
beeni exhausted, and thien, whenl the lemon
is squeezed as dry as it cau be, wheni
there is flot one more drop rernalulng, lt
Is sent to the Senate. How can we expect
that a question which lias been debated
for weeks or nionths la the I-buse ot
Cominons day lu andi day out, which bas
been (liscussed ad uiauseami in the press
untîl the niewspapers are bored receiving
copy from the Comîniions-that when It
coines before the Senate we wiIl see represeutatives of the press ilock to our galleries
aud repeat and rebaslî and serve again arguments whiceh were colti and very colti
weeks before ? That is the situation. Is
there a remiedy? I say there is, anti a
very easy reinedy.
1 do flot intend to try and shake the colunmus of the temple by the suggestion I
wlll make. Lt is a practice that rules ln
ail the parliaineuts of the world except
the British parliament, and it does flot
apply in Great Britain for obvions reasons. 1 would suggest that cabinet minnisters sliouid be able to speak lu both
branches of parliament, as is doue lu uiearly
ail the parliamneuts of the world, s0 that
w-heu a long debate on the address or some
other important matter 'arises to block the
work of the House of Commons for weeks
or mnonths the ministers miglht file iuto
the Senate anti present andi expli u their
Bis bere.
Tien xve would have the lenion
full of juice and the uew-sp:ipers iuterestedl
lu hearing andi reportiug the diseussions on
The SPEAKER.
goig on

this new inatter would be here to ireport the discussion.
1 ani free to believe that la the eyes, perhaps, of soine
senators, or people outside, I have uttereti
a bluspbemuy la suggesting that a mîinister
W~ho lias flot a sent ln the Senate should
walk into this Chamber andi address the
House, or that a cabinet minister la the
Senate should go Into the Commous ani
explain there a Bill lie hiad lu charge.
M'bat do you see lu the House of CoiYou see a deputy minister,
imous to-day?
a paiti emnployee of the country, sittiug by the desk of bis iinister anti
wvhispering to, hlmi Information wvhieh ail the
House miay hear anti there seems to be no
sacrilege la that.
The deputy iîiister is
prompting bils minîster. He Is sitting on
the sacred, floor of the ]Eouse of Couinons
andi yet we take it as a good practice.
Why could not a cabinet mînîster, W-ho sits
ln the Senate, w'alk Into the Commons anti
sit beside bis colleagues and expiain anti
defenti a measure under the m-iles of that
House ? 1 have discussed the question
wlth a number of senators anti menibers
of the Commons, andi no one bas uttereti
a serious objection. Lt is new, anti It bias
uot been doue ln Canada before, but it la
done lu every other parlianient except the
British parliament. Why, Because the Barons existeti before the Couinions, andti he
hîgli Barons of Engianti w-ould not admit
a Comminoner into the sacred preclncts of
the flouse of Lords. Of !ouirse lie will be
allowed, w-ben a parchment lias given hm
authority, to, take a seat there. He belougeti to the people the day before, anti
sat la the Commons; to-day hie eau sit in
the Lords, but if hie 15 îlot a menuber of
the Upper House lie caunot enter there. I
w-onder If that reasoii exista lu Canada? Me
are not biue bloodeti legislators. We do not
sit bei-e by any kînti of divine right or by
that of aîur forefathers. We are of the
saine day absolutely as the Comnioners.
Iu fact we see senators leaving their
seats and runnlng for the Gommons. We
have lia 1. au example of that lately, w-here
a senator became a commoner, anti I think
we have seen commoners become senators
since 1867. 1 wonder why this system
could flot bie estâbllshed, of baving members of the cabinet sit iu both Houises?
If w-e hiad i aif of the important ineasiurea

735

APRIL 1, 1908
wblch attract public attention in itiated
here« wj would bave no need to pay a pres
reporter to make a synopsis of our debates
on those Important questions. You would
find very littie rep[rting about these questions when tbey bad lef t the Senate, and gone
to the Commons after they bad been debated bere for tbree or four weeks. We wouid
not, besides, have very of ten the spectacle of
one minister bere cbarged with the~ woric of
eleven or tweive of bis coiieagues, suspending a debate because he iacked Information, or because be is unable,
not having prepared the measure bimseif,
to, state exactiy its purport and meaning,
wben you wouid have the minister
wbo drafted the measure or studied it present it himseif in the Senate. I repeat,
that this calîs for no change ln the constiIt lis impiy a question of regulatution.
tion between the two Houses by a conterence, aud I think that then you wouid have,
with the other suggestion I bave made, hait
the pri-ate legisiation initiated ln this Chamber, and perhaps hait the public legisiation
aiso. You would wipe out with these two reforms, at one biow, the constantiy recurring accusation that the Senate is idle and
useless, because our work wouid then be ln

the limelight just as much as the

Tbe SPEAKER-I do flot believe it. I
believe it Is simpiy a question of Internai
regulations which the two Houses, by joint
committee, couid well cope witb. I do not
believe that the tact of ailowing members
of the Commons holding cabinet positions
to corne into the Senate. to expisin tbeir
measures would interfere witl the constitution, and I arn reaiiy of the opinion that
the Senate and House of Cominons are fuliy
empowered to soive this question.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL moved
that the debate be adjourned until to-niorrow.
The Motion was agreed to.
BILLS INTRODUOED.
Bill (153) An Act respecting the New
Brunswick Southern Raiiway Company.(Hon. Mr. Ellis.)
Bill (JJ) An Act for the relief of Edith
May Gilmore.-(Hon. ',%r. Perley.)
The Senate adjourned until -to-morrow at
tbree o1ciock.

Com-

Mons.
For these rensons, If these varlous amendinents came to a vote, I wouid tavour the
amendment of the bon, gentleman from
Mille lies (Hon. Mr. David), wxtb tfl4s restriction, that 1 couid flot see the utility of
asking that more ministers of the. Crown
Ministers of
bave seats in this Chamber.
the Crown couid corne into this Chamber
and present their own measures, and there
wouid be no special necessity for asking
that there be more than two ministers ln
If ail cabinet ministers couid
the Senate.
corne on the floor of this House and our
own go to tbe Commons, I wouid not favour
this part of the amendment wblcb calls for
the appointment of more ministers to tbe
Senate.
Hon. Mr. MILLER-Wouid uot that be
contrary to the British constitutionai systijm on wbich the British North America
Act says our systern shouid be based? It
would be a fundamentai change ln our constitution.

THE SENATE.
OTTANVA,

Wednesday, April 1, 1908.

The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree
o'ciock.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
QUJEBEC BRIDGE COMPANY.
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
The order of the day being calied:
By Mr. LANDRY:
That he wiil inquire of the governmentWhat is the amount of the interest dinq, of
whioh mention is made in the fol lowing
deciaration given by the government on the
25th March instant:(d> The Bridge Company advises that the
cost of the bridge, including Chaudière bridge
and the railway approaches, to March 1, 1908,
was $6,899,033.03, to which is to be added interest from June 30, 1907, on the advances for
which the bonds of the company were piedged.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-i nave flot the answers
They are flot questions
to this question.
which can be answered iii Ottawa.

SE-\ATE

736

Hou. Mr. LANDRY-I call the attention
of the goverimeut to the fact that It takes
about ten or twelve hours for a letter leaving Ottawa to reacli Quebec, and this inquiry has beeu on the order paper I thlnk
If the goverument
sInce the 2Och Mardli.
pressed for an answer I believe that those
They are under
people could fujrnish it.
The presithe control. of the gov'erument.
dent 0f the Bridge Company is living In OtIf n letter were addressed to the
tawa.
president of the compauy in Ottawn, and a
simîlar letter to the secretary Iu Quebec,
'with a littie good will, one o! those gentlemen could furnish the Information. If not,
I would suggest cutting off the salnry
of the president o! the Transcontinental
Railway. lie Is makiug lots of money
and, perhaps, If there were n penalty
attached to his non-coînplîance wvith the
orders o! this House be rnight corne to better terrns. There is more than one wny to
kili a cat. I hope the governmnent wlll
take the proper meaus to get those people
te corne to a sense o! their duty and to
answer a question put to tbem. I wlll
watt until next week, and If the Information ls not forthcomlug before that tirne I
wll be obliged to take other means.
lion. Mr. SCOTT-It is qulte open to the
bon. gentleman to take any means he tbiuks
I amn not
I bave due ail I can.
proper.
going to rua about and catech persous by
the button loleHon. '-%r. LÂNDRY-I arn Dot complaluIng of the action of the bon. Secretary of
State.
SCOTT-Notes are sent ont
Hon. M.Nr.
frein day to day askiug If it is Dot possible
I understand
to oktain1 the information.
tbey bave sent a special messenger to QueI do not know
bec to procure an nnswer.
wbat truth there is lu that statement, but
that is the expanation I have been given
Tbe moment I receive au answer
to-day.
I will let tbe hon. gentleman bave It
Tbe lnqulry was allowecl to stand until
Tuesday.
QUEBEC BRIDOaE DEBENTURES.
INQUIRY.
IANDRY inquired:
Hou. M-Nr.
6ued by the Quebec Bridge CompçLnv?
SCOTT.
Houl. M-Nr.

How many of these debentures have beon
negotiated. and at m'hat rate of interest and
discount, and how aiuch have they brought
in?
How rnany of these debentures have been
given as guarantees for loans miade by the
company with binks?
What amount has the company obtajned in
this manner f rom banks?
What rate of interest is it paying?
When is each of these boans payable?
Rias the government intervened in these
netotintions and financial operations?
rnwhat manner? Has it given banks its
guarantee for the re-payment of the capital
borrowed and for the payment of interest
thereupon?
For what amount is the Royernment so responsible?
What are the sums of money which the government bas already advanced (a> either to
the company. (b) or to banks, in payment of
obligations for which the government was responsible?
Has the government in its posseslsion any
debentures of the oompany in exchange for
Fums which the government has disbarsed or
for guarantees which it lias giron?
For what amount?
SCOTT-Tbie answer to the bon.
Hon..
gentleman*s questions are as follows:
The amount of bonds (flot debentures) in
sterling money issued by the Quebec Bridge
None
Company is equlvaleut to $6,678,200.
of these bonds have been sold.
The totnl Issue wns pledged with banks.
The compnny ndvised tbat the arnount of
advauces obtainied by the compnny ou pledge
of the bonds referred to was $5,016,453.66.
The rate of Iuterest payable by the conipany on these advauces by the banks wns 5
The advauces were repayable
per cent.
on detuand.
The goverument did inlterveue la these
negotiations and financial operations. Findlng that, owing to the strlngency of the
rnoney market, the company's guaranteed
bonds could flot be sold on ndvnntageous
terms, the government requested the bnnk
nlot to exercise lts riglit to selI, but to assist
the compauy wlth advances ou the securitv
The bnnk
of the goverument guarantee.
Subsequently the
followed this course.
goverument obtalned f rom parliameut anthorit ' to ninke direct advances to the coinpany (Chapter 35, 1907Y to enable it to par
This
off the iudebtedness to the baukg.
authority bas been partly exercised and an
early comlpletiofi of this part of the transaction Is anticipated.
The government bas advanced by way of
loan te thle company $2,0OO0,OW (February 8,
1o
hpe
1fludrteltoiyo

APRIL il 19OS

tbe Act of 1907, wbicli suin bias been al)piied to the payaient of tbe ndvauces to

the compauy froni the banks.
Tbe goverument bas possessionu of tbe
bonds of the company, part of the Issue
above referred to, to the amount of £478,700
ln excbange for the $2,000,000 advanced under cbapter 37). Acts of 190-à.
FATAL ACCIDENTS AT HIGIIWAY
CROSSINGS.
MOTION.
McKAY (Truro), ii the absence
Hou. MINr.
of Hou. '-%r. Ferguîsou. iuoved:
That an Order of the House ba jssued for a'
ratura basad on the records in the offices of
tha Railway Commission showiag tha total
number of persons killed or injured by being
struck by angines or trainc ou highway crossings, said ratura to show the flamber of parsous killad or iuj urad on the liues of each railway compauy saparately for tha years ending
March Slst, 1905, 1906 and 1907, such return
to includa ail persons killed or injured as
above described irrespactiva of any contention
of the railway companies or opinion of the
officers of tha Railway Commission as to the
legal riglits of the said parsons to use the
highway crossing at the time of tha accidents.
The motion w-as ngreed to.
QUEBEC BRIDGE.

A

QUESTION

0P PRIVILEGE.

orHou. Mr. MMLE-eoethe
ders of the day are called., I desire to bring
In
up a question of persoual priviiege.
the otlier House; lu the debate of~ Mardli
31, a member of that House referred to nme
in the followlug ianner :
I have stated it repeatedly on the ylatform
and in the committea that this so-called Midland Dredging Company has among its other
stockholders the son of Senator MeMuilen.
Thare is no doubt about it. These people
around Midland boast of what they oan do ou

account of their political connections. Senator McMullen met me in the corridor and said
he wished to tell me something and that for
the future ha did not wish nme to associata his
sou's naine with that dredging company. I
said. Re is a stockholder in the company. Ha
said: Hae was formerly but by rassoit of the
disciosuras in connection with the dredgîng I
made him dispose of hie stock.

I amn exceedingly sorry that M.Bennett
should have thouglit it prudent ou biis part
to repent a private conversation tliat lmad

casuaiiy takea place betweeu Illuiseif and
myseif In the corridor upstairs. However,
what I did sny to hlm lie bias construed
to menu somnetbiug wbicb I neyer conveyed

In any shape. I neyer said auytbing about
owing to the disclosures that bad taken
place I liad ndvised my son to seli lils
stock. 1 miade no admission wbatever with

INQUIRY.
Tbe only tbing I
regard to disclosures.
said to '.%r. Beunett was tbat 1 lad noticed.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
What is tha amount of the interest due, of ont n previous occasion lie bnd coupled my
which mention is made in the following ane or tbat of uiy son Nvith a dredgiug
declaration givan by tha govarnment on the
company nt Mldiaud. I said that unr
25th Mardi instant:<d) The Bridge Company advises that the son, during uny absence, liait taken soute
cost of the bridge, including Chaudière bridge stock iu this compaur, nad as I did
and the railway approachas, to March 1, 1908,
was $6,899,033.03, to which'is te lo added in- not waut my naine associatel witb this
tarest fromt June 30 1907, on the advauces for *company as beiug a contractor witb the
which the bonds of ihe company were pledged,
*governmeut. I urged hlm to sell bis
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Before comlng into
stock and lie did so. But to say tlînt 1
the CharnIer, I was not prepared to auswer stnted tînt it was owiag to disclosures is
this question, but I have used nîy.knowentirely Incorrect, and I canuot uaderstaud
ledge of arlbmetlc to Make up the amount.
permit lilunself to
and 1 iow Mr. Beunett would
It Is five per cent on $6,899,033,
*make sncb a statement. I arn anazed. to
make it about $230,000 for the nine monthq
think lie %vould do it. I sald nothing tbat
front June 30 last.
would lead hlm to any sucli conclusion Iii
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I arn very gratefu rny statement wben I met blm. 1 amn exto the minister for the work lie bas done *ceedingly sorry 1 meutioned the motter to
Il suppose I may take bis statenient ai li
nt all. 0f course it was only Iu a
the answer of the goverament ?
casual way, and I certainiy tbotiglit lie
a conHon. Mr. SCOTT-The exact auiouut lii was gentleman enougli to deal-with
?versation between bimself and nie-n pri$=2,966, but I understand tIare ls somi
it ou tbe
amail overdrnft on whlcb is cburged 6 pe«r vate matter-without detailing
1floor of pgrliameut. I mnade uo sucu statecent, wbicb would bIng it up to $230,000

738

SEINATE

ment as be alleges 'iith regard to disclo- ther It is the Intention of tbis government
States
sures coming out or that that was the to extend an invitation to the United
reason I had advised my son to dispose of Navy, as Japan, China, Australia iind Great
Britain bave done, to visit the respective
bis stock.
waters of those nations? Is It the Intention of the government to have the United
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
States Navy visit the St. Lawrence at
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Before the or- the time of the Tercentenary ?
ders of the day are called, I wish to ask
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-No action lias been
the bon. leader of the House, If it Is true taken with reference to eitber subject.
that Mr. Justice Cassels, of the ExcbeHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is It being conquer Court, bas been appolnted 'under
Royal Commission to examine Into the civil sidered ?
service, and may I ask, at the saine Urne,
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It came up casuniiy,
to wbat extent bis Instructions go la re- bût no conclusions were reacbed.
the
vlewing the report recentiy laid on
table o! Vie House of Commons ?
PRINTING 0F QUEBEC BRIDGE COMMISSION REPORT.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-A Minute of Council
was approved to-day appolnting Mr. JusHon. Mr. LANDRY-Is there auy protice Casseis to make a full lnquiry Into gress being made ln the printing of the
Vie charges set forth ln Vie report of the report on the Quebec Bridge Disast9r, and
commission appointed to InquIre into Vie the report of the Civil Service Commiscivil service, ln which Viey Eind that mis- sioni ?
conduct and appropriation bad appeared
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbey are proceeding
from their examination o! the papers la
as rapidly as they can, considpring the
I cannot give Vie
certain departments.
bas to have precewording of Vie minute, but lt authorized work of the session
dence. The report of the Civil Service
Mr. Justice Cassels to make a tborougb li>
larger than one0
vestigation Into Vie charges contained ln Commission is very much
would Imagine, because the commission
Vie report o! Vie -Civil Service Commissent ln a number of memoranda unsigned,
sion.
arnd extracts tbat tbey obtained fromn the
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Is it to be iim- files of the department. These are not
ited to the charges made ln Vie report, typewrittea; and la many cases are written
on both sides of the paper, and it la very
or has he enlarged powers ?
difficuit to make rapid progress at the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I Viink It is iim- Bureau with them. Tbey are proceeding as
lted to the charges in Vie report.
rapidly as the conditions wIlI ailow, and It
wiii be the end of the week before a comnHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wili plote report can be Issued.
Vie Order ln Council appointing Mr. Justice Cassels be laid on the table of! Vie
SUPPLY BILL.
Senate, so Viat we can ascertain what bis
FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD READINGS.
powers really are ?
A message was recelved from the House
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wiil try to get a of Commons witb Bill (136) An Act for
copy to-morrow. It bas only been approved granting to His Majesty certain sums of
within Vie iast bour, because Vie subject mioney for the publiec service of the finanwas just taken up to-day. I wili be glad cl years ending respectively 'March 31,
to iay a copy on tbe table to-morrow, if
1908, and March 31, 1909.
possible.
The Blill was read the first time.
QUEBEC TERCENTENARY.
Hion. Mr. SCOTT-This supply Bill which
lias comc up for our consideration embraces
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Can the bon.
Secrctary of State lnform the flouse, whe- the supplementary estimates for the year
Hlon. Mr. MeMULLEN.

KPRIT, il 190873
that ferminated yesferday. They amount t bat If we wish to discuss any of the Items
to $5,319,633. There lB chargeable to con- i n this Bill, we shal nlot be met wilh the
solidafed account on that item $4.683,876, >bjection that we have no rlgbt to discuss
and to capital account $595,608, the f wo f0- i question whieli bas been settled. I know
gether maklng for the supplementary esti- :bat Is the rule of the House; but wlth the
mates of the year just ciosed $5,319,633. monsent of the House ln ailowing the Bill
The fiscal year bavlng been changed, it t o0pass through its three stages ln one day,
became necessary te ask parliament for a I Ewant it understood that no objection shall
be raised to a frge discussion of any of these
proportion to carry on the services ln te
tems.
year we are just uow enfering upon, com- 1
menciug to:day, and the House of Com.Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It Is qulte understood
mons bas passed an estimafe for one-elghfh that the passing of this Bill ln no way preof that amouaf. The figures would be as eludes free' discussion of the Items ln the
follows:. schedule B. main estimates for estimates when they corne up.
year ending March 31, 190W, $15,831,818;,
BOWELLHon. Sir MACKENZIE
chargeable to consolidated fund, $8,857,855r;
and to capital account, $6,973,952; xnaking, 1'hough it appiies f0 hast year, we can disas 1 sa.id before, a total for tee estimates cuss these items wiien we corne t0 deai
of the year which we have now eufered with the estimates of thîs year.
upon, in order to meet payments wbich wiil
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oertainly.
arise during tee ferm, a total of $15,831,818.
The motion was agreed t0, and the Bihl
The amount confained la tee two sums-read the second and third tirne and
odd voted for supple- was
thaf is the $5,000,000
passed.
mental estimofes for tee year passed, and
tee one-eighfh of tee estîmates for tee curTHIRD READING.
rent year wil amount fo $21,151,451. 1
Bill (121) An Act to arnd the Suprerne
suppose hon, gentlemen -wll permit te
Court Act.--(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
Bill t0 be passed to-day.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose we are
bouud to swallow this Bill wifhout having
if before us.
Hon. M~r. SOOTT-It Is not a very big
surn. We are accusfomed to a littie more
tean $21,000,000. 1 move tee suspension of
rule 24 lu order to enable tee Bill to be
read a second time presently. As hon.
gentlemen are aware, *e neyer go hnfe
conittee on tee Supply Bill.

THE EXPENDITURES
SENATE.

0F THE

The order of the day being calhed:
Consideration of the message from the House
of Commons requesting the Sonate te furnish
the House with a return ehowing the oosf,
outaide of the indemnity, of the Soniate, for
the sessions 1905, 1906 and 1907, respectively.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT rnoved that the order
of the day be dlschargeû, and thut if be
fIxed for Frlday nexf.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-When does tee govHon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Can rny hon.
erament Intend to have this Bill sanc- friend say whether If is usual for the Cornfloned ?
Whether
mous to malte such a request?
presume fo-morrow such a requesf bad been made and any
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-I
-not lnfer tean fo-morrow. We could not reply had been given In former years?
get it through to-day ln Urne.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-I have not had an opBO>WELLI-Be- portunlfy of looking info the matter, but 1
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
fore suspendlng the rules, I shouhd like f0 amn inclined f0 think thaf it Is nof quite
have If understood thaf any Item la tels proper, not tee usual courtesy for one
mupplemenfary estimafe may be discussed House f0 show to the other to malte such a
when tee main estimates are preseuted. demand, particularly as f0 the way la which
Rad 1 known fhat some of these Items werp the Senate bas disposed of money vofed by
comiug up to-day, I wouhd have been pre- parliament. It is the flrsf time 1 bave ever
Whaf I desire is, known of suchi a proposition being made.
pared te discusa fhem.

SENATE
Thte Bill has underHon. Mr. CASGRALN-Wotild liot ail that Ii!!l i, unirezisonable.
information be fouud lu the Auditor Gen- goite v-ery large modifications lu the otiter
Flouse.
It w-as referred *first to the Raileral's report?
%vay Commlttee and thien to a special coinHou. Mr. SCOTT-I tliink so.
înittee of thiat House.
The special coinHon. '-%r. CASGRAIX-Then wby flot re- mittee hiad a niumber of sittiugs, and, il
The safeguards
fer them to the Auditor General's report? tact, remodelled the Bill.

put in titis Bil! are very

nuchi greater titan

Hou. Mr. SCOTT-WVe wiIl consider it out itave ever been put li a mensure of titis
Lriuay next.
kind before, to protect the interests of tite
The motion was agreed to. and the order public and of those w-ho were supposed to
be lnjured should the Bill become law.
1
ivas îtostponed.
81-USWAP ANI. THI03PSON
BOOM COMPANY'S ri'

RIVERS
T

SECOND READING.
Hon. '.%r. BOSTOCK inoved tite second
readLiug of Bill (49) An Act to incorporate
tite Shuswvap amud Thompson Rivers Boomn
Comupany.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHIEED-Will
uiy liont.
f riend lniforrn the House whether this is flot
practicahly. the samne Bill that wvas rejecteI
by the Sellete on tivo former occasions, aud,
if it is not, whiether It does flot deal practically wlth the saine matter?
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Thie history of titis

Bill is to titis effeet: lit 1904 soine gentlemuen came here and npplied for a charter
for the purpose of putting booms on the
Thonupson river.
They obtaliied the charter, but afterwards found that they could
îlot work under IL They came here again
in 19WO
and appliefi for another charfer,
whichi was at tat tinte defeated.
Thte
gentlemen applyinug for that charter are
not the saine as titose who are npplying for
titis one tmow.
The gentlemen who proinoted the former charter are opposing titis
Bill.
Those who are nientionied lu this
-Bill are men operating on the north Thompsoni and soutit Thompsou rivers.
They
founid that they could not carry on the
works necessary wlthout haviug a charter,
anti tîterefore coule here titis session to obtain the legîIsiation necessary for tbem to
carry on their business.

cannot sec iy there should be the opposition ii this Chamber to titis Bill tÉtat
thtere bas becît lu tue othier House.
The
gentleman w-ho has been the principal oppoilent of tite BiII w-as offered a chance to
corne Into this company on the samne ternis
as the other gentlemen meutioned lut the
BilI as It stands, and I do miot sec why they
couîd not ail join together.
Lt is ouly ai
boom BilI for the purpose of enabhing tite
lintit holders oit those rh-crs to sort and distribute their logs lu thiat part of tite colinttry.
Thte prontoters of titis 13ii1 are quite
readi- to take everybody la %vbo is inteested liu lumbering oit thiese ri-ers, on tite
saine ternits as theinseiveq.
They do flot
w-ant titis legisîntion for tîte purpose of
niaking money out of it, but slmply for thè
putrpose of handlîîg timeir business and payiug the cost of handling thte logs.
PersonaIly I do not sce why there shîould be any
opposition to thte Bill.
The motion w-as agreed to, and the Bili
w-as rend the second time.
SECOND READLNGS.

Biil (86) An Act to incorporate the Northcrit Empire Ralway Coiipny.-(H-on. Mr.
DeVeber.)
Bill (IH) An Act respecting tite Nlplssing
Central flailway Comupany-(Hon. Mr. hleGregor.)
SENATE REFORM-%.
DEBÂTE RESUMED.
The order of the day belng called.

Resuming the further
on
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-On what grounds the motion of the Hon. adjourned debatethat
Mr. MeMullen,
is the opposition directed against the Bill? in view of the agitation regarding the services
rendered by the Senate as a part of our legis-

HIon. Mr. BOSTOCK-As far as I can lative system, and in view of the criticism
both in parliamtent and
sec, tite Opposition put Up against titis to appointments to, thjs the press with respect
Chamber, it i%, in the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

APRIL 1. 1908
the Senate i-as nlot up to its proper standI suppose the ideal Senate was the
ing.
one appolnted at the tlme of confederation.
If we lied nmaintained that standing there
would have been no cause Mor complaint.
I t was understood, at the time of confederatien. that the Sentet shouid bie non-partisann,
or composed about equaily of members of
I do not hesitate to say fInît
both piarties.
lu titat respect the Senate bas fallen far
short of wbat It started out to; be, a nonTbe Senate to-day and the
partisan body.
Senate In the past bas been largely partisan.
Sir John MacIndonRld departed troni tHe ruis
on whicb appointments were to have been
muade, and made pnrty appointmnents, se
that nt the time of the defeet of the Coiuservative party In 1896 a large majority ln
the Seutîte was Conservative.
Wlien Sir Wilfrid Laurier carne Into
power, hie undertook to foiiow le the footsteps of bis predecessor lu that respect,
and lie bas made the Senate partisan; s0
that, to my mind, the Senate cannot properiy fulil the functions for w-hich It was
created, because If Is londed up tirsf oue
way and then the other w-ltb party poiltics. It cannot bie the ludependent branch
of parliaineut w-hidi if siuouid b. and w-hlch
The hou. gent leHon. Mr. PERLEY-I seldom occupy it w-as deslgned to b.e.
mnan fromn Welington compiaIns ln bis momnucli of the time of the Senate ln discussing
thnt If Is a party machine to a cerI generally content my- -tien
public questions.
tain exteef; that It Is niot composed of the
self with listeaing to the speeches on both
If sbouid bie composed of. If
,fdes, and then make up my mmud to vote. kind of nien
the Senate w-as up t0 the stanldard of maneI have nieyer shirked a vote since I bave
b.e,
been In the Senate and -I never intend to. hood and senatorsbip tint If ougbt to
tiien there w-as no need of the resolution
Tils Is a question of more than ordiuary
importance. and It bas beeni well discussed. of the bou. gentleman, and If the appointFew questions have been debated at greater ments had been good ones there would be
on the metbod of appointl
lenigthin this Chamber and more Intelli- no nieed f0 reflecf
ment. Ie bis speech, the hou. gentleman
geutiy than this, and, In my opinion, tbere
are few questions deserving greater cofl- refleets on the Senate, and stateq thnt It
sideration than the one we are now dis- is flot up to flue standard. Ie so doing lie
The mover of the resolution was inust reflecf on the government, and lie
Cussing.
actuated. I suppose, by what lie considered goes sO far as to say thaf lie opposes
to be his duty in bringing It before us. Two the government laving the patronage of
or three years ago, the M.Ninister of Trade appoiuuting the senators, for no other reaarrd Commerce brougbt up the question and son than that they have not nmade good
sI)oke at grec t*iengtb upon It. In the de- uise of fiat patronage. No other conclusion
tiate whvb foliowed, several hon. gentlemen can bie arrived et. The bon. gentleman
spoke nt consIderable length, but none of made a confession le bis speech, and open
tiiem happened to voice the views that 1 confession Is good for the seul. He stated
lîold on this subject; I therefore crave your whiat Is a facf-and whici everybody keows
Indulgence wbiie 1 put myself on record. Is a fact-haf during the many years h.
Tîme lion. mover of tîme resolution stated that was ie fie House of Commons lie made

opinion of this House, desirable that the question of the method of appointments and the
terni for which appointments are to bie made
in future should b.e considered and the system
recast, and the motion in amendment of the
Hon. Mir. David, that ail the words after
'That' in the main motion be struck out and
replaced by the foliowing: 'the Senate, whiie
nlot desiring to pronounce finally upon the
numerous and varions projects of reform
which have been proposed and discussed in
connection with the Senate, yet in view of the
differences of opinion on the subjeet and until
those projects h ave hiadt time to mature, believes it opportune to declare that it is desirable, in order to increase the efficiency of the
Senate, that more' legisiation b.e initiated ini
this House, that more ministers of the Crown
have seats therein, and that any minister may
personaily introduce and defend government
mneasures on the floor nf both Houses,' and aise
the amendaient in amendment of the Hon. Mr.
Béique to the proposed amendment of the Hon.
Mr. David, That ail the words in the said
amendmient after the word ' following ' b.
strnck ont and replaced by the following:
' from the very serions objections which have
been raised to the several modes of reformis
which have been suggested by individual members of this House and the gr1eat diversity of
opinion expressed thereon, t e present constitution of the Senate seems to be on the whole
the b9st which can Lie devised for this country;
that moreover, in order that the hon. House
may give the full measure of its nsefnlness it
is greatly desirable that means be adopted to
keep it more constantiy occnpied, thereby reiieving the Honse of Commons of part of its
work and shortening the sessions Of parliament.-Hon. Mr. David.

SEN AT E
It a point to traduce and ridicule the Seniate as a useless and unnecessary body for
the best Interests of Canada. Other gentlemen on that side of politics dld the sane
thing, and the country became educated
to, belleve that this was a useless brandi
of the. legisiature, flot wortli Its cost to
the country; but when the hon. gentleman
made that statement hie was a member
of the House of Gommons, and at that
time thîs Senate was largely Conservatîve.
There la no question about that. The hon.
gentleman subsequently became a memnber of Mhs Senate, and, after a f ew years'
experience here, the very men wliom lie
was decrylng as unfit for the position and
Incompetent, hie Elnds on dloser acquaintance to be a useful and creditable body
of men, and the statement 'lhe made ln
former tnmes ridicullng and decryîng the
Senate was made ln Ignorance. A better
confession than that could not posslbly be
made. It shows that when lie becamne
acquainted wlth the members of the Seniate and their efficiency and abillty to, do
the work, hie found tliey were an entirely
different body of men from those lie had
been abusing. Who were they ? The Conservatîve senators appointed by Sir Johin
Macdonald and the Liberals appoiuted by
Alexander Mackenzie. He gîves themi a
certificate of dharacter of the hlgliest stanidard possible and now hie wants a chiange.
What Is the luference ? That the senators
appointed by the present government are
not up to the standard. 1 should flot have
made that sweeping statemeat. I should
say a good many of tliem were n to the
standard, good, competent, and capable
men. He does not draw tlie distinction. I
heard a gentleman say that a certain number of senators who were appolnted lately
are not np to, the standard, and that lt
ivould have beeen better not to appoint
them. 1 am not going to Individualize
them; but I take It the hon, gentleman
lias some sucli men lin bis mmnd, or lie
would not have mnoved this resolution. If
tlie Senate were as it ouglit to be, then
there was no need of thl.s resolution, and
If the goverament appolnted good and proper men, there was no need for hlm to
find fanît with tim having that patronage.
The lion. gentleman Is an old parliamientarian, an experîenced gentleman, but we
Igon. M. PERLEY.

have thie counsel of a gentleman of greater
age in parllamentary affairs and of greater
experience, and that la the hon, gentleman
from Middlesex (Hon. Mr. Ross). He made
a very able and clever speech la secondlng
the motion of tlie hon, gentleman. He
reviewed the Senate from confederation
down, and lie says lie was greatly disappolnted to, End that the Senate was comnposed of the class of men we have here.
He sald thiat on looklng Into the historyv
of the Senate, lie found It to, be entirely
different from what lie expected, because
hie says tliat durlng the tîme Sir Johin Macdonald's govern ment wvas la power aud the
Senate was largely Conservative, they rejected 3j per cent of their Bills, whilst
they rejected only two anu a hIin ver cent
of the Bills of the Mackenzie government,
and they showed themselves to, be an unbîassed lot of men. Wliat hlglier certificate of Independence could you have than
that given by a gentleman of the experience of the lion. gentleman from Middlesex ? He was ln the House of Commons
ten years, a member of the Ontario government several years, and leader of that
goverument, and now a member of tlie
Senate. He made a thorougli analysis of
the Buis which liad been passed from confederation down to the present tie,
and
lie finds that the Senate Is composed of
competent men. and that they have done
their work well, and that the charge of
being partisan could not be laid at their
door. I am glad to liear these two hon gentlemen speak ln this way, because they belong to the rank opposed to the Conservatives, and I am glad to know tliat they
have given credit to, the Coaservatîve senators.
The question of tlie reform of the Senate
le no doubt one of the greatest questions
tliat can agitate our minds. 1 have listened to ail the different methods of reforming the Senate that have been suggested
by the lion. gentlemen wlio have addressed
the Senate on this question. They are aIl]
able, clever men, and they have suggested
different methods. The hon. Speaker liad
a very elaborate scbemne of appointing senators. He suggests ln bis speech that every
second or third appointment should be from
the opposition. He puts up a dlaIm that
the goveriument of the daiy should have

APRTL 1, 1908
eilht or ten of a majorlty in1 this Chamber.
lu my judgment, the goverament should
flot bave any xnajorlty, and If you could
divide it 'evenly I should say ttîat that
should be done. If there Is one duty the
Senate bas to perform, fit la that of being
independent. We are legisiators on bebalf
of the people of the country. We are flot
here as partisans la any respect whatever.
It la flot a matter of any question to us
wbether the goverament la Grit or Tory.
We are to stand here In the Interests of
the people, to prevent the members of the
House of Commons passlng Improper or
unfair legislation, or the government Influencing niembers of the House of Coninions la baving legisiatlon passed whicb
should flot be passed. If we are here for
any purpose at ail, and If our purpose la
not to be independent, and to treat every
measure on its merits, then the Senate la
a useless and worthless body of legIslatora
and should be abolished. Therefore, I say
the Senate needa reforming la that particular. We are Ioaded up In a one-sided
manner to-day. There are fifty-elght reformera and twenty-eight Conservatives,
and almost every vote la carrled out on
that basia.
Some hon. MEMBERS.

No, no.

Hou. Mi. PERLEY-I know wliat I amn
talking about, and the country knows it.
Durlng the Iast four years sometblng bas
occurred which bas not happened In the
history of the country before:- tbere bas
not been a government BihI defeated la the
Senate.
Mon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN-Tbey are ail good
Bills.
Mon. Mr. PERLEY-It was not So wheii
the Conservatives were la the majorlty, and
I tiîink the Conservative members were as
able mea as we have had governing the
country to-day. The Senate needs reformTo
ing la the matter of appolntments.
undertake to appoint senators and not to
have politiclans to some citent, la Impossible. There la not a boy la Canada ten years
of age, who bas no poiltical leanlng one aide
Therefore, to undertake to
or the other.
get a Senate appolnted that bas no politica
la out of the question, and I do flot hesitate

743

to say that, In my judgment, I have uiot
mnuch use for the man who bas no poiltical
Every man
opinion at tbe present time.
lias some opinion on polities as well as
other questions, and, to my mind, he would
not be a good citizen If he had not an
Therefore,
opinion on political questions.
a Senate that would be entlrely neutral,
without poitica, -would be a moral and phyThe only question la
sical Impossibillty.
lîow best to get the senators with the least
Ia my judgment,
politlcal blas appointed.
this Senate should be evcnly balanced, as
We do not
far as politica is conccrned.
deal with questions on a pollical basis-at
least we should not. Some hon. gentleman1 icave It to the
say that we do flot.
country to say whetber we do or not. We
should bave a Senate composcd of men
who use fair judgment, flot biassed la any
way by any goverament, whether Grit or
Tory. Lt would be a bard job to do that,
but there la a way la wbich It could be
(loue, and that would be to let the opposition recommend the appointment of oneThe opposition is virtubalf the Senators.
The
ally, la one sense. the goverament.
goverament to-day was tbe opposition of afew years ago, and the opposition of to-day
wli be the goverament of a few ycars
hence. Bo tbat If you take the goverurment
on one aide aad the opposition on the ot.her,
whether It la one party la power or the
other party Ia power, It ls virtually the goverament, and I would suggest that, conimencing now, tbe leader of tbe opposition
be notified that there la a vacancy la tbe
Senate, and he be asked to recommend a
man to fill that vacancy, and the goverament would make that appointment, and
thug work up tie number of the opposition
There are
till tie parties becanie even.
now 87 senatorsa-86 sworn ia. Tbere are
Lt la
5$ Reformera and 28 Conservatives.
as badly loaded Up on oue aide aow a t
was on the other aide when the present
goveramefit came into power, and It ta
wroag In botb cases. Lt sbouid not be tbat
Lt should be Independent, and mea
way.
should be appoîated go that they wouid
inake the senators fairly even la number,
and wbca they got the numbera fairiy even
there would be a pride among them and
they wouid dlscharge thelr duties creditabiy
What do you
and not la a pnrty manner.

SEN\ATE

744

Iinid ini support of the motiou of the hon.
gentleman from Nortît Wellington? At the
time of confederation, it wvas provided fIat
Ontario should bave twenty-four senators,
Quebec should bave 24 nnd tlie maritime
provinces 24. The object of that arrangement, 1 understand, was that the maritime
provinces should have an equal say in tlie
aifairs of the country, because tbey were
plnced on an equality wlth the other two
large provinée%, whîlgt their population
would not warrant If; nevertheless they
were given thaf representation so that tliey
would have a fair sny lu the legislation of
tue country, and flot be overruled by more
numerous representation of other provinces.
Now, la place of 24 we have only liad 23
for the last few ypars. It Is a wonder that
flic maritime provinces have not objected,
inasînucli ns tlipy have not liad 24 scats
!in the Seate, whiclî w-as the understanding. The reason la. evident. froni
tIe speech of the liati. gentleman, because,
lie said, thc inembers elected by the
people to serve them were offeui called upoit
to support the goverumient la the hiope of
Senatorships, It
gettinig a senatorshîip.
would secîxi, are hield as a wcapon, as a
inatter of brlbery, to luduce tIe memibers
to vote for thc goverament lu the House of
Couimons, nnd they would recelve titeir reward by being nppointed to flic Senate.
It is flot the right of the goverument
f0 manipulate the represenfation lu parliament by holding out sudh an itîducement
for support. The facts are there and cau1 say if is
flot be refuted by anybody.
wvrong thaft the representation of tlic Senate is flot more equal, and 1 would suggest
as another ameudment that w'hen you appoint the senafors lu flic way I have suggcsted, there would be 44 for the goverutuent-I wvould give flic governiiient the
hîreference of one senator-and the opposition 43. That would obviafe any difficulty
that the hon. Speaker referred f0, that
If tîey lad elîf
or ten of a majority,
ofteîîtimnes tIey would le ouf a littie w-ile
and tniyle lu ugaiu, and would still bave
a majority. But havitîg tIc House evenl3:
balanced, if would make no difference whidh
party w-as ln power. 1 w-olff a(lvise fhit
senafors be apl)otnte(l for a ,eritod not longer
than ten years. I would providle fflo tîtat a
Hon. Mr. PERLEY.

senator sbould he reappointed if lie proved
hirnself to be a useful and fit mani, up to
the age of eighty years. There are senators. in this House over 80 years of age,
who refleet great credit on the Senate and
themselves also; nevertheless, eighity years
is the maximum period of a man*s usefuluess, and I would suggest that senators be
appolnted from thi6 day forward for a
period of ten years. If a man made a good
senator during that period, tiiere would be
un Incentive to fit himself for appointment
for anotber ten yearS. Let blm be appointcd for ten years at a time until lie reaches
the age of elghty, on the sane principle
that tile people eleet a man fromi boyhood
tili old age to the Commoas, If lie fils the
blli, and acts as lie should. I would flot
say tîtat because a man wvas appolnted
for ten years, thnt nt the end of that Period he sliould be down and out ; but If
he showed himseif a capable man lie could
be reappointed, by wlatever goveriunient
wotild be ln power, if they thouglit nroper;
lie would at any rate be eligible, and I
would go further than that, and say that I
would commence now, and I wouid not
show any partinllty against the niew'Iy appoiated miembers by sayiug that they should
le turued" out whcn other senators would
be elected. I would suggest that, on next
Dominion Day, senators should resigu their
seats and be open for the saine method of
appolntmleut after tInt time, and thea you
would have a Senate tbnt would be Independent, because they would bave every
Incentive to acquit tbemiselves ln a capable
way. They would le fair. Neither party
would be ovcrly represcnted, and, to my
mind, you would bave a very muell better
Senate than you could possibly have by
loading tiis Chaniber up) one wiy for a terni
and tIen loading It the other way. 1 tbink
the Senate nceds reforming in more wnys
titan fIat. Iu tlic matter of remuneration,
and fhe matter of admîinistration of fthc
affairs of the country, senators are not
on an equality. I find, lu looking over a
list of payments, that a nuxuler of senators only attended a fcw -days and drew
very large amounts. The ordinary senator wou]d receive abolit flfteen dollars a
day for every day' the Senate was in session; but somie senators who were only
liere for a few days, wcre paid nt the rate

APRIL 1. 1908

of '$100 a day.

I tblnk that fact suggests
a very good uine on whicbi to reform tbe
Senate, and I think the ouiy w-ny you eau
get at it, la by the system 1 suggest. Then
it costs uothiug. The moment a senatorship becomes vacant, I w-ould have theClerk of the Senate notifv the Prime MinIster that there w-as a vacaucy from Wolseley for Instance, and i so mnany days
lie wouid require parliameut to fill the seat.
Tihe country bas the right to the services
o! the senators, and If it bas not that right,
then tbere is no use appolntiug tbem. The
governuiont lias no rigbt to bolcl a senatorsiiip before the eyes 0f thxe people and say
to a man :'Now do as w-e w-ant to, and
w-e shail appoint yon to the Senate.' If
parliamneut w-as ln session, I should proshould bo filled
vide that tixe vncancy
wvlthîn twventy days, and if tue House
w-ere nlot in session, 1 should say tbirty
days, and there la no doubt that In this
age of intelligence and ability in Canada,
no goverumeut or opposition wou]d bave
aur trouble in fiudîng lu tweuty days a
fit and competent man. If you make the
appointnxents quickly, you w-ould take It
out of the power of the goverument to use
undue

influence w-itb members o! parîla-

ment to support them lu regard to Buis
tlîey should not support, and the country
w-ould bave the benefit of that man's services in the administration of affairs, and
tiiere w-ould be noue o! that system of
holding out senatorships. It Is a disgrace
to the governumeut of the day. It la sald
tlîat tbey have held senatorships for two
or three or four or five sessions, and bave
used tbem for political purposes. The peopie have a right to the services of tbat
senator, and it la not righit that the appointnment should be hield back, f0 be ixsed by
fihe governuient to strengtben them in flie
country.
Hou. Mr. FROST-It is about two years
ago sluce 1 made a few remarks lu this
Ilouse on ftle question of Senafe reformn.
Tue position that I then took w-as probably
not iln accord wvlth the sentiments of maxîy
lu the House, ns I fouud that qulte a uumber w-ere desiring some change; but since
that finie, aff or beariug many other speeches
this question, 1 hold f0 the position
111)01

that 1 then took, that it wonld be very undesirable on our part to make any change
at ail, andf that is the position that I bold
to-day, and ou that basis 1 will now make
I do nlot propose to foia few remarks.
10w my hon. friend w-ho bas just resumed
His ideas have always been
bis seat.
probnbly a little bigher, the ideal bas been
very much blgber than w-e ordinary niortais
eau possibly attain.
lion.
so.

Mr.

PERLEY.

I

do

nlot

think

Hou. Mr. FROST-For the reason that
we are a little bit inciined to partisanship;
but If w-e look at the Senate to-day and
consider tue work that It bas accompiished,
and the short time, forty years since It was
coustItuted, 1 tbink, upon mature reflection,
we will find that the great men w-ho bore
the-burden and heat of that day ln gatheriug together the various conflicting interests
that w-e ai know about, and harinonizing
tbemi so completely that w-e bave now a
unlfied country, and considering the fact
that the Senate w-as practically the bridge
over w-bich w-e liad to cross ini order that
this cofifederation should be bouud together, 1 tbiul. It would neot be paylng
a very good compliment to the great
men w-ho were the founders of confederatien to say that w-e now, after forty years,
should undertakze to inake ail these varions
changes which w-e have recently been listening to ni this House. Forty years ago the
condition of the country was unsettled.
We biad a great deai of race and creed
conufiit. and inen of long experieuce in poiltical life, w-ho understood the then existing
conditions, coustituted the Senate as we flnd
It now, and 1 say we should abide by their
judgmnent. On both sides of poiitics they
w-ere nmen of great experience and ability,
and it is a question whether if w-e reconsidered the constitutlug of the Senate, and
attempted to form it on a differeut basis,
we mlgbit not be openîng an old sore w-hlcb,
bappily fori us and for the future of the
At the time of
country, bans been bealed.
coufederation. Ontario aud Quehec were
divided equally se far as the number of
We rerepresentatives w-as concerned.
meinher tbe couflicts that took, place over
the question of representation by populaWe know how fre&uently goverution.

SENATE
They were flot strong find members on botb sides of politlcs
ments cbanged.
enougli in those days to carry their mea- vating, as I believe, according to their
sures and sometImes the gavernment did conscientious convictions, and that is wbat
The patriotic desire the Senate was lntended to do. I cannot
flot last three days.
of statesmen of that day was ta buld up see that there would be anything galned by
on the northern half of this continent a making a change sirnply to, overcome the
British power. In order to accomplish that preponderance of members an one side or
destrabie object, concessions bad to be the other, and I thought that part of the
made, and one of them was that Ontario speech of my bon. friend. frorn Middlesex
and Quebec should each have twenty-four sbowed conclusively that the system of apThat was a pointment by the government was, after
senators lu this chamber.
compact, nnd if they shouid undertake to all, the best that could have been adopted.
change the constitution of the Senate, It It Is practically the quickest, easiest and
wonld be n distinct violation of that corn- safest system, saving great expense and a
pact entered Into between th~e English and trernendous amaunt of hard work, because
Frenchi inbabitants of this country wheu the if senators had ta be elected by large disTherefore, 1 tricts, it won]d be no easy task ta secure
confederation was founded.
for one amn not prepared, for the salie, per- a seat bere.
1 have listened to the various suggestions
haps, of rnaking some trifling change in the
mode of appointing senatars, ta advacate that have been affered. I do nat know
We cannat that I wanid be la favour of the suggestion
a change of the constitution.
reach the perfection airned at by the hon. that cabinet ministers shauld be admitted
senlatar from Wolseley, but we eau believe ta the floor in both Hanuses. As the Senthat each government. when lu power, en- ate of Canada, we should be a sovereiga
deavours la making appaintments ta the Hanse within ourselves, whose members
Senate, ta select accamplbshed as well as would have the right ta speak their own
coinpetent mnen, and we can rest contented minds and support mations withont any
that everythiug is done with a vieW ta the outside parties lnterfering. They do ual
The hon. act upon that suggestion in the United
best lnterests of the country.
senator frorn Middlesex, la bis magnificent States. I am tld they do la the Frenchi
speech on 1h15 question a short time ago, Senate, but In the United States, cabinet
pointed ont that aimost every important in- ministers are appointed as secretaries of
terest ln tbis country is well represented hI the President, and all legislatian cornes
this Hanse, probabiy very much better than frorn thern ta the varions chairrnen of the
It conld possihiy be represented If the rnem- commnittees, nnd they lu turu carry ou
The hon. the business af bath Hanses. 1 do nat probers of the Senate were elected.
gentleman in that speech pointed out that pose ta occnpy a great deal of lime la disof the 90 members of the United States cussing this subject ta-day, because 1 spolie
Senate, no less than î0 were lawyers. Now at coasiderable length two years ago, but
that is an unequal representation of any afler llstenlng ta the varions suggestions
In this Hanse, of 86 senators made for the purpose of re-organizing, or
one liss.
only 16 or 17 are lawyers; the others re- reforminig or chang-ing the rnethod of conpresent niannfacturing, farming, mercan- stitnting the Senate, I wnnt to confirm my
Therefore, original statement, that we had better
tule. banking and other classes.
I amrnl favour of retaining tlie present sys- stand by the Senate as It is. We wili soon
tem. No dauht afler a goverument bas have aIl the work we can do. The caunbeen Ia power a goad while, the majorlty try Is expandlng raptdly. If we bave not
becomes perîîaps too large la the Senate, been as bnsy as we would like ta be Iii
but duriag the tirne I bave bad the honour the past It bas been due ta the slow growtb
of holding a seat here, I have yet ta see of aur population;. but we are now gaing
any very great amount of partisanship. In ahead rapidly, and the country is filling
tfle comujittees we have the chairmanships up with people of different nationaities.
divided f9irly between the twa parties. The Senate stands for holding the balance
We seldarn find a partisan vote on any fairly between the different provinces and
question comIng before this Chamber. We races and ta see that justidè Is doue ta ail.
Hon. Mr. FROST,

APRIL 1. 1908

We shall have enough to do ln revising
hasty legislation which comes to us from
the other House, and possibly rejecting
measures whlch do not meet with our approval. Ia this way, the Senate wll prove
Itself of great value and have Important
work to do ln the future. If we have
to take adjouriaments occasionally it is not
our fault, but the fault of the House of
Commons. If they choose to spend a moath
or six weeks dlscussiag a matter, it la no
reason why we should ait bere occupying
our time debatiag academic questions. We
are here to consIder the measures which
corne before us, and we do our share of
originatlng Bills. Last session out of somethlng like 160 Buis that passed both Houses,
sixty-two -were orlglnated in the Senate.
We consume less time la doiag business
here than tbey do in the Commons, because the greater part of our discussions
take place ia the committees rather than
la the House. To undertake to change
the constitution of the Senate, would be
placiag ourselves la the position of casting
reflections on the able aad patriotic mien
who forty years ago constructed this Chamber for a speclal purpose, wbicb purpose
we serve. I do not believe that auy House,
at any time la the past 40 years, bas had
abler or more experlenced men than we
bave la the Senate to-day. We have aien
bere who have been long ln political life,
who know how to sif t evîdence and discover the 'weak points of mensures, and
who maintala the bonour and cred.It of the
country and prevent vicious measures from
becoming Iaw. We have sucb aien working
on Our varions committees, and our duty
as senators is to remala as we are and
keep the Senate as free from partlsanship
as possible. I agree with the hon. senator from Wolseley la that respect? We
can trust to the good sense of the experienced men who are appointed for 11f e
and are ladependent of the waves of popular feeling that pass over the country at
times, that tbey wlll not be governed by
the partisanship whlch prevals la the
other Chamber. I trust that whea the
coaclusion of the whole matter ls arrived
at we will all, individuaiiy and unitediy,
say that the Senate ls a necessary part of
our system of governaient, that lt was desigaed by men of great abiiity and expe-

rieuce lu the past, and that If It 15 flot
up to the standard we would ail like to
see maintained, we must look inward Instead of outward, serutize our own
bearts and Eind out wbether we are flot
ourselves to blame. If we flad that we
are ln the wrong ourselves, let us change
our course and endeavour to make the
Senate what it oughit to be. We are Intelligent men, men of experlence ai of us,
and If we do our part, the Senate will
I its true place lu the leg-islative system
of the country and be acceptable to the
people as a wVhole. It is a buman institution and cannot possibly be perfect, but I
belleve it wiii satisfy the great majority of
the people of thls country.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-We must ail feel lm-.
pressed witb the very excellent manuer in
whicb this question bas been presented to
the House by the hon. gentlemen wbo have
The speecbes-most of
spoken upon It.
them at any rate-showed a great deai of
research, and aIl manifested a deslre to
I regret that the
reacb a fair conclusion.
only inharmontous note aloug that line was
ia the remarks of the bon. senator from
Wolseley wbo, while he professed a desire
to rise above partisanship, nevertheless
thought proper to refer to what he considered the dlsgraceful conduct of the goverament ln keeping open one senatorsbip in
He assumed that
the maritime provinces.
ail the senators from the maritime provinces and the governinent were responaîble
I believe there is a vacancy ia
for that.
the province of Nova Scotia. The iast tlme
I directed my attention tu * conditions la
Nova Scotia, I found that the government
were struggliag with the difficulty of gettiag somebody to I the vacant seat la the
Whether they have overcome that
Senate.
difficuity or not, I do not -know; but probably that accounts for the condition which
the hon. gentleman so severely criticlsed.
Whea 1 had the honour of discussing this
question before, I expressed a doubt whether
a second chamber was necessary or flot. I
cannot say that that doubt bas- been dispelled, as seems to have been the case with
others; or that I have started on the line of
conversion whlcb s0 many bon. gentlemen admit they have gone througb la their
views as to the necessit.f for reforming

748

SENATE

tlie Senate, to an acceptance of the Senate
la Its present condition and satisfaction entirely with its constitution as it is. A
greut many other hon. gentlemen seem to
think that the Senate is well constituted,
and quite in barmony with the conI sliould hike to
ditions of the country.
make one or two observations which are
I pointed out
not exactly in that hune.
before that out of the ulue provinces of the
Dominion, only two bave second chambers.
I question whether if wve were to-day
foundlng a Dominion of Canada wve w'ould
I do not
adopt the idea of two chambers.
kuow; but the iden of two cliambers seems
to have origiuated in the recognition of two
classes of persons la the country, the people
and soînebody w-ho nre above the people,
and, therefore, two chambers were necessary.
1 grant you that the Senate itself
does very excellent work indeed as a revising body, ln ils revisionary work on the
legislation coming froin the other bouse;
but whether it Is necessary for the Senate
to exist for that alone I ami not prepared
to Say.
I think îiot.
I think the sanie
work could be done by a board of five revisors wbose special duty it should be to go
throughi the Buis and see in what conditions
The bon. senator fron 'Middletbey fail.
sex, lu the excellent speech he gave us, so
full of historical Information, called attention to the Senate of the United States lu
Al
more than one part of bis address.
the Institutions of the United States are of
British origin. That l.s to say, they have
tbeir foundation and origin ln conditions
whicb existed in England, and wbicbi existed
la the British coloniles in America founded
We. comIng ia
upon Euglish institutions.
Inter, have devcloped a systeni of responsible
governiment snch as the motber country bias
îaow; but at the tume of the foundation of
the older colonies, wvhen tbey got their charters, sucli a condition did not exist lu the'
The constitutions of the
mother country.
colonies were very largely the old Englisb
practice, what is, I suppose, the comnion
legisîntive lnw of the mother country, and
the royal instructions sent out te the goeruors by the King. Upon sncbi a hasis the
M'ben
people founded their institutions.
the American nation was founded, ti a very
large extent, indeed, the political ideas
which prevailed in the country were adopted
lion. Mr. ELLIS.

by the people. Representation iii the House
of Representatives, as every one knows,
is ba:,ed ou manhood suffrage, or a percentage of population. The great difficulty
was in getting the states, or the provinces
as they were first called to surrender
their individuallty, to sink their IndividualIt was
Ity into a conimon organization.
devised at last tliat the states slîould be
represented in a body whiclh is now the
Seliate of the United States, each state
lîaving the saine representation, whether It
be large or smnall, and that Js the ldea
whieh pervades the American constitution.
1 may corne back to this in a moment. I
siînply state what Is known to, everyboody
as to how the. United States Senate bas
deveioped.
1 observe that the most emineput meinbers of this Chamber who have discussed
the question-and perhaps 1 wvould be ailowed to refer to some of thei by nainethe Lion. Mr. Miller, whbo spolie two years
ago, Sir Richard Cartwright, Hon. Mr.
Ross, and His Honour the Speaker-ail of
tbemn seeni to admit the necessity that
exists for a change in the Senate. Indeed
a great many of the speakers admitted at
once tbat tbere is need for a change, and
eacb one bas put forward bis own idea of
what that change should be; but the fact
that these gentlemen admit the necessity
for a change seems to me to show that
there is in their minds underlying ail that
bas been said witb regard to the greatness of the Senate as it exists to-day, of
its utility and tbe excellent manner lu
wvhichi it does its business, an idea that
soîne change is necessary. The hon. senator froni Middlesex pointed out that the
mode of choosing the Senate of the United
States was iîot a good mode, and 1 tbink
lie instanced the case of one state- where
tbey were tbirty to forty days, If not more,
electing- a senator. That does flot seem
to nie ait aIl to impair in any way the
value of the United States Senate. It was
a loss to the state, no doubt. to be so slow
about electing its representative; but the
ineiners of the State legislnture to whoin
the rigbt of election belonged could very
easily have overcome that by electing
soînebody. For some reason they did not
(I0 it, and, like the case of Nova Scotia,
selected by my lion. friendefrom Wolseley,

A-PRIL 1. 1908
the sent remained vacant. 1 tbink flua goveruient of that country are nt ,,%v6rds
Senate Is getting along -very w-eh witb points w-ltb tbe House of Lords,-are enthe Nova Scotia seat vacant, thougb if deavouring to wrest from tbe House of
migbf be an improvement if it w-ere filled. Lords the pow-er wblch It bas as a legisThaf objection ralsed by the hou. gentle- lative body, and reduce Its power of veto
man and put before us as a serions mat- and compel it to meet the public desires
ter, ls renlly a matter ef small Imiportance. and aspirations more than it lias doue, and
It must be rcmembered tbat the Senate ef bring itself more In harmony %Ylth the
thec United States-I arn spcaking ef an people. Then, again, w-betber the fertilielective Senate--has lnsted one hundred zation bas been a good thing, depends aiand twenty years withont, practically, ny together on the means ef fertilization. I
change. Founded af the enigin of Ilie na- have rend thiat 'Mir. Len, member for East
tion if bas belped te carry the country St. Paneras, a division of London, arraigned
through great crises. It w-as a leading ln the House of Gommons ln verv strong
factor ln fbe w-ar of the Rebelliou, and it language the conditions under w-bich peerbas lielped te preserve the nation. Alto- ages had been created. I do not know bow
gether, w-len you judgc tbe Senate of the rnany peers lie referred te particularly, but
United States by its legisiation, by ifs lie declared, and be challenged dental of
practice. and by tbe conditions lu w-hicb is statenient tlhat ln the last two years of
it exists lu the nation itscif, I thluk yen tbe Conservative administration, 127 persons
w-i corne te the conclusion tint outsldc of had been created peers, and orders of
Great Britaiu bersef- it would be righit knighthood and rauk bnd been conferred oit
to say tbat- ne body bas been founded thei in order te raise an election fund.
or could be founded that, on flic w-bole, And lie w-cnt on and said that duriug tm-o
ceuld dIseharge se wel te a great nation years ef the present Liberal administration
tie duties wvhicbi tbe Unifed Stateas Senate -and 1 amn willing te take my share of tbe
diacharges. It may lie fiat now and then blaine as a Liberal-that 168 persons hui
been advanced ia bonour ln Engiand, and
-and tint is true of the new States-soern
ricli man is able te coutrol the State some of them 'created peers for tbe very
legislafurp. I de flot knew, but I sec sncb sane purpose, and, furtber than thnt, the
stafements Iu the papers; but fhe greaf London 'Trutil' stated that one man bad
I
body ef the United States senators are not i)aid £150.000 te get into tbe peerage.
ricli men. They are men ef lmited means, mnake these statements just as tbey ivere
I make no comment with regard
many ef thcm no better off lu the erdi- made.
nary conditions of life-tiose tiat I know tu thcm, because I do not know whetbcr
at nny rate-no better off fian the bon. they are true or not; but it shows that
gentlemen w-bo compose thus Senfe, and as there la in the United States a criticisni
yef the discussions w-hich arise about the of tbe Senate, just as tbere la in England a
United States Senate, arise from tic fact criticism of the House of Lords because
tint some rlch man is conapiring te be- those bodies do net sufficientiy toucli tbe
:2omc a senator. Whetber rlch inu bave popular voice, and are not in sympntby
conspired te become seaters la Canada I with tbe people ef the country, s0 the very
do net knew. If ls net necessary te discuas Isamne Idea is prevaiiing ln Canada. Wbat
is the reason tbnt outside of this House,
tiat point.
Tic hon. senator frem Middlesex, ln *and ln this House, te somne extent, there is
The
speakiug of the Hous of Lords, semed *crIticisni ef the Senate ef Canadai
The great trouble
te desire te Impress the Hanse w-ith tbe answcr la easlly feund.
Idea that thaf Heuse w-as one ef tbe grent. *thnt underiies aur whole systemi as It exista
est bodies te be found lu existence. Thal to-day ls that tbe mlnerity ef the country
may be truc but, netwitbstanding the lion *is net sufficiently represented ln the Senate.
genflemnn's stafement, lie secnied te allo's I w-as glad te sce the henourabIe Speaker
tint if conld be impreved. and naed a verj take np eue suggestion I made two years
of thie age, that flic ministers shouid be allowed
happy w-ord, thc 'fertilization'
Heuse of! Lords. Nevertbeless, the states -te corne te tlie floor of this cbamiber and
But the hon. gmxtlem.an proposes
men of England to-day who are leadlng tbh speak.

mast

SEINATE
a plan-and it is not a bad plan at ail, if
you adopt those llnes by which the government, havlng acquired a fair majority la
the Senate, one new member out of every
three, -or somethlng of that kind, should lie
chosen by thé opposition. The hon. gentle-.
man erom Wolseley adopta that Idea wîth
some limitation. I miglit suggest as a possible improvement that the Liberal party
should select the Conservative senators and
the Couservatives select the Liberals. You
would get such a fair mix-up and broad
representation of men as could flot
lie secured la any other w-ny by the
proposed system. But the speech of the
honourable Speaker-and lie may be assumed to be, and lie is I think, above
ail the ordinary party affiliations-sows
that there is la lis mmnd, notwlthstanding the fact tliat lie admits having
somewhat early in life certain priaciples lu
regard to ameadment of the constitution of
the Senate w-hich lie lias now probably
abandoned, shows an earnest desire to
reacli a sound conclusion. Everybody
knows how the first Senate w-as cliosen.
'lbe principle of electing legislatîve councils prevailed lu this country. The riglit
of electlag the second chamber was
ln the people; that is in the old province
of Canada formied of Upper and Lower Canada. That principle lad obtalned. and there
w-ere very good men chosen. I thlnk I heard
the bon. Secretary of State say that the
men who composed thue old Legisiative
Councîl of Canada were very excellent men,
and the prînciple of election was coming
They may not aIl have been
la then.
elected, but a number of them. w-ere
There is no doubt
elected by the people.
whlatever that that idea would have prevailed la the chioosing of members to this
House, but the fathers of confederation
Lt w-as
were face to face with a ditllculty.
feared tliey w-ould not be able to get their
sclieme tîrougli the Legisiative Councils 0f
the provinces, and so they determined to
select the first senators from tIe legislative
councils as tley were and the ftrst senators
of Canada were thus selected. 1 do not make
They
any criticism upon them for that.
were face to face w-itb a grave difficulty,
aud took the best w-ay of overcoinng the
difflculty. that presented ltself to their mmnd.

forward movezuent iii the interests of tbe
As 1 came into the
people themselves.
chamber, the bon, gentleman from Wolseley
They selected nian
was referring to it.
and man about ln appolnting the first seiiaSir John made a public statement
tors.
on the ' Hansard' that he and Mr. Brown
sat down at thue table, or whoever others
were there, and lie selected one man and
the other side selected another, and they
went through the whole 24, and Sir John
stated that they had 12 Liberals and 12
Conservatives frorn Ontario in the first lot.
.î

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tbe
The
agreement was as lie has stated IL
number of Conservatives in the Legisiative
Council at that perlod exceeded the number
of Liberals, and ail the legislators la the
council et that time were retained, and the
number of Conservatives ln excess of the
Liberals were left out, and the new men
that were appointed were from the Lîberal
Party.

Hon. Mr. ELLIS-Il have flot the original
document, but these observations of Sir
John Macdonald were made lu answer to
Some complaint was made
objections.
about the constitution of the Senate, and
Sir John Macdonald made this statement,
Ia the
and it was quoted afterwards.
year 1893, the Liberni party la this country
At that convention the
held a convention.
question of reform of the Senate was argued
and urged wlth. great power and great
strength, and we were aIl committed to ItL
I attended
I heard no objection to it.
No objections were raised
the conference.
to it, openly, nt niiy rate, aud we assented
to that ides that there should be a reform
of the Senate, as the Senate was largely
oujectiouable because of the one-sided
position which lt had reached by that
time, due to the fact that the old plan was
no longer contlnued, of appolnting Liberal
1 believe that
and Conservative members.
a party, no natter whether Grît or Tory,
must have lts Ideas and must have a pollcy,
or It lias no reason to exlst, and when it
attains to power it should, to some exteut, endeavour to bring these Mdeas into practice. I heard Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman, la the House of Commous, la Englaud,
list year, inake the deelaration that nothw-ns to put backz ing w-ns going to turu hlm from the priaBut the resuit uudoubtedly
Hon. Mr. ELLIS.

APRIL 1. 1908
ciples by wbich hé had assumied office; that
lie was prepared to do certain things according to the views presented by bIs party to
the people, and when sometelng was proposed which It mlght be popular to do and
In accordance with the pollcy of the party
hie would await the mandate of tee people.

751

Hon. Mr. PERLEY-Tbe bon. Prime Min.
ister bas forgotten it aiso.
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-

-practice aithougzh it cannot have escapod hie
memory. He (Sir Charles Tupper) quboted a
moment ago the opinion of Sir Oliver Mowat,
wbo at that eariy date was against a. nominative Sonate and in favour of an elective SenHon. Mfr. PERLEY-Tbat was la strlkluig ate. Cortainly, Sir, the practice of late years
bas shown that at that time, as uow, Sir
contrast wite the action of the Canadian Oliver Mowat possessed. the samne sapeaity
which has distinguished ail hie political
governiment.
career.
1 amrnft
Hon. Mr. ELLIS-It may be.
I nleed uot go over ail that.
The saine
always sure of my hon. friend's judgment, point arose in the discussion between Mr.
and, therefore, I do not aiways accopt iL. Mackenzie aud Sir John Macdonald withi
At the close of the iast goverumneut, Sir refereuce to appointments.
1 refer to this,
Charles Tupper sought to make a number or because what I amn seeklug to, urge le, that
The Governor General at the Liberal party was pledged to appointappoiutmnents.
thiat time did not allow them ail, and teey ments to the Senate along the lune indicated
were flot made.
The anatter became quite by Sir John Macdonald and by Sir Wilfrid
My hon. Laurier hlmseif, as to having botb parties
an important one ut tee tume.
f rieud wiil remnember it better than I do; represented. lu the Senate.
Sir Wilfrid
but Sir Charles Tupper brougbit tee mattor Laurier, as leader of the party, bas fairly
up lu the H-ouse of Gommons, and I had and straigbtiy stated to the House of Cointhe honour of a seat la the House ut the mous the obstacles whlch bave presented
tume.
Thore are some gentlemen here who themselves to this, and wblch have prewere thon sitting ou the samne side as I was. vented him troin carrylng -out that plan.
They are hero now.
Sir Charles Tupper lie bas admitted ln s0 many words tliat
attacked tee Governor General because of that should be done, but he bas been powerbis failure to mako these appointments, and, less to do it in view of the demands which
of course, It feul to tee lot of tee bon, leader may have been made upon hlm by members
of tee goverument, Sir Wilfrid Laurier, to of bis own poitical party to obtain seats
défend the Governor General, and bie made here. He bas etated that very fairly, and
a very good speech, and I remember bow we must ail absolve hlm froni any Improper
henrtily we ail applauded. Wle thought it charge, because hie found it Impossible to,
was juet tee rigbt answer to be given to carry out what hie thought should be done.
Sir Charles Tupper, and teere was scarcely And whIle *Sir Wilfrid. Laurier hlma point lu teat speech we did flot approve self, In tee
observations
which bie
of.
Sir Charles Tupper had .filled some made a few weeks
ago upon this
offices lu the Sonate, or had sppolnted two very question, lu the popular branch of the
senators, or bad re-appointed some senator legislature, admltted there sbould be a
who had to resîgu to run for tee House of change in the organization of tee Senate, or
Commons.
That la immateriai; but amoug rather In the mode of appointing members
the persous whose appointmeut was not con- to the Seuate, he confessed he did not
firmed by Lord Aberdeen were two senators. see very clearly how It couid be doue, and
Sir Wilfrid In the course of bis speech sald: hie had no hope It couid be done under te
Now, whut is tee resuit
1 charge here against him and his party, exletlng eystem.
It shows that ln tee public
that in so far se the Sonate is concerned& they of ail this?
have ail along for the last eighteen -yers dis- mind of this country, among tee leading
regarded. the constitution of Canada in the public men thore is a
sîncere beilef that the
nature of the appointments which they bave
made to that branèh of the legielature. It Senate sbould be re-organized lu some way.
was one of the weil nnderetood principles of It is ail very well for bon. geutlemen to
coufederation that if the Senate was not eiective, aud if it was to ho appointed by the come here.and say-and thoy belleve It-that
Crown, thon both political parties shouid be the Sonate le just perfect.
Tbe youngest
equaiiy represeuted on the floor of the Sonate. mnember of the Sonate made a speech the
The bon. gentleman has forgotten that-

SENATE
other nlight lu m-lii lie anuouneed biis couversion to the life llerinallecy of senators,
and he had only been here a few months. 1 do
flot make any charge against blmn for that,
out be very readily got rid of ideas wbich
some of us bave taken years to get rid of,
and 1 bave not got rid of tbem yet. The
hion. Fîrst Minister, the leader of the Liberal
oparty seemed to say lu the House of Coinmons that lie thoughit the federal Idea was
the true idea of the basis of tbe formation of
the Senate, and lue weuit so far as to indicate the numnber of persons thiat should î*eHe liad no absopresent each province.
lutely well-drawn plan la ils mind; but be
had given tlue unatter some t-oasideration,
I
sud w-bat lie stated w-as la that w-ny.
tbink lie reduced the number to about
seven fromi eaceh province, and he would
bave the Senate cluosen on that plan. Now,
If the Senate la a federal body-and 1 tbink
It Is-it seeins to mie we cau get rid of a
great deal of the trouble wbich surrounds
t1ils question as to w-bat eau be doue In one
case and w-bat can be doue lu another, nnd
w-ho sbould be elected and so on, by slmply
remltting to the provinces tbemselves the
right to select the senators. flot giving theni
too mnucli detail, saying w-e xuust cboose a
years' experience, and not
mail of s0 in
eboo3e a man aféer sueli au age, &c. The constitution miglit be s0 amiended that the provinces would have tbe right to select the
I tblnk It
members for so many years.
It miight be wel
w-ould be well to lîmit It.
tlîat a nian should ait for so uiany years,
and thnt the representation from the provinces should be dlvided; but the government of the day could get rîd of ail the delIente questions surroundlug the choising of
members, by simply givlng the provinces
How the prothe right to select tbem:
vinces should do that, need not be so much
a matter of dispute as rnight be linagined.
1 w-I not enter upon the field w-hetber tbey
should be chosen by the provincial legisiature or l)y the provincial government. It
wnould be tinie enough for me to deal wlth
that If I were a minister, and w-ere called
upon to do so. 1 understood the bon. gentleman from Da Salaberry to say that sixty
members bad been appointed to the Senate
There will proiu the hast tw-elve years.
bably be sixty more lu tlie uext twvel-e
Unfortunately, probably sixty meinyears.
Hou. Mr. ELLIS.

bers wiIl have paid their last (leht to nature
in the next twelve years, and au opportuiiity
will be thus afforded to enable the governiment to propound a scheine, lu the appointment of senators, for the reformation of the
Senate-well lt la flot rlgbt to say the reformation-but for the re-arrangernent of the
Senate, wltbout affecting in any way the
rights of the present individual inembers of
the Senate.
With regard to the constitution of the
Senate of the United States, that body is an
evidence of liow an electîve body becomes a
If its nîemlbe-s were
strong factor.
selected Ivy the Preqideat of the United States, the Seniate would iiot liave
Lt has a greater
the streugth It: bas.
strengtb. Lt bas usurped some powers, I
miglit say, not for the disadavantage of
the nation, but bein.- au eleetive body,
lîaving bebiud it powerful States, It lias
been able to get a greater share lu the
goverument of the country than it would
have If It were an appointed body. His
Honour the Speaker, last ulgbt, drew a
very graphic pictîire of wbat this House
would be If baif the ineasures that corne
before parliament wvere lntroduced iu the
.Seniate, aud biaif introduced in the House
of Commîns. We would have the newspapers full of wnlîat we sald, and people
would coie bere to listen to what we bad
to say. He took rather an entlcing view
of wlîat the Senate mlgbt be. The groundwork of hký picture failed, because the
House of Commons of Canada is the body
and place wbere the great politîcal batties
of Canada are fougbt Lt Is the arena la
whIlb great priaciples are discussed, and
lu wbicb grent men make themselves. An
opportuuity wlll neyer offer to an apPointed Senate to do that. An elective
Senate mlgbt do so, but 1 tbink the pieture
whlcb His Honour drew w-as more of a
fancy sketch lu biis own imagination, based
ùipon bopes he entertalned, ratiier than
anythlng else. I thlnk: lt would be Impossible to do tliat.
1 w-i point out another matter, altbougli
It scarcely bears upon this discussion, but
as tlie subject of discussion la something
of a constitutional one, I should like to
ploint out that the constitution and practice of the Un'ited States follow a. certain
line. TIie President chooses bis cabinet.

APRIL 1, 190875
I
He can take a member of Cangresa Inta House men who are quaiified ta
the highest offices of the government, but
bis cabinet, and that mau vacates bis sent.
The senators of the United States will nat he is compelied ta go outside for cabinet
accept seats ln the cabinet. Tbey bold miniaters and find seata for them in the
that the positions whlch tbey occupy Hanse of Commona. 0f course tbey finaliy are
are greater tban the positions af cabi-. eiected ta the Hanse af Go-Luans, but this is
net mInIsters, and tbey tell the Pre- a matter Iu connectian with the working of
sident ta get somebody else. Are we ln aur constitution which ta worthy of the conny way ta approacli tbat ? Look at this sideration of gentlemen wba are paying attact : I do Dot know haw mucli It may tention ta that matter, and 1 tbink the
be wortb, but the Idea which underlies membera of the Hanse of Commons miglit
Our plan la tiiat the members wha are very weli look upon the Senate with some
chosen members of the cabinet bave seats respect and regard, because the existence of
enablea the
In the Commons or In the Senate, and the the Senate as It isl to-day,
give them Premier at any rate ta make vacancies lu
dispasition grows stranger ta
seats In the House of Commons. It bas the Hause of Gommons, sa that lie can,
I do nat say that he
grown up under this administration more carry out that plan.
than In auy previaus administration, that gets better men or worse men by that practhe members wlio ait In the cabinet are tice. 1 merely paint out the fact, and sugchosen before tbey are imembers of the geat ta bon. membera that it is a matter
I believe that If the
House of Gommons at al]. In the first warth consideriag.
by the premier there were Senate of Canada were an elective body, If
cabinet formed
tliree gentlemen whase seats were found It represented samething definIte and absofor them, who were nat In the parIlament lute, that it wouid'be stranger than it Is tosa
of Canada. One of tbem waa sent ta the day. The flrst mInister wouid not have
the Hon. otten ta go outaide of parliamentary bodies
Senate when lie was appolnted,
naw. If hon.
Sir Oliver Mowat, and the twa athers were ta find colleagues as he does
Miniater members of the Senate here were eiected.
the bon. Minister of Finance and
of Railways. He bad seats found for them. so that they wouid lu some way voice papuAnd that practice bas cantinued. There lar opinion, it wouid give them greater
itseif
are five gentlemen lu the goyerument of streagth, and wouid give the Senate
I sum up my views by
seats In the greater strength.
Caniada ta-day who lad nat
a
Hanse of Gommons; the people of Canada saying that the Senate can neyer be
nt the strang body until it la braught more Ia
had not elected them ta parlianient
A
tume they were chosen by the premier, tauch with the people af the country.
great deal of the unjuat criticism which is
Wbat does tbat mean ? If any bon, gentleman liere were a student of constitu- directed against the Senate, is largely due
tional histary, and were called upon ta ta tbe fact- that People pay comparativeiy
write an essay upon the politica of the littie attention ta the work the Senate does.
country, or upon -the development of aur That is flot ta be overcame by standing here
are,' nor
political institutions, haw would lie treat and saying 1Bebald haw great we
by sncb a proposition as itne hon, gentletînt tact. and frani wbat point of view
would lie discuas It ? The Hanse of Gom- man fram Weatmoreland put farward, that
mons bas been f ree ta discusa the consti- the responaibility rested with the gaverutution of the Senate, and membera wbo ment, and it was their duty ta appoint gaod
No doubt they do
compose the Sonate have asen discussed men ta the Senate.
you read the spirit of the speeches that. You bave only ta look round among
It, and If
twelve
whieh ruma through the Hanse of <Jommans the 62 members appainted In the last
But baw i. It that public opinion
that while there is a years.
debates you will see
month
respect professed for the Senate, there la is mare manifest each day and each
the Upper Cham- *as against the constitution of the Senate?
under it al a feeling that
do flot
ber la not a necessary bady. If I were criti- I do not promise ta move anything. I
I would point think there can be anytblng moved now, but
cizing the Hanse of Commons,
do is
ont the fact thnt the premier bas my idea of what the House should
lu that flot ta pass any of these resolutions, but ta
find
ta
not been able
suggest somuething like this:

754

SENATE

Resolved, that this Hlouse is always ready
ta give careful coneideration ta sny plan which
ma' be aubmitted ta it by the. administration
for the amendment -of the British North
Âmerica Act, s0 far as the same oeefers ta the
constitution of parliament.
The resolution on Vie paper contains
phrases and sentences whlch are, perbaps,
There seems to be a klnd of
undignified.
bellef in tbe Lower House that we -are
standing here, not ready to do anything, and
I wouid
Viat we are blocking the way.
gîve them a chance to see Viat we are willIng ta do aur share o! the work of reform.
Han. Mr. RIOSS (Middlesex)-Some advantage has accrued to Vie Serittte, and ta the
parliament of Canada, from Vie discussion
introduced by my ban. frlend from Wellington, and I feel now as If we were under
a debt of gratitude to hlm for opening the
question ln the manner be did, and for
enabiing members of. this House ta express
Viemselves, as I arn glad to knaw they have
done, with perfect frankness, on Vie issue
Since Vie (liscusslon of thîs
before us.
question in tbe Senate, 1 notice there bas
been less ciamour la another place wlth reI notice also that
gard to Senate refarm.
in the press, the Senate, If mentianed at ail,
Is mentianed wlth more caurtesy and conI hilnk both of these results
sideration.
have arisen from the !act Viat we have
put ourselves befare Vie country la a manner wblch, perbaps, bas not been done s0
fully befare, and la wblch, I think, we have
endeavoured to assert ourselves as a part
of Vie constîtutianal goverument of Canada.
It always appears ta me that when
a man shrinks from taklng Vie full responsibility of the duties Impased upon hlm, bis
very tlmldity ls made a basis of camplaînt,
and is used as evidence of bis uselessness.
We bave, ta a certain extent, I believe,
asserted ourselves somewbat, and tbat bas
cailed the attention o! the country ta the
purposes wblch we serve.
Now, I belleve It bas been shown, and It
bas neyer been s0 !ully sbawn ln my experlence before, Viat Vis Senate Is, after
aIl, a somewbat useful body. There bas
been no evIdence brougbt before us Viat
aur leglIslation bas nat been in the interest
o! Vie country. I Viink I have shown toa,
tbat we possess the experlence of a House
capable of legislating ln Vie lnterests of
Vie country; that as a matter o! fact Vie
Hon. Mr. ELLIS.

experience of the members of this House
exceeds very Iargely the average experlence of a correspondlng number of
members of the Hlouse of Commons. In
fact, we have gathered into this House
the experlence of 29 members of the HIouse
of Gommons, whlch la one-seventh of the
members of that body. We have gathered
here the experience of 32 members of the
local legIslatures, whlch Is about oneseventh of the membership of those bodies.
We have bere the experience o! seven exininisters of the Ci!own, and fo ur ex-speakers, and summlng up ail together, we have
here a body of men who, from their experience In the House of Commans and Vie
local legisiatures and as administratars,
ought to be able and 1 believe are able to
consider any question whicb may properiy
be submltted to us. This fact, I believe,
was flot so fuliy lmpressed on the country
before as It is now, and his fact also has
removed the expression, to a certain extent, that Vie Senate was an incompetent
and useless body. We cauid flot be incomIt
petent, surely, wlth Vis experience.
cannot be said that baving- been competent
and fit to be elected to the Hiouse o! Conimions, our competency vanished Vie moment
we ceased to be members of Vie House o!
Gommons, or that having beld a responsible
place as a Minister of Vie Crown, we became incapable o! further service because
we ceased to be Ministers of Vie Crown.
Summlng up, I amn perfectly Justified In
saying that, taking a correspondlng number of Vie House of Commons, and choosIng them as you wilI, that the 86 members
o! the Senate are equal In experience and
standing as advisors of the Crown, to a
corresponding number o! the Hlouse of
Gommons.
Then, it bas been said that we are a
partisan body, and that complaint made
and volced, wlth a certain degree of freedom, seemed to be the greatest reproach,
and I believe wns Vie greatest reproach,
passed against Vie Senate. If true, It would
be a reproacb. It does not, however, seem
to be a reproacli wben applied ta members o! Vie House of Gommons to Vie same
entent. They are assumed to be partisans. They are generally elected -because
they are strongly partisan, and In fact It
seems dIfficult for membe;j of Vie House

APRIL 1. 1908
Of Commons to hold their place unless they
appeal ln very strong and suggestive terms
to the party feeling of their followers. We
have no such appeals to make. The charge
of partisanship does flot apply because of
our relations witb tbe electorate. We do
flot need to cultlvate the partisan spirit;
we are flot amenable to those Influences
whIcb necessitate the developinent o! that
party spirit. Our vlews are of a much
more judicial character, and ln this House
we can exercise a judicial mmnd, which, I
arn bound to say, It Is somewhat difficuit to
exercise wlth safety to a commoner's future ln tbe House of Commons. Wbat Is
the proof that we are a partisan body ?
The oniy *proof I ever heard advanced ls
lu some Bis that this House bas rejected
legisiation sent us by tbe House of Commous. Is that proof o! partlsansbip? We are
unIversally adxuitted to be a court o! revision. A court of revlew implies the idea
that we may accept or reject. Does It necessarîly follow that we rejeet because
we are partisans ? Is It flot possible that
ln some Buis that this House bas rejected
there were elements which would warrant
their rejection by a judicial body ? - The
partisan House of Commons-and I use
that terrm fot as an offensive terrn-may
at some time send a Bill to this House of
such a partisan character, or, if flot partisan, embodying some other element of
weakness which would justify this House
lu rejecting It. Having rejected it, therefore, on just and sufficient grounds, is it
fair that we should be charged wltb being
a partisan body ? Have we flot always
been able to give some reason for such
rejections ? True, those who taire some
Interest lu political subjects, looklng at
matters from a purely partisan point of
view, say, 'Oh, the Senate rejected that
measure because It ls conservatIve, and
the mensure was Iutroduced by a reform
governmeut or because the Senate Is Liberal and the measure was iutroduced by a
Conservative government.
That Is flot
only way
The
a logicai conclusion.
to judge whetber our action is partisan or flot, Is to ask, are there
good and suffIcient reasons outside of this
element o! partisansbip, s0 called, whicb
would warrant a rejection of the measure?
Take a common law case ln a court; a suit

755

passes from one court to another.
The
sultor loses bis case before a divisionai
court, and wlns lu the Court of Appeal.
The case goes to the Supreme Court and he
loses it again. Was that a partisan judgment? The case goes to tbe Privy Gouncl
and ls again reversed; was that a partisan
judgment?
It was the view o! the different courts, judges considering the case,
perhaps, from a different standpoiut; may
be judges with more experieuce and better
knowledge of constitutional law, and a
more practical turn o! mmnd.
Ail those
conclusions would be fair and reasouable.
We do not need, therefore, to Import into
the decision o! the Senate the idea that it
was partisan.
Admlttlng, however, that
occaslonaliy the Senate may bave giveu a
partisan vote, we would be merely making
a concession to the weakuess of buman
nature.
Those who do say that the Senate
is sometimes partisan may be partisans
themselves, and the very fact that we are
charged with partlsanshlp rnay originate ln
the extreme pnrtisanship of the persous
making tbe charge.
Let us look at the
action o! the House o! Commons as compared wlth ours on this same point,
In
the lat forty years the House of! Gommons
amended 33 per cent aud rejected 10 per
cent of our measures.
WVns that due to
partisanship?
While we managed to
amend ouly one and tbree-quarter per cent
of their Bis and rejected ouly two per
cent
If the cry of partisanship bolds
against the Senate, then how much more
does it boid against the Gommons, because
their rejections and ameudmeuts, bave very
largely exceeded tbe rejections o! the Senate. I do not tbink the cry of partisauship
ls reasonable, and I do not think it wiil
hoid, taklng the experience o! our legisiation for over !orty years.
As I showed lu
a former discussion-and I need not repeat
uow-we are able to show that no matter
wbat party was lu power ln the House of
Gommons the Senate deait as geuerously
witb tbe legislation of one party as It did
with the legislation o! the other.
To repeat, and to refresh the memory of hon.
gentlemen, let me say tbat Iu the -first
period o! Sir John Macdouald's administration the Senate rejected three sud one-balf
per cent of bis Bis. Under the administration o! Mr. Mackenzie t4iey rejected two

SENATE
and one-baif per cent of bis Bis. Under pointment of senators under certain con!Sir John Macdonald's second terni the Sen- ditions partly by the government and partiy
The hon. Speaker will
ate rejected one and tbree-quarter per cent by the opposition.
of bis Bis, and under Sir W!Ifrld Laurier's jiîlow me to dissent from this proposition
terni two and one-haif per cent of the pre- also. The opposition bas no constitutionai
It is merely a figment-it
So the average responsibllity.
sent government's Bis.
under one administration seems to bie as Is flot even a figînent of the constitution.
If, therefore, a It may bie part of our parliamentary progreat as under the other.
It bas grown out of the division
Liberal Senate Is partisan, then a Conserva- cedure.
tive Senate la partisan, and neither party between the people of the country into two
can refleet on the Other because of its parties, and it is necessary under party govTbat brings me to consider ernment; but wbo can boid the opposition
partlsansbip.
how are we to, get over the present situa- responsible for any appointment they migbt
We cani hold the government reI was much pleased with tbe re- make?
tion.
A vote of want of confidence
marks made by tbe bon. senator from St. sponsible.
John, pnrtlcuiarly those lu whilb be sald migbt pass the House of Commons because
there does seem to bie la tbe public mmnd of improper appolntments made to the Senthe idea that tbe Senate oughit to bie re- ate, but wlîat vote of want of confidence
I believe that Is deeply seated Ini would toucb the members of the opposition?
formed.
I believe It bas been They are immune from nny sucb terror, or
the public mind.
cultivated by botb parties, by the Conserva- the consequences of sucb a vote of want of
The wboie system o! respontives out of office, and by the Liberals out confidence.
of office, and it bias become so ingrained sible government rests upon this, tliat sorneupon the public mind as to be accepted as body can bie beld responsible to the wbole
part of tbe political platform, at least of the of tbe people for bis acta and conduct. W~e
Tbe varlous metbods re- cannot bold an opposition responsible lu
Liberai party.
comrnended for the reform of the Senate any particular sense or form; we can boid
And, besides, I amrn ot
are ai, to my mmnd, to a certain extent a governmenit.
llusory.
His bonour the Speaker gave us sure tbat we would gain anytblng la the
varions views la bis admirable speech yes- status of tbe Senate by a partial election by
terday as to hiow the constitution of the the opposition as weil as by the goverument.
Senate could bie reformed.
For Instance, My bon. frlead from Wolseley said that, unlie sald tbat the Senate migbt be elected by der tbe present system, the appointment of
municipal councils.
I do not tbink we senators is a form o! bribery by the goveruiwould get rid of partisnnsbip ln tat way. ment of the day; but If tbe opposition were
I think at the saine time we might Infuse permitted a volée lu the elections of sen-lato municipal couucils a littie partisan- tors, as bie tbought It migbt bie, would it
sbilp.
Thea lie dlscussed briefly tbe elec- flot be brIbery ln the case of tbe opposition?
tion o! aenators by members o! tbe legis- If the leader of the goverument, la order
lature, and bie sald truly, ln my judgment, to boister imself ln bis place, CII Crs seats
that tVmat would be an appeai from a higber la the Seate to bis supporters as a reaso"
court, wbiclî may be said to bie partisan- for their politicai support-and thint Is
tlat is the cabinet O! the Dominion-to the brlbery-wbat would it be if the leader o!
cabinets o! the provinces which may bie the opposition, iwbea some of bis foilowers
equally If not more intensely partisan.
1 were dlsposed to foresake iimn, offered a
do not thiak we would get rid of partisan- seat la the Senate to, bis recaicitrant or
sblp ln that way.
I belleve we would hesltating follower to remain wltb hlm?
weaken very rnucb tbe constitution of the What woiild be bribery ln one case would
Senate, becauise the responslbility would be be bribery la tbe other, and taït refiection
on an laferior body, nameiy tbe local cabi- would apply to the opposition Just as weil
net lnistead o! lieing on a superior body, as it would appiy to tbe goverament. I do
the Dominion cabinet, as it la aow, and for not belleve we would gain mucb by dlvid,wbil the wbioie country is responsible.
In.- the election between the governmfelit
Thien bie discussed, and some refereuces and the opposition, and we wouid be strik-were made to tlîat this afteraoon,, the ap- ing a serionis blow at the whoie principie of
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

AJ'RIL :1.1908
The greatest dif- partisan, you will have noue, and If you
responsible goverument.
ficulty, to my mlnd, however, in the dis- decapitate every public manî who shows
cussion ot this whoie question ls une that Party spirit, there would be a great mavy
was considered at full length by ia honour wigs on the green and more headg off
the Speaker, and also the hon. senator f rom than would be left on. Let us reahize the
St. John, and that la the maintenance of tact that there may run through every
the political equIiibrlum of the Senate. Now man's heart the feeling of a party man;
la that necessary? Is it necessary that thIs lot us teel that bore, of ail other places
Senate shall be divided proportionately, or under tho su, party feeling bas to be
almost on a basis of equality between the st aside as far as, to use a constItutional
The hon. the Speak- phrase, circumstances wl! permit as far
two political parties?7
er said that the govornmont must bave a as the maintenance cf good goverument
small majorltv; but a smail majority is just wlll permit. I admit that under party
as tyrannical as a large majority. It doe government we get the best govorument
not matter whether a Bill is carried or re- that la possible for tht. country, and I do
jected by one or by fifty; I see no. political flot bohiove that undor any forma of govor constitutionai utility In the Sonate being ernmont, Canada or Great Britain cau have
more of one party than of the other, if the its affaire administered as well; but that
Senate were wiso enough to feel the respon- furma et party goverament whicb ia boat
We are la the judicial torm, not the tormi of the
sibllity of its duty as a Sonate.
not here for party purposes, and 1 do not dernagogue, nor does it use tbe language
admit that I was sent here for party pur- ot the demagogue; it stands tour square
poses. 1 may have been chesen because I against the demagogue and the socialist
was a party man, or because I had rendered when hoe attempts to dîctate to this body
considerable service for the country In pub- and say that every measure must bear the
I neyer askod why 1 was calied Imprimatur of bis party. It la not noceslie lite.
to the Senate, but I decline tu be considered sary, In my opinion, that the oqullibrium
Do sbould ho absolutely prosorved. What we
as a party man first and foremost.
not lot it be supposod that I evor forget want to preserve la the equiiibriurn ot
I do not intend tu good logisiation. I do not want to make
that I amn a LIboral.
forsake the creed of my father or my the confession that, because I arn a Libparty; but my first duty In the Sonate la flot oral, I arn going to be influenced by party
to consider a question from a party stand- feelings tu the detriment et the country,
point, but from the Canadian standpoInt. and I do flot want tu bellove that my ConTherefore, to maintain the political equili- sorvative bretbron, mucli as I bave chasbrIuma for party reasons la to sink into dis- tised them In days of oid, will, in ail cases,
credit the primary funotion of the Senate, bo overcome by party feeling, or cast to
la to rob the Sonate ef the dignity, the the four winds et boaven legislation that
honour and the Importance it should bold bas an element et public utility and good
The ftact that the Sonate conscience In It. For that reason, 1 am
ia the country.
is held as s party body bas been the bane not so mucli concernod about preserving
of the Senate, a groes reproacli cast on the the equiiibrium of party In the Sonate, as
Senate, and It la the duty of every senator I arn about seeing and feeling In rny conto show, as far as ho bonestly can, that the science tbat the Sonate discharges Ita full
Sonate bas flot playod a partisan part. The duty to tbe country. If it checks tbe House
House of Lords la said to play a partisan of Commons lot It be for roason; If It
part at tirnes, and so It is possible we rnay. amenda or rejects a measure, lot its action
As the hon. senator frorn Smith's Falls be tounded on sncb good and sufficient rea(Hon. Mr. Prost) sald, we are human, and son that the waytarIng man, thougli a foui,
we may play a party part; but who would could see that the Sonate was rigit. I
aboliali the House ef Commons In Engiand admit that If i the persistency of public.
because It is a partisan body, and who opinion, the House of Commons shonld,
would abolish the Canadien House of Com- send a Bill to us repeatedly that vo miglit
mons because It is occasionally partisan ? not exactly approve ot, vo miglit have teIf you abolish every legisiativo body that la do as the House of Lords did at the tIme-

SENATE
of the Reform Bill, let It pass, and as they construe it righitly or not. It is a matter
did at the time of the Emancipation Act, on which I may be able to express an
accept the finger of destiny and the well opinion a littie Inter on. That is tbe flrst
conceived expression of public opinion. But reform.
such a crisis bas flot arisen. We have reThe second reform is, ministerial reprejected for two sessions a Bill that came sentation or more of it; wliether by under
from the House of Commons. That was secretarles or by ministers, I do not care.
flot a government measure-I refer to tbe The bon. Speaker mentioned yesterdny tlie
Lancaster Bill, a Bill that the people were French system which l Vie same as the sysflot very mucb concerned about, a Bill tem ln Italy and Germany, and 1 believe
wblcli ln Its present shape is better than Austria too.
I submlt witli due respect
It ever was before. The true principle of to bis larger experience and better knowlSenate reform, the lune on which I will edge of details, that I tbink Vint we cau
perslst, la Senate reform witbln Itself, reform Vhis Senate wltliout adoptiug tlie
Senate reformi wltb the assistance of the Frenchi or German system, useful thougli
1 said before that the It may be.
administration.
1 rather feit a response to the
Senate was starved by the administration remark made by the lion. genator from
-I repeat it, lterally starved, flrq't by the Sinith's Falls, when lie snid that lie did flot
absence of a reasonable quota of minis- think it wouid be an undisguised or perfect
ters, and secondiy by the fact that we advantage to the Senate that n minister
have flot introduced by anybody, elther sliould come into this House from Vie Comprivate member or mInister, our fair share mnons to press bis Bills upon us.
I feel
of public legisiation. We are cast ln tbe that we miglit be sometimes overnwed by
shade from that simple fact. We liave flot tbe presence of a minister bere.
I do not
the riglits of the Senate of the United know whether we wouîd or flot; I do flot
States. We may have the rlghts of the want to run tlie risk.
The rule since tlie
House of Lords, but we have flot the time of Charles Il. lias been that tlie King
same riglits of Initiation as the Senate of cannot*enter Vie House of Commons or the
Vie United States bas, so, If Vie govern- House of Lords.
The mile of the constiment of the day, or any government Vint tution of Canada is that the Governor Genmiglit succeed It, wlshes to prevent agita- eral or the Lieutenant Governor cannot ention for Senate reform, or wlshes to be ter wlthin tlie liearing or seelng of mnembers
relieved of the responsibility of SeDate re- of the legisînture ln session, of which he la
form, would so re-organize the administra- tbe governor. Whie a Lieutenant Govertion wlthin the Senate as to give us more nor Is mucli more Important than a memnto do, then the Senate could fill a larger ber of his cabinet, and the Governor Genplace ln public opinion and discharge Its eral more Important Vian one of bis minisduties more usefully to'the public. 'My
ters, stili I feel as if It would be a conreform wouid be, first, Viat we sliould fession of weakness and dlsnbility on tlie
bave n better division of leglalation. That part of tlie Senate not to be able to take
1 do not think
is simple as a, b, c. The Hon. Speaker re- charge of Its own Bis.
1 agree
ferred to a division of private Buis yester- we bave reaclied that point yet.
day and gave us an admirable suggestion that we miglit get much liglit tlirougli the
as to liow It should be done; let us take presence of a minister and I belleve we
the odd numbers and the House of Com- miglit give some ligbt and leading to the
mons the even numbers, or vice versa. House of Commons if we had a reciprocity
That would give us sometbing more to do. ln ministerial exposition; nevertheless I
Then let us have more Important legisla- think we had better be a self-contained
tion Introduced ln this House. I hIink we body, and maintain our constitutional enPerbaps my Conservative notionsdraw Vihe constitutional Ulne too closely tity.
wben we sny that a Bill whicb may Impose because tliey tell me I am becoming Concertain pains or penalties, or certain bur- servative very fast-folow BritisIl methods,
dens of taxation, cannot be introduced ln and lead me to suggest Vint lt would be
the Senate. 1 Viink we construe that too better to divide ln fairer proportions the
closely, and I do not know whether ve members of the cabinet b@tween the House
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

APRIL 1, 1908

759~

The Britishî resi)onsibility and do it successfully-for
of Commons and the Senate.
practice from *time Immemorial has been there are not any fallures in the Senate
that about an equal number of the adminis- that I know of--surely we are capable entration la ln the House af Lords and the ougli, notwithstandLng our advanced years,
In fact, Pitr's lirst (.overn- o! carryiag larger responsîbilities as legisCommons.
nent and Castiereagh'5, consisted of only one lators, and, therefore, I say if we only asmember of the government ln the House of serted ourselves and got over that modesty
Pitt's had oniy one ln the wblch seems ta characterize us, then we
Commons.
Commons; ail the others were members of wauld assert ourselves ln such a way that
That would be too the country would know that the Senate
tlie House of Lords.
great a disproportion; but let us have bet- exists and exista for a langer purpose.
Let me slmply necapitulate, that It is
ter representation.
for the Senate ta maintain Its owu diganity,
Anothier way to reform the Senate is that
assert its own usefuiness, and not lu amy
this chamber shouid have more initiative.
partisan or Idle way. daim precedence over
I have a motion before the House whlch 1
the oCher House; but ta fulfil a langer part
hope may lie disposed o! ln a few days, tilan a court o! review and Initiation, and
which would place us In the position of
favour or affecWe do not take to do that without f car,
takIng more Initiative.
We tion.
enougli responsibllity on ourselves.
Hon. Mr. rPOWER-This question lias
are suif ering, not f rom the atrociaus crime
Pitt was charged, of belng a been discussed mow at very considerable
wlth which
yonng man, but with the atroclous crime length. We dlscussed the same question
of being too modeat. We do not reach out two years ago at considerable length, and
for legisiation as we miglit, nor for Initia- I do mot thinli that the dlgnity of the
tion of questions as we mlght, or discussion House cals for any furthen discussion on
of questions which are not purely partisan. the matter. It la pretty clear that thce
I think more Initiative on the part of the is no strong sentiment on the part oif the
I arn not con- House lni favoun of any particulan resoluSenate wili help us some.
of review or !eed- tion whlch lias been intnoduced by any
tent with being a court
ing on the crumbs which faîl from the hon, gentleman, and the sentiments exThat la pressed by the bon. senator fnam St. John,
table of our ostensible masters.
not our position at ail; it la only part of at the close of his speech, that wivhle we
While we are a court of re- wauld lie prepared to gîve the greatest atour position.
view up to a certain point, let us be a tention ta any measure submitted to aur
Let mca- consideration, we should not pass any recourt o! original jurisdictlon.
sures beglix here and bie transferred ta the solution. I quite concur ln that and I
other branch oif parliament ta lie dlsposed trust that the han. gentlemen who have
o! there. Ia that way we will have a Sen- resolutions and ameadments drawn, wlll lie
ate re!ormn which wlll give us much de- kind enougli to let themn drop mow amd let
Ilghtful occupation. -It ls an extraordinary us be done with tic subject.
thing, and not thought of, that while this
Hon. lir. SULLIVÂN-I object ta havSenate ls reputed to lie a body of very Ine- the debate cut off ln that waY. I have
elderly gentlemen, it carnies perhaps a larg- somethlng to Say on the subject, and I
er financial responsibility than the Com- do not think It la fair to attempt ta cut me
The 86 members of the Senate off. I therefore move that Uic debate bie
ruons.
carry larger financlal burdens than the 214 adjourned until to-moraw.
members a! the House o! Commons. If
The motion was agreed ta.
the wealth and limandiai responsibility ln
and
banklng, manufactuning, commercial
BILL INTRODUCED.
other Industries were ail .consolidated and
BUI (88) An Act ta Incorporate thc Arpassed through a clearlng house, I venture chitecturai Institute of Canada.--(Hon. Mr.
to say that the balance ln favour of the Beique.)
Senate would largely cxceed that a! the
The Senate adjaurmed untîl to-mornow at
If we are able, as
Flause o! Commons.
large three o'clock.
members o! this body, to carry this

SENATE
iug at eig-lt O'clock, iany of the p)arties
interested may flot know of the adjourned
OTTAwA, Thursday, April 2, 1908.
The proceeding is very Irregular,
meeting.
took the Chair nt Tbree and 1 cali attention to the fact in order
The SPEAKER
that proper notice may be given to those
o'clock.
_who wlsh to attend an adjourned meeting
of the committee.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

THE SENATE.

PONTIAC

CENTRAL RAILWAY
PANY'S BILL.

COM-

REPORT PROM THE COMMITTEE.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN, from the Committee ou Railways, Telegrapbs and Harbours.
reported Bill (EE) An Act respecting the
Pontiac Central Railway Company with
amendments.
He said: This Bill is for the purpose of
iucorpaiating-, under a federal charter, a
rnilway whlch Iiad been incorporated lu the
province of Quebec. Clause 2 bad to be
altogether dropped, because that clause, as
drafted, would bave placed the company und1er the control of the special Act incorporatiug this company lu Quebec, instead of uniThat is to
der the Railway Act of 1903.
say, that Iustead of the Rnilway Act of
1903 prevailing, the special Act would have
superseded it. The raîlway will now, wlth
that clause stricken ouf, be uuder the
jurisdicfion of the federal Railway Act. Ail
these amendments have been made for the
purpose of bringing the company under the
legisiative authority of the parliament of
Iu the issung of securifies for
Canada.
the railwny, the amount is reduced from
forty to thirfy thousand dollars, and a further ameudment was necessary to make It
conform to the usual clause.
Hon. Mr. CAMPBELL moved that the
ainendinents be takea into consideration tomorrow.
Hon. '-%r. LANDRY-I seize tbis occasion
t0 protest against the adjourument of the
Standing Committee from the morning to
the evening of the same day. Lt is agalnst
our rule. Any adjourument should be froin
day to day. In this Instance, there may be
no Inconvenlence; but I arn speakîng on fthe
Wbeu n Bill is
subject In a general way.
referred f0 a standing commlttee wblch is
f0 meet at the usual time, everybody wbo
wishes f0 attend knows when the committee wlI meet; but If the meeting Is adjourned at oiie o'clock, until the same evenHEon. Mr. SULLIVAN.

.Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The meeting of the
committee was adjourDed until the evening
by a motion made at the regular meeting of
the committee. At one o'clock ini the atternoon, a motion was mnade to adjourn until
That motion
elght o'clock lu the evenlng.
was made because there is ouly one room
where the comnilttee cau meet. This mornlng that room had been specially retained
for the Commlttee on Banking and Com~merce, and 1 understand it wvill be used by
Therefore it was luithe same commlttee.
possible for the Railway Committee to meet
The iembers of the
again this week.
comrn!ttee thoughlt it desirable to clear our
order paper, In view of the coming' adjournment, by meeting in the evening. A]though it was not necessary that notices
should be sent out, because It was only an
adjournment of the morning meeting, I gave
instruction that notices sbould be sent f0
ail the members of the coinîiittee that the
meeting was adjourned uutil eiglit o'clock
lu the evening.
LANDRY-Not ail of fthc uemHon. M-Nr.
bers.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-The notices werQ
teither handed to members In the House or
1 do
put in their boxes in the post office.
not know any inemnber that did flot get
notice.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I kiow of members
who did flot.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-I sliould be .-lad
to get those ieînbers' naines, because wben
we met In the mornlng there ivas a coinplaint that some hnd uot received notice.
It happened in my own case, and I made
Inquiry to ascertain what notices had not
been delivered and why if had happenied.
We found out that the page who -was to deliver the notices simply lef t tbemi on the
desks of any members who were flot lu
That is flot the rîglit wny,
their places.
because the senator might flot come back

SAPIIIL 2. 1908
to bis desk, or if hie came back muighit not
notice the paper upon it. Therefore, 1 gave
orders that the page should deliver notices
to the senators tliemselves, and In any case
wbere tbat could nlot be done, to give the
balance of the notices to the housekeeper,
who would *see that they were either delivered personally or placed ln the post office boxes of the members who could flot be
found.
I did ail that Iast week ln order
that there should be no mistake.
If the
notices given out yesterday afternoon were
nlot dellvered, I wlll Inquire why they were
not. The meeting last night was held for
the convenience of members.
The motion
was proposed by the Hon. Mfr. Lougbeed, ln
the committee, and carrled unanimously.

of Finance and to meet their views
were accepted by the commlttee.

vhc

Hon. Mr. WATSON moved that the
amendinents be concurred ln to-morrow.
The motion was agreed to.
THIRD READING.
Bill (Y) An Act respecting the Grand
Trunk Pacific Branch LUnes Company.(Hon. Mfr. Watson.)
SECOND READINGS.

Bill (53) An *Act respecting the New
Brunswick Soutliern Rallway Company.Hon. 1fr. LANDRY-Tbe notice was (Hon. Mfr. Ellis.)
Bill (JJ) An Act for the relief of Editli
given liere about five ln the afternoon.
Members wvlio were not ln the House at May Gilmore.--{Hon. Mfr. Perley.)
that hour did not receive the notice. Now,
COM-MITTEES 0F THE SENATE.
I do not object to sittlng at iigbt, but the
commlttee could bave adjourned yesterday
DEBÂTE CONTINTJED.
until this evening, and that would have
The order of the day being called:
been 24 heurs~ notice to ail pàrties interested.
When people leave ln the mornlng and do
Resuming the adjourned debate on the
T
M
r. Ross (Middlesex),
neot corne ln the afternoon, or wlhen they motion of thie lion.
that rule 78 of the rules
stay only an hour or so la the Hlouse and amended by adding to the of the Sonate b.
standing commitleave before the notice is given, tliey are tees mentioned in said rule the foliowing.
Namely, a standing committee onnot notlfIed.
Putting the natice lu a mem1. Agriculture and forestry.
ber's box lu the post office does nlot help
2. Immigration and labour.
3. Commerce and trade relations of Canada.
matters.
At least 24 heurs notice of a
4. (ieological surveys and minerai developmeeting sbould be givea.
ment.
5. Transportation routes to the seaboard and
Hon. Mfr. CASGRAI.N-Not of an ad- harbours.
6. Coast surveys and merchant shipping.
journed meeting.
7. Fisheries.
S. Industrial, arts and expositions.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-That is the question,
9. Civil service administration.
I say that the adjouranent is irregular.
10. Public health and inspection of foods.
il. Public buildings and grounds.
You miay adjourn frein day to day, but not
Said committees te be comnposed of flot less
froin the mornIng untîl the evening of the than five nor more than Dine members, and
te have and possess the same. powers and
same day.
privileges as the standing committees authorîzed by said rule 78.
The motion waFi agreed to.
Hiou. Mfr. POIRIER--Some nmong the
NORTHIERN BANK AND CROWN BANK oldeat members of this honourable House
no doubt remember, I cannot exactly
0F CANADA BILL.
recaîl the year, but long ago, that a
REPORTED PROM COMMITTEE.
senator by the name of Ross, wel
Hon. Sir GEORGE DRUMMNOND, from and favourably known ln history as
the Cornmlttee on Banking and Commerce, master of the good ship 'Ontario,' which
reported BUi (GG) An Act respecting the ship salled successfully for many years
Northeru Bank and the Crown Bank of over the lakes, and If I remember wehl
Canada, witli several arnendinents. Hie said: wvas strauded, owlng to somne barnaches that
These âmendments were made in accord- had adhered to Its keel, lntroduced Into
nnce with the wishes of the Department tlîis House a resolution calling for the cre-

762

SEINATE

ation of standing committees in addition to
those whlcb already existed. Th. object
of the motion was to give some work to
Vie senators Indlvidually, and to Increase
The standing
the utllity of this House.
committees he proposed were eleven In
number, namely Committees on Agriculture and Forestry, Immigration and Labour,
Commerce and Trade Relations of Canada,
Geologicai Surveys and Mineral Development, Transportation Routes to Vie Seaboard and Harbours, Coast Surveys and
Merchant Sbipplng, Fisheries, Industrial,
Arts and Expositions, Civil Service Administration, Public HealVi and Inspection of
Foods, Public Buildings and Grounds. At
the time Viere lUved a man named Scott,
wbo walked before the Lord, and who
because he -had flot unlike Noah taken
great Interest In Vie manufacture of
unfermented wines, and for other valuable
and good reasons had become Vie leader
of the Senate. lie, If I may say, sat
upon the proposition o! bis colleague,
Captain Ross. The eleven commIttees proposed by Vie sallor of Vie lakes met the
fate of Vie Innocents. It was a regular
slaughter. 0f course It là; long ago, but
as far as my memory serves me, I belleve
there were only three or four of the com1
mittees of Vie Innocents that survlved.
happened to be a member of this House
at Vie time. Hon, gentlemen must not forget that I amn one of the oldest here; and I
proposed an adjournment o! Vie debate. I
bave been urged ever since not to take It up,
for fear o! obstructlng tbe business ln this
bonourable House, and I submitted to the
request Up to hils day; but here Is wbat
happened. At Viat time I had taken notes
concerning the speech both of Vie hon.
gentleman from Middlesex and of the hon.
leader of this House, and those notes
Virougb accident, or ppsslbly negigence on
my part, were mlslald, and I have to-day
to speak from memory. I remember thet
one o! the reasons alleged agalnst the Senate adopting Vie resolution of Vie hon.
gentleman from Middlesex was Viat It
would forestaîl Vie government, It would
Virow Illght Into Vie way of the government nnd possibly lead Vie government Into
measures that they might not be prepared
That argument struck me as
to adopt.
being indeed very strange. It was cerHon. Mr. POIRIER.

tainly in opposition to tbe action of some
of the heroes of antIqulty, Ajax, as we
read ini Homer calling for llght, ' Give me
light and I wili fight, even unto the gods-'
Here light is flot only flot desired but It is
placed as an obstacle to our passing favourably on the resolution of my bon. friend.
Notwlthstandlng the weight of thp party
who thinks that llght should flot corne from
the Senate to affect the direction of public
affairs, I wlll take the opposite vlew. 1
say If we desire to be useful,-none of us
la unwilling-such steps as are proposed
Middlesex
by the hou. gentleman from
should be adopted. We are, as a body,
certainly flot overworked. We can divide
ourselves Into different commIttees. take
the different questions that are brought Up
In this Chamber, study them, and submit
reports, academlc reports on tbem If you
like, but sncb reports and sucli Initiations
as are necessary towards progress ln any
and aIl countries.
We could, 1 feel certain, wlthout at
ai lnterfering wlth government work,
prepare the way, as we have already
doue through special committees, one or
two concernlng the agricultural possibilities of the North and Northwest, the navigabllty of Hudson Bay, the construction
of the Georgian Bay canal, wltb reports
such as would have a positive effect upon
the laws, upon the general pollcy and consequeatly upon tbe destinies o! our
country. I need flot refer to the past debate, but Iproposed the adjournment of
It at that tiine for the reason thnt I desire to propose an ameadment, inot towards curtallng, because God knows the
motion has -been curtailed pretty well aIready, but to add two more standing committees to the eleven proposed by the hon.
gentleman from Middlesex, and tbese two
committees are, a conmlIttee on laws and
a committee on fine arts. The commlttee
on laws would be useful and conducive to
more useful results. Some ten or fifteen
years ago the movement started from 'Halifax towards having the procedure of laws
la the different provinces to harmonize
where they can be harmonized. 0f course,
In real estate, and as to laws codified In the
province of Quebec, homogenelty could not
be obtained; but la commercial laws the procedure could be made, and I think should be

APRIL 2, 1908
made pretty well tbe same througbout the
whole Dominion so as ta facilitate commercial transaictions and Intercourse.
It is
to-day a great hardship for a creditor to
collect a bill lu anather province on account
of the difference ln procedure, which to a
large extent obstructs easy Interchange. Sncb
a standing committee, If it had exisied when
the movement was started, migbt have
been of very great advantage. It would
certalnly have done what tbe lawyers hIdidually were flot successful ln dolng, and
which lu stUll ta be done. There are many
occasions where, a standing committee on
Iaws could step In and do use! ni work.
There la, for example, tbe translation of
our laws. Hon, gentlemen of this Honse
and passlbly, of the other Hanse, are not
f ully aware of tbe position la which the
translation of the codified laws stands taday. That translation was given to one
single lndividual to do. He had ta perforrn work tbat realiy reqnired a commission. To translate the Engllah laws lnta
French, or vice versa la a diffienît task,
because the translator mnust first tborougbly nnderstand the meaning of the law he
bas ta translate. He mnst.master it and
the Englisb signification of it, and then
he la ta as clearly pnt it inta bis own Ianguage. One transiator was entrnsted ta
do that wbole wark. I bave na daubt he
la a capable man bnt be was entrnsted
witb a work beyond the capacity of a
single man. 1 remember readlng the iawa
of Jnstinian ln the Latin original, and comparlng It witb the French translation. One
wonld. hardly detect any difference between tbe Latin and tbe French. This canflot possily be the case ln the future
translation of aur laws. It appeara that
the gaverament bad some dIffculty-I arn
nat bere tbrawing blame upan anyane-in
fanding wllllng or capable transiatars. I
believe tbere are capable tranalators beaides the one who la now dalng the work,
-whase services con]d bave been secnred
had there been sufftcient maney ta pay
specialists. While tbe goverament are paylng f1f1y or seventy-flve dollars or perbaps
more per day ta Mr. Fanlkner and bis men
ta revise the system o! baakkeeping ln the
depa1étmentz, I believe the tranalator of aur
statntes receives something less than five
dollars *a day and be has, nnassisted, ta

763

graPple wvitb the wbole edifice.
I mentian
this, slmPlY ta show tbat there would be
Justification for the appointment o! a
commlttee
an
laws
selected
fram
amongst the members o! this House
who have samne lelsure time at their disposai, and wbo canld do usefnl and neceaaary services. I now came ta the other
cammlttee, wbich I have la view, namely
fine arts. We are building a mighty
country, an empire that may possibly be
equal wlth the greateat and most glanlons
that bave existed, and may posaibly snrpasa them bec-anse we bave bath the men
and the ternitory, and we bave apparently
came at the praper moment We are building
a bnge empire for ail time, on an eternal
foundation. We mnst spend over a bnndred
million dollars a year ln bnilding that empire.
The mmnd and tbe spirit mnst be considered
with the body ln the bnilding of!thia great
Canada of ours. We are naw laoking only
after the body, the part that comes under
the alght, the material part. How mncb
maney la devoted towarda encouraging
what appertains ta the spirit of literature,
the spirit af poetry and the spirit of ardhitecture ? I belleve tbat a snm of six
thouaand dollars la allatted ta this Rayai
Society, wbicb anifices only ta print the reports o! the commision of tbe four classes
that compose the Royal Society and that la
ail. Not one cent of encouragement la given
ta Ilterature or ta art, or ta wbat la knawn
ta be o! moat Importance to a country, the
Intellectual part. The Commonwealth of
Australia have voted a round snm of money
for the encouragement of literature, and for
researches la science. It looks as If Canada was a country ln wbicb matter only
concerna the legîslature and not spiritual
thînga ? That shonld flot be. There shonld
be some equilibrinm between the grosser
part of tbe edifice and the flner part. We
ahanld encourage wrlters--and there are
many of them wha wonld corne ta praminence If they only received same sligbt enconragement-we should encourage artlata-not at aIl ta the extent that we encanrage rallroads or canais by giving houaties ta concerna which mun np ln the millions
and millions; but conld we not set asîde
ten or lifteen tbonsand dollars a year to
make Canada a country that would have
some show with other countrles ln the

SENATE
Wbat I isted iu the Senate, thaf couid bie iu touch
worid lu muatters intellectual ?
pr~opose la a comrnittee on fine arts, and wlth Dr. Doughty and report to the House
talking of fine arts, I wiil include and what is uecessary to be doue, we would be
should Include the Archives Departieut Lt lu a position to help the developmeut of
To-day the men in
is only since 1871 ti.at the country lias thiat department.
Very few thluk
given auy attention nt ail to ls archives,, charge of It are Ignored.
a country are its of what work they do, sud some who do
and the archives of
foundation. lu 1871, petitions wvere pre- thiuk of it do appreclate ItL I wouid
We are aIl aware that '%r.
sented to both Houses of parliament here go further.
praying that the archives whichi were scat- Fisher, besîdes belug Minister of Agrlcuitered lu ail the departmnents and elsewhere, ture, la also Mînister of the Ceusus and of
hie
be gathered together, classffied aud placed fine arts. As Miaister of Agriculture
bas a deputy minister and a staff. As Minlu some particular spot, where the historian or the investigator could have access. ister of the Ceusus hie bas also a deputy
I wouid
Some hon, gentleman took up the ques- minister sînce a few years ago.
to-day, called the atten- suggest that the Dominion Archives be put
tion as I ain dolng
tion of the government to the matter, the on the samne footing as the other two-that
government took hold of the ldea and lu the Archlvlst niso be made a deputy minîster
Lt appeals t0
1872 appointed Mr. Brymner to take charge or have rank as such.
without an me-no doubt it appeals to you-that the
of the work. He was alone,
aud
assistant, flot even a secretary at the ar- one man who has charge of the llterary
dld not esthetic branch lu the Dominion of Canada
chives for about ten years, so hie
do much-n man alone could flot do much. should be the peer of bis colleagues lu other
have two
Tiiere was indeed au organization of the branches of the administration. We
ou the samne
bureau of Archives, but nothing at aIl valu- liorariaus both of whomn stand
The xeeper
able for the searcher or the historian until levei with deputy ministers.
titie.
this goverument appoiated Dr. Doughty, and of the archives bus no correspouding
From what was stated lu the other House
erected the fine building ou Sussex street,
aud others
which I wouid recommend uiy hou. collea- by Mr. Monk, Mr. Bergeron
when thîs question was touched upon, It la
gues to go and vIsit as a mental treat. Dr.
be
Doughty, some few years ago, tooir charge clear that this aide of the House wiil
happy to see that legîtimate promînelice
of the work. A staff was gîven hlm, flot
wbo la the
sufficiently large, aud to-day il wlll repny should be given to Dr. Dougbty
I go furtber
rlgbt man lu the rlgbt place.
everyone who takes au lnterest lu historical
ln this
questions to go to the Archives and see sud say as I have no prejudices
malter, that the Miaister of Agriculture dewhat bas heen doue lu the way of classihie
The scattered documents that serves much credit for the perseverence
fication.
bas showu agaluat odds lu establishlng that
w-ere to be fouud lu the differeut departOther ministers liad been
meuts, lu the Secretary of State's Depart- departmneut.
hlm, but he Is the ouly one
meut, ln the Department of Agriculture, there betore
grappled with the question aud
and ln the other departimeuts have alI been who has
a proper
tbere. There was taken fromn organized that bureau, furuished
collected
building, tire proof, -to shelter our archives
Halifax no less than ten tous of materlal.
who had, w'bat few men bave, the good
There are to-day up to a million of different and
judgmeut to select a proper man to put at
articles that have. been classified, and coI endorse the
head of the departmneut.
ordluated. Tbat work la just begiuulug. the
p)roposition of the hou. sena-tor fromn MiddleIl la whoiesomeiy refreshiug to go there
sex, sud hope that It wll be allowed to paso
aud see the good work beiug doue by Mr.
wli be
If a commIt- sud thal two otiier committees
Doughty and his assistants.
added to the eleven he bas uamed; uamely
tee of flue arts, which would include the
on laws, sud a committee ou
archives and the promotiug of literature and a commlltee
flue arts.
science, the keeping of battlefields, and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have aiready spoken
everythlng that goes to preservation of national grounds, everythlug that perta lus lu ou this subject. I poinled out that It was
fact to fine arts-If such a committee ex- raîher exhaustlug the number of gentlemen
Hon. Mr. POIRIER.

APRIL 2, 1908
ln this Chamber to have comittee s onl s0 Immigration and labour, Industrial arts and
large a number of questions, some of whicli exposition, and public health.
Beyond that
are under the control of departments. Take I do not thlnk it would be wlse to change
for Instance the ifisheries; that is an Inter- our ruIes to such a degree as to bind this
national question.
We have now practi- Senate to formulate a committee at every
cally concluded a treaty with the United session on each of the various subjeets deStates with regard to the inland fisherles. ta lied here.
No committee of the Senate could posslbly
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
throw lilht on the negotiations which have
been going on with reference to that ques- not know that 1 should have troubled the
tion.
We have a department of the gov- Senate wlth any remarks on this question,
ernment specially devoted to the fisheries. were It not for some statements whlch fell
I might also say with reference to the Geo- from a gentleman ln the other House which
logical Depnrtment, that it Is a regular de- have to a very great extent a bearlng on
partment of the goverament.
We get a this subjeet. I may, however, before makregular report from the savants of that de- ing any comments on the proposition bepartmnent annualiy, and I do not know that fore the House, be permitted to congratua committee could add to the Information late the hon. senator from Middlesex for
furnIshed there.
I might go tbrough the the trouble he has taken, and the research
liat of committees.
I madYe some com- be has made, and the information he has
inents on it before, and I thought that for given us upon the varlous subjects mena beginnlng it would look more reasonable tioned ln bis motion to increase the numand sensible If we limited the number to ber o! committees toi Investigate certain
But lt must
three or four.
Take agriculture and for- very Important questions.
estry.
These are Important subjects, not strike anyone who reads this resolution
only wlthin the rlgbts of the Senate, but of that he might be accused-I will not say
Immense value If a report were made on that he should. be-of suggesting committhem, more particularly with regard to for- tees to relieve tbe different departments
estry.
An bon, gentleman la this chamber o! the goverument of the responsibility
has a notice on the paper to discuas that which tbey shouid bear. There ls not a
subject. This country would be many hun- single subject mentioned la th.is resolutIon
dreds of millions la advance of the national that la not at present relegated to some
debt If our forests had been looked after one of the departments of the government.
years ago.
We have wasted, burned and Take the firat one to whIch the hon. Secredestroyed more timber than we have ever tary of State has called attention, Agriculrealized the sale of.
So far as that sub- ture and Forestry; why we. have had comjeet ls concerned, -the provinces, and I do missions over and over again by lndepennot know that I should exclude the Domin- dent gentlemen interested ln the preservaIon, seemed disposed to leave notbing for tion of our forests, who have given every
posterity-followed the example o! the possible consideration to the subject, and
United States, wbere tbey are now bewail- mad "e, lu the past. very valuable suggesing the destruction of their forests.
Then tions. On the question o! agriculture, 1
there Is the publie health and Inspection of do not know that any committee appointed
foods;»that is a question on whlch we might specially by the Senate could do more than
be able to throw some light. But take, for lias been accomplished, and is being accomInstance, public buildings and grounds. 1 pilshed every year, by the Investigations
do not see what possible value any report which take place ln the Committee on Agrif rom the Senate could bave in vlew o! the culture ln the House o! Commons. If we
fact that we have a department o! the gov'- could, by appointing a committee of this
ernment wlth a large staff whose duty itis kind, get further Information than we reto look nfter the public buildings and ceive every year there would be some reagrounds .
I do not know that I need go son ln making the appointment. The next
througb the Ilst.
I have mentioned some committee proposed is on immigration and
that I tbink the 'House might reasonably labour. Snrelv we have had sufficient-no,
take up-that Is, agriculture and forestry, not sufficient-Information on the subject,

766

SENATE

because the goverument -bas thouglit pro.
per to enter lato a certain contract and
arrangements wlth forelgu persons to lucrease Immigration to this country, but
tliey bave studiously refused to state wlio
the parties are wlth whom that contract,
that very Improper agreement, was made.
If we hadl a committee of this klnd that
could ferret out the muner worklngs of a
contract made la the past, there mlglit
be somne advantage In securing It, but the
probabflltles are that If they attempted to
Investigate the points to whicli 1 have cal]ed attention, tliey miglit be met lu preclseiy the same way the commlttee of the
Commons was met with a positive refusai to give that Information to whicli the
country was certalnly entitied, and the
government miglit excuse tbemselves by
saylng that the parties with wliom tliey liad
made the contract would cut their throats
If their names were made known. I do flot
know that a commlttee of the Senate would
elicit further Information on that question
than was secured by the gentlemen who
souglit to obtaîn It lu the Hlouse of Commous.

represeut Canada in other countries, wliefluer they bo Britishi depeudencies or foreigu
couatries.
From that view of the case 1
totally dissent. Any one who lias taken an
laterest in tlie extension o! the trade o!
Canada wlth forelgu countries, and witli
outlylng portions of tlie Britisli empire, and
who lias read attentlvely the reports made
by the dlfferent agents, must come to a different conclusion.
Lot any oue take the
reports made by Mr. Larke, a gentleman appoited by mysel! wlion lu office, who represonts Canada lu New Southi Wales, Australla, and refer also to the report made
by Mr. Ross, a gentleman from Nova Scotia,
appolntedl by the present goverument, whose
lieadquarters are at Melbourne, and I doubt
If any diplomat trained lu a science o! dlplomacy could render greater service and do
more good, or dlsplay greater talents and
abilitles Ia reprosenting the manufacturing
lnterests of this country than those two gentlemen have done.
I mention these two
namos partlcuiariy; 1 mîglit rofer to the reports made by agents lu other countries,
but wliat I think would be Iu the Interest
of Canada Is, If arrangements could be
ontered Into wlth the British governinont
.\ent we have commerce and trade rela- to place the Canadlan agents general, or
tions of Canada. I must congratulate my whoever may represent this country, ln
hon. friend on the manner in whlch lie las close connection with the Britishi consuls
brought the subjeet before the Senate. 1 In dîffereut parts of the world, and wlth
had the honour of organlzing that depart- the Britishi minîsters lu foreigu countries.
ment. I adopted the principle at that time The Idea I have on that subjoct may bo put
wrhlch has been s0 forclbly impressed upon lu very few words.
I do not suppose for
the mlnds of senators here and whlcli the a moment that wo could give themn the same
bon, gentleman desires to be extended. In power and authorlty that England gîvos to
that respect, I am fully Iu acrord witb lier representatives, but there unight be an
hlm; but I do not know tliat It: requires arrangement by whlch the agent of Canada
a commlttee la order to accompilali the could be put lu close communication wltli a
objeet wblci lie evldently endeavours to Britishi minîster, say, for Instance, by way
attain. I was impressed more forclbly of Illustration lu Washington, and have a
wltli the necessIty for extending the prîn- permanent agency there.
Wlion auy quesciple of commercial agents la dIfferent tion comes before Congress, or ls mooted
parts of the world, from a speech I read by any member o! elther brandi of Cona few days ago lu the House o! Commons gress, Our agent sliould at once enter Into
by tlie late Mînister of the Interior. He communication with the Britishi mînister and
advocated. very strongly thie extension represeut wliat effoct it would have on the
o! the prînciple which was' inaugurated trade sud commerce and interests of Cansome years ugo, and whici lias been ada.
It la not to lie supposod for a moextended by
the present goverament ment that a British mainîster, comlng fromn
under the present «Minister o! Trade England, would liave the same minute
but lie went fur- knowledge of the offeet which a movement
and Commerce ;
tlier.
He seemed to depreciate to a very ln the United States would bave upon the
great extent the work done by those wlio I interests o! thus country as a Canadian e
Hon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL.

APRIL 2, 1908
If, however, he
presentative would have.
had the authority and the British minister
were instructed to consult with .the agent
of Canada upon ail questions affecting the
Dominion, great good wouId resuit theref rom to the trade of this country and it
would help to maintain that amicable feeling which should exist between two countries adjoining each other as do the United
I throw out that hint
States and Canada.
It la to my niind a
to the goverament.
very Important proposition. and one whIch
should be taken hoid of earnestly and with
the desire of creating a dloser connection
between the representatives of Canada and
the representatives of the Imperiai goveraSupposing
ment in ail parts of the world.
we had had a clever, Intelligent agent who
understood the trade and requirements of
Canada, In Germany, at the time that Germany passed iaws detrimental to the Interests of tlîis country, who could have
pointed out to the British minister, and the
British minister to the ruling powers of
Germnny the effeet that their pollcy woflld
have upon their own trade as well as upon
ours, and who couid have given to the
British minister Information which he
should have possessed. It might have prevented, to a very great extent, the estrangement between that country and Canada
owing to the passing by us of the preferentiai clauses of the tariff. I couid give
many Illustrations of ways In which great
advantages wouid accrue to Canada from
I
the adoption of a polcy of that kind.
have sImply to repeat wbat 1 said at the
commencement on this particular point.
That I wouid congratulate the Minister of
Trade and Commerce If he were here today on the fact of bis baving nlot only carrIed out but extended to a very great extent
the pollcy Inaugurated by the late government.
The next subject Is geological surveys and
minerai development. We have a department whose officers and officiais are sent
from one end of the Dominion to tbe other
every yéar, who spend their time In different parts of the country for the purpose
0f getting that knowledge which xny hon.
friend from Middlesex desires should be
acquired by a committee of this House.
The reports of the department are published every year or two ln a very large

volume, where anyone who desires to obtain Information upon that subject can
find IL.
Mhen we come to transportation routes
to the seaboard and harbours; that is piebably oue 0f the most Important subjecta
to be consIdered at the present moment by
this government or by any government
that may succeed tbem. The succesa of
the development of the Northwest the facilities for reachIng the seaboard la order
to secure ail the advantages that accrue
la having a foreign market for the disposai
of our products; depends In a great measure upon the facilities for transporting the
products o! our country to the markets of
Europe. That la a niatter that belongs
specially to the Department of Trade and
Commerce, and It la a question to which
the present goverament bas given a great
deal of attention. Whether it bas or.not,
we know that the different boards of trade
and commercial organizations Ia every province devote a great deal of tinie and attention to the subject. Whether the enormous expenditure upon the National Transcontinental Railway la going to accomplish
that object I have very grave doubts, for
this reason; that the cost of railway transportation wiil, of necessity, be s0 great as
to absorb to a large extent the v alue of
the article transported. Let us hope, however, that my predictions may not be yenified.
Then we come to coast surveys and merchant shipping; >that le a subject Ia the
hande of Vie department and should. be
attended to by theni. Then we bave Industrial arts expositions to 'whIch my hon.
friend froni Âtadia bas devoted some timeý
this afternoon. It la a question 'which Is
not so much the duty ot any particular department, and It might be relegated to a
committee, witb advantage to Vie country.
Then public health and Inspection of
fooda; we have a department whose particular duty It la to look af ter Viat, and it
is aise the case with Vie next subject, public
buildings and grounds tiroughout the country. If we take Vie estîmates laid before
us every session and calculnte the amount
of money squandered during Vie last few
years la the erection of public buildings
where there is no revenue to be derlved, and
on harbours and wharfs, where, la some

SENATE

768

cases, there is no water, some good might
resuit; but I am inclined to doubt it. Suppose the commIttee did make a report as
the Civil Service Commission did, what
good would be accompiished? The report
of the Civil Service Commission bas resulted In the appointinent o! a Royal Commissioner to, investigate the allegations and
Insinuations made by the Commission appointed to investigate the workings of the
Civil Service.
We have this most extraordinary precedent set-I question whether there Is a precedent tu the aunais o! British legisiation,
or la any country-of a goveruiment appointing a commission to investigate and
Inquire Into and report upon n particular
subjeet, and that when that report Is made,
another Royal Commission la appolnted to
ascertain whetbier the first commission told
the truth or not because real]y that is the
effeet. This Commission points out, as a
passage quoted la the Order In Council laid
upon the table to-day indIcates certain derelictions of duty on the part of some of the
officiais. It xiot only does that, but It IniUiates that other matters, such as taking
commissions, or exacting commissions, bave
occurred.- And now we have a judge appointed to ascertain whetber those ailegations are true. Wbether we shall bave another commission sbould Judge Cassels, In
whom I have the utmost confidence, fromn
what I have known o! hlm in the past,
make a report, wbicb at ail refleets upon a
departuient or any Minister of the Crown,
to ascertain whether he tells the truth or
not, because that Is realiy the position lu
,which hie is piaced, remains to be seen. It
Is establishing a precedent that I question i-hether many governments w-ill ever
think o! adoptlng. To my mind the appointment of these committees, if the gentlemen piaced upon them would give tbeir
attention and devote their time and study
to the questions wbich would be relegated
to thema, would no doubt be o! great lienefit to those 'wbo would take the trouble
to read the proceedings of tbe committees
afterwards. But tbe question is wbether
they could nccomplisb any more than bins
by the commissions
been accomnplisbed
whicb have been appoiuted ln the past,
and -wbetber it is advisable that committees
sbould be appointed to performi the duties
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELT

wbich pertain to each departinent of the
government, because really that %s whiat
It would result in. The objeet is to give
to the senators a certain amount of work
to do, which they do flot do at present, but
could tliey accomplish more than has been
accomplished Ia the past by the commissions whichbhave been appointed, by the
reports whlch have been la id before the
Senate and the Gommons, and been pubflshed to the worid by commissions coinposed of gentlemen wbo bave given these
different subj1ects special lattention, and
special study. That is the way It strikes
me at present. It is not for me to suggest
what the hon. Secretary of State sbould
do, but I understood hlm to make, la a
very, very feeble manner, a suggestion
that the hon, gentleman having brought
this subject before this Senate, hie sbould
bie satisfled with that, without pushing- lt
to a vote. That I take to be the Intimation.
made by the Secretary of State. That is
the request I would make If I occupied his
position. However If the hon, gentlemuan
thlnks the adoption of the report la whole,
or even la part la desirable, I certainly
shall not vote against it. I bave given
my views upon the duties that I thlnk belong *soleiy and 'wboIly to the government
and each head of the department, and tiiere
I propose to leave IL.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I do flot Intend to
say anything on ihis motion, but will simpiy, In a few words, reply to the crlticism
which the hion, gentleman from Hastings,
the ex-leader of this House and ex-prime
minister of the country, bas thought fit
to make la regard to the action of the
goverament of the dey, on thîs very important question of clvil service reformn. I
arn sure that everybody la the country
who rends is remarks will be ob]iged to
come to this conclusion, that the government la its action within the past twentyfour hours bas done a tbing contradictory
la itself and unfair, practicaliy, to the first
commission which was appointed to look
into Vils matter of civil servIce reform, to
tind out bow the departmnents were heingrnn, not so much by the ministers as by
the officiais. He lias left nie, or endeai-onred to leave me under the impression
that the governinent is w-rong that it lias

APRIL 2, 1908
doue an uuusuai act as he bas put It, wltbout any precedent la the legislation of the
British empire, and that is, that after havlng obtained tbe resuit of the work of the
firat commission, the government wishes
to undo that work. That is the Impression
that will be created by the reading of his
remarks wheu they are publlshed ln the
press of the country.

769

miss ion is supposed to do. It la not to subvert the report of the first commission. It
-s sîmi)ly to get ligbit erxough to bring home
the accusations to the men wnlo aeserve
themn.
If miaisters are found to be guilty
they wili be punishied, and If deputy ministers are found to be guilty tbey will aise
be punisheci, and s0 on ail along the Uine.
I aimply rose to point out the unfairnesa o!
the criticism levelled at the goverament la
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Bnt
this matter, whlch was designed to underthey will nlot publlsh them.
mine the confidence o! the people la the
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I hope they wlll, be- honesty and thxe determination o! the govcause I should Ilke to see both aides of the ernment to put down dishionesty la the dequestion put before the public.
If the hon. partment If auch exista, and I hold that an
gentleman had taken the pains to Investi- hion, gentleman la his position, an ex-Prime
gate the question further than he did, he Minister of the country, should have kxxown
would have found that there la no such In- the full weight of bis accusation, bis crititention on the part of the government as to dasm and his Insinuation.
I think it la not
attempt to destroy the work and the resuits fair on bis part as an ex-father of the counof the commission.
The commission'a re- try and ex-leader of the goverament, to try
port stands and wlll stand, and the goverx- and cast a taise Ilght o» the action o! the
ment, by the appolntment under Royal Com- government la their efforts to ascertaln
mission, to Mr. Justice Cassels, to further who were the guilty parties referred to la
investigate this question, does not under- the report of the fIrat commission.
take ln the lenst to destroy tht effect or the
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I presume,
truth of that report
The object of the an ameadment havlag been moved to my
government ln appolatlng Judge Cassels la motion, I may be permitted to offer a few
almply to find. out who are the dishoneat remarks before the question la submItted
people la the departments, to fInd out to to the Hoase.
I am grateful to the bon.
whom the facta should apply.
The firat Secretary of State for having conceded se
commission has stated on broad and much, havlng apparently been wuhling
to aigeneral grounds that dlshonesty exista lnx 10w some of the committees
whicb I asked
several of the departmenta, that, the admin- for to be appointed when
I moved thia resoistration of the affaira of the country la lution, and I amn thankful
.aise to the hon.
carrled on on a basis of graf t; that there gentleman from Hastings
for thxe very favla extravagance.
That ls the report of the ourable commenta he has made, although
firat commission; but does the firet com- be did nlot seem quite anxloas for
my commission say who are the gullty parties? mittees on some o! the Uines
submitted to
Does It say that It ls the minister or the the House when I moved
this resolution.
deputy minister? or the accountanta? Doea Now, to, review what has been
said, or to
It name the purchasers or the other people explain a few of the suggestions
made
who have the bandllng of the money of the would take much more time
than I thlnk
people of Canada?
No, the report of the 1 would be justified la occupying at present;
fIrst commission makes no special state- but allow me to say firstly that although
ment; it"is simply n broad accusation based agriculture 'has been dlscussed by
commiton general facts.
Now, what la the object tees ln fixe House o! Commoas, and althouagh
of the second commission?
Slmply to find we have' many valuable reports upon the
out who are the gullty parties, and it may subject of agriculture, there la one
phase
be accepted by this honourabie House and of that question that has not
been conby the country that as soon as the parties sidered se far as I can gather from reporta,
who are responsible, according te the state- and that la Its relation to forestry,
and It
ments made by the first commission, are was because of the relationship
bediscovered, that their heads shall go Into tweea agriculture and forestry that I put
the basket. That la ail thls second com- these two terms In juxtaposition.
I think

SENATE
it camne home to,
That is a live question.
there is a1lne of inivestigation there w'hil
the fact
could pursue Torouto last year, very largeiy fromn
a committee of tbe Senate
that we bad to supply f rom charitable
very well witlîout interferlng wltb a ministhe means of sustenauce for over
ter, or without assuniing to usurp auy of sources
Most of these were
one tbousand people.
bis functloxîs tbat would be very profitable
season
to be under- immigrants wlîo came late lu the
I waut it
to tbe country.
wltb lasufficlent means to carry tbem over
stood, as 1 said before, that 1 have no idea
winter, aud then there ls the great
In proposing tbese resolutions to enter upoxi the
habour question that is so perplexing that
an Investigation into the conduet of the debas cost this country millions of money
partment, nor have I tbe remotest idea of
bad so many ramifications
reiievlng minIsters from any responslbility already; that bas
ln ail our Industries, lu the public utilities
they have assumed la accepting positions
lu ordluary matters, that mlgbt
wnlch they represent; but ministers are busy as well as
*The Postmaster
be profitably discussed.
and one man cannot, perhaps, survey the
encomlums
We have some leisure as I General bas been sbowered witb
whole field.
from al parts of the world for bis Conciliasaid before, and we bave men here of the
Lt Is possible that his privileges
I tbink we have fifteen tion Bill.
widest experience.
and usefulness may bie extended, or Is It
We bave lelsure.
farmers In this Flouse.
inquirles we could make that
Â minister that ls fit for bis position is possible from
I think
we could add to bis usefulness?
aiways prepared te receive suggestions froni
1 think could a that Immigration Is more useful tban labour,
any quarter, much more
face of the fact tbat we
minlster wbo represents tbe Senate as wel and I do flot see, Ia
to re- are Ilkeiy to bave 250,000 or 300,000 Immias the Flouse of Commons be prepared
Into Canada yearly, how we
ceive suggestions from the Senate. I re- grants comIng
the can siford to dismiss a subject s0 Interestmember well lu tbe early '70's when
to us la every respect.
Northwest was first belug opeued up, that Ing and so Important
Nir. Their physicai and intellectual condition, the
the member for South Pertb, the late
they carry witb tbem,
Trow, was of very great service to, us lu amount of moaey
their nationallty, tbeir education and their
the Flouse of Commons, because of bis reI tbluk our immipeated visits made to the west lIn bringlng babits, are ail matters
gration agents abroad should consider before
before the commîttee information of wbîclh
we pay anythiug
we were very mucb ln need. We may find they are sblpped, or before
transportlag them fromi their own
smre experts in the Depnrtmient of Forestry towards
These are two
or connected wlth the Department of Agri- bornes to this country.
but greater than tbese are the
culture or outside the departments that may questions;
tbe bon. gentleman
give very valuable Information that may questions dlscussed by
Wm. Pitt sald that the
be lost unleas we had an active snd from Hastings.
lIfe-blood.
persistent committee, that would gather this trade of the couutry la Its
last ditcb. Lt
Information and pince It before the country. We must fight for It to the
durLt is well witln the recollectioni of hon. was a watchward through England
parwhat vîîluable information we ob- Ing the latter baif of the last century
gentlemen
ticularly, and I suppose a watchword wblch
talned last year in regard te the Hudson
There is soine In- bas gulded the aggressiveness of Englaad
Bay and the Northwest.
ln lutroformation lu regard to other subjects. The lu every quarter of the world,
or science is by no mens ducing bier manufactures and lu fltting lierfield of literature
belng exbausted, nor have the experts oni self to bie the great mercantile clearlng-bouse
our
many of those subjeets been Ileard from of the world. Here we are iucreasing
Lt was because of the close coîinec- trade very rapldly. Have we doue enough?
yet.
tion of agriculture with forestry that I I do not tbiuic we tire doîng at ail wbat we
placefi tliese two ternis lu sucbi close prox- ought to do. Perhaps ive rnust organize.
imity; for tiiat reason I î%vould be very muclh The lion. gentleman from Hastings orgnpieased if the hon. Secretary of State and ized that department which bas growfl
the Flouse would coucur iu ailowing that
1 also asked for
request of mine to stand.
a couxrnittee on immiigration and labour.
lion. Mfr. RtOSS (Middlesex)

very niueli since. In the next five years
it sliould more than double or treble its
Let lion.
present area of investigation.

APRIL 2, 1908
gentlemen consider this for a moment I
bave been following closely ln tbe footsteps of the bon, gentleman from Hfastings.
If wben Germany was framing ber protective tariff a few years ago, or If 'when
France was framing hier tariff, we had
had firat-claus commercial men at Berlin,
or at Paris, we would be ln close communication witb tie officers of Vione governments connected with Vie tariff, say the
Finance Minister, and we could point out
to hlm the advantages, or reason wIth hirn
as to Vie adntages of certain modifications ln Vie tariff Viat would be favourable
to Canada. It la barely possible tbat 'we
wouid be almoat ln the position of a favoured
nation, so far as Gerinany or France ls
concerned. We bavi; now lu Canada a
tresty with France. Would It not be more
Important If his treaty ls understood to
gîve us more favourable trade relations
withi France Vian before, instead of haviug
two agents at Paris as we now bave. that
we sbould have baîf a dozen or more, and
Viat we sbould be fortified by some commercial agent wbo would place before Vie
people of France Vie advantages of Vie
tieaty with Canada. I think there la a
large openlng for our trade here. I beleve, Virough a visît made to the West
Indies a few.yesrs ago, that; we have not
liaif the trade from tiere Viat we sbould
bave. We bave subsidlzed steamers to Vie
West Indies and other Islands, and yet our
steamers are flot freighted as tbey might
be. There le another openlng for our trade,
and more particularly ln Vie United States
at Vie present moment. It la suggestedl
Vliat Viere may be a readjustment of Vie
Unlted States tariff atter the next presidentiai election. Probably Viat will be
Vie case. Tbere la a golden opportunlty
for Canadians to place Vie strongest man
within our reacb at Wasbington, place hlm
ln close communication with the Committee on Bauking and Commerce ofthVe Senate and Vie House of Representatîves, and
s0 prepare bis mind for sudh readjustments of Vie tariff as mlglit be favourable
to us. We know how Lord Elgin negotiated the Reciprocity
Treaty la 1854.
Those 'wbo read the life of Lord Elgin will
learn h0w his close relationsbip with the
UJnited iStates House of Representatives
renliy was the means of bis negotiating such
49j

a successful treaty, and wbat Lord Elgin
did i 18541 we can do In 1909 or 1910,
as Vie case may be. I would like very
mucb to bave a Commlttee on Commerce
and Trade Relations. We must finit a
market for our manufactures. We export
about $24,000,000 worth. Wby not export
fifty million ? Our home market Io ilmIted
to six million people. The markets of the
world are ours, If we lit ourselves for taklng possession of Viem. Our agricultural
implements and Iron goods must findt a
market isomewhere and let us see to It
tbat faclities are provIded, and Viat openIngs are made for the surplus product of
our skilied labour, aud ln Vils way encourage Vie building up of our large Industries,
ln order that we may place Vie producta
of our skIlled labour ln Vie beat markets
of Vie world. I tbink thîs la a very Important part of the proposition, and I
hope Vie House will receive It very favourably. As to Vie others, I would be only
repeating If I spoke mueb longer. I would
Ilke to have Vie Committee on Public
Health and the Inspection of Food. We
know Vie terrible ravages of tuberculoals.
We have flot begun to Investigate Viat
subject. There are remedies to be suggested. There are discoveries made by
Sir Âmworth Wright, ln England, whlch,
If pursued In Vils country, migbt save a
thousaud Ilves a year. I Viink Vie losa per
year la Viree Viousand persona, and we psy
money to procure immigrants and. yet our
sons and daughters are faillung on Vie rIght
band and on Vie left band, because, perhapa, proper remedial agencies have flot
been secured for their recovery. The matter la new, and there la no head of a department to deal with Viat. I sbould like
to have Viat commlittee considered.
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-Hear, hear.
Hon. lMr. ROSS-As to civil service administration, tbat la non-political, as 1 said,
or at ieast it sbouid be.
I expressed my
opinion on tliat subject before, that the civil
service of Canada might very well be overiiauied, to use a common expression, and
provision made for promotion by ,competitive examination, and the wliole systemn of
patronage, as far as practicabie, removed
from Vie sphiere of party polîtics.
I have
a most positive opinion upon the question

SENATE
of patronage as part of our political administration, and I think, the sooner a goverament rids itself of the incubus, if I may
so term lt, of patronage, the better wlll it
be able to administer public affairs Impartially, and tbe better wili our civil service be
mauaged.
Ona word more as to public buildings and
I was unable, on account of havgrounds.
Jing taken so mucli time on otber subjecta
whieu I spoke before, to say anytblng on
My
tbat, and a word flow will suffice.
idea in regard to that subi ect la this: we
should cultivate a taste for refined archiThere are many -hon. gentlemen
tecture.
la this House who have travelled the world
over, wbo bave seen the beautiful city of
Paris and the city of Berlin, which bas been
a model city ince 1870, and some of the
I
fiuer buildiags of Florence and Rome.
have seen many of them but not ail, and
there are some beautIful buildings la LonIf we
don, Liverpool and Manchester.
give tbe same attention to Iligh class architecture as was given ln the old country, our
buildings mlght be greatly improvad. How
many buildings are there bulît by the Publie
,Works Departmeat,-nd I amn ashamed of
many of those we have built from an architectural point of viaw-that present a favThere bas been a
ourable appearance?
change of architecture la the last few years,
and as we are spendlag a large sum ofmouey in public buildings, why sot give to
those cities and towns models of modern
architecture. Then, another matter, I Elnd
that many of our public buildings are crowded ln, perhaps la Inferior surroundings,
plauted la the centre of a block wbere any
architectural beauty they have is obscured
by their associations.
I 'thlnk cure shouid
be taken to place public buildings that cost
twenty, thirty or forty thousand dollars at
ieast ln some appropriate ares, wbere there
might be walks to the main entrunce, so
that a public building wouid ha a source
1 belleve -we
of attraction to any city.
owe ail this to our country. The aesthetic
We may live on
part of it Is Important.
hard-tack, and study the building o! railways aud canais, but stili tbe mind wants
to ha lifted from the baser and more com-

minion goverumeat,

mon element of ordiuary life into a higlier
plane.
If there were a commnittee that
would ineet wvitb the architects of the Do-

fanding fauit xviti the report of the Civil
Service Commission, or any part of it, for
tue present.

Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).

and that

would give

suggestions or raceive suggestions from
them, or dss
tue sanitary conditions of
public buildings, the resuit might ha most
valuable.
I do not know how the offices
of the clvii service are heated or llglhted,
and I do not know what sanitary applainces bave beau provlded for tuem, but
I have beard that no provision la made,
such as we should bave for thair
corufort during noon hour or any other portions of the day. These are matters that
press upon us for attention.
The bealth or
the civil service sud lIs efficlency depaud to
a certain extent on these thiags, and I shaIl
be wiliing to make a compromise with the
hou. Secretary of State aud take the firat
three commIttees malitioned lu my llst aad
the last three sud let us make an experiment witb thase committees, and sea whetbey we cannot get Information for ourselves aud for the mînisters and scatter
through the country much valuabla information tuat wll Improve public ideas, perbaps
change public opinion, aud add to the usefulness of the Senate.
If tha bon. Sacretary of State wll accept my suggestion, I
shall ha glad to drop the 4tu, 5th, 6th, 7th
sud Sth lu tue list o! commîttees.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-If tha bon. gentleman
dasires tuat I sahal concur lu tha addition
to the standing commîttees o! one committee on Agriculture sud Forestry, one on
Immigration and Labour, oua ou Commerce
sud Trade Relations of Canada, oua on Civil
Service Administration, one ou 'Publie
IHealth sud Inspection'0f Foods aud oua ou
Pubic Buildings and Grounds, I may say
with regard to the civil service administration If ha bas auy wall dafinad vlews on the
subjeet we wouId feel indebted to hlma If
ha wouid put them on paper.
The Civil
Service Commission, although they point out
a great mauy improprieties, do not offer a
substitute sud have not prepared a Bill.
Hou. Mr. LOUGHEED-Ware they asked
to prapare a Bill?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, they were not asked to prapare a Bill, but they prepared a
Bill on superannuation.

Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I

arn not

APRIL 2, 1908
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-If the bon. gentleman
has any weII defined vlews, he might make
an addendum to that report, setting forth
bis opinion as to the proper mode of forming the civil service whether by competition,
by examination, by graded classes, or any
other way bis experience wouid dictate.
Hon. Mr. POWER-,Of course after what
has been said by the hon. Secretary of
State, this motion goes; but I wish to say
as one member of the House that it does
flot go with my approval. We bave at the
present time the same number of commitOur
tees that they have ln the Gommons.
committees are -business committees of a
practicai character.
We always have committees to deai with the regular business
If any special subthat cornes before us.
3ect like that relating to the outlying regions
of our country to the west and north-,
which we deait with last year, cornes up, a
special comrnittee la appointed and we have
neyer felt the necessity of committees
which the hon, gentleman proposes to appoint.
We have ten standing committees
as it la; the hon, gentleman proposes to add
eleven with his own hand. 1 gathered from
thxe hon, gentleman some time ago that his
vlews hiad moderated considerably, and perhaps he wouid be willing to let the question of the committees which should be
added be consldered by sorne committee of
this House, and that, I think, would be the
proper course to have taken, elther some
existing committee or a special committee
for the purpose of considerlng what committee should be added to our ten standing
Now we are to have six new
committees.
commIttees added without, as I think, any
sound reason shown for it or without any
necessity being shown, and it would have
been much better, as a matter of business,
to have referred the question to a special
committee.
Hou. Mr. SULLIVÂN-I would suggest
that this la a means by which we ean satisfy
ahl the members who have been grumbling
about not being on committees.
Hon. Mr. POWER-That is not our business.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-The
bon. Secretary of State sbould move an
arnendrnent, that certain portions of the
motion be struck ont.

Thec SPEAKER-Tbe hon. gentleman, by
leave of thxe House, may amend bis motion.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Under
the circuratances, I arn not prepared to
throw any obstacle ln the way of his amending it.
The motion was amended as suggested by
the hon. Secretary of State, and adopted on
a division.
Hon. Mr. McKÂY (Truro)-Will it be
necessary to pass a motion to add to the
number of committees?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thls proposition has
been on the paper for a very long Urne, and
the hon. senator frorn Middlesex has offered
a compromise.
I thougbt it bette;, from
the spirit of the debate, to accept the compromise. I do not think myself that It ivili
result ln any very serious injury, because I
do not think you wIll flnd gentlemen willing
to undertake the work dellned, or that any
special benefit will arise from the number
of committees, including the additional six.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-When la it proposed to nominate those committees?
Hon. Mr. CASGRIN-Next session.
SASKATCHEWAN

POWER COMPANY'S
BILL.

THIBD READING.
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN moved concurrence
la the ameadments made by the Standing
Comrnittee on Railways, Telegraphs and
Harbours to Bill (0) An Act to incorporate
the Saskatchewan Power Co.
He said: The principal amendments to,
the Bill sfrike out the clause giving this
The Bill
company power to expropriate.
was referred to a sub-cornmittee, and the
sub-committee drafted a long clause whicb
shlows expropriation only under certain conditions, a.nd then under the action of the
court
Âfter the plans have been made
and duiy approvedl by the Board of Railway
Commissioners and the Department of Railways and Canais, and after notice has been
given ln the press for five consecutive
weeks, then, on application to a judge, the
court may grant the right to expropriate.
Under an additional clause the right of appeal la given fron the order of the judge.
The other amendments are minor changes.

SENATE
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was then rend the third time and passed
under a suspension of the ruie.
ONTARIIO .MICHIGAN POWER COMPANY.
RIEPORT 0F COMMITTEE POSTPONED.
The order of the day being called:
Consideration of the repor.t of the. standing
committee on railways, telegraphs and harbours on (Bill X) An Act to incorporate the
Ontario Michigan Power Company.
Hon. Mr. CASGUAIN moved that the reHe said: The report
port be concurred ln.
la as follows:
Your committee recommend that thi, Bill
be flot passed. inasmuch as the. powers asked
for by the Bill are within the. legisiative jurisdiction of the province of Ontario.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK-Some gentlemen
wiio would lîke to speak on the subi ect of
this Bill are absent to-day, and 1 would
ask the hion. meniber to let the report stand
over.
Hon. Mr. B.IIID-I tblnk it should stand
over until after the adjourument.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN-There is no ob
jection to postpoing. it unthi the 7th May.
The. order was (iscbarged and placed on
tbe orders of the day for the 7th May.
SENATE REFORM.
ORDER DROPPED.
The order of the day being calied:
Resuming the further adjourned debate on
the motion of the Hon. Mr. MeMullen, that
in view of the agitation regarding the services
rendered by the Senate as a part of our legislative system7, and in view of the criticism
both in parliament and the press wxth rep1>ect to appointments to this Chamber, it is,
in the opinion of this House, desirable that
the question of the method of appointments
and the terni for which appointments are to
b.e made in future should b e considered and
the. system recat, and the motion in amendment of the Hon. Mr. David, that ail the
words after 'that' in the main motion be
struck out and replaced by the. foilowing :
The Sonate, while not desiring to pronounce
finally upon the numerous and various projects of reform which have been proposed and
discussed in connection with the. Senate, yet
in view of the. diflerences of opinion on thie
subject and until those projects have had time
to matuýre, believes it opportune to declare
that it is desirable, in order to increase the
efficiency of the Senate, that more hegisiation

Hlon. Mr. CASGRAIN.

be initiated in this Houa., that more ministers of the Crown have seats therein, and
that any minister may personally introduce
and defend the government measures on the.
floor of both Houses,' and aiso the amenaiment
in amendment of the Hon Mr. Béique to the
prýoposed ameadment of the Hon. Mr. David,
that ail the. word. in the said amendment
after the word 'following' b. struck out and
replaced by the. following :'from the very
serions objections which have been raised to
the. several modes of reforms which have been
suggeeted by individual members of this
Houe and t he great diveraity of opinion expressed thereon, the present constitution of
the, Senate seems to b. on the whole the best
wiiich oaa b. devised for this country ;that
inoreover, in order that the hon. House may
give the. fulil measure of its usefulness it is
greatiy desirable that means b. adopted to
kepit more constantly occupied, thereby relîvng the. Hous. of Commons of part of its
work and shortening the. sessions of parliament.-Hon. Mr. Sullivan.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-This la a subject
whilh I amn sorry to say has not been treated by the Senate wîth that consideration
It la a resolution which
whlch it deserves.
every senator sbould look into and express

bis opinions upon. It la necessary for him
to make an article of faithi upon the. subject, because whetber It ls a proper resointion or not it should bie discussed since It
lias been Introduced la the Senate. "I object to that word ' reform'1 altogether as
applied to the Senate, because it la flot reThere might bie modifications la
quired.
matters of detahi,- but there la notblng to
warrant thie use of the. word reform. 1 see
it is used througbout the country aiso, and
it la -i pity that sucii a mlsleading word
The
should emanate from thls Chamber.
Senate waa founded by the. fathers of
confederation, by men of political wisdom and statesînanlike experlence, who
quallfied men
tbe best
were realiy
la every respect to deal wlth such an Important question, establisbing an organization wblch will hast for ages. Tbey had
a mode] before them; that mode] was la
correspondence -ilth thie whole texture of
the fabrlc of the constitution, leaning more
to monarchical principles than to any other.
'Inerefore. they had the best examnple
thnt could be offered to men undertaking sucb a duty, the British House
of Lords. Now there la no sncb delhberative body, no sncb branch of parliament,
Tt
iu any other country lu the world.
lias the most hnteresting and Important bistory of nny dehiberative body, founded ns

APRIL 2, 1908

5

At was anterior to the Flouse of Commons other public Institution. The House of Lords
as a necessity foilowlng up the feudal ten- bas always been a great frlend of the King;
ure. It was from the beginuing the chie! it bas been bis adviser and it has furnished
body and chie! adviser of the Soverelgn. him the money for bis armies, and navy.
In the exactions which tbe monarcha made It has maintainedl the revenue and contrAIn tyrannizlng over the people, At was neces- buted more than any other body towards
mary for tbem to be brought ta their the csrrylng out of the public affaira. In
senses. That was done by the churcb under the declaration o! war it advised the King
the* lead of the Archbisbop of Canterbury, and laid out the plan a! campaigu. ÂIl these
Stephen Langton. The result of that con- things it did until the House of Commons
ference, one of the most important lu the were called upon ta manage affaira, and
world was Magna Charta. The next notice wben the Commons took charge o! the pubo! parliarnent was tram the celebrated lic purse, rnoney had ta be obtained from
Simon De Montfort, who had been guardian them. I should Ilke ta read a paragrapb
o! the King, bis nephew. He summoned a with reference ta the powers of the Hanse
parliament for the first time of representa- a! Lords. 1 quate frarn a history of the
tives and delegates !rom the cîties and large hanuse af Lords:
(It. ba lived the life o! the nation, and
towns, knights o! sbires, and burgesses.
*That ls the first regular parliament An grown witb the nation's grawth. It has, in
reffected the nationsa
Englsnd. I arn not gaing Into a histary the main, as additions had been thonghta and
made ta its
mannere,
of these representative Institutions. Suffice numbers. If the descendants of smre of the
it ta say that the Hanse of Lords bas gone mistressea of Charles II represents the prothe descendrestoration,
on from that Urne until now, occupying fligacv of the Peers oreated and if that time resince
ants of some
the sme position always, as chie! »Aviser present political intrigue rather than the
it
and giviug
of the King,Ayrow. wo ail Its support ta strictness of political integrîty,been is because
camt in a
fncis terecanpublic opinion has not aliways
oe
the
and because the nation ham
An onewhofances herecanpuritaniomi mode,
the rown
in its wormhip
be any ather body among the Institutions not always been discriminating
of tb.is worid wblch could give suggestions of beroes.
This was the madel 0on whicb the Senate
for the improvernent of the Hanse of Lords
That a one of a! Canada was established and one that It
i. very mucb mistah-en.
thie reasons wby I was anxious to say smre- is difficuit ta improye. Many have boasted
thlng on this occasion publicly, becaume I about the Senate a! thie United States. Wel
bad so much trouble lookIng over thie bis- that A a great body, but' At lA not maintory of representative institutious of va- taining the standard whicb At bad at its
rions countries, of Gerrnany, Âustria-Hun- beginng. Thie Hanse of Representatives,
gM-, ltaly, Prussia, Switzerland, Sweden at the 1fondiltifn o! the Constitution,
Thie United was tbougbt more of and attracted more
and Norway and Russia.
States and England were not An the talent to It tban thie Senate ; but tbe
works whicb I consulted. The history o! Senate bas been able a! late years ta attract
these countries shows that there A no men o! more ability, and A!the greateit men
sucb deliberative body as thie Engllah among thie jurists and lawyers bave gone
Hanuse of Lords. 1 know thie hlstory o! ta the Senate, At la becaume great attention
the 'United States wlth referenco ta its bas been paid ta them and More impotant
constitution, and bave no beaitation in say- subjects bave been brought Up there than
ing that there la nothing An tAie constitu- An the other Hanuse. I do not thlnk At A
tAon o! the United States that could be o! necessary ta mpeak at length o! any other
benefit ta Canada. Thie Republlc a! SwAt- country ta wbicb we could look to mske
zerland A one a! the purest democraciez An comparisolis. If this Senate wAll strictiy
existence, but there la notblng that we adhere ta the model on wbich At wam formcould obtain !rom the Institutions a! tbat ed, Canada, as a progressive nation, WA1l
country that would gAve thie sligbtest hint always be In the first rank. In an Anvestior idea af any reformatian bere. Thie won- gation as ta the nature of the constitution
derful changes whicb have taken place An af the Canadian Senate, yau will find it A
the progress o! events are typified An thie sui generis, that there As nothing like At An
Hanse of. Lords probably mare than An any the world, and therefare, any amendment

SENATE
a lime. When the present
attempted ought to be made froni wiihin. iu so very short
governmeflt came into power, the ConserIlhere has been a good deal sald about
had a large majorlty ID the
the life tenure In the Senate. hi might vative party
in Senate, yet the new goverilment led by
be better to have an age limit
and Mr. Mils
nmre respects. I do Dot advocate that, but such men as Sir Oliver Mowat
had no trouble In getting Its measures
If anything couid be done to Un advantage
measures. UnIni that way It would be by fixing the age passed-the most Important
the leadership of these gentlemen were
limit at 70 or 75. The exampie of gentle- der
of State and the
men In his House, whose abiliy seemns to t.he present hon. Secretary
for Hailfax. Âny one who
increase 'wlth their age, cannot be taken hion. member
and influence
as applicable to the average public man. aecured their good offices
That
They are very exceptioflable cases, aud you could get almost anythlng passed.
In shows one thlng that there is no difficuity In
are Dot llkeiy to funt Vie same number
I
any other deliberative body In Vie world. getting -good men with common-sense.
do Dot say that the Coaservatîve party had
As soon as evolution ceasea, Involuion
qualitîes and
begins. The human body las undergoing any monopoly of the good
which make men good
constantiy a certain amount of decay, mental qualifications
although we may flot know lt. There senators; ai ail evenis, that was the resuit
la a remarkable example of continued vigor and I defy any one to say that there wasIn my hon. frlend here on my rlght (Hon. any Bill passed or rejected except on its
Sir Mackenzie Bowell). In making appoint- merlis durlng the urne there was a ConOne of
ments to the Senate, care should be taken servative maJorliy ID the Senate.
to select only men of good character and the objections made to the Senate In that
There need be
good education. These qualifications shouid its menibers are partisan.
be a sine qua non, also good pedigree. Pedi- nothIng of the kind If proper appointments
They will Dot be so Ignorant
gree lis as necessary in a human belng as ln are made.
a domestic animal. The prevlous conduct as to show overbearing political superîority
Âny
of Vie man, and his age shouid be over any members In this House.
uuch as to make hlm free frorn the cap- one who could show any such disposition
1 have
rices and excitements which are common *shouid neyer lie appolnted here.
youth. He shouid be over 40 years of aiways advocated Independence In this
In
age at any rate, and If hie retlred froni House. When a man enters the Senate hie
Vie Senate ai 70 or 75 1 do Dot Viluk any should Dot be the slave of any political
fauit couid be found on Viat score. AE pariy. He may bave his lîkes and dislikes,
Ithas been asicto Vie franchise Itself, ht could Dot be an3 but lie la flot a partisan.
better Vian It In. If you examine Vie hia *ed, how does he throw off his partisan teDHow does a judge throw off bis
tory of elective bodies YOD wli fInd Via t dency?
If men of the proper
Lpartisan tendency?
so long as Vie franchise Is kept wiVini
be elected character are appointed, there wll be no
email circle, good candidates wlll
but as you enlarge the circie and diminîsi 'dLffiulty In passing such measures as are
Vie quaiity by increaslng Vie quantlty o for the benefit of the country, no matter
The SenVie electorate, you do not get as goo, froni what aide they may corne.
In thue main, In
resuits, and you cannot Improve the electo r ste shouid be lefi as lit le,
It should folwho nomes or appoints the senators, the the handis of the Premier.
10w the model of the House of Lords, bePremier. He Is, as lie lias always been iD
Canada, whatever political party has bes' n cause that la the highest body with the best
?'
ln power, a man of good common sensg and most giorlous history of any other deno
who would not do anything to Injure Vie liberatIve body la the world. I have
love for the House of Lords.
country and who would Vierefore only sen d particular
throw out every Irishi
to Vie Senate men with lîberai Ideas, n( )t They manage to
but Vint does not prevent me
warped or blgoted In any way, particularl [Y National Bill,
In the whoie
their due.
by politîcal blgotry. The change whlch hi IS giving- theni
more lovable and
lu this Huse of laie years fr0mi world you find Do man
occurred
and honorable than an
one politicai party to the other lias been a more comipanionabie
gentleman, and the Lords are the
cause of wonder because it lias been effecfi'd English
Hlon. Mr. SULLIVÂN.

777

APRIL 2, 1908
type of the Engliah gentleman. They are
flot hated or disllked or looked upon wlth
enmity by the people of the country. Why?
Because they are the very best protectors
anid guardians and the bust friends of the
whoie people of Engiand. There la no worse
man to have as an en emy and no better man
to have as a friend, than an Englishman, and
I give an exampie of that ln my hon. friend
beaide me (Hon. Sir Mackenlze Bowell). It
wouid be a fatal thing to touch the power
which Is vested ln the ±rcmler of tiiis
country for the time being to make appointmenta to the Senate, and I have shown
The Senate
how that cannot work badly.
mighit have more harmony than it has,
though it la a great deal better ln that
respect than it bad, and 1 hope the improvement wili continue. The Senate couid
arrange to preserve better order, and try
to cuitivate frlendlIness and harmony with
Amongst ourthe House of Commona.
selves we ought not to have that cold, Isolated way wvhich we have of not fraternizThere are miliionalres
ing more freely.
among us, and they ought to set a good example. There are not many classes of men
ln the House of Lords, but If you run over
the Ilat you will flnd that the tendency has
been to select men of action rather than
men of thought. Great painters, poets, and
wrlters have seidoza been sent there. The
firet hiatorian selected waz Macaulay, and
the firat poet waa Tennyson. -The philosophera and men of Invention were Lord
Kelvin who dled a short time ago-who
was an Irishman by the way-and another
gentleman whose name I forget but ln the
main the admirais and generals and men of
action have been honoured with places ln
the House of Lords, and s0 bave those wbo
have done anythlng very brîlliant.
Although I have given so much attention
to the House of Lords, it la because in the
present discussion of duties of each branch
of parliament, the Canadian ýSenate has a
better mode] la the Engllsh system. It may
not be always 80.

The motion and ameadment were witbdrawn.
The Senate adjourned untîl to-morrow at
Three o'clock.

TME SENATE.
O)TrÂwÂ, Friday, April 3. 1908.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three
o'clock.
k-rayera and routine proceedlngs.
HALIFAX

PRESBYTElRIAN
BILL.

COLLEGE

REPORTED FROM COMMfl9'EE.
Hlon. Sir GE'ORGE DRUMMOND, from
the Committee on Banking and Commerce,
reported Bill (DD) An Âct respectlng the
Board of the Preabyterian Coilege of Hallfax, without ameadment.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN (la the absence of
Hon. Mr. McHugh) moved that the Bill be
read a third time on Tuesday next.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think this la one
of the Bis that should be sent to the
I
Standing Commlttee on PrIvate Bis.
thlnk we should. look at these Buis carefully
before we send them to the Committee on
Banking and Commerce.
Hon. Mr. POWER-This le a Bill which
deals 'with the funds of the association.
'Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I know that.
The motion was agreed to.
ROSS RIFLE.
INQUIRY POSTPONED.
The order of the day being called:

By the Hon. Mr. Landry:
That ho wil inquire of the governmentHas the government oncluded any arrangement rwhataoever for the. manufaoture of
hon. GENTLEMEN-Wlthdraw.
Some
bayoneta adapted to the. Rose rige>
If go, with whom P
Hon. Mr. DAVID-I have no objection to
Fer what quantity>
At what price eaoh P
my ameadment If I have the
wlthdrawlng
Hlas the goverament asked for tenders for
approval of the seconder.
the manufacture of these articles?
And if eo, which are the papers which have
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I acquiesce entirely
publiahed in their columns the notices given
ln the wlthdrawal of the motion.
by the government to, that effect?

778

SENATE

Hon. Mfr. ELLIS-The report lias flot yet
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Is the goverament
0f
prepared to give an answer to this ques- corne before the Printing Committee.
course there is considerable excitement over
tion now?
it and great demands have been made for
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-No, there wit be no copies of the report. The chairman of the
answer before the recess.
Printing Committee of both Houses bas
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-That la very hard. agreed that at least 2,000 extra copies will
It Is a matter that Is dealt wlth la Ottawa be necessary, and they wili be prlnted forthwlth for distribution among the members.
here.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-I suppose tiiat mat.
It Is
Hou. Mfr. SCOTT-I know that.
under consideration now, and will be under ter will corne up only after the recess?
consideration for a while.
Hon. Mfr. ELLIS-No, the hon, gentleman
Hou. 1fr. LANDRY-We wl! make it the wll get hlis copies ln good time.
flrst order on the paper when we resume
A CORRECTION.
Perhaps after three weeks
after recess.
of recess we may have a chance to receive
Hon. Mfr. WATSON-I rise for the purau answer.
pose of calling the attention of the House
riou. Mfr. SCOTT-I hope so.
to a report whiclh appears ln the Ottawa
'Citizen' of April 2nd, of a speech supHon. Mfr. -LANDRY-That le what I say posed to, have been delivered by Senator
-perhaps. I am flot sure yet.
Watson. I may say that the speech was
delivered by the hon. gentleman f romn
THE REPORT 0F THE CIVIL SERVICE
On the first of April, ln my
Wolseley.
COMMISSION.
younger days, I used to, particîpate ln playI do not know
Hon. 1ifr. LANDRY-Before the orders iug tricks on my friends.
of the day are called, I should lîke to know whether the hon. gentleman wanted to play
from the hou. Secretary of State If Judge a trick on me by attrlbuting his speech to,
Cassels bas accepted the position whlch was me, but as some people keep scrap-books, I
off ered to hlm by Royal Commission, and wlsh to repudiate the speech attributed to,
me.
If so, when he wlll commence his work?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-The
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I have been very busy.
hon. gentleman ought to be proud of havto-day, as the hon, gentleman knows, and 1
am not la a position to give a definite ing such a speech attributed to hlm.
I think he bas, so far as I cau
aniswer.
THIRD READING.
gather, sud if he has accepted he wlll commence immedlately.
Bill (25) An Act respecting the Hamilton
Radial Electric Rai!way Company.-(Hon.
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-After the recess?
1fr. Gibson.)
I do not
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Forthwlth.
SECOND READING.
suppose there will be auy delay about It.
Hon. Mfr. WILSON-I should lîke to ask
the Chairman of the Printlng Committee
how many copies of the report of the Royal
Commission are to be printed for distribution among the members of the Hlouse? It
deals with a matter of consîderable Importance, sud the country le very much afEither the chairman of the
fected by It.
commlttee, or the House should ludicate the
number of copies to be printed so that
every member mnay have a fair share of
them to distribute amiong mue electors.
H-on. Mr. LANDRY.

Bil! (88) An Act to Incorporate the Architectura! Institute of Canada.--{Hon. Mr.
Beigne.)
The Senate adjourned durtng pleasure.
BILLS ASSENTED TO.
Fils Excellency the Honourable Sir Charles
Fltzpatrick, X.C.M.G., Chief Justice of Canada and Administrator of the Goveriumeut
of the Dominion, &c., &c., &c., being seated
on the Tbrone,

APRIL 3, 1908

779

To thie Bill the Royal Assent was proThe Honourable the Speaker comman ded
the. Gentleman Usher of the. Black RoÈ Ito nounced by the Clerk of the Senate, ln the
,roceed te the. House of Commons and foiiowing words:
In Hi. Majesty' nome; His Excellency the
acquaint that House: «It le His Excelle flCY
the Admlnlstratom's pleasume that they at- Âdministrator thanks Hi.' loyal subjectu, seotstheir benevolence, and eesents to this
'tend hlm Immediately ln this House.'
Who belng corne wlth their Speaker,
IHIs Excellency the Administrator was
The Clerk of the Crown in Chancery 7ead
Tities cf the. Bills to be passed, as fol- pleased to retire and
,the
lowe:
The House of Commons withdrew.
An Âct te smend the. Winding-up Act.
Atter some time the House resumed.
An Act respecting the Erie, London and
*Tillsenburg Railway Company.
The Senate adjourned tilI Tuesday the
An Act Tespecting the Interprovincial lailway Bridge Company of' New Brunswick.
the. Canadian Nortl ern 7th April, at three o'clock.
An Act especting
-quebec Railway Company.
An Act te àncorporate the Bank cf Wi nni-._____
Deg.c
ýredAn Act respecting a certein patent o
THE SENATE.
.rick C. Rehm% lias Fr an k and Io idor,
Frank.
OTTAWÂ, Tuesday, April 7. 190.
An Act respecting the Windsor, Cha baim
-and London Bailway Company.
An Act toe mend the Gold and Silver M arkPrayers and routine proceedings.
ing Act.
An Act to amend the Companies Act.
An Act toe mend the Intercolonial and
res1The SPEAKER teck the Chair at Three
Prince Edward Island Railways - Empo
oCelock.
Provident Fund Act.
An Act respecting the, Canadian Norti hem
BILLS INTRODUCED.
BaJ.lway Company.
An Act respecting the Owen Sound and
M.aford Railwal Company.
Bill (KK) An Act to amend the Prison
An Âct respecting the. Montreal,Ot Lawa aud Reformatery Act ln so far as the same
and Georgian Bay Canal Company.
affects the province of Nova gcotla.--(Hon.
An Act toenmend the. Irrigation Âct.
An Act respecting the. Trans-CanadaJ
Eýi-Mr. Power.)
way Com pany.
Bill (LL) An Act respectlng the Phoenix
An Act te dneorporate the. Bank of Vancouver.
b-Insurance Company, Limlted.--(Hofl. Mr.
An Âct respecting a certain convention
tween Hi, Mal esty and the. President cf the Bostock.)
Bill (MM) An Act to Incorporate the SyFrench Rtepub ic.
An Act te amnd the. Government Rail' ways ned of the Diocese ef Keewatln.--(Hon.
Act.
Mr. Blls.)
An Act te amend the Supreme Court Aet.
Bill (NN) An Act to amend the Canadian
An Act respecting the. Dominion AtUifltic
Railway Company.
Shlpping Act.-(Hon. Sir Richard Cart.To these Bille the. Royal Aseent was pro- wrighit.)
nounced by the. Clerk of the Senate ln the
foliowing words:
PAYMENT TO QILEBEC BRIDGE 0061PANY DIRFIOTORIS.
In Ris Majesty's name, Ris Excellenc' the
AdministratoT doth assent te these Bills

INQUIRY.
Then the Henourable the Speaker of the
Hon. Mr. 11r. LANDRY inquired:
House of Commons addreesed Hit3 E xceilency the Adminîstrator, as follows:
1. Frein its formation until the moment
Mev it piseas Your Exoeliency:
on.
The Couinons of Canada have voted ce~rtain when Mr. Simon Napoleon Parent became how
supplies requimed te enable the. govern ment cf the members cf its board of direction,
much ha. the Quebec Bridge Company paid to
te defray the expenses of the. publie servi ce.
In the name of tiie Cominons, I presei to its direotors for services renderedPj Parent to
2. Since the cempany caused Mr.
Your Excellency a. Bill intituled:
An Act for granting te His Maiesty ee rtain enter its board cf direction up to tuis day, iiew
suns cf money for thie public service of the much has it paid each cf tiiese directors for
financial years ending respectively 3Ist Mi arch, services rendered P
3. What is the nature of these services?
1908, and the 3lst cf Marcii, 1909. te iirhjch.
4. How much has its secretary cost it?
Bill I humnbly mequest Your Excehlency' s as5. How much has its engineer received?
sent.

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--The comupaniy advises
that :
1. The old company formed in 1887 did
practlcaiiy nothing and, therefore, its dlrectors were flot paid any fee. Its iast general meeting of sharebolders took place on
July 8, 1890, and the first general meeting
of the new company, re-organized lu 1897,
took place on Âpril 20, 1897.
2. Audette, Rod., $5,636.73 for services as
vice president ; Boswell Vesy, $3,201.36;
Dumoulin, P. B., $2,O00; Barneau, Hon. N.
$2,720.40; Laliberté, J. B.. $2,915.65 ; LeMoine, G., $3,280.95; Parent, Hon. S. N.,
$24,250 for services as president for over
ten yenrs ; Price, M. M., $3,595.9-9; Sharpies,
Hon. J., $2,000.
3. Âttendance fee and general services
as members of the Board, the president
and vice president recelving a special fee
for their services.
4. $16,890 and $425 for travelling expenses since Marcb, 1897, to date.
5. $45,150.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-That absorbs the
capital of the company. I cal! the attention of the hon, gentleman to, the firat
answer. He says that the last general
meeting of the old company was held on
Juiy 8, 1890. and the first general meeting
of the new company (re-organized lu 1897)
was held on Âpril 20, 1897. 1 suppose
those two detals were furnished by the
Bridge Company ?

portant BUis in the other Chamber that
they wish to have passed before the receas.
I must therefore ask the House to release
me from the promise I made.
I feit at
the time that It was golng pretty far, because sometimes exigencies of government
suddenly arise to rendier it Impossible to,
keep sucli a promise.
It la possible that
an arrangement may be made by which an
early adjournment may be had. There la a
BiII now before the other House whlch I
asked one of my colleagues to put througb.
It là; to amend the Immigration Act, giving
larger powers to the Governor and the MinIster of the Interior to refuse the landing of
certain persons that are objectionable-undesirables as they are cailed-and the
ground on which that Is taken Is largely
that they do flot come from .the country of
their birth. That they comne from another
country dIfferent from the one which they
originally left.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I suppose Vie Bis
referred to by hon. gentlemen are public
bis.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Hon. Mrn ROBERTSON-Could the hon.
Secretary of State sny at what date we probably wUl adjourn?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It la quite Impossible
In future, as long as I
for me to say.
remain here, I shail flot commit myself to
anything.
I cannot control a promise of
that kind at Vie last moment. Public busiHon. Mr. SCOTT-I presume so. They ness has to be served of course.
had to send to Quebec for the answer.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-I
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Because the answer Viink It la qulte evIdent that there wiIi be
la quite Incorrect. There was flot seven no adjourunent for a week or two, because
years between the two meetings of the it will take'some days before we can pass
the Buis to which the bon, gentleman recompanies. It Is a mistake.
fers.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not k'iow perHon. Mr. SCOTT-The tlouse or Comsonally about ItL
mons wlll adjourn to-morrow week and we
at all events cau adjourn then, If not bePROPOSED ADJOURNMENT.
fore.
Hon. Mr. SÇOTT-Before the orders of
DELÂYED RETURNS.
the day are called, I wish to say that nt
will be within the recollection of hon. senaHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Before Vie orders of
tors that I intimated, when the motion for the day are proceeded with, I wili ask the
an adjournment came up to-morrow, that I hon. Secretary of State If he has any ansthought 1 could agree to an adjournment wers to give to that order of the Ilouse In
from Thursday.
1 arn advised to-day by relation to Mr. Delisie, a return called for
some of my colleagues that there are li- on January iast ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

1AIPRIL 7, 1908

781

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-In
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I will take a note of it
1 arn afrjýid my mem- glancing at the report hastily, I came to
and make induiry.
ory is flot equal to ail the den4RIds the hon. the conclusion that aimost every return
which miglit bo used for political purposes.
gentleman makes on It
I do
was recommendod not to be printed.
"Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I would ask the hon. not know whether that ls the policy o! the
gentleman when lie takes a note not to for- Printing Committoe of the present day or
get the note.
Thore are some returns ln It that
not
Alouglit to be printed for Information.
THIRD REÂDINGS.
most every subject which affects the conBill (7) An Act to Incorporate the North duct of the government ln the country la
Empire Fire Insurance (Jompany.-(4Hon. not to ha printod, not even for circulation.
Mr. Young.)
Hon. Mr. ELLIS--I can assure my hon.
Bill (85) An Act to Incorporate the Travel- friend there la no policy o! that kind, so far
lers' Life Assurance Company of Canada.- as the genoral pollcy ls concerned.
The
(Hon. Mr. David.)
1
hon, gentleman knows how It: Is done.
'Bill (156) An Act to Incorporate the Bank remember when ho was a member of the
of Hamilton Pension Fund.--(Hon. Mr. Me- committee. The tîtie of oaci paper la read,
Millan.)
and If no member requests to have It
Bill (62) An Act respectlng the Subsidiary printed, we do not print It.
Higli Court of the Ancient Order of ForesHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL.-Then
tors ln the Dominion o! Canada.-4Hon. Mr.
the members are not as vigilant as they
McHugh.)
Bill (DD) An Act respocting the Board of used to be when 1 was on the committee
the Proabyterian College, Halifax.-(Hlon. years ago.
Mr. McOregor.)
Hon. Mfr. ELLIS-The bon. gentleman
Bill (37) An Act to Incorporate the Can- should ho placed on the commlttee agaîn.
ada Weathor Insurance Company.-<(Hon.
Mr. Beith.)
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Return 142 reade as
Bill (EE) An Act respectlng the Pontlac fohlows:
Central Rallway Oompany.-(Hon. Mr.
142. Return ta an Address to Ris Excellency
the Governor Generai o! the l8th December,
Campbell.)
counoil, corresBill (GG) An Act respecting the Northern 1907, for a copy of ail orders inand reporta in
pondence. contracta, papers
Bank and Crown Bank of Canada.-<(Hon. connection with the employaient of certain experts to prepare a systei cf accounting and
Mr. Ross, Middlesex.)
bookkeeping in the Departaient of Marine and
Fisheries.
PRINTING 0F PARLIAMENT.
I think that la a very Important paper.
If It la flot published ln our sessional papers,
ÂDOPTED.
REPORT OF COMMIEE
it mîglit ho printed for distribution among
Hon. Mr. ELLIS moved the adoption of *the members.
I think the members of the
the third report of the Joint Committoe of *two Houses should ho lnfornied up ta date
both Houses on the Prlnting of Parliament on matters of that kind.
Hon. Mr. FILLIS-Nobody asked to have
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Looký
lng at this hastily, it sooms to me that: th( tnat return printed, and the judgment of
committoo have rocommended the non-pubhl -the committee was tbat it was net of stiffiAre ther( bcient Importance, ln vlev of the terrible excation of noarly ail the returne.
pense of printlng.
returns ordered to be printed?
any
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We nover know
Hlon. Mr. ELLIS-The committee recom
that commIttee sits, except thoso who
monded the publication of the papers re -when
E
!erring to treaty powers, and the report o: are members of it, and wo cannot pass our
the Royal Commission on the Quebec -Bridgi Stîmo looking through the doorways to see If
These things go
Inquiry, as hon, gentlemen will see by j1 the commltteo is sitting.
Those are the onl: 7 through the House cf Commons, and momreference to page 516.
bers of the Sonate do not know what la
two papers ordered to bo prlnted.

782

SENATE

1 meatioaed this return, ba- I are golng to retain the trade of the -est
going on.
cause It is a matter of general interast, and and Northwest, the cost of transportation
muet be stili further reduced. Tbey can1 thoughit it should ba prIntad.
not, 'wlth their raiiways, compete successHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL.L-Yes, fuliy witb the waterways of Canada. Canbut It la not to the advantage of the goveril- ada bas been making inroads upon the
ment that lt should ba printed.
trade wvhieb bas hitherto gone to New
York, carrying even a very considerable
The motion was agreed to.
percentage by our rallway systems. The
GEORGIÂN BAY CANAL.
Canada. Atlantic branch of the Grand
Trunk Railway bas been doing a large
DEBÂTE RESUMED.
amnunt of trade, from Chicago and othier
The order of the day being called:
western points, by the way of. Depot HarResuming the adjourned debate on the bour to Montreai. Our neighbours are one of
motion of the Hon. Z.Casgrain, that lie will the niost w1deawake nations on the face
oall the attention of the Senate to the importance to Canada of the. eariy construction of the of the earth, and, altbough tbey have spent
Georgian Bay canal, and will inquire of the very large arnounts ln the' past Iii the
government if the report of the survey made construction of canais, and have developed
cf that waterway will be laid before the. Senate
their railway facllities to a rernarknble exduring the.preaent seesion P
Hon. Mfr. McMULLEN-I do not know tent, tbey have corne to the conclusion that
that 1 shail detain the Housa at very grat If they are to retain the carrying trade fromn
length lu the discussion of this question. It Buffalo to New York tbey muet deepen
le a mattar upon whichi considerabla time and wlden the Erie canal. 1 havé heard
has nIready been spent, and two or three It aald that tbey have cnrrled. wheat by
very able and axtendad speeches have been rail from Buffalo to New York at four and
deivered la this Chambar with regard to oaa-bal! cents a bushel, but even nt that
the uecasslty for and the national Import- price they cannot cornpete wlth the CanI arn not adian route; therefore they are expending
ance o! this particular canai.
golng to deal with It from a financial stand- one hundred and ten million dollars for,
They expect
point, nor frora an engineering standpoiat. enlargIng the Erie canal.
I cannot dlaim that I bave the ablIty or it wHil, and I believe mysel! It will be an
the experlence to do that; 1 arn sIrnply going enormous advantage to the carrying trade
to make sorna generaI observations wby, ln of the Ulnited States. Prier to the construcrny humble Judgment, If It Is-at ail withIn tion of railways, our neiglibours had spent
the financlal abillty of this country to con- a very large amount o! money on canais,
struct It, that It will become a necassity. sornething over two hundred million dolPerhaps that day has not yet arrived. But lars; but when the raiiway system was beIn the future, posslbly no vary distant fu- ing extended the canais were supers-eded
ture, It w.ill becorne a question that Can- for the time being. To-day there ls a tenada will have to serlously consider. Re- dency to return to the utîlization of the
cautly, New York State bas undertaken waterways as avenues of commerce. Many
the wideniag and deepeniag of the Erie rivers are being dredged and deepened for
Canal, wlth a view to making it an efli- that purpose. Take the Missouri river,
cIent watarway fromn Buffalo to Albany. within the iast two years, the United
Whien that canal Is completed, undoubtedly States goverument has been dredging tha
the surplus products o! the west ar.ei nortii. cliannel from Kansas City to St. Louis,
'nest can be carried to the seaboard at a and there la now, what had not been there
lower cost than they are to-day. The Erie for years before, a line of boats for frelg-ht
and the Naw York Central Railways have transportation, doing a large basiness.
done everything la their power, by the Notwithstanding the fact that they have
construction of very heavy englues aud tiiree competiiig hunes Qf railway between
realize tIiat
large cars, and furnishîng aIl possible fi- the two cities, the people
cilities, to cheapen the carrnage of grain freight can ba carried much cheaper by
from Buffalo to Nem--Yorlk, and yet tiiey water than by rail, and this fact bas led
The
have corne to the conclusion tbat if tliey to the improvement of the river.
Hon. Mr. LANDIIY.

APRIL 7, 1908
State and city of New York sep cIearly
that an enlargement of the Brie Canal Is
an Imperative necessity If tbey are going to
hold their trade, and they are spending a
large amount of mouey for that purpose.
When Chicago, undertook the construction
of their drainage canal ln 1890, 1 was a
member of our House of Gommons at the
time, and raised my humble voice agaut
permItting Chicago to dlvert the water of
Lake Michigan from Its natural châannel.
1 pointed out that unlesa we remonstrate1
very pointedly, it would ln ail probabillty
tend to lower the water level ln the harbours of Lake Huron, Lake Erie and Lake
Ontario. I caret ully studied the reports
that badl been pubiished, and found that
the chief engineer In charge of the drainage canal admItted that it would taire six
hundred thousand cubic feet of wsjter per
minute from Lake Michigan, diverting it
from Its natural outiet into Lake Huron,
and turning' It lu the direction of Joliet
to the Mississippi. I do flot know that
our government or the British governinent
of that day made any protest agalnst :t.
The British government would flot do so
unless their attention was drawn to It by
the Canadian government. If our goverument made any protest, I do not know of
it; but It sbould bave been done. There Is
no doubt that If Canada were to construct
a large canal, say from-Georgian Bay dowii
by Lake SImcoe to Lake Ontario, diverting
the waters of Lake Huron from their naturai outlet by River St. Clair, you woulhl
have a very vIgorons protest f rom the United
States against the injury that It would
do to the harboura of Detroit, Cleveland aud
Bufralo. I remember that at thp Urne
the drainage canal at Chicago was iindertaken, Detroit, Cleveland and Buffalo, remonstrated, pointIng out the damage It
would do to their barbours, but there was
no protest on the part of Canada so far
as I know. The water of our great lakes
Is getting lower ail the time. There are
many in Ontario who can remember when
the water of Georgian Bay, for instance,
was two to two and one-haîf feet bigher than
it Is now. The level of Lake Huron bas
also receded very consklerably. That wili
be aggravated by a further diversion of
-water fromi its natural channel to new
routes. In the construction of the Geor-

gian Bay and Ottawa canal, no water wIll
be taken from the Georgian Bay or from
Lake Huron, so there will be no ground
for protest on the part of tbe United States
agalnst Its construction from that point of
vlew. If tbe construction of the canai
were *to divert any of the waters of the
upper laktes, we migbt have trouble with
our neighbours ln its construction. Ify own
opinion Is, ln vlew of the United States
making a move to extend and deepen the
Erie canal from Buffalo to Albany, It wIli
be ahsolutely necessary at no very distant
day for Canada to construct the Georgian
Bay and Ottawa canal. It may not be
done ln a year or two. but If it can be
done with reasonable expenditure o! money,
-this country wIll. have to do It, and when
It ls done it will place Canada ln a position whereby sbe wIll retain lier own trade
and draw largely from tbe great Northwest. The Western and Northwest States
will take advantage o! the opening up of
that route for the transportation of their
produce. Wby ? Because It Is a cooler
route and much more desirable fnr the
transportation of farm products and commodities of all kinds. It ls more desirable
tban the Buffalo and Albany route, because by that route tbe freigbt la always
travelling into a botter climate. Another
reason wby they would prefer the Georgian Bay and Ottawa canal Is, because lt
is considerably shorter tban any other
route. I bold, therefore, tbat If the governmeut constructs that canal, It will place
us ln a position to successfully compete
witb our neighbours. A great deal bas
been said witb regard to the National Transcontinental Railway. I rejoice to know tbiat
it is being constructed, and tbat its grades
and curves are remarkably easy, and thiat
it will be a road wbicb ought to be able
to take its sbare of tbe carrying trade of
tbe west. But It neyer can, nor neyer wiil,
be able to compete witb the water route,
I care not bow 10w tbe grades may be.
I care not bow slight the curvatures may be,
you neyer cau by any railway system, carry
freigbt at the price that it can be carried
The United States people reaby water.
They have tried railroads, and
lize that.
they have the best and xnost efficient kind
of roads, and the best equipped that the
worid bias produced, and, after ail, they

SKNATE

784

have wakened up to the realization, lookiug
over the map, viewing the conditions, lookIng forward to the enormous output of produce from the Northweàt, the extended development of their own country, as well as
the exteuded developmeut 0f ours, that If
they are going to hold that vast trade; they
can only do It by the construction o! the
New York and Buffalo canal. Wheu that
route la once eniarged and improved tbey
wlll carry wheat from Fort William to New
York for two and a hal! or three cents a
How eau any railroad compete
bushel.
wltb a rate as 10w as that? Hlow cau the
Transcontinental rallroad, compete, wlth Its
extended mileage o! track, with prices of
They cannot posslbly do It.
that klnd?
If the New York route Is golng to be placed
Iu a position to carry the hundreds of millions of bushels o! wheat that we hope the
Northwest will produce before many years,
by the construction of! that canai, wlth the
cheap rates 1 have lndicated, how will
Are we golng to be able
Canada compete?
to offer any formidable competition, even
suificient to retain our own trade for our
own liues and carry It to Our own ports?
We cannot posslbly do It unleas we construet the Georgian Bay canal. I earnestly
I wlll be
hope we may be able to do It.
rejoiced If we can. There was a statement
made here with regard to the extent o! that
I
canal and the amount o! rock cuttiug.
thluk it was said that we would have to
excavate some 25 or 80 miles almost o!
solid rock lu order to construct that canal.
I was looking over the cost of the CJhicago
Drainage canal. It la 29 miles long. It
The rock
la 22 feet deep at 10w wnter.
cutting is 202 feet wlde at the bottom, aud
a littie wlder at the top. The earth cuttIng
la 110 feet wide at the bottom and 160 feet
on top. The earth cutting Is not taken out
as wide as the rock cutting, and the reason
of that Is that they consider the construction of the canal with 110 feet of earth
cuttlug at the bottom and 160 feet at the
top o! the cut would answer ail needs for
the present moment with the population of
Chicago as It ls; and If it becomes necessary
to take ont the balance of the earth cuttîng to the width of the rock cutting, 202
feet, they can more cheaply take it out by
dredging than they could have doue it by
excavation when the canal was first bult.
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN.

They toikl ont iu the construction of it over
12 miles of solid rock, in thie thirty miles
of canal, and it cost theni an average of
about a million dollars a mile. The engineering difficulties of the Ottawa aud Georgian Bay route are not very mucli grenter
than they were lu the case of the Chicago
Drainage canal, and we ought to be able
to coustruct It. «I bave neyer been over
tue route, nor have I read carefully the
englaeer's report; but even supposlng It
would cost the country slxty million, yes a
hundred million, from a national standpoint, Iu my humble opinion, the construction of the Georgian Bay and Ottawa canal
Is a matter of very much more moment to
Canada to-day than the construction of the
I believe
new Transcontinental Railway.
it would do more for thîs country than
Some
that road la golng to accomplish.
hon. members who have spoken upon this
question have s ald that they tbought that
Ontario should taire a leadlug part and
possibly contrîbute the largest share to the
prodluction o! that canal If It should be
1 do not thlnk that Is a proper
bult.
vlew. If that canal Is bult, It Is golng to
contribute more to the development of the
Northwest, the securlng to the Nortbwest a
cheap, easy and reliable outlet for aIl their
surplus produce than what they have at the
present time. ,It la golng to build up
speclally the ports o! Montreal and Quebec.
We ail rejolce in the developments that
have taken place In the port o! Montreal.
merely to
Montreai does not belong
It belongs
o!
Quebec;
the province
The port of Montto this Dominion.
real does not belong to Quebec, althougb
It la In Quebec. It belongs as mucx to
Ontario and the Nortiiwest as It doeq to
Quebec ? It la our great national port.
I neyer refused to vote money for the
purpose of developing the port of Moutreal. We want to encourage Its development, and we want to direct the trade of
our Northwest to the ports of Montreal,
Quebec, Halifax and St. John as much us
we possibly can. Canada must alm nt belng a nation and at being Independent. We
neyer want to play second fiddle or rap
at the back door of! the United States. We
want to take a national stand on) behal!
of ourseives as a country, and whatever
development la necessary to make Canada

APRIL 7, 1908
what we hope and expeet to see it, progressive, Independent, rich, weli Pquipped,
and a country that la forgIng forward lni
the race of Ilfe, we must produce the ways
by which our supplies can be carrled ln
and our produce taken out, as cheaply as
any other country ln the world. We have
had an object lesson across the border
from our greatest competitor. We want
to take a lesson from their experlence.
We want to imitate their good qualities;
we do nlot want to Imitate their mistakes.
They make mistakes. There là no nation
ln the world that does not. We want to
Imitate their advantageous example of national life and development as a progressive nation, and If we do we sahal atmi at
the production of such public worke as the
Georgian Bay and Ottawa Canai. It ls
nlot Uke]y that many hon. members ln this
room may live to mcc that canal complPted;
but I venture to predict that ln the future
of Canada our people wili corne more nnd
more to the conclusion that the opening up
of that route was a wise, prudent and progressive policy. We know very well that
long sighted raiiway and business men,
who have studied the map of Canada aud
the United States, who have looked Into
the future and offered their opinions and
suggestions wlth regard to the development of transportation facilities, that may
be looked forward to, have expressed themselves ln faveur of the construction of the
Georgian Bay and Ottawa Canal. SIr Wm.
Van Horne, when he was president of
the Canadian Pacific Railway, did not hesitate a moment to express himself as bcing
ln sympathy with that echeme, because the
enormous output of produce from the fertile areas of the Northwest would force the
construction of sucb a waterway. Mnny
hon, gentlemen In this Chamber have. no
doubt, rend the addrcss given by Jas. J.
Hill, the great railway inagnate of the
Northwest States. He has aise, In addresses before Canadian gatherings, expressed his opinion as favourable to the
construction o! the Georgian Bay and Ottawa Canal. He has admittcd, as aIl great
raiiway men wll admit, that the carrnage
of certain classes of goods over a raiiwa-y
to compete 'with n waterway Is an absolute impossibility. It cannot be donc. Let
us atm to buiid up our owa ports, and

785

our own marine rather than add to the
great volume of western trade that ig carried to New York and shIpped froin tiiere
to Europe. We have no feeling of bitterness or of opposition to our United Statos
fniends. We respect them aIl; atill we
have to figlit not for our national existence, but for the national progressand developmcnt that are absolutely necessary,
to meet their competition, and let them see
that we are not disposed for one moment
to remain at their back door. We want to
be on the front streets of business as a
nation, and we can successfully conipete
with them If we get the Georgian Bay
Canal at any reasonable figure that this
country can afford. I wish I conlld say
more on behaif of this scheme. T behieve
from the bottom o! my heart that the flnturc of Canada wIll depend upon the production of that waterway. We know perfectly well the St Lawrence river là not
to-day as deep nor as desirable a waterwvay as It was many years ago. The watcr
ls recedIng, and not much wonder. If you
are going to take thc Chicago Canai out of
it, which takes 600.000 feet of water evory
minute, and then the enlarged canal from
Buffalo to Albany tbat wiil Increase Uic
flow of water ln Uiat direction, It wiii al
tend to reduce thc quantity of water by
the St. Lawrence route. I hope some reiuonstance wll be made to the United
States governmei't In opposition to these
diuis upon a body of watcr Uiat là unThe United
qu -*stionably International.
States people cannot dlaim Uiat it bclongs
more to thcm Uian to us. I have observed
ln thc papers recently Uiat Uic British ambassador nt Washington bas been trying
to negotiate some settlement with Uic
Unitcd States people with regard to Uic
division of watcr at Niagara, and thc use
that watcr may be turncd to, and the extent to whicb cach nation may be permitted to draw it. I hope, whbcn ho
doing that he wili not forget the enormous volume of watcr that is takeni out
of Lake Michigan by Uic Chicago Drainage
Canal. He should be posted ln regard to
that mattcr. The engincer o! Uic Chicago
canai admitted that it would take awny 26
per cent of Uic flow of Uic watcr f rom
Lake Michigan into Lake Huron. That
mnay be a mere rough estimate; it might

SENATE

786

amount to a good cleal more. I say that that
gives us a dlaim. Ras it been presented?
Has any effort been made to obtain compensation from the United States for the diversion of water that is International in its
character ? If it bas nlot already been doue
we bad better remonstrate with tbem witb
regard to furflber drafts upon the waters
of the St. Lawrence by enlarging the capacity of the Erie Canal. I think these
tilings should nlot be ]ost sight of. The
waters that would be utilized by the Georgian Bay Canal belong solely f0 ourselves.
In making these reaiarks, I amn giving
xny own conscientious view, formed affer
studying the matter for years, and I do
hope the country wili wake up to the
importance ef undertaklng the construction
and conipletion of that canai before mauy
years wiil lapse.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I have been requêsted by fthe hon, gentleman fromn De Lanaudière, who Introduced thus motion, to ask
the House f0 have the debafe adjonued,
so filet he will have an opportunlty t0
close IL. In the meanfime I desire to make
a few remarks on the subjecf, and if if
la convenient t0 the House, 1 wiii move
thaf the debate be adjourned f111 Mny 7
nexf.
The motion w-as agreed to.
SECOND READI.ÇG.

be in the bauds o! members before f0 niorrow afferuoon ? I fhink we shoixld have
fime allowed us to rend and understand
the evidence.
Hon.
Mr. KIRCHHOFFER
Tbursday next.

-

Well,

Hon. 'Mr. CLORAN-I quite agree wifh
the remarks of the lion. senafor froin Starrad
dacona. I bave made it my duty t'%
thle reports of fwo divorce cases to-day.
1 just got theni as I was coming off the
train nt one o'clock, and thaf is the only
opportunity I bave had f0 maire mysel!
familiar witb whaf fhey contain. That la
not the way f0 deal wlth these Important
niatters. I do not fbink there Is any linmediafe burry to pass these Bills. I would
offer a suggestion f0 the committee, that
fbey should neyer put a notice on tbe order
paper until a week affer the evidence bas,
been distribufe>d, so that every scuator
wll have an opportunity te become familiar
wlth the case. The notice should nof appeur until af leasf fIve days after the
evidence is dlstrlbufed. I think the suggestion la wise and fair. People who have
nlot been living toget ber for severa i yenrs
can surely w-ait a few weeks longer for a
divorce.
Hon. Mr. KIRCHHOFFER-I wiii fake
the suggestion of the bon, gentleman Into
my most serious consIderation.

The motion wvas agreed f0, and the order
BiIh (70) An Act to Incorporate file Saswas flxed for Thursday next.
katoon, Saskatchewan, Peace River and
The Senate adjourned until fo-morrow
Dawson Railway Company.-<Hon. Mr.
at three o'clock.
Roy.)
PAULDING

DIVORCE CASE.

THE SENATE.

ORDER POSTPONED.
OTTAWA, Wednesday, April 8, 1908.
The order of the day being rend:
The SPEAKER fook the Chair af Three
Consideration of the sixth report of the
stnigcommittee on divorce, to whom was o'clock.
reerdthe pefition of Ada Katurail Paulding, together wif h the evidence.
Prayers and routine proceedings.
Hon. Mr. KIRORRHOFFER- moved thaf
CIVIL SERVICE SUSPENSIONS.
the order of the day be dischargcd and
INQUIRY.
fIxed for fo-rnorrow. He said :The eviHlon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWýELL rose f0:
dence In this case is nlot yet printed.
Cali the attention
H-on. Mr. LANDRY-If the evidence liý following stafements of the government to the
which were telegraphed
not priated to-day. w-bat probability 1s !rom Ottawa fo western newspapers, and wil
inquire of the goverament whether the statethere that it will be distributed in fîme to ments made therein are correct?
lion. Mr. MeMUI-LEN.

APIRIL 8, 1908
A. W. Owen, accountant and chief clerk of
the Marine and Fisheries Departmet.-Mr.
Owen was suspended a month age, owing, it
in said, te his having been overheard criticising the enormeus erpenditure entailed by Mr.
Brodeur in engaging accountants te reform
the boekkeeing- meths cf the departmnent.
J. U. Gregory. agent cf the Marine Department at Quebec.-Mr. Gregory frequently reported against the patronage system, and
urged that if other t han parti friends were
ailowed to comu)ete, the governmnent would be
able te obtain their supplies chea er.
J. F. Fraser, commissiener of lights in the
Marine Department.-Mr. Fraser is an advocate cf acetv1ene gas for gas buoys aud was
appointed te the position after the chief engineer of the deuartment had advised against
f nrther experiments until the properties cf
the gas were better known.
He said:. My reason for cailiag thc attention of the Senate and the governinelit
te the runmeurs wbich have been circulated,
is te ascertain, for the Information of the
people of Canada, whetber these officiais
have beeu suspended fer the reasons given
In the telegrams sent ail over the country.
My hon. friend, the leader of the goverument, knows weil that both Mr. Owea and
Mr. Gregory have been old servants, the
latter, I thlak, for over ferty yeara. During the administration of the late goyerament I neyer heard any complaints mnade cf
this gentleman. How hae bas failen from
grace since that peried 1 arn net preparad
te say; but I arn making this laqiilry to
ascertain bow far ha bas transgressed In
'the Uina Indicated In thase taiegram-i. Mr.
Owen la an eid empioea of the goverument, and the eniy charge, se far as public
Information la concerned, Is that lie taiked
tee much-that la that ha toid ton wany
truths, and It would appear that that la
tabooed under the present goernmeut. 1
must frankiy confess that I de net thiuk It
la judicious on the part ef empieyePs, par.
ticuiariy those in higb places, te taik too
mucli eut ef the office; but If tbey tell ne
more than the truth, and If they urge upon
the haad of the department the neeaaity
for economy and of changing tiie mode of
purchasing supplies, by which the country
would mataliy save ln tbe expendîtura,
It la scarcely a goed reason for suspending
or dismissiag an officIai. A chastisement
or a rebuke fer making these statements
pubiicly, aven supposlng tbey wouid ba te
the disadvantage of the head of the department, would, I tblnk, be sufficleat, and
uutil the oifficiai, ne matter wbat position
50à

78ï

hie might be in, shouid disregard a rebuke
made to hlm under sucb cîrcuinstances, It
la scarceiy, to my mind, and I think the
country generaily wiil accept that Interpretation, the duty ot the minister to suqpend hlm. Unfortunately the very Interesting report of the Civil Service Commission bas been In our hands but a very
short tîme and we bave nlot beeii able ta
thoroughiy consider Its details; but sufidient has been published to justlfy thc position 1 bave taken lu asking for this Information. 1 find In this report thant iittention Is called te the faet that a large <irder
ivas placed fÔr bolier coinpound, and when
the package was received nt Quebec, Mr.
Gregory, the agent, was somewhat slirprlsed
He was taken te task for
at Its size.
ordering the stuif witbout Instructimns from
the departinent, and replied that hie had tuie
direct Instruction of the mînister given to
him whle standing on the wharf at Quebec. Many Instances are clted of extravagant prices paid at this agency. In 1904-5r
fire extingulshers were purchased from
Chas. Patton to the sum of $5,000. lu
.Tuiy, 1906, a large quantity was obtnlued
from P. B. Perreauit. Some time later,
Perreauit became an employee of the
agency, and as hie bad stili many fire extinguishers on band, the department generousiy took them over from hlm. In the
evidence whlcb was given before thie Conmmission we find that lu the matter of purchasing liour, Mr. Gregory said :
Thore is but one fleur dealer on the patronage list.
Is It possible thei, ls only one Lîberai
In the province of Quebec, to whom application mlgbt be made for a supply of flour?.
However, *Mr. Gregory says there lm but
one on the Host and hie adds :
I venture respectfully te suggest that te
place one or two more on the list of such
dealers.
The agent says that on ail the articles te
which objecton had been taken, the prices
quoted are correct prices. These iprices by
tender as far as possible. were obtained irom
dealers in Quebec, friends cf the administratoand submite for your approval.
r.Gregory concludes :I have more than
once stated that if iower prices were wanted,
ta throw the suppiy of goods open te public
tender, you will get low prices, for 1 have ne
donbt that there are people in this market on
either side of polities, as the case might be,
who would put their prices down very low
simply te take the, patronage away from the
others, and such offers have been made te me
more than once.

SENATE
the 'Montcalm' ta the 'Minto.' The price
Mr. Gregory adds, speaking of supplies:
If the best pork could b. obtained at Hali- ia that respect may be considered large, and
fax at $17.50 a barrel, it would pay ta take it I have no doubt the prices charged for
to Quebec for the use of the steamers, but articles purchased by the government are
Mr. Gregory adds, ' I cannot do it, purchasI will give an Illustration
aiwnys higli.
the
in the. saute from friends of' if asadministragood flour of wliat took place, even so far as this
tion or outsiders.' He says,
can b. bought in Halifax for $5.20 per barrel, Senate lu concerned. Some chairs were reit vouid pay the department to import it
Application was made for tliem.
quired.
front there.'
Because tliey were paylng at the same Prices were considered altogether tao higli,
time In Quebec $22 per barrel for pork. I do and, ta the credit of aur Speaker, lie put
flot purpose going further into the evidence bis foot down and deciined ta make the
given by Mr. Gregory, but there Is tbis Ini it, purchase. The same kind of chairs were purthat whlle he has been punlshed for alleged cliasedl in Montreai for a less sum, with 15
It is an IllusdIsobeying orders, lie stated positlveiy per cent discount for cash.
In his evidence that he received the order tration of how neariy ail the supplies were
to make those large purchases from the min- sold ta the goverament qnd for the goverfiIf there was not a desire ta feather
Ister on the wharf at Quebec, and lie men- ment
tions who was present at the time the order the nests of the supporters of the goverfiI can eaaiiy understand the ment the expense attending the administrawas given.
chagrin the heid of the department would tion of nifairs, and the carrying on of Vhe
feel at the fact of these exposures taking government In this city pnrticuiarly, would
So long as the charges were made be, I venture to say, 25 ta 40 per cent les
place.
',%I. Owen is an accountant
against the minor officiais of the department, than it is.
kle drew
no notice was taken of them; but when one of the Department of Marine.
attention ta the excessive bis presented
of the heada of the department ls struck
dlrectly, as lie is by this evidence of Mr. by Vie Sampson & Philion Comnpany of QueGregory, then the officiai Is punislied. On bec for pnckings for the steamer ' ChamsOwen says
reading that evidence it brouglit ta my plain'1 ta the amount of $662.
that boVi the quantity and price cliarged are
mind a statement made by Sir James GraTallow Is charged for nt 15
the British House of Com- excessive.
ham ,Ini
cents a pouud, whereas It could be purHe had made a motion
mons about 1827.
compialning of tie extravagance of the gov- chased, even In Ottawa, for 8 and 9 cents.
erament at the time. Objection was taken In anather case, $24 per barrel wns paid forto it, on the ground that lie was kicking park at Quebec, whie at Halifax $17.50
Is it not desirable that the
higli and not dealing with tlie lawer officiais was dliarged.
of the department who were receiving the country shouid know Vint these officiais
At that time Sir James have been punished by suspension, and, 1
emalier salaries.
presume, the loss of snlary, for liaving,
used this langitage:
probnbiy some of Viem under oatIi, as in
I am flot disposed ta stoop ta ignoble game
while flights of voracions birds are floating in the case of Mr. Gregory in Queb'ec, given
thie upper regions of the. air.
evidence that tliey gave ln reference ta the
That Vie
It appears to be applicable in this case. management of one department.
So long as the attacks were made on the report of the commission appointed by the
under officiais of the depaî-tment, very littie goverument shouid not have given satisfacnotice was taken of them; but wbeu anc of tion to Vie parties who appainted thersthe heads of the depnrtment was struck, that is the government-we are not at ahl
Gentlemen who have read Vie
punieliment began to foliow tlie offence. 1 surprIsed.
Elnd that Mr. Owen's complaint was that, lu speech delivered by the lion. Minister of
one Instance, Morris chairs covered Ia plusb Justice a few dnys ago In ls own niding,
were purchased at $18 each for the steam- will came to the conclusion Vint It depends
ship «Montcalm,' and the expianation given In a great mensure. upon wliose ox Is gored
was that they were purcmased for the Gov- wlien there are complinats ta be made of
In tlint speech
ernor 'General's trip; but lie afterwnrds de- the reports of commissions.
Of the bon. Minister of Justice took upon hlmcided ta ta1ke the steamer ' Minto.'
eourse thue chairs were flot transferred frorn self Vie responsibility of teiiing the electors
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

kPRIL 8. 1908
of North York that the Clvii Service Com- r'obbery of the finances of this country, and
mission bad gone altogether beyond thxe re- >ecause they had caiied attention to It, we
In Ind the high autbority or the Minister of
ference which was made to tbem.
reading the report of that gentleman's5 Fustice telling the people that they exceeded
speech ln the Conservatîve press I knew that t heir duty, and inferentially they *had no
I shall fot
If I quoted It It would be declared coloured; rIght to make sucb a report.
not only the re- lea] now witb the appointment of another
so I took the trouble to read
port ln the 'Mail'1 but the reports ln tbe commission to supervise the report of the lirai;
' World,' and the 'Globe' also, and I find commission but with the speech of this genthat the ' Mail's ' report of that gentleman'sI tleman-and 1 arn speaking of a speech
I find made, flot lul the House of Commons, or I
speech le snbstantially the same.
would be ruled out of order, but made In
i the 'World's' report the following:
candidates for
The Minister of Justice -declared that the North York,aft nomination of
He attempted to leave
commission had gone beyond the scoxpe of their he local legisI ature.
jurisdiction.
the Impression upon the minds of bis hearers that these two officiais, being the apThe ' Globe'1 report stated that:
were,
The commission hed reported on a good pointees of the late administration,
therefore, rogues and rascais, and he mndimany matters not referred to them.
report of the new comThe ' Mail ' gîves the following report cf entes that wben the
missiojier la made, they wlll be able to 'sepahis statement:
rate the goats from the sheep,' thxe goats
The Minister of Justice declared that they being the Tories and the sheep the Liberals.
had gone beyond the scope of their jurisdiation.
It struck me when I rend the speech, that
The probabilities are that the charge may It was a great pity the Tories had not been
long ago,
be, to a certain extent, correct; but we had wolves and devoured the iambs
becanse that would have been ln the Interno such complaînt from the Minister of
My hon. friend, the
Justice when he was dealing with the report ests of the couatry.
I have no
Secretary of State, langhs.
made by thxe Insnrance Commission, ai.
that commission went far beyond the doubt that had the wolves attempted sncb
though
reference and pried. as far ns it possibly' an enterprise, they wouid either have been
could into the actions of certain poilticians, choked to death or poisoned. I am rather
leading Conservatives, who bad notblng inclined to thlnk the latter resuit would
wbatever to do with the purchase of the have been the likely one. lu order that I
land ln the Northwest, and, consequently, may not be misunderstood ln the remarks
their names had no right to be dragged I have made, 1 wlll quote one or two senInto the discussion or into thxe investigation. tences of this Important speech of the MinThe Minister of Justice at fihe time defended Ister of Justice. Speaking of the Conservathat report, and, I must confess, wlth a very tive press, he charges that they are reeking
able speech ln the House of Commons; but with slaiiders, sunk to 10w level, full of lies
That la somewhat strong
now, wben a commission la appointed by and cnlumnies.
of their own polîtical language, but I am inclined to tbink the
this government
frIenda, two of tbem nt least strong politi- Conservative press of the province of Oncians-that is Mr. Fyshe and the other tario, to wbich he referred more especially,
gentleman-I am not Inclnding Mr. Court- will survive that attack upon them even by
ney ln that category, because he Is a gentle- s0 eminent a jurist as the Minister of JusThen be goes on to say, ln reference
man who bas taken very little part ln poil- tice.
bas been ln the country, to the employees, that the employees of the
tics sînce he
though ho is by birth and education a Lib- government were trying to serve two maseral. He bas bad the good sense, wbile ln ters; havlng been appolnted by the late govthe employ of the government, not to Inter- erament they could not be bonest with the
From my somewhat
fere ln any way, so far as I know, in poil- present government.
But in the present case, thla com- lengtby experience lu departments, I am flot
tics.
mission found the Department cf Marine ln prepared to say tbat that la the character
a state of disorganization, and a sys- of the Lîberals that I found ln the departI
tem prevaillng Nvhich was littie short cf ments of the Mackenzie government

SENATE
hesitate not to say that some of the most
vainable and trustwortiiy cierks that I had
under me lu the different depnrtments which
I administered during the period 1 wvas ln
the goveruiment, were of the Liberai party,
and tbey were true, so far as I know, to
their duties, and they were true to the
policy of the governument wbicb It was their
duty from the position they held, to
carry out, and from that experience I am
qulte convinced that the the same remark
migbt be nppiied to the Conservative employees of the governuient, and that they
are not of the cbaracter that the Minister
lie says that
of Justice bias Indicated.
these Tory empioyees were trying to serve
two masters; and that the Investigation to be
made by Judge Casseis would resuit in the
findlng ont of the guilty party or parties,
and ulimateiy the separation of the Tory
goats ln the civil service frm the Liberal
Witb that I leave IL. If the Consheep.
servative employees 0f the government have
been guilty, as the minister Indicates they
are, they onght to be punished, and they
ought to be punished more partlcuiarly for
this reason; being Conservatives, If they
understand the prtnciples of the party, they
deserve the more to be punished If they
do wrong.

the introduction of that gas for lighting the
buoys, certain men closely connected witb
the government retlred wealthy, wbo bad
not been wealthy before the adoption of
that system of llghting. I shal nlot mention names, but the resuit of their operatiens Is well known, and there la reason
for the conclusion 1 bave mentloned, unless people are mucb Iess suspicions than
1 am. I do not kPow that I need to apologize for havlng dlrected the attention
of the Senate to those matters. 1 speak
ou behaît of the country generally iu expressing my desire to know bow far these
gentlemen have beon gullty of dereliction
of duty as to Justlfy tbeir suspenaion or
dismissal. 1 have to repeat that If they
have been gullty, thoy should be punished;,
If not, they should not be dismlssed simply
because they told the truth and happened
to be appointed by the late govornment.

Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Wlth the hon. gentleman's long experlence, of tbe-I would not
say forglng,-but of the roasons given for
the dismIssal of these men as reported to
have beon sent from Ottawa to some western papers, I have only to say that the
reasons are nlot those which were given to
me by the minister. I notice that a imIlar question was put te the Minister of
An Hon. MEMBER-Oh, no.
Marine and Fisherles ln the other Honse,
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Somne and, with reference to Mr. Owen, ho mnys
hon. gentleman says : Oh, no. That may be tiîat he was suspended some weeki bebis view of the case. It là not mine. It fore the others, and bis suspension had no
matters not to me what the political com- reference at ail to the report of the Complexion of the Individual may be wbo Is mission. As to the others, Mr. Fraser and
servIng the government, If be proves re- Mr. Gregory, ho says he made some Invescreant to his duties, lot hlm be punislied, tigations himseif and found that smre orand administer the same punishuisnt to ders' he had givon were dlsregarded by
the Liberal sheep as It Is proposed to ad- those officers, and that Is wby tbey were
ministor to the Tory goats, and the coin- suspended. I do not Intend to follow the
try wUll bo satisfied. 1 had forgotteu Mr. bon. gentleman ln his disquisition ln regard
Fraser, who had to do wltb the !ighting to the officiais, their personalities or their
of the buoys and the purchase of the cal- duties. The Commission, ln their report,
cium carbide. Ho was not examh'"ed be- did not ilame any persons. The goverfifore the Commission, and, consequentiy, ment are quite at sea. as to who the guilty
there Is no Indication of the reason for his parties are who are pointed at, and, nocessuspension, but If one-haîf of what bas sarily, that involves further lnquiry. Unbeen publisbed. is true, and whlch mitny, der the atatute, ln order to take evidence
mysoif amongst the number boliove, of thE under oath, It became necessary to appoint
pickings and grafting that took place In con. somebody besides the minister hlimself, as
nection witb the purchasing and ligbting el the statute dld nlot seem to contemplate
the bixoys wltb acetylone gas, those who ar( that the head of the department cou]d maire
connectod witb it ouglit to be dismissod. OrL an inquiry under oath. The judge of the
Non. Sir MACKENZIE I3OWELL.

APRIIL 8, 1908
Exciiequer Court was tben named to conduct an Investigation. Pendlng that Investigation, I bave no observations to make.
The hon. gentleman bas before hlm now
the report of the Royal Commission, and
he bas thc appendix and tbe varIous coinments tbat bave been made. It i'q for
hlm to say wbether tbe reasons gîveai there
would justify tbe action of the mînîster.
I do not propose to maire auy furtber cornmeuts on tbe subject, because it ls not
one really that can properly be *,lquired
Into whcn an Investigation under oaUi ls
about to be beld.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Was there any
Investigation witb reference to Mr. Fraser ? He la the gentleman wbo was ln
cbarge at Kingston when a terrifiec explosion attending a great lous o! life occurred
ln using acetylene gas. I do not know
whether be was re]Ieved o! any responsibllty ln connection wlth that explosion.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do flot tbink that
Is an element lni the suspensions.
Hou. Mr. ROSS (Halifax)-Oue remark I
want to makre as to Uic character of the
Commisuion. Mr. Fyshe bas no polîticu
be Is not a party man lu any shape or
form. I suppose bis Independence andl bis
belng a non-politîcian was the reaqon wby
lie was appointed. It wlll takre a long time
to separate the sbeep and the goats That
can only be donc nt a certain day wben
tbe rlgbteous judge wIll put one on the
one aide and the. other on the other.
We will find tbem mixed ln ail the departments of Uic public service to the ënd of
thc chapter.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-My bon. frlend
from Hastings was unfair ln ssylng
that people bad made thcmnselves rlcb
lu supplylng calcium carbide, to the
The gentleman wbo disgoverument.
covered acetylene bas made a large
amount of money out of bis dlscovfry, and
1 arn sure no one would grudge hlm tbat.
He bas coilected royalties from bis patents,
but as far as the makers of calcium carbide
lu concerned, I amn sure my lion. !rlend
would not be pleased as a sharebolder to
be told that bis dividend was only 5 per
cent. The owners o! carbîde factorles are
getting 5 per cent on their investinent, not

791

a large return, and there cannot be uiuch
steaing from the government or anyone
else under the circumstances.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Can any onp tell us
who Invented acetylene gas ?
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Yes, Mr. T. L. W'llson.
.
Hou. Mr. LÂNDRY-The inventor of tlue
gas!
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-Yes.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Io he a Canadiau 7
Hon. Mfr. GIBSON-Yes, born lu Woodstock.
Hon. Mfr. MacKEEN-I arn sorry to
have to differ from my hon. friend from
Halifax (Hon. Mfr. Rosa) as to the politics
of one member of the Commission. I bave
had the privilege of knowing that gentleman for many years and have neyer
beard hlim accused of belng a Couservative.
I thlnk I arn safe ID saylng that
he lias always been a staunch and strenuous LIberal politician. He neyer mlxed
l politics ln a partisan way I suppose,
but there was no more pronounced freetrader ln the Dominion, and he lu a freetrader stili, and on those grounds, 1 say
bie was a Lîberal. I arn satisfled that the
gentleman, even at this late date, would
not feel cornpllmented If he were accused
of belng a Tory or Conservative. If he
were here he would be the first to resent
tbe charge. It ls only right to have that
understood.
Hon. Mfr. ROSS (Halifax)-One can be a
f ree trader wlthout belng n declded politIclan.
Hon. Mr. MacKEEN-I have had many
an argument wlth Mr. Fyshe on poilties, and
I arn safe lu saying that he neyer gave a
I fancy he
Conservative vote lu bis life.
prides hlmself on hîs strict Llberalism. Âll
tbe same, I think he lu an bonest man.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-I arn astonlsbed tbat
the bon. senator from Cape Breton does flot
go further and say this, that of ail tbe men
who have occupied such a position as tbat
filhed by Mfr. Fyshe, *noue could be more luJdependent than he bas been.

792

SENATE

Hon. Sir MNACKENZIE BOW7EL-If the
bon. senator f rom Halifax ('%r. Ross) will
take the trouble to read the report, he can
corne to no other conclusion than this, that
Mr. Fyshe Is a Liberai of the Liberals. lu
that respect lie bas gone far enougl iIn advocatlng the princîpies of Liberalisma to convince any one, even a Scotchmfan like my
I should lîke to, aay la reply
bon. friend.
to the hon. senator froin Lincoln, that I
made no attack on the Inventor of calcium
carbîde. That gentleman bas neyer been
connected wlth the government except by
contract. He bas occupied an independent
position as a manufacturer and supplied the
calcium carbîde.

H-on. Mr. LANDRY-Well, we shall try it
agaîn.

THE GILMORE DIVORCE CASE.

ORDER POSTPONED.
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK (ln the absence of
Hon. Mr. Klrchhoffer) moved the:
Third reading Bill (JJ) An Act for the relief of Edith May Gülmore.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I was requested yesterday by an bon. member, on behaîf of
Senator Kirchhoffer, not to proceed wtth the
discussion of this Bill to-day as lie wished
to lie present et the third reading, and I
If It la the wisbi of the Senate
consented.
to proceed wlth the discussion now, I arn
prepared to move my amendment but I
DELÂ'YED RETURNS.
gave my word that I would not go on lu
LANDRY-Before the orders of the absence of the hon. gentleman.
Hon. Mr.
the day are called, perbaps my bon. friend
Hon. Mr. BAKER-Under the cIrcunithe Secretary of State who took a note stances, I move that thîs order be dlschargwlth reference to a certain return that I ed and placed on the order paper for the
called for last January, bas not forgotteii 7th of Mey next
to read the note and may lie prepared to
The motion was agreed to.
give me an answer to-day?
ACCIDENT AND GUARSTANDARD
ANTEE COMPANY 0F CANADA
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But I amrn ot furBILL.
ther advanced.
GOMMONS AMENDMENTS CONCURRED
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do not know whether
IN.
The gentleman to
I can get an answer.
The order of the day being called:
whom tbe'return refera is a member of the
Consideration of the amendments made by
House of Gommons, and 1 do not know
the Bouse of Commons to (Bill C) An Act to
whether lt wouid bie ln good taste to ln- incorporate the Standard Accident and Guarquire In thia House into a matter affecting antee Company cf Canada.-Hon. Mr. Kerr.
a member of the other cliamber.
Hon. Mr. KERR moved that the amendthe government menta bie concurred ln.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Do
decline to answer-tbat is ail I want?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Are
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have not been able these amendments of an Important charaeter?
to get any information on the subject.
ion. Mr. KERR-Tbere are two amendHon. Mr. LANDRY-There is nothing ln
The firat strikes out the power
my question to indicate that Mr. DeLisie is ments.
whlch la given to the directors by the Bill
a member of the House of Gommons. I ask
Those who
if a gentleman named 8imeon DeLîsie, of to Increase the capital stock.
are lnterested. ln the Bill consent to the
Portueuf, bas received money from the
That la easlly answered. amendment. The second ameudment la one
goverument?
Elther he has received It or he bas not which provides that in addition to being
subject to the provisions of the Insurance
receîved It.
Act, the company shal lie subject to the
Inqiiiry provisions of any other Act which may lie
on.
H Mr. SCOTT-I have sent the
to different departrnents, but have failed to passed during- the present session, reiating
get an answer from them.
to insuranice.
Hon. Mr. GIBSON.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I did not forget it.

.9

APRIL 8, 1908
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I do
not think these ameadments are af sufficient
Importance to justify me in cailing attention
ta rule 131, but that mile will apply ta other
amendments to other Bills whicb are on tbe
order paper for to-day. The mile reade:
When any private Bill is returned from the
House of Gommons with amendmnenta, the
same not being merely verbal or unimportant, suoh amendments are previons .ta their
seoond reading, .referred Io a comrnittee of
the whole, or ta the select committee ta which
snob Bill was originally referred.
There la onc Bill on the orders, to which
I doubt
there are 16 or 17 ameudments.
If aay one bas had time toastudy these
ameudments, and It seema ta me that, under
rule 131, the Bill with Its amendments
should, be referred to a Committee of the
Wholc or ta a Select Standing CommIttee,
or, If tbe Senate thinka that is not necessary,
While 'we
the rule might be suspended.
have tbis raie, it bas scarceiy ever been
acted upon.

and will be necessarily delayed. There
are some eighty plans and maps. Thase
first sent were blue-prints, and it was Impossible to prirt fromn tbem. The maps
and plans are referred to ln the body of
the report, and, until those are preparod,
the report will be unintelilgible, as It constantly refera to a plan or map.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I think I expressedl
myseif in very bad Eagiish. I did not ask
in regard to the report. I asked If the
government liait corne to a conclusion as
to the polcy tbey Inteaded to adopt ln
regard to the bridge.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, there is no policy
announced s0 far.
The Senate adjouraed until three o'ciock,
to-morrow.

THE SENATE.

OiTÂw*, Thuraday, April 9, 1905.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I do not see that
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree
the second ameadment ta the Bill which
la naw before us la necessary, because the o'clock.
company must be subi ect ta any Insurance
Prayers and routine proceediaga.
Act which may be on the statute-boak, wbether passed this session or bef are this ses- JURISDIOTION 0F RÂILWÂY COMMISSIONERS.
sion.
MOTION.
The motion was agmeed ta.
Hon. Mr. McKAY (Truro), la the abBILLS INTRODUCED.
sence of Hon. Mr. Ferguson, moved:
Thet an order of the Senate do issue for
Bill (101) An Act mespecting the Fort
a list of ail railways in Ciaareturn
William Termiiai Rallway and Bridge ada whichgivingnot under th e cantrol or jnriaare
Mr. Watson.)
the Board of Railway7 CommissionCompaay.-(Haa.
diction of
reason whiy
each case
Bill (41) An Act ta Incorparate thc Staà- ers; and stating ia controlled the the commisby
the railway is not
Glass Insurance Company of sion.
dard Plate
Canada.--(Han. Mr. Jaffray.)
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There ls no objection
Bill (40) An Act respecting the Pacifie
to this address.
Coast Fire Insurance Campany.-(Hou. Mr.
The motion was agreed to.
Bastack.)
QUEBEC BRIDGE.
CLEARING 0F LANDS AT LEVIS
FORTS.
INQUIRY.
INQUIRY.
Han. Mr. LANDRY-Bef are the Hanse
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY Inquired:
adjauras, I shauld. like ta ask the hon.
bas
1. Ras the goverament caused the lands in
leader of Uie Senate If Uic gavernm,ýnt
came ta any decisian upan the palicy they front of Lévis forts No. 1 aad No. 2 to bp
cleared P
Iatend ta adapt regarding the Qtiebec
2. Were tenders asked for these works P
s. If not, to whom was this work eatrusted
bridge ?
and upon what conditioas?
4. What
Han. Mr. SCOTT-No, thec printlng of ployed for are the names of the faremea emthat purpose?
the repart bas been very long delayed,
5. What salary did they receive?

SENATE
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers to the bour and the departrnent saY tenders wvere
called for, and' the couitract was awarded
hon. gentleman's questions are as follows
1. Yes, a strip, 18 feet wide, of the to the lowest tenderer.
brusbwood bordering on the road lu front
THE QUEBEC BRIDGE.
for Forts 1 and 2, Lévis, bas been cleared.
2, 3, 4 and 5. Tenders were atsked for
MOTION POSTPONED.
and the contract for the work awarded to
The notice of motion belng calied:
tbe lowest tenderer.
By the Hon. Mr. LÂNDRYHton. Mr. LÂNDRY-Is that ail ?
That lio will inquire of the, governmentWhen the government in 1903 concluded a
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Tbat Is ail.
financial arrangement witli the Quebec Bridge
and Raiiway Company, did it then require
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That la ail I eau and lias it mnade it one of tlie obligations of
the contract that the company should forthget, 1 suppose.
with subscribe additional shares to the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The other questions amount of $200,000?
Has the cornpany caused this additionai sum
were predicated on the assumption thnt to be subscribed?
By whom, giving the names?
tbe work was being done by day's work.
Did the company afterwards devoth the
it so
to pay for works
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-There was no fore- amount whicli capitalobtained it not ratiier emor lias
chargeable to
man ?
ployed almost the wliole of tliat sum, to wit:
$188,721, in payment of tlie discount at wlich
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, no--so I arn ad- securities of the, company liad been issned, the
builder of the piers of the bridgre liaving convised.
sented to extinguish a dlaim of $283,279 whicli
he liad against the company by taking debenHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Does tbe goveru- tures of thie said company to tlie amonnt of
ment pretend to say nobody supervlsed $472,000, that is to say, at a discount of 40 per
cent p
that work ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-My bon. frlend quite
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I amrn ot able to ans- appreciates the tact that I only see these
wer tbe question In any other way than questions late Iu the day, and It is qulte
tbe Information given me.
Impossible then to get an answer. I spolie
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-T '--fiI give anotber to the Minister of Finance, but he could not
ýHe promlsed,
notice of inqulry, so as to relleve my hon. give me any information.
of any anxiety he mlgbt however, to have it Iooked up.
friend's mind
bave on that subject.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Perhaps 'Mr. Parent
could give an answer?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL - The
t7wo latter questions are very plain. One
,Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Mr. Parent is not miquestion la : 'What are the name3 of the der our control to the extent that one of
foremen?' And tbe other question: 'Wbat my colleagues would be.
salaries did tbey receive ?'1 Perhnps the
The motion was aliowed to stand until
bon. Secretary of State bas not beeu fur- the 7th of 'May.
nished witb that information.
DELAYED RETURNS.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Where work is given
out to tbe lowest tenderer, there la no foreHon. Mr. LANDRY-Béfore the orders of
man employed by the government. The the day are called, perhaps rny bon. f riend
work la not watched In that way. Lt la can give me the answer I asked for yesterday about a return called for on the 29th
done under cortract. That is the Iden.
January last?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I unHon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn sorry to say that
der-stood. tbe bon, gentleman to say that It
was done by day's labour.
1 can not.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.

1 said the ques-

tions were predicated on the assuniption
that it was going to be doue bv day's laHon. Mr. LANDRY.

Hou. Mr. LANDRY-The hou, gentleman
knows whiat the subject of the return is, I
suppose?

APRIL 9, 1908
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes, It refers to a gentiernan in the other brandi of parliament.

795

Bill as It caime from the House of Comnimons in the first place.

Hou. Mr. LANDRY-As I understaud, the
OTTAWA, BROCEVILLE AND ST. LAW- amndment of the House of Commons Is to
PIENCE RAILWAY COMPANY'S
restore that clause to the Bill.
BILL.
Hon. 1fr. DEItBYSHIRE-Yes.
COMMONS AMENDMENTS.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Clause 4 of the Bill
The order of the day being called:
f rom the was struck out because it does flot go as
Consideration .of the Message
Section 247 of
Bouse of Commous dîsagreeing to the amend- far as the Railway Act.
ment made by the Senate to (Bill 74) an Act the Raiway Act provides a number of saferespecting the Ottawa, Brockville and St. guards for municipalities lu cases of thîs
Lawrence Railway Company.-(Hon. Mr.
Derbyshire.)
klnd. It provides how the posts and wires
Hon. '.%r. DERBYSIRE-I alu advised are to be placed, and subsection 8 of section
that lu the interest of this project and of 247 says that:
the interested parties, clause No. 4 should
Xothing contained in this section shall be
be retalned on account o! this belng a spec- deemed to authorize the company to exercise
purThe town of Brockvllle owns Its the powere therein mentioned, for the heat,
laI Bill.
pose o! selling or distributing light,
and other utihities, and power or electricity in cities, towns or villown electrie light
tbere fore the clause should remalu, because ages, without the company h-aving firat ohtherefor by a by-iaw of thie municithe special Act will overrîde the general tained
pahity.
Section 247 of the Railway
Railway Act.
Hou. Mr. POW'ER-WIII the hon, gentleAct reads nearly the same as the clause.
man be kiud euough to read clause 4 of the
Tt is as follows:
Bill?
When any company is empowered by special
Act of the parliament of Canada to construct,
Hou. Mfr. BEIQUE--Clause 4 does not go
operate and maintain Unes o! telegraph or
telephone or for the conveyance o! light, heat, as far as that. It protects the municlpality
may, with
power or electricity, the company
the consent of the municipal council or other ouly If, at the time o! the passing of the
authority havîng jurisdiction over any high- bill, the municlpality happens to be operatway, square or other public place, enter there- iug an electrlc plant; but suppose the munion for the purpose of exercising the said
powers, and, as often as the company thinks clpality la a month or a year after the
proper, mayr break up and open aay highway, passing of the Bill should decide te acquire
square or ýother public place, subi ect, howan electric plant, they would not have the
ever, to the following provisions.
(a) The company shail not interfere with protection which la general under section
the public ýright o! travel or in aay way ob- 247 of the Railway Act, and It la because
struct the entrance to any door or gateway
the safeguard Is much better uùder the Railnr f ree access to any building;
(b) The company shaîl not permit any wire way Act than under clause 4 of the Bill
to be less than twenty-two feet above guclb
Now it le
highway or public place or erect more than that this ameudment is made.
oue fine of poles along any highway.
suggested that section 247 would not apply
to this special Act. There cannot be two
Clause 4 o! the Bill is as follows:
proof, or opinions on that, because section 247
4. The company shahl not seli, chspose
energy within, or vides *that when any company Is empowered.
distribute electric power or
for use withiu, the limits o! any city or town by special Act o! the parliament o! Canada
which owns and operates its own electria light- tO:
ing or powver plant without the consent by
by-law of the council of such municipality.
Construct, operate and maintain Unes of
or for the conveyance
In the flrst charter that was granted for telegraph.or telephone or electricity, the coinheat, power
had power te seil of light, with the consent of the municipal
this railway, the compauy
pany may,
electricity; but ln renewlng the charter we council or other authority having jurisdicpublie
square
are taking that power from them, and we osen eny highway, for the or otherof exerpurpose
place, enter thereon
should lîke to have clause 4, retained lu the cising the said powers, and, as often as the
Bill. That is why it was sent back to the company thinks proper, may break up and
or other public
Senate, and I hiope Ulis hionourabie House ope any highway squarethe following proprlace subject, however, to
it In the visions.
will see ltsi way clear to leave

SEX-LATE

M'9

So that the guarantee for the nitnicipality Is much wider under section 247 of
the Rallway Act taan it Is under the tourtfi
clause of the Bill, and therefore, in my
humble opinion, we should Insist unon the
amendment, and I amn quite satisfied that
In the otber House, If they understand the
reason, they wlll acquiesce.
Hon. Mr. DEItBYSHIRE-But they are
flot satisfied to' have this clause struck
out, because ln the original Bill Incorporating the company, they liad this power.
In renewing lais charter, we are taking
ont of it powers that they had In the former charter. I do not thInk It wlll do
any barma to, restore clause 4.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Whatever one's IndIvIdual opinion on this question may be,
Inasmuch as the promoters of the Bill
are anxious that this clause 4 should be
reinstated, there ls no reason why wve,
'who are flot very directiy concerned Ia
the matter, should refuse to do what they
wish.
Hon. Mr.
principie.

LANDRY-That

Is

a broad

it was
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-No,
passed by the Gommons and sent bere,
and In the Railway Committee struck out
clause 4, and wc want clause 4 reinstated,
and we thlak -it ought to be donc.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BO>WELL--Did I
understand -the hon, gentleman frorn De
Salaberry to, contend, on reading the Consolldated Railway Act, that there ls I
the Act anxjle iirovision made to protect
the Interests of municipalities without thec
addition of this clause ?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Better
than le provlded In this clause.

protection

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Do I
understand further, that If this clause Io
passed, It overrides the Railway Act ?
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-Yes.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Well,
then, there Io no necessity for It.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE--They realiy
do not understand this clause yet.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-No, no one understands It

Hon. Mr. POWER-There ls not any
question of principle, as I take it, and 1
Brockthink the hon, gentleman from
ville should move that thc Senate do flot
insist on Its amendment striklng out the
fourth clause, and let us dispose of it.

Hon. Mr. DERBYHIRE-In the original charter power was obtained t oeili.
electricity in lac towns and villages through
whIch Uic railway passed. In renewing
lac charter now we want to take these
powers frem lae cornpany, and we arc
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-I have plea- doing that by clause 4. We do fiot want
sure i movIng that thc Senate do not ln- thcm to, have power to scîl elcctricit-.
sist on Its amendrnent.
Hon. Mr. McMILLÂN-I laink the sugHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I think this Bill
Fhould be referrcd to, a Committee of the
Whole, or te lthc committee from which
it cornes, and have a report frorn that
committee. If would be better dcbated in
a body of that kind.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Thc hon, gentleman
Is right as to, Uic practice, but let it go.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Let it stand.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-If I
understand tls, It Is flot an amendmeut
by Uic Senate. The Bill was introduced
In lac Senate and passcd. It is an auieudment made by thc House of Commons to
a Senate Bill.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE.

gestion made by the hon. gentleman from
Stadacona Io lae one laat ought te be
adopted. Special privileges were given ln
the former Act, f0 lae parties who had
the charter, te seli electricai energy. Now
we want that power taken from laern,
and the contention of the hon. gentleman
from De Snlaberry le that If clause 4 Is
lef t in the Bil, it is going to destroy the
protection laat lae municlpaiity bias under
the generai Railway Act. If that le lac
case, lac clause certainly ought to be
struck out. I think thc power that the
municipaIity has under the general Railway Act must be stronger than laat which
they would retain under this clause. For
that reason), the suggestion of Uic hon.

APRIL 9, 1908

797

Hon. Mr. DERBYSEIRE-In the Hamilgentleman from Stadacona should be
adopted, aud the Bill re-commltted ta the ton Radial Bill, we allowed clause 4 to reRallway Commlttee, lu order that tbey main, and the same with several other Bis
which have passed tus honourable Hanse
might discuas it Iutelllgeutly.
this session, and why do hon, gentlemen
Hon. Mr. OLORÂN-ýIf I underatand the want to take It out of this particular Bill?
explanation o! the hou. gentleman from I should like to have clause 4 remain in.
De Salaberry, uotwlthstanding the presence It la eatlsfactory to the parties worklng this
of clause 4 lu the special Act, -it stili cornes charter, and we would like to have It passed
under section 247,of the Genersi Act. If as it la.
that la the case, thia parliament does not
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-ÂcCordlng ta the Bill
sacrifice any right The special Act gives
as it came from the House of Commons, this
certain powers, which are still subject ta
1900 and
section 247 of the Railway Act With the raulway charter was granted In
renewed In 1902, 1904 and 1M0, and when
explanation given by the hon, gentleman
was granted under the
from De Salaberry, which I think la the the original charter
Railway Act, the railway at that time had
correct one, I do not see that there would
manufacture
be any use Iu allowlug the clause to re- the rlght: under section 247 to,
electrlcity and seli It. Since that time, the
main lu the. Bill, because, accordiug to the
Its owu electrlc
luterpretation given by the hon, gentleman city of Brockville produces
light, and it la more interested lu this railof clause 247 of the Railway Âct, tht. Bill
They
any other muuicipality.
would stili be under the operation and lu- way than
simply asIc that this reservation may be left
riediction of the General Rallway Âct
ta the city of Brockville, so, that the railHon. Mfr. BEIQUE-No, clause 4 o! the way will not be ,a competîtor with the
municipal plant of the clty af Brockville.
Bill would overrîde the Railway Act.
Hou. Mfr. CLORÂN-Does not section
247 o! the Rallway Âct provide that natwithstaudlng auything lu auy special Act,
It ahail beHon. Mfr. BEIQUE-No.

iiou. Mr. KZEZR-But the general provisions of the Rallway Act would do that.
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIREý-Why dld you
put It lu the Hamilton Radial Rallway Bill?

Hon. Mr. KERR-Because there was not
I canHon. Mfr. CLORAN-I understood that any provision o! the klnd before.
according ta the hon. gentlemau'a readiug flot understand why It was doue lu that
o! the section.
Bill, and I do not kuow that it was doue.
But the general Railway Act la more wlde
Hon. Mfr. BEIQU-I dld not read it that
and comprebensive, and leaves the question
way. Wheu the compauy la empowered ta, do
of conseutlng or refusing to a larger number
a certain thlng, it shaîl be euabled ta do It
than the itimlted oàuea men-;
If by a o! municipalities,
under such and such conditions.
tioned lu the Bill. Just see what the Railspecial Act, we provide for other conditions
Act provides before you cousider that
it supersedes section 247. The hou. gentle- way
It Baya:
section.
man lu charge of the Bill la nder the
Nothiug coutaiued iu this section shail b.
misappreheusion that, because this company deemed ta, authorize the. oompany ta exercise
Was aUthorized by a charter ta, do this elec- the powers therein mentioned for the. purpose
tric business, it la necessary ta have thus of selling or distributing light, heat, _power
in cities, towns or villages,
provision iuserted lu clause 4, when we con- or electricity company having first obtained
without the
tinue their power ta do so. The Railway therefrom by a by-law of the municipality.
Act la deemed ta form part o! aIl the charHon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-We underters o! every raulway company, especlally stand that.
section 247, and If 247 la ta be read as part
Hon. Mfr. KERR-So that not only Brocko! the charter of that company, therefore
that company would be under the obligation ville, but auy other municipallty through
of complyiug with these conditions, un exer- wbich this rallway may run, whether lt
owns electrical power or does not, would
clslng their powers.

SENATE
lie able to stand in the way of, and to prevent the company selling power there. This
other section prohibits ouly lu the case of
sucli munlcipalties as own their light, and
While Brockville bas
ls limited therefore.
ail the powers whlch tbis proposed clause
would give ft, other munlcipalities than
Brockvllle which do flot own thelr llghtlng
plant would flot under clause 4 of the
Bill have the same powers as Brockvflle
would bave under that clause.
4. The oomapany shail fot seli, dispose of, or
distribute electric power or energy within, or
for use within, the limits of any city or town
which owns and operates its own electric lightiag or power plant without the. consent by
by-law of the council of such maunicipality.
Assume, therefore, for the ake of argument, that Brockville owns Its own electric
light and power, and assume this railway
runs tbrough the city of Peterboroughi. for the
sake of argument. which does flot own Its
own lght and power company, tben this
Act would flot exelude them from going Into
Peterborough and dlstrlbutlng electrlc llght
aud power wlthout that, because this clause
mlght be lnterpreted as overrldlng the provision of the general Act wfllch otherwlse
would Rpply. Whereas the general Act
would flot only proteet Peterboroughi, but
also protect Brockvllle, and one would say
that It was lu that sense more comprehensIve than the other section.

The SPE-IKER-Does the hon. gentleman
from Brockvllle agree to that motion?
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-Yes, I movetbat the Bill be referred back to tue Committee ou Railways, Telegraphs and Harboums.
Hon. Sir -MACKENZIE BOWELI,-There
Is another point whlch lias not been referred
to Iu connectlon with this clause, and that
15 that the compauy Is ouly prohibitefi from
selling ln municipalities of cities sud towns.
Electrie liglit and power aud telephones are
hein.- introduced lu many municipalities that
Theme are vilare neither cities nor towns.
lages sud general municipalities whlch, under this clause, tbey could go Into sud do,
business.
The, motion was agreed

f0.

PRISONS AND REFORMATORY
AM.NENDMENT BILL.

ACTS

SECOND READING.
Hou. Mr. POWER moved the second
reading of Bill (KK) An Act f0 amend.
the Prlsol's aud Reformatories Act Ini so
far as the same affects the province of
Nova Scotia. He sald -This Bill affects
two Institutions lu the city of Halifax,
aud, as I stated at the first readlug subst'antalhy, the object ef the measure Is to
assimihate the law governing thesse Institutions wlth the law goveruing Institutions
When the
of tbe same kiud lu Ontario.
Bill goes before a Commlttee of the Whole
House, I shaîl lie qulte prepared to enter
into detail, sud If any hon. gentleman
wlshes more detailed Information now I
shah lie glad to give It. If Is a pureiy
local thlng and there is nothing further
lu the Bill.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-As I understancl the
question now, It Is simply this: A Bill came
from the House of Commous contalnlng
clause 4.
That clause bas been expunged
The House of Comby our committee.
mons refused to accept that improvement,
The
because we call It an Improvement.
Rallway Committee thought they were imA discussion
proving tue Bill in doing SQ.
arises, are we really iînproviug the Bill or
The hon, gentleman f rom Halifax
not ?
Hou. Mm. LANDRY-This is a public
sys there Is no principle lu that. I would
advise my hon. friend to refer the Bill back Bill?
to the Standing Committee ou Railways. so
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
that the question may be discussed there.
If lie ls right, lie wll certalnly gain bis
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is there a special
point and we shahl not sacrifIce anything. law for Nova Scotia, sud n special law for
He should move that the Bill le referred Ontario ?
back- te the Committee on Raihways, TeleHon. -'\r.POWER-There la one genemal
graphs and Harbours.
haw. chapter 148 ef the Revised Statutes,
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Under ruie 131.
entitled au Act respecting public ind priHou. Mr. KERR.

APRIL 9, 1908

7911

t o0 do a life insurance business, but this
ýompany bas received permission froni the
ninister to carry on the business of the
Peilican Insurance Company at present tu
force. It is not the Intention that tbey
shall do any new business, but simply
bhat tbey shall be able to carry on the buslness that bas so fair been ln force, and
Tbe motion was agreed to, and the Bill bhey require this legisiation to enable them
was reaa the second tume.
to do so.
Hon. Mr. POWER moved that thie Bill
The motion was ngreed to, and the Bill
be referred to a Committee of the Wbole n'as read the second time..
House to-morrow.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Slr MACKENZIE BOWELL-Âs

vate reformatory prisons. The first fortyone sections of thiat chapter apply to ail
the provinces. Then part 2 applies to the
province of Ontario, and part 5, to theJ
province of Nova Scotia. This Bill ls justI
to amend tbe law as It affects two institutions ln tbe province of Nova Scia.

this ls a Bill amending a general law, 1
Bill (MM) Au Act to Incorporate the Sysuppose tbe government le in accord witb nod of the Diocese of Keewatin.--(Hon.
the proposition made ln the amendînent Mr. Ells.)
pmoposed by the bon, gentleman wbo lutroTHE TRADERS LIFE INSURANCE
duced tbe Bill?
COMPANY.
Hon. Mm. SCOTT-Tý.he Bill ls quite an
MOTION.
advance ln the improvement of the age
sending juvenile offenders to Induotrial
YOUNG moved the adoption
by
Hon. Mr.
schools. Theme are only two clauses of of the 21st report of tbe Standing CnmHe said :
the Act that are affected by tita Bill, mittee on Standing- Orders.
clause q0 whicb gives power to sentence The hon. senator from Bellevlille bas calied
Protestant boys to tbe Halifax Indugtrial my attention to the fact that it is flot
School, and section 93 giving similar power rule 113 but mile 110 tbat sbould he susto send Romain Catholie boys to a sîmilar pended 'with tbe permission of the House.
It is This report refers to a petition, for leave
Institution for Roman Catholics.
to keep the boys out of prison rather to present' a petition after tbe expiration
tban send tbem to berd 'witb criminals.
of the time for tbe presentation of petitions. The committee decided to report
Hon. Mr. POWER-I mny say Ilu reply
favourably, but in making out tbe report,
to the hon. senator frorn Tnilings, that tbe
or ln the printing of It mie 113 was nienBill was submitted to the Department of
tioned instead of rule 110.
Justice, and the deputy MinIster of Justice
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-The error migbt
revised tbe measure, making some changes
bave occnrred ln the framing of the relu It. This Is thie Bill as It comps froni
port, or lt might bave been tbe Intention
hlm.
of the committee to ask for tbe suspension of rule ÙL3, wbich also govemns the
Tbe motion was agreed to.
presentation of petitions.
PHOENIX ASSURANCE tUMPANY
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
BILL.
is a somewbat Important Bill, for the purSECOND READING.
pose of establishing another Ilfe Insurance
Hon. Mr. BOSTOCK moved the szecond company. The committee report tbat atisreadlng of Bill (LL) An Act respecting the factory reasons have been given for not
He said : having compiied wlth the rules of the Senate
Phoenix Assurance Company.
This is a Bill for the purpose of ailowing in the presentation of the petition and otherCould the hon, gentleman inform
the Phoenix Assurance Company to carry Wise.
on the if e insurance business of the Peli- tbe Senate what reasons were given why
can Insurance Company, the two colapa- the requirenients of the mules of tbe Senate
0f course the
nies having nmalgamated. Under our law, were not complied 'wlth?
a flre Insurance company Is flot aliowed Senate, in ï9dopting the report of the com-

SENATE
mlttee, assume that it is correct, but they the Great ln Canada.
He said:
One
ouglit to know what those satisfactory rea- ameadment Is changing the number of disons were ln order to enable senators to rectors from tbree to five.
Judge of the correctness of the report.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-WII the hon, genHon. Mr. CLORAN-I should like to taise tleman be klnd enough to explain what the
a point of order.
Has the hon, gentleman Mission la?
a right to repnort what happened ln the
committee?
I have been called to order
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I have no personal
several times for doing so.
knowledge on the subject, but In the absence~ of the hon. senator (Hon. Mr. Talbot)
The SPEAKER-The chairman of the
who had charge of it, 1 may say tlint the
committee can give the reasons on whicb
object ls to carry on charitable and educathe report la based.
tionai work.
Power is sougbt to Iavest la
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I do flot press the real estate flot ezceeding an annual value
point of order; I 'understand that the de- of $25,OOÔ, and the rîglit to mortgage their
property and Invest what funds they have
clilon applies to aIl cases.
la certain securities.
At the same time
The SPEAKER-lt does, but this case it provides
that ail their funds shall be ap19 flot analogous to the other cases to which plied to educational,
charitable and benevothe hon, gentleman refera.
lent purposes.
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-It Is usual for the
The motion was agreed to.
Committee on Standing Orders to make Its
reports as brief as possible, because they
LONDON AND LANCASHIRE GUARANare generaliy of a formai character.
The
TEE AND ACCIDENT COMPANY
question asked by the hon. senator fmom
BILL.
Hastings ls a proper one.
The company
faiied to present the petîtion la time, owîng COMMONS AMENDMENTS CONCURRED
to the absence of sonie of the petitioners
IN.
f rom the country.
They got It slgned,
Hon. Mr. BOSS (Middlesex) moved conspeaking from memory, on the 23rd o! currence ln the amendments made
by the
Matdh, and the Urne for the presentatlon of flouse of Commons to Bill (Q)
An Act to
petitions had expîred on the 18ti, and they incorporate the London
and Lancashire
were a few days too late.
The evidence Guarautee and Accident Company of Canbefore the committee sntisf6ed the commit- ada.
tee unauimously that there were exteuuatîng
circunistances justifyîng them la mnking
Hon. Sir MACKEN~ZIE BOWELL--I
this recommendatlon.
called the attention of the flouse yesterday
to this Bill, to which some 16 or 18 amendHon. Mr. LANDRY-At ail events, ail ments
are made. Are they not of sufficient
that can be done now is to present the importance
to brlng the amendments under
petition, and the other delays must ensue.
the clause to which I calied attention, wvhich
provides that they must be referred to a
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Certaînly.
Committee of the Whole, or to a standing
The motion was agreed to.
commîttec, for consideration? If the hon.
gentleman wislies to have the Bill passed
now lie sliouîd have explained the amendRUTHIENIAN CATHOLIC MISSION
ments.
BILL.
AMENDMENTS CONCURRED IN.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN moveci concurrence ln
the ameadments made by the Standing Conimittee on Miscelianeous Prîvate Bis to Bill
(69) An Act to incorporate the Rutbenian
Cathoiic Mission of the Order of St. Basil
Hon, sir MACKENZIE BOWELI,

The SPEAKER-If the ameadments are
not unimportant the hbon. gentleman could
move to have them considered la Committee of the Whoie.
Hon. Mr. POWEll-Or by the Comumittee
on Banking- and Commerce.

801

APIRIL 9, 190S
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middiesex)-I consider
the amendments are flot important. One
amendment le to Increase the number of
directors, and the amendments are la the
direction of reducing the powers of the
company.
If.these amendments strengtbened or increased. the powers of the company as agreed to by the Committee on
Banking and Commerce, the position would
be different; but it rather takes from the
company some of the powers that the committee are willing to let themi have.
I
think the House la perfectly safe la adopting the aiendments.
The motion was agreed to.
At six o'clock the Speaker le! t the Chair.
After Recess.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Wben the House of
Commons adjourned at six o'clork, tbey
were stili considering the Bill relRtIng to
the Inland Revenue, connected more particularly with tbe tobacco industry, and I
do not suppose they wil! pass that Bill for
perhaps tbe next bour, -and they promiàsed
that they .would thon take Up the Bill
that we thought was of some importance
ln regard to Immigration-the Bill we were
chieffy Interested ln passing before ilie
Easter adjourument. So I thlnk It would
be better If we decided on bavlng two
sittings of the Cbamber to-morrow, meeting
at eleven o'clock, wher we could dispose
ef the business, and bave tbe Bilifi sauctioned at tbree o'clock and get an adjournment to-morrow. It la scarcely worth
while waitIng to-nlgbt, because it may be
ton or elevon o'clock before wo rocoive
that Bill. I would therofore movo that
when the House rises to-day, lt meets nt
eloven o'clock to-morrow, and again nt
three o'ciock, and that the sItting nt elevon be consIdered a distinct sittlug. nui]
that there be two sittinga to-morrow.

a
l)roclaffiation affecting
Wha t others are thero ?

immigratinui.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The other was a Bill
known as the Inland Revenue Bill regulating the dutios on raw and cured tobacco.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-That
is the one they are considering now ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That la the oua thoy
are now wrestflng with. It affects the
province of Quebec very consIderablv, and
it was thought very dosirable tbat before
arrangements were made for the spring
operations, the people ln Lowor Canadai
should know whether the law wax really
going to be changod. That was tbe argument I beard advanced la tbe House of
Commons, Indicating a desire to have the
Bill passed as promptiy as possible.
HEon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Does the hou. gentleman mean by 'spring opérations' the
local elections la the province ?
Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-The
tion of the tobacco plant.

cultiva-

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.-Oould
not the question of adjourament be settod
to-night, providlng these Blîs come down
and are passed by dhs Senate ln the moruing and assented to la the afternoon ?
Hon. Mr. SOOTT-Yes.
Hou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Migbt
I ask the bon. *Socrotary of State whethor
be bas consIdered the length of timo to
wblch the Senate should, adjoura ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The day fixed originally was Âpril 30.
That would ba a
Thursday.
Hon. Mr. CLORÂN-That Is a bad day.

lion. Mr. SCOTT-The dey for the reassembling'0f the Hlouse la always a bad
day. Thore la a desire to postpone It IadeHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-With the leave o! finitely. In consideration of our not beiag
the Sonate.
able to adjouru on the day firat Inéilcated,
I would have no objections to stretcb it a
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Can
couple of days longer. I tbink we might
the hon, gentleman tell us what Bllis It
adjouru t111 Tuosday the 5tb or Wednesla necessary for the Senato to pase, beday the Oth.
fore he can consent to an adjournment?
I understand thore is one giving certain
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL - 1
powers to the Governor ln Council to Issue do not propose to dîctato to the bon. gen-

SENATE
timan, but my own Impression 4s that at
this period of the session, witli the probabilitbts of a large amount of work coming
down from the other House, that we slhould
adjonrn until the middle of May or even
to the 5th or 6th May? Unless it ls anticipated that when a dozen pui11 come up
to us we are expected to declare thew. carrled without any consideration whatever,
without casting any reflection on tha mode
of legisiation In this House, I thlnk we
do not give sufficient attention, consIderaI recognize 'the
tion and study to Bills.
desire of those who Ilve at a distance from
the capital to have a long adjournment, but
our duty to, the country le paramout to
However, If
any personal conelderation.
the goverument takre the responeibility of
the long adjournment it la not for the few
of us on thie side of the House to object.

horne every Friday and look after our private business until the following Tuesday,
while those who live at a distance have to remain here from the opening of the session
When, therefore, our
until prorogation.
colleagues from British Columbia and the
maritime provinces ask for an adjournment
of four weeks, the least we can do is to,
accord It to them, especiaily when there le
Some bon.
no business before the House.
senators before leaving for their homes requested me te endeavour to have the original
understanding that the adjournment would
be until the 5th of May adhered to.
Hon. Mr. BObTOOK-As there seems to
be some littie misunderstanding about this
motion of mine, I would ask leave to put
it as a notice of motion.

Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-These adjournments are discreditable to the Senate and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-My own Impression
of harm.
was that It would be better to adjourn to wlll do it a grent deal
3Oth.
the
The SPEAKEkt-I cail the attention of
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Stick the hon, gentleman to the fact that the
motion has been withdrawn and a notice
to It then.
of motion has been substituted for It.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-But I found that hon.
Hlon. Mr. LANDRY-The motion was progentiemen on both sides, the leader of the
opposition among them, wanted a long ad- posed by the Chair, and It was on that mojournment to enable them to go to their tion that the hon. senator from Victoria
homes, and remain a while there before re- (Hon. Mr. Cioran) spoke. It cannot be withBesides. I had to take the view drawn without the unanimous consent of
turning.
that the House of Commons wiii adjourn tLie House.
for a week at any rate, so I fancy we will
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-What
not be ln arrears with the business.
possible object can be gnined by withdrawHon. Mr. BOSTOCK moved that when ing the motion and substituting a notice of
If there is to be an adjournment
the Senate adjourns to-morrow it stand ad- motion.
journed until the Oth of May at three the sooner we know about it the better, and
I would suggest to the hon, gentleman from
o'clock.
British Columbia to adhere to his motion.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-The hon. senator
Hon. Mr. WATSON-Of course we want
from Hastings does not sympathize with
those who live ln British CJolumbia and the an adjourument, but the reasons for askmaritime provinces, and who for months at Ing for a postponement of this motion,
a stretch are unable to visit their homes. was to facilitate the passlng of three ImHe la wlling that the government should portant Bis, and the leader of the House
takre the .responsibility of the adjournment, stated that he hnd no objection. oni the
but I see no necessity for throwing the re- understanding that those Bis should be
sponsibility on them. We are perfectly In- assented to to-morrow. If that is the case
dependent of the government in this House. it would not be fair to put the motion toThose of us who live at Montreai and To- night that when the House adjourus It
ronto and other points not far from the capi- stand adjourned tili the 6th of MaY. 1
ta] have the advantage, through the kind- think a notice of motion Is the proper
ness of the majority, of being able to go thing.
Hon. Sir 7dACRENZIE POWELL.

APRIL 9, 190S
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-My
uuderstanding
witb the hou, gentleman from Kamloops
was that he was givlng a changed inotice
of motion. By some misunderstanding this
question was put from the chair. Tbere
was an understanding that theso Bis
should be put through before the Senate
adjourns, and. what la the barre If we
deiay thMs motion tIli to-morrow ?
We
shouid not adjourn and leave this work
unfInIshed. If we have our business coinpieted to-morrow,*we shall be ln a poçàitton
to adjourn.

of the Ottawa Field Battery received at the
same time or that which n'as received by other
corps of the Military District of Ottawa, which
were aise called out for active service.
The last part of this return bias not beefurnished.
The retura of tbe deartment
comprises the two first corps mentioned,
but I want the third one, and one or two
la the fourth category. I have put a littie
note at the bottom, telling what I wantL
It wlll be vers' short.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I suppose It la available 9
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Yes.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-As
the hon. Secretary of State has abs ndoned
the leadership of the House, and the responsibility bas been assumed by the
bon. gentleman from Portage la Prairie,
and the resoens which he bas given have
been so ably seconded by the hon. gentleman fromn Kiilarney, I withdraw niy obJection. Atter the lucld explanations and
the unauswerable arguments advancedi ln
favour of allowing tbe matter to remain.
open till to-morrow, I shouid not be doir'g
my duty If I did not abandon my opposition to It.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I think there la a
way to get out of the dlfficulty. I cannot
see wby the hon. gentleman could nlot
withdraw bis motion and give a notice of
motion, and let It stand untIl to-morrow.
It has been already amended. As the hon.
gentleman from Hastings bas abandoned
bis objection, I hope the new leader ef the
House will see that ail the questions I
place on the Order Paper are answered,
and that ail the returne I aak for are
brougbt down as soon as we re-assemble.
I desire to call bis attention to the tact
that I received an answer to an address
to-day 'whlch ls not complete. On Marcb
17, I moved :
That an order of this Hanse do issue ordering to ba laid on the table of this Honse a
copy of the servicerol cf the Garrison Ârtillery comapanies of Ottawa and Morrisburg.
gpving names of the milîtiamen who were on
active service, and who were in barracks at
Fort Wellington, Prescott, during the months
of November and Decemuber, 1865, and during
the months of January, February, March,
April, May and June, 1866; and aiso a statement showing wvhat n'as the &-aily pay paid to
the soldiers of these two corps and that which
the militiarnen belonging te Company No. 2

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I understood from
the military authorities that my lhon.
frlend was satisfied witb the Information
he was aile to get.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY-That n-as a misunderstandlng. I am satisfied with the way
lt ls prepared.
It is a bona fide way but
It la not compiete.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I hope the bon. gentleman from Stadacona w-i see biq way
to prepare questions for to-morron- whîch
w-i keep the hon. Secretary of State occupied jduring the recess la preparing the
anan-ers.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I desire ta, give
my hon. friend satisfaction la regard te
that, and I wli certainly to-morrow have
a full list, one for each day of tbe recesa,
so that the hon, leader of tbe goverament
la thls House n-iii bave ample opportunity
to prepare the answers wbich are needed
ln the public Interest.
The SPEAKER-I suppose the notice. of
motion for to-morrow- n-ll be on the Order
Paper for the fIrst sittlng. It may be adopted before one o'clock or may be adjourned
tilI the second sitting.
The Senate adjourned
to-morron-.

tIli eleven a.m.,

THE SENATE.
OTTAWA, Friday, April 10, 1008.

The SPEAKER took the Chait, at Eleven
a.M.
Prayers and routine proceedings.-

SENATE

QUEBEC BRIDGE COMPANY.

INQUIRY POSTPONED.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY inquired:
Is it truc, and has this fact been brougit to
the knavledge of the government that on
Thursday, the 28th day of January, 1904, about
tire. montha after having signed vith the
governmcnt its agrement of the l9th Octaber.
1903, the Quebea Bridge and Railvay Company,
at a special. general meeting of its sharehalders, adopted a resolutian confirming in
the most positive manner ail that had been
previausly donc at the said meeting by the
directors on the aubject of the abandonmient
of thecoompany by the shareholders of their
shares nat f uli y paid up. in exchange for
shares completely paid up, for the amount
ehm upan thc shares?
inb
pai
government knov tiat by this
s
Docat
simple transaction those of the shareholders
vho had only paid 4 per cent-there vere some
-and tiase vha had only paid 25 per cent
upon their shares-viao vere nearly all of
them-repudiated the obligation, voluntarily
and legally contraoted, ta pay up in fulil their
ailotment, and thus freed tiemscîves from
shares upon vhich they might*still have been
caicd ta pay 75 per cent or 96 per cent?
Does the gavernment knov tiat the company
thus diminished, at that date, by $156,600, the
amaunt vhich the company might have been
able ta drav upon a suma of $220,SO0 then subscribed by the shareholders, and at one blow
lovcred its subscribed capital ta the figure oi
$63.700.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Is the bon. gentleman ready ta give an answer to thls question?

1. Ras the Quebec Bridge and Railway Company fulfilled the obligation which vas imposed upon it by clause 4 of the agreement
made, between it and the government, on the
1Gth day of Octaber, 1903, which clause reads
as follova
4. The company vil procure subscriptions
for additional stock ta the amount of $20000
such nev stock ta be issued at a price not below par and ta b. immediately paid up in full,
the proceeds ta be applied in the tiret place in
the payment af the discount at vhich the
bonds of the company vere issued as aforesaid,
ta vit the eu. of $188,721. (Being exactly the
diflerence between the sum of $472.000, the
amount of bonds issued, and the sum of $283,279, for which these same bonds were accepted) F
2. Wheu did the company z0 furnish subacriptians for additional stock ta the amount
of $20 000FP
3. WIia are the persans or the companies
vho dividcd amang themn this additianal stock
ta the round sum of $200.000?
4. On vhat date and for vhat amount did
each of these persans or each of these companos become owner of the aforesaid stock?
5. On vhat date did ecd of the aforesaid
~raons or companies pay into thc hands of
of
the price
rle company subscribed (in part or in whole)
F
th stock so
6. Was this amaunt of $200000 paid in full
and in viat manner P How much in cash.
hov much in promissory notes and how mucb
in any other vay F
That question was asked on January 29.
Since that time I have made other Inquires
respectlng li, and I have as yet no answer
1 suppose the gavfrom the goverument.
ernment has forgotten that llttle Item.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It le absolutely Impassible at tlmes to obtain answers to noHan. Mr. LÂNDRY-That Information tices of lnquiry, where the Information is
cornes from the government. It la flot Uic obtained outside of the departrnent.
You
company.
cannot take out a writ against a man beHEon. Mr. SCOTT-I had ta go ta bcd cause he wiil not answer questions. I do
thc best 1 can.
iast nigit.
Han. Mr. SCOTT-No.

Han. Mr. LANDRY-Is the government
behind time ? I suppose thc government
'wil be up ta date on May 7 ?
The inquiry was ailowed ta stand.
QUEBEC BRIDGE COMPANY.

Hlon. Sir. LANDRY-I amrn ot complaining et ail of thc hon. minister, but If the
hon. minister would press gentlyHon. Mr. SCOTT-I wiil be glad to do
anything 1 can, 1 assure my bon. friend.

DELAYED RETURN.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-There Is ample time
between now and May 7-to obtain ail that
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Bef are the orders
of the day are called, I should like ta Information. This Inquiry bas beeni standdirect thc attention of tbc bon. leader of ing since January 29.
the Hanse ta, Uic fact that I obtained. from
Hon. Mr, SOOTT-AIl right, 1 will press
the Senate on January 29, 1908, an order for It.
for an address ta His Excellency the GovHon. Mr. LANDRY-I shall be very
ernor Gencra!, for tbc following Informaanxious to receive the answer whcn the
tion
The SPEAKER.

APIRIL 10. 1908

805

30. The Governor in Council may, b y proclamation or order, whenever he considers it
necessary or expedient, prohibit the landing
in Cana da of any speified class of immigrants
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I hope we shall have or cf any immigrants who have corne to Canthe bon. gentleman here, whether*the ans- ada otherwise than by a continuons journey
are natives
of
wer arrives or not. I should lîke hlm to from the oohntry uponwhich they tickets purthrough
or citizens and
be ahead of the answer.
chased in that country.
The Bill, conaisting as it does of oniy this
LÂNDRY-I arn wlliing to
Hon. Mr.
corne a day lni advance to help the hon. one clause and with a single objeet, I pregentleman, without salary. I shall do as surne will be permitted te pass under a suspension of the rules.
Judge Casuels dees.
House resumes after the Easter adjournment.

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-It Is only subsection
Subsection 2 remains
1 that Is amended.
Bill (69) An Act to lncorporate the Ruthe- uncbanged.
flan Catholic Mission of the Order of Saint
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yee.
Basil the Great ln Canada.-(Hon. Mr. TalHon. Mr. LANDRY-The only change ls
bot.)
In the words ' otherwise than by continuons
SECOND READINGS.
journey '-that ls the material change.
Bill (40) An Act respectlng the Pacific
It will affect
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
Coast Fire Insurance Company.-(Hon. Mr. the people I have indicated, especially JapaBostock.)
nese comlng frorn the Sandwich Islands. A
Bill (41) An Act to Incorporate the Stan'- large number have corne Into Canada la that
dard Plate Glass Insurance Company >of way.
Canada.--(Hon. Mr. Jaffray.)
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
Bill (101) An Act resî,ecting the Fort William Terminal Railway and Bridge Cern- Bill Is of a much wlder character than that
If
described by the Secietary of State.
pany.--(Hon. Mr. Watson.)
the Governor ln Council chooses te use the
IMMIGRATION ACT ÂME NDMENT BILL. prerogatîve thus given te hlm, it may be extended te otiiers than Japanese or Hindoos.
FIRST, SECOND ÂND THIIRD REÂDINGS.
I merely menHon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
A message was received frem the House
tioned these two races by way of Illustraof Commons wilh Bill (135) An Act to
tion.
amend the Immigration Act.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOIWELL-That
The Bill was read the flrst time.
I suppose Is the primary object of the Bill.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the suspension I shouid like te call the attention of hon.
ef the rules so far as this Bill la con- gentlemen te the position the members of
cerned. He said: The Bill consista of the present goverament occupled sorne years
but a single clause and has a single objeet; ago on this question of government by order
it Io te authorize the Governor in Council ln council. I remember diatinctly when the
to alIow the Minîster of the Interlor to pre- friends of the hon. Secretary of State used
vent the arrival in Canada ef undesirable te condemn their oppenents fer lnveting s0
Immigrants, and one way of arriving at that much power ln the Governer la Council. At
Is by providing that any Immigrant coming the time, they contended it should only be
from a country other than of bis birth or done properly, and under the constitution,
The anawer that was usunationality can be stopped, If, ln the diacre- by parliament.
tion of the department, it le deerned advls- ally given by a very preminent leader of
0f course it the Conservative party at that time was that
able ln the public interest.
wili prevent the Influx of Hindoos who corne the 1order ln coundil was a great InstituMest ef you who have listened to
from Hong Kong, and Japailese who corne tion.'
That le sub- the late Sir George E. Cartier wiil rememfrom the Sandwich Islands.
ber very well how he used te meet the
stantially the object of the Bill.
THIRD READING.-

SENA.TE

806

arguments advanced by the leader of my
hon. friend's party on this question, but lu
thls, as lu most other cases, the goverument have found It uecessary to depart from
their early education or, perhaps, I had
better say, thelr early predilections of opposition principles.
HavIng sald this much in'reference to
the past hlstory of the hon. gentleman, I
congratulate hlm that he has upon that,
as upon mnny other thinga, changed hie
mind since the respousIbilities of office
have been placed upon his Éhoulders. How
far will the carrying out of the provisions
of this Act Interfere wlth the treaty luto
which they eutered with Japan hi, reference to the right of the Japanese to come
Into and depart from Canada ? That question was discussed lu this House on a pre.vlous occasion. This BIRl is extending a
power whlch wl] restrlct rlghts of the
Japanese secured to them under the treaty
to wivhlh Canada became a party some
years ago. I do not know that It Is necessary for me to characterlze the couduct
of the goverument at that time, but It was
elther an overslght, If I may use that expression, of the policy of the lnt%! goverument upon this question, or It %vns gross
negligence ou the part of those who intimated to the Colonial Secretary in England the willingness of Canada to accept
tue treaty lu its eutirety, when they hnd
before them, on record, the objections
taken by the late government to becoming
a l)arty to the treaty between Englaud and
Japan on the grounds that It took from the
Canadian government the power to regulate the Immigration into this country.
Nom-. had they followed the policy adopted
at that time, by the Couservative governmeut, noue of these difficulties which have
arisen of lite would have occurred, because the goverument would then have
been ln n position to adopt the pollcy of
Natal. and preveut the entiance Into this
country altogether of au objectionable class
of Immigrants. Had they reflecte-d for a
moment, and accepted the policy of the
late governiment, they might have become
a party ta the treaty, reserving the right
to themnselves ta restrict such immniwlien objection was
gration. because
tak-en by the Dominion goverunt to be-

Secretary at that time, havlng had communication with the Japanese authorities, acceded to a request which had been made by
the Dominion government to reserve the
right lni the treaty to Canada to reguiafe
the Immigration into this country. But,
unfortunately, for the country, at that time
the Conservative government was defeated,
and the present government came into
power. Shortiy afterwards they intlmated
to the Briltish goverument their willingness and desire to become a party to the
treaty with Japan, and wbeu it was asked
If they desired the reservation to be made
in the treaty which had been granted to
Natal, It was intimated. to them that that
concession would be made, and that they
had the authority of Japan to concede that
very Important point, but for some reason
whlch bas neyer yet been explained, they
declined to demaud and Insist upon that
reservation, lntimatlng to the Colonial Secretary thnt they were wllhing to accept it
ln Its entirety, and becoming a party to
the treaty to wbicb England had become a
party.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-And they took three
mnonths to answer a telegram ?

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-And
as bas been intlinated, when a cablegram was sent to the government of this
country, asking If they were willing to necept the treaty as ht was then upon the
statute-book of England, it took them three
Howmonths to answer that telegram.
ever, apart from ail that, It is ouly another
evidence of the want of thorough investigation and cousideration ln the acceptance
of treaties made by England with other
foreigu countries, or with what 1 may cail
My hon. friend
its own dependencies.
knows that formeriy It led to a great mauy
Formerly the English governdifficulties.
ment used to enter into treaties irrespective
of the effect which they might have upon
any of their dependencies or any of their
The long period during which
colonies.
the Conservative goverument were ln power,
they objected to that, and then a concession
of this character was made, whlch Is still,
1 believe. lui existence: that whenever a
treaty is entered into between Great BrItain
and any foreign power, no matter whether
comlnz- a ï,arty to this treaty, the Colonial it be great or smali, it is submitted to the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

APRIL 10, 1908
Canadian government, and a certain perlod whether difficulties may arise between Engis given to tliem to declare whether they land and Canada on tLis subject, or between
will become a party to the treaty ur not, the mother country and Japan, Js fer the
The government, 1
and se far as the late government was con- future ta disclose.
cerned, these treaties which affected the should suppose, have taken aIl these quescommerce of the country ln any degree, tions inta their serious consideration, and
elther directly or indlrectly, were generally bave cerne ta the conclusion, lu order te
reterred te the department over wnich I meet the demand whlch bas exlated and
had the honour to preside. In almost every stili exists on the Pacifie coast, ta take the
Instance, 1 recommended against becorning responsibility, and those who have opiniens
a party te these treaties, and for this reason: ln apposition ta the extreme measures which
the Canadian government neyer knew what have been sdopted, or are Ilkely te be
conditions migbt arise, which would make adopted ln future on this question, muet
it desirable to have freer intercourse with throw on the goverument the responsibility
forelgn nations, and If we had become a they have assumed.
party te the provisions of the treaty entered
Han. Mfr. SCOTT-I can reUleve the hon.
Into between England and a foreign conn-t!y, we would be debarred from enterlng to gentleman's mmnd at once by saytag that
nny better trade relations with that country. this Bill will ta no 'way Interfere with the
It
By flot becoming a party to snch treaties understanding we have with Japan.
Japanese
will meet with their approval.
we were always ln a position to enter Into
reciprocal relations or te muke any conces- coming ta Canada muet abtain their pasell
sion to meet concessions which were made part befare leaving their country.
That was the reason why the late others we can thrust asIde. The underto us.
goi-ernment deciined ln aimost every In- standing with Japan la a cordial and piesstance te become parties te treaties which sant one. 1 am flot going ta diseuse Vie
affeeted the trade of the country. I have broader questions my hen. friend entered
wntcbed current events pretty closely, aud I upon more Vian ta say Viat I do not agree
have neyer yet seen any satisfactory expia- lu the conclusions he bas reached. I do
nation of the reasons which induced Vie pre- not believe Viat we shauld bave secured
sent goverilment to become a party te this a treaty with. Japan If we had insisted
treaty with Japan containing the objection- upon adopttag Vie Natal Act. My readtag
able clauses te which I have referred. The of Vie correspondence-and I have certainly
ouly explanation 1 have ever beard was by given It a great dea] of attention-lu 1896
my hon. friend opposite when he said that was Vhia: That the late government lnthere were advantages te be derived by en- sisted that neither labourera nor artisans
tering Into that treaty, of which we weuld shouid be admitted Inte Canada. That was
be deprived If we did flot enter into ItL My the ground Viey took. The Japauese were
answer te that is that you could have oh- quite willtag Viat we should excinde Vie
tained ail the concessions and ailthe advan- labourera, but drew the iae at artisans,
tages ln the matters ef trade that could and.s0 Vie negotiations were broken off.
be derived from that treaty and stili retain If hon. gentlemen wlll reflect for a moment,
the riglit te restrict Immigration. I thought they wll recognize Viat Vie conditions lu
it only justice to the late gevernment te 1896 were entirely different from Vie conpoint eut the fact that ail these advantages ditions ln 1906. In ten years, Japau had
might have been derived had their policy jumped frem betag a practically unknown
been continued, and.none of these difficulties country into being one of Vie leadlng naln regard to Immigration would have accur- *tions efthVe world. Japan had ln the meanI may sny before this Bill is passed- *time met successfully s0 powerful a nation
red.
and I am net aware that anyene is geing as Russia, and their national pride had
te oppose It under the circumstances, be- *risen under Vie new conditions, and it
cause the government must take the full I waàs perfectly ldle fer us te have insisted
responsibility of placing It on the statute * t that time on the Natal Act. 1 am quite
book-whether it Is going to bring us Into *aware that tbe Colonial Secretary commuconflict with the treaty as lt new existe, er *nicated with Canada and wanted te know

SNT

808

whether we were going to insist on the
Natal Act. That did flot at ail indicate
that- .apan was wl]iug to concede it.
Japan would bave turned it do'wtn at once
-no question about that-and it was simply having a treaty wlth Japan under couditions that seemed extremely promising,
or cutting It adrif t. Japan bas met us very
fairly indeed. When Japan came to recognize that it wvas a cause of trouble ln
Canada, the influx of so many Asiatics
and foreigners, tbey appreciated our position, and made an arrangement that is now
being fairly carried. out, and 1 tbink wili
work in the future, and this BiII will la
no way confiict wltb the new arrangement
we have with Japan. I can give my hon.
frlends that assurance.

its war wlth Russia, a correspondence was
exclianged between the Canadian and British governments and the fo1liowing despatch was sent by Mr. Lyttelton to this
goverument. It la dated London, July 4,

London, July 14, 1905.
Referring to your confidentiel despatch of
June 7, should Japanese government be infornied that your government wishes ta ad-

her, te treaty of 1894 aud supplernutary convention of 1895 under same terms and conditions es Queensland in 1897 which Japanese
goverament thon agreed to extend ta any other
colonies adherimg withiu preecribed period,
namely (1) that stipulaton contained. iu first
and third articles of trayshahl not in any
way affect laws, ordinauces aud regulations
with regard to trade, immigration o f labourers, artisans, police and publie security, which
are in force or heTeafter may b. ,nacted in
Japan or in colony; (2) that treaty shall
cease ta b. binding as between Japan and
after
BOWELL-Per- colony at expiration of twelve monthe desire
notice bas been given on eitber side of

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE
haps I may be ln error, but my recoilection
Io that Japan had consented at tlw, trne to
enter into trade relations witb Canada conceding wbat had been conceded to Natal.
My Impre ssion is tbat that was the lutt.
If I
mation from the Colonial Secretary.
amn ln error, 1 should like to be puit right.
1 wish to add to what I have already said,
that the Conservative governrnent neyer
objected to artisans and the parties to
wbor-i my hon. friend bas referred, coming
into Canada. That was always conceded
by the Conservative goveranent.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-My recoliection of It
ls very accurate, because I bad to analyze
very carefuily ahl the correspoadence of
our predecessors, and I am quite rigbt tu
saying that Japan consented that the labour element should be excluded frorn Canada ln tbe treaty tben contemplated, but
would not agree to tbe exclusion of artisans. Âccording to rny readiag, under the
Natal Act, artisans might be excluded, and,
therefore, the Natal Act i its entirety
would not bave been acceptable so far
back as ten years ago; but certainly, in
1906, atter bier successful war with Russia,
Japan would never bave conseated to our
drawing the lUne so exclusively.

to terminate samie.

Or are your goverxxment prepared to adhere
absolutely sud witbout reserve as would appear to be the case from speech of Minister of
Agriculture in Canadian parliament, June 22?
Ple1ase telegraph reply.
LTETN

No reply was sent until the following
September, after a new appeal had been

made by Mr. Lyttelton, ln the toilowing
telegrarn:
London, September 6, 1905.
Ia reply to your telegram ieceived today
please inforim your Prime Minister that before taking steps as regards adhesion of your
governrment to commercial treaty with Jeêpan
Hi eMajesty's government awiiting reply to
telegrarn of July 14.
LTETN
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I bave read aIl that
a dozen times. I arn qulte familiar witb
every word of 1tL

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Tbe bon. Secretary
o! State, after some deliberation, sent the.
following answer :
Ottawa, September 25, 1905.
The undersigned, the Secretary o! State, bas
ha& under consideration the minuta of council
approved on June 7 last, advising, on the r.commendation of the Minister o! Trade and
Commerce that His Exoellency be moved to
ascertain wbether the Japanese goverument
would be prepared ta admit Canada to a participation in the existing treaty between Great
Fritain and Japan, adopted in the year 1894
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL- 1 amn and supplementary convention 1895 aud bas
very glad that my hon. friend's recoliec- had also, under consideration the cable despstch from Mr. Lytteltan ta Earl Grey of
tion confirms my own.
July 14 hast inquiring whether the governent
of Canada was prepsred to adhere absolutely
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Prior to 19063, anld without reserve to the treaty of 1894 and
1895, or whether Canada desired to limit the
'when Japan came out so gloriously froi

Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

APRIL 10, 1908
terms of the treaty to, the conditions made on
behalf of Queensland when accepting the
Japanese treaty, which provided that the stipulations contained in the lst anà Brd articles
cf the treaty should. not in any way affect the
laws, ordinances and regulations with regard
to trade. immigration of labourera, artisans.
police and publie security which are in force
or miglit hereafter be enacted in Japan or
Queensland; (:2)limiting the treaty ta a period
Of 12 months after notice giron on either aide.
When the minute of counoil dated June 7,
1905, was approvod the judgment of the Privy
Council as expressed in that minute was that
Canada was iilîing to become a party to the
treaty of 1894 and supplemontai-y convention
of 1895 without any reserve. Sînce those dates
Japan lias enacted a law,, limiting -immigration to foreign countries thus removing one of
the objections that influenced tho government
cf Canada in declining to become a party to
the treaty with Jàpan in 1897.. It is doubtful
whether Jaan would now agree te a treaty on
any other basis than the proposais contaxned
in the criginal. treaty.
The undersigned thereforo reccmmends that
a cable despatch be sent ta Mi-. Lytteltan advising him that the governinent cf Canada
is prepared te adhere absolut;ely and without
reserve te the treaty cf commerce and navigation made betwoen Great Britain and Japen
ini 1894 and suppiemontary convention signed
at Tokio in Ju y, 1895.
Ail af wliich is respectuuy suumiueu.
R. W. SCOTT,
Secretary cf Stata.
Se, prier ta tbat Important step taken
by JapgIn In 1906, this gevernent had
giron Its decisien te adliere absolutely
without reserve te tee treaty between
Great Britain andi Japan.

f aith and will not try to, put any restrictions
by right of treaty. The Queensland treaty is
quoted, but this treaty does nat now exiat
mince hier amalgamation into the Commonwealth, and thero is not any treaty at pi-osent
between the colony and Japan.
I hope you will do your best not to mako
any speciai proposai ta the English government, else i-aur endeavours will came te, nothJng.
Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-It bas notblng te do
wlth thls Bill.
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-Tbat was his opinIon.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-But lie was speaklng
as the representative of bis governmeflt.
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-Tbat was not a i-ep1y at ail.
Hon. Mr-. BEIQUE-Then hie gave an assurance te tbe Canadian governmeflt that
the Immigration would be restrlcted by bis
own goverant.
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-A5 far as possible.

Hon. Mfr. BEIQUEý-It la qulte natur'ai
thiat, under sucli circumstancea, tee Canadin governme'it, who were contemplatiflg
fosterlng the trade between tels counitry
and JaPan te a considerabie extent, and
were therefore interested in keeping In full
sympatby wltb tbe Japanese governuiext,
should deem It advisable to take tels assurHon. Mr-. SCOTT-Beeause we knew ance on the part of the representative of
Mr-. Lytteiton the Japanese government and accecLe te, the
bere was no etber way.
dees net undertake te say teat Japan was request. Now,-tbe resuit bas net pi-oved ta
wlling te do teat. Some clerk In tee be agalust- the Interests of tbls counltry.
colonial office cepled despatches of ten We have liad tee example of wbat lias takien
years previously. There la ne bâais of pl ace bei-e as well as in the States, and It la
fact in tbat communication, net the amali- perfectly well known that althougli the
United States were free te Impose whatever
est.
gntlmanrestrictions they liked, tee difficuitiesof were
Mon.Mr.BÉIQE-Te bn.
the
entlemanhi more intensified. on the oteer aide
sigr. ofIUEte n
Hao.
elsInternational boundary tean they were on
te
baslesf aibt nte entte
Tbe resuit has been teat tbe
tels aide.
geverument by Mr-. Nesse, 'wlich la to e
He Japanese gevernment bas taken upen ltself
page 2099 of , Hansard.'
found on
the restrictien ef Immigration In a fair measays :
Therefore, tee crltlclsm made on
The Japaneso govei-nment will, I am afraid, sure.
nover agi-ce te such toi-ms, and decline to en- tels occasion as wel as en former occasions,
toi-tain the question cf allowing Canada inte
does not
thi ary if se will ask Japan te proe her by the hon. senator f rom Hastings
to the
England
Japan gires instance, the appeal to my mmnd, and, I belleve,
pa ocssos
themndcfh.mebr0ftlHosgriglit of coastwise navigatien, for
osgn
fti
o.mmes
nso
Cnadian Pacific Railway steamers at pi-I quite understand teat the lion.
sent cail at the open parts in Japan. but erally.
J apan will nover ask the samne privilege, and gentleman is mucli moi-e Impressed. tban
ho restrictedmebs0ftsHuegeralaewb os
the immigration will always do hope very
rwt
eeaI
fti
ebr
voluntarili- by Japan, and I
will depend upon aur good the omniscience e! tbe late government, and
mucli that Canada

SENATE
ference between makzing a treaty wvith a
foreigai governaient and taking the word oi.
a consul general ln the country, aud putting
it iu a treaty.
If Japan is prepared to do
ail that it promised to, do, Japan will probably carry out Its promise; but tbe agreement should, have been put lu tbe treaty
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-We would want an- and
tben there could bave been no misother commission to, ftnd that out.
understanding about It [n future.
Goveru.Hon. Mr. POWER-I rîse for the purpose ments, as my hon. friend knows, are like
of calllng attention fo the tact that we are many Indivîduals; tbey sometimes make pronot now conslderlng the treaty wltb Japan. mises wbich they neyer carry out.
That bas been settled, and there le no object
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-I wish to cali the
In going back and dlscussing a matter wbich
attention of the House to the tact that
was very fully debated nt tbe proper tîme.
members bave been permItted. to speak hait
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Haxe we no rîglit to a dozen times on thls question, Whlle at
do that?
times, on other subjects, a senator la flot
permitted to speak twiee.
Hon. Mr. POWER-No.
The SPEAKER-I admit there were reHon. Mr. LANDRY-Certalnly we bave. marks wbicb were out of order, but they
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tlje speeches are not were made by leave of the House. If no
relevant to, the subject before the House. point of order la ralsed, I take It for granted tbat there la no objection.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Thils
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
la rather a new doctrine to lay down.
We
are dealing wlth a Bill whicb we contend passed tbrougb its final stages.
mnaterially affects the treaty Into whlcb we INLÂND REVENUE ACT AMENDMENT
entered with Japan, are we to be told tbat
BILL.
we are not to discues tbe effect wblch we
believe lit will have on the peaceful relations
FIRST, SECOND AND THIIRD REÂDINGS.
between tbe empire and Japan and this
A message was received from tbe House
country? It la a new doctrine?
of Commons with Bill (143) *An Act to
Hon. Mr. POWIER-The bon, gentleman amend the Inland Revenue Act.
has not been dIscusslng the effeet of this
The Bill was read the first time.
measure, he bas been dlscussing the effect
of tbe treaty.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved tbe suspension
that lie ia always disposed to criticise the
present goverument.
There ls no doubt
that sometimes tbis government, like ail
governments, ls open to crlticism; but on
this occasion I do flot tbink. tbe crltlcism la
justlfied.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-As
this Bill affects the treaty, we have a rIgbt
to discues wbat that efiect is likely to be,
and the provisions of the treaty, and the
manner ln wblcb this Bill will affect them.
I think we may well leave that question ln
the bands of the Speaker If it Is raised as a
point of order.
The hon. gentleman from
D)e Salaberry says that I tbink ail Acts of
the late goverument are above critlclsm.
He labours under a great misapprebenslon
If lie tbinks so.
In the case of the late
goverument, as lu the case of ail others, as
events show, the wisest course bas not aiways been followed.
The only difference
between the hon, gentleman and those who
agree wltb me Is this: there Is a vast difHon. MTe. BEIQUE.

of the rules so, far as tbey relate to, the
Bill.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Wil]
the bon. Secretary of State kindly Inforin
us wbat necessity there ls for thls rapld
legisiation ?
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-The tobacco lndustry
is assuming larger proportions year by
year, and his Bill proposes to, give greater
advantages to, the Canadian grower.
ln
Essex, and many parts of tbe province of
Quebec, they are growlng more tobacco
every year, and this Bill will stimulate
the lndustry. It Is thougbt desirable tixat
the people lnterested shiou]d be advised as
early as practicable that the Bill bad re-

APIRIL 10, 1908
ceived the appreval et parliameut lu. orderi
that they miglit make arrangements fer
the coming season accordingly. The provisions et the Bill malnly are te permit et
oniy one class et license. Under the existlug Act, there la censiderablp elaberatien lu regard te tobacco liceusIng. For
one thiug, there are feur stamps, and it
la prepesed te reduce the number te eue,
and there are a number et detals wblch
are chauged by the Bill wlth a view >te
At
the mere simple werklung et the Act.
present, Canadian leat tebacce gees Inte
the tactery and la subject te the sanme duty
as fereign leat. That Is beiug chnnged te
the advautsge et the Canadian grower.
Heu. Mfr. LANDRY-WIli It be aubject
te the ame duty ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The duty !s cbanged
ln this Bill, but the law as It stands at
present prevîdes that wben Canadian tebacce ge lute thie factery It shail ba subJect te thie ame duty as toreigu, tobacce.
The motion was agreed te, and the Bill
was rend the second time.

1

at the end ef the section ' te manufacture
Canadian lent tobacco only.' Why la that
change made ?
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-There are certain
words taken out, because there la oniy one
license te be lssued now.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 4,
4. Section 141 of the said Act is r"paled and
the following is substituted therefor.
141. The departmnent may, under the regulations made for that purpose, aliow on the
exportation of goods manufactured from, or
a product or resuit of the process of manufacture of, articles subject to a duty of excise,
aud on which. such duty cf excise has been paid
a drawback equal to the duty se paid with
such deduction therefrom as is proviâed in
such Tegulations and subject te the direction
cf the Governor in Council
2. The said section 141 shall be construed as
if it had been origiually enacted as herein
ameuded.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-As the law stood, the
Departrnt et Justice declded that the
Act did flot contemplate the inteiference
ef the Gevernor lu Council, and this la to
make it retroactive se as te recognize
wliat lias been doue.

Heu. Mfr. SCOTT moved that the Heuse
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Dees
resolve Itseit inte a Cemmittee et the
the retuud under clause 141 apply te the
Whole en the Bill.
excise duty whlch has been pald, as well
Éou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL - I as the duty whlcli Is pald upon the lImwaut te congratulate the heu,. gentleman ported lent ?
en having taken another step lu the direcHou. Mfr. SCOTT-It Is oniy the duty
tion et carrylng eut thie pollcy et the late
goverumeut I hope the hon. senator frem ou the lent that Is retunded.
De Salnberry will not thlnk that I amn tryHen. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Tlist
ing to extel the acta et the late goveru- la the imperted leaft?
ment again ; 1 arn slmply statiug a tact.
Hon. Mfr. SOOTT-Yes.
My hon. triend says that this BIi la ln
the liue et protection. I ceugratulate hlm
The clause was adopted.
on lis stili furtlier conversien te a proteetîve
pollcy. As long as lie legIalates lu that
On clause 7,
diVection, I can assure hlm et my support
7. Section 266 cf the said Act is ameuded by
at least, and ou tlie support et aIl members adding the following subsection thereto:
2. Every persen
et the Senate whe approve et a protective spirits coutaining who uses methyl alcohol. or
methyl alcohol in any forai,
pellcy.
in any pharmaceutical, medicinal or other preparation iutended for external use shall affix
'rhe motion was agreed te, aud tlie House ta the vessel coutaîning the said preparation a
reselved itselt lute a Committee et the label statiug, iu black letters net less than
one-fourth of an inch in heighit, the presence
Wbole.
et methyl alool therein; and every person
violating the provisions of this subsection shall
(lu the Cemmittee.)
incur a penalty net less thau flfty dollars and
net exceediug two hundred dollars.
On the first clause,
Hon. Mr. POWER-I do net propese te
Ilou. '-,%r. POWER-The chiange lu this
clause la made by strlking eut the words move an arndmeut, but If we had plenty

812

SENATE

of time, I tiiink it inight be well te arnd
the clause. I first call attention to Vie exlstlng section, 200, -whcli provides Viat
every person who uses meViyl or spirits
containing meViyl In any ferm, la any
pliarniaceutical, medicînal or other preparation lntended for external use ehll lie
liabue to a penalty cf $500. Tlie amendment provîdes a penalty for tlie use cf
tliese spirits lnternally.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That is added.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Tlie peint la Vils:
That very often people are polsoned by
gettlng liold cf preparatiens cf Vis klnd
lu the dark, and I think Viat Vie mere fact
Viat tliere la a dark label on a bottie does
not guide one very mucli If lie ls going te
get a medîcine bottle at nîglit, and tlie provision, wliicli, I tilnk, exIsta already ln our
law, fixai a bottie contalnlng Vils deadly
poison sheuld be made of ruffened glass, la
the proper one.
Thie clause was adepted.

. Hon. Sir MA.CKENZIE BOWELL-Oan
the lion. Secretary of State tell us why
the great reduction in the excise duty Is
made ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The duty la now
placed on the raw leaf. Formerly It was
10 cents. Now it La28 cents.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Then
Vhe revenue Is recouped by the duty imposed upon the Imported leat instead of
coliectlng Vhe excise on the manufactured
article. That is another step lu the direction of protection.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 12.

12. AUl stemmed and unstemmed raw leaf
tobacco and ail materials and artioles the produot in whole or in part of raw leaf tobacco
whieh are in process of manufacture in any
tobacco or cigar manufactory licensed to use
foreiga raw leaf tobacco shall, in addition to
the duty alreariy paid upon the raw isaf, lie
subject te the difierence between the rate se
On clause 9,
paid and that hereby imnposed, and ail other
9. Section 275 of the said Act is repealed materials in stock in any factory at the time
this Act cornes into force shall, under the conand the folwing is substituted therefor:
275. The person la whose favour a license ditions of subsection 2 of section 279 of the
for manufactnring tobacco or cigars is grantod ssid Act, as hereby enacted, lie subject te the
shaîl, upen receiving such lîcense, psy te the rate of duty therein mentioned; and the quantity upon which such additioanal duty shal lie
collector the sum cf fifty dollars.
Il. Section 279 of the said Act is repealed and paid, as well as the quantity upon which the
percentage of sncb other materials shal lie
the following is substituted therefor:
based, shall le determined in snch manner as
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL--Is the Department of Inland Revenue directs.
Vint a reduction cf thie lcense fee ?
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-This
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-There la enly one Is- a departure from Vie usual practice of
The pollcy of Vie past lias
legisiation.
lîcense now.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-Fer been Viat whenever a duty la cbanged, ail
manufacture of ail kînda of tobacco and goods In bond are subJect te Vie -new duty.
This prevîdes for Vie contlnuance of Vie 01(1
cîgars ?
duty, whether It Is lilgb or 10w, upon ail
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes.
tobacco mentioned la Vhis clause, that is la
Tlie furthest Vils priabond at Vie time.
Tlie clause was adopted.
ciple lias been carried, as far as my recelOn clause 11,
lection carrnes me back, Is that when goods,
279. There shail lie imposed, levied and col- purchased la the f orelgn market, are Ia
lected on tobacco and cigars manufactured in
Canada, the fellowing duties of excise, which transit te hils ceuntry that they hiave been
shail li paid te the collecter as by this Act aliowed te corne la at the duty whlcli exprovided, that is te say:
isted ai Vie time of -purchase. This goes
Hon. Mr. LA.NDRY-In the subciauses a good deal further.
No matter wliat
of Vils clause there are changes. Ia sub- quantity cf goeds may be In bond at the
clause ' a' It Is 25 cents; new -it Is 5 cents. time Vis Act cornes into force, they have
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Yes. In section 'a 1 the beneflt of the old law.
lnstead of 25 cents It la 5 cents, and la
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The old duty was
section 'b' 5 cents, and la section 'c' it
higher la that particular than the new duty.
Is 5 cents iastead of 25 cents and se on.
Hon. Mr. POWE1t.

APRIL 10, 1908
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-But
In the
the principle la just. tlie sarne.
past the manufacturer who bail the goods ln
bond received the advantages of the lower
duty, or had te submit te the dîsanvantage
of the higher duty.

813

because they are ail under one license. In
the clause as it orilnaily stood there was a
division.

Hon. Sir MACKCENZIE BOWELL-Thls
again 1s, accordlng te the policy ef the gevernment, to make no distinction whatever
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is the Geverner ln ln the labels that are piaced upon the manuCouncil empowered by Wes legislation te factured article, whether It be made frorn
Interfere and reduce It te the figure men- foreign or domestic -growth. Is that it?
tloned ln the iaw as It stands now?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The clause ls ImperaHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-When
tive.
we corne te the third reading I shall ask
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But If there la an- for an explanatien as te whether there Is
other clause empewering the Gevernor ln te be but one stamp or label on ail kinds
Councîl te. Interfere, and te be at liberty te and quality ef tobacco.
give that reduction, which would bring it
The clause was adepted.
te the duty now imposed.
Hon. Mr. KERR, frem the comrnittee. reHon. Mr. SCOTT-The only interference
ln Councîl would be te ported the Bill without amendment.
by the Governor
proclaim when the Act shahl cerne ln force.
Hou. Mr. SCOTT moved the third reading
of the Bill.
Hon. Sir MACKÇENZIE BOWEBLL-The
Governer ln Ceuncil would have ne authority whatever, because this clause makes the
collection of the duty Imperative.
The clause was adopted.
On clause 2,3.
25. Section 384 of the said Act is repealed
and the following is substituted therefor-.
334. AUl imported raw beal tobacco which is
removed from the custody of the customs
authorities te a tobacco or cigar manufaotory,
or te a iicensed bonding warehouse, when it
passes into the possession and control of the.
department~ may b. s0 removed in bond, such
bond b.ing taken by the coeetor of customa
and aocompanied by proper entry paeris, and
shall b. for an amount equal te on. dolar per
on shall be leai tobacco te the delivery
cound and the. raw conditioned for which it relates
of thie raw leaf tebace te the tobacco or cigar
manufacturer or licensed bonding warehouse
mentioned therein.
2. Such bond shall b. cancelled by the certificat. on the customs remevrai entry, by the.
colleter or other proper officer of Inland
Revenue, that the tebacco te which it relates
has been received at the. tebacco or cigar menufactory or license bonding warehouse mentioned therein, and an account thereof made in the
rnanufacturer's or licensed wareheuseman's
books.
3. The quantity certified te the. collecter of
Inland Revenue shall b. that asoertaî.ned by
actual weight by the. officer in charge of the.
tobacco or cigar manufactory or on the
promises et a licensed warehouseman.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It ls not necessary te
refer te the different classes ef factorles,

Houn. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
should like te knew from the Secretary of
State why the policy of having but one
label on aIl klnds of tobacco and cigars bas
Under the former law, as I
been adopted.
understand it, the label would Indicate the
character ef the article that was being purIn other words, the label would
chased.
show whether cigars were made from forI amn
elga or from home grown tobacco.
net a user of tobacco, and neyer was; consequentiy I cannet appreciate the virtues ef
Ia this change
the different qualities.
made for the protection of the Canadian
grown leaf, or la it te enable the seller te
dispose ef the Inferior article and pan it
off as the superior article?7 Under the old
iaw, a dealer placlng an impreper label
upon an article would be subject to a penIn this case the buyer lias
alty for fraud.
to be the judge, elther by tasting the tobacce
or by smoking it, of what lie ls buying, uniess the retailer or wholesaler ls bonest enough te tell hlm the cliaracter of the leaf
eut* ef which the article le rnanufactured.
I arn strongiy ln faveur ef protection, but I
like te have it dene ln an honest, straightferward way, 50 as net te humbug and deceive the people whe purchase. This clause.
as the hon. gentleman lndicated a short time
age, is fer the protection of the Canadian

SENýATE
H-ou. Mr. SULLIVAN-There is an exhome grown leaf, but wbile it is a protection
ception to ail rules.
to the producer it will not be a protection
to the consumer, and I suppose in order to
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
carry out the doctrine off protection to its was rend a third tinie and passed.
fullest extent It is legitimate in the eyes off
E.XCHANGE ACT AMENDthe government that the purchaser shouid b±LLS 0F
MENT BILL.
Is that
deceived and nlot protected.
be
the prîncipie the government bas acted on? FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD REÂDINGS.
A messae was recelved from the House
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, 1 understand there
was an actuai prejudice against the Cana- off Commons with Bill (142) An Act to
dian grown tobacco, which is not fair.
amend the Bis off Exchange Act.

Hon. Mr. SULLIVA N-Very properly sO. 1The Bill was read tbe first time.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill be
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Under the law at preHe said a
at the table.
sent, there are different rates off duties ac- rend at iengtb
eway typographical error occurred in the Revlsed
That Is done
cordlng to the stamp.
'endorser' being Insertwitb, and for the first time, the duty bas Statutes, the word
That ed lnstead off lendorsee.'
been equalized and one stamp suffices.
is the renson.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-That ls going to
have a terribly bad effect on every Individual wbo emokes, and tbe smokers constitute a large body in tbe community. If
the tobacco Is indicated by the stamp, thîs
provision should be removed, because 1 can
assure bon, gentlemen that thîs Canadian
leaf, witb ahl due respect to the gentlemen
wbo are connected wltb the sale off it, Is a
If a man smokes
most villainous article.
this hiome grown tobacco in the smoking
compartflellt off a car, for Instance, It
I do not
would mea Instant expulsion.
say that bumorously, but I say It is a very
You cannot grow the
Inferlor tobacco.
sme tobacco lu this country that you cau
In Cuba and the United States, so tbat If
tbe government bas entered into any sucb
contract witb bis satanic majesty it wiii
I arn sorry that
have a very -bad effect.
bas been cbanged, for my own sake,
the Iaw
and I amn afrald 1 will have to gIve up thé
Indulgence off smoking.
HEon. Mr. WATSON-I think I can assure my bon. friend that he aeed not be
afraid, and sbouid neot require Canadian tobacco to be labeied poison, because the bon.
gentleman ffromn Kiliarney bas been smoking lt for years and be is a healtby subject
yet.
Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-Canadian tobacco?
Hon. Mr. YOUNG-Yes.
Hlon. Sir M-%ACI'ENZIE BOWELL.

Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill be
rend the third 'Urne.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I
should like to cali tbe attention off the Secretary off State to an error, as we are corBill No. 9, passed
recting errors lu Bis.
by both Houses, and sanctioned by the Governor Generai, contains no enacting clause.
The usual provision 'His Majesty by and
with the advice and consent off the Senate
enacts as foilo'ws,' bas been omitted. What
effect will that bave?
Hon. lir. SCOTT-I do nlot know.
Hon. Mr. LANDR-It might bave the
effect off changlng the government.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I wIll reffer It to the
Justice Department.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
was rend the third time and passed.
OCEAN STEAMSHIP SUBSIDIES BILL.
FIRST, SECOND AND TIIIRD REÂDINGS.
A message was recelved ffrom the House
off Commons witb Bill (145) An Act to
amend the Act relating to Ocean Steamnships
Subsidy.
The Bill was reid the first Urne.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved that the Bill be
real nt lenigth at the table.

APRIL 10, 1908
He said: The French treaty bas flot yet
been approved by the French goverament,
and this legisiatiou is for the purpose of
grantlng a subsidy by Canada for a Frenchi
line.
It pxay have some Influence on the
passage of the trenty ln France.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWEL,-If
-this is flot what is termed hasty legisation,
I do flot know what ht le.
No one has hail
an opportunity of cousidering that question.
Âlthough ht does not require Èny great
amount of thought, stili the granting of a
.subsidy of that kind and the ternis on
whicij It la to be paid, are Important questions, and whetber the steamers are to mun
direct from port to port or whether they
can carry goods to England or any other
country en route to France, or whether It
le absoiutely necessary to have the transportation from this country direct with
the veesels recelvlng thie subsldy to France
ln order to enabie the Canadian exporter to
receive the benefit accruing from the adoption of the French minimum ln the provisions of the treaty.
None of us know
anytbing about it, because as I understand
It there la no provision for ItL This hasty
legIsiation le altogether Inexcusable; but it
Is only doing preclseiy what I Indicated a
few days ago that on an occasion of this
kind, or at the close of the session, a dozen
or two of Bille wiil be brongbt down and
galloped through at race horse speed. This
Bill la predlcated on the assumption that
there wili be direct communication, but
there Is an exception to that; that a veseel
may cali at a country, presumably Engiand.'
which enjoys the benefit of the preferentiai
tariff, and England, of course, would be the
only country that vessels between France
and Canada sbould caîl It. There loa no
provision of that kind la the treaty.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Oh, yes.

the parties who entered Into the treaty
were not kufficiently acqualntedl with that
braach of the trade between foreign countries and themselves to make provision for
the difficuities that have arisen ln the paet
and wili arise In the future. I arn not
going to object to it; but I wish to make
my protest againat this klnd of legisiation.
The Bill was read at length at the table.
The Bill was then read a third lme
under a suspension of the mules and passed.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (114) An Act to aniend the Windlng
Up Act.-(Hon; Mr. Scott.)
Bill (113) An Act to nmend the Land
TitIes Act.--(Hon. Mm. Scott.)
The Senate adjourned untîl three o'clock.

Second Sitting.
The SPEAKER took the Chair at three
p.m.
Routine proceedlngs.
ACETYLENE GAS BUOYS.
MOTION.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL - I
have here a notice of motion which 1 had
Intended to put on the orders. for to-day.
If the. hon. Secretary of State and the
House thlnk that I sbouid give It as a notice of motion. I will move It on May 6,
but If theme la no objection, I should prefer to move It now.
Hon. Mm. SCOTT-M1ýove It now.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-It
inay as well go as a notice for May 6th.
The motion was agreed to.

The Senate was adjourned duming pieaHon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-A di- sure.
rect Importation does not mean for a vesBILLS ASSENTED TO.
sel to go to Liverpool and transfer the
goods there and then proceed to Paris.
His Exceliency the Honoumable Sir Charles
Fitzpatrlck, K.C.M.G., Chie! Justice of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT--Ob, no, therp le no
transfer. The steamshlp would have the Canada and AdmInistrator o! the Government of the Dominion, &c., &c., &., belng
right to call.
seated on the Tbrone.
The Honoumable the Speaker comHon. Sir 'MACKENZIE BOWELL-Even
that is doubtful. but it ouly sbows that manded the Gentleman Uisher of the Black

SE NAT E

Rod to proceed to the Hlouse of Commons
end ecquaint that House: 'It Is Hlis Excellency the Admlnistretor's pleesure that they
attend hlm lmmedlately In this House.'
Who belng corne with .their Speaker,
The Clerk of the Crown In Chancery read
the Titles of the Bills to be passed, as
follows:
An Act rpctin the. Atlantic, Quebec and
Western Balway Lmany
An Act te inoorporate the. London and Lancassire Quarante. and Accident Campey of
Canada.
An Act to amead the. Inland Revenue Act.
An Act te amend the Act relating te, Oceen
SteamshiU Subeidies.
An Act te amend the Bille of Exchange Act.

Ross Rifle Company for the manufacture
of 52,000 bayonets adapted to the Ross
rifle, with scabbards, at the rate of $5.25
for eacb bayonet with scabbard complete.
5 and 6. Quotations were obta1kpd from
the Ottawa Car Company and the Ross
Rifle Company: Ottawa Car Company,
No
$5.40;, Boss Rifle Company, $5.25.
public tenders were called for.
ANAJLYSIS 0F FERTILIZERS.

MOTION.
Hlon. Mr. DOMVILLE moved:
That an order of the Senate do issue for
copies of ail correspondance with Inland Reto
officers
was pro- venue Depertment and and for referring of
To these BUis the Royal Assent
decision
analysis of fertilizers,
nounced by the Clerk of the Senate ln the department on questions raised during thie
years 1906, 1907 and 1908 to date.
followlng words:
The motion was ngreed to.
'In Hîs Majesty's name, His Excellency
the Admînîstrator doth assent to these
QUEBEC BRIDGE AND RAILWAY COMBis.'
PANY.
His Excellency the Administrator was
retire, and
pleased to
INQUIRy.
The House of Commons withdrew.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY lnquired:
1. Is it true, and has this f act been brought
The Senate adjourned until Wednesday, to the knowledge of the government, that on
Thursday, the 28th day of January,
May 6, et three p.m.
1904, about three months after having
signed with the. government itz agreement of October 19, 1903, the. Quebse
Bridge and Railway Company, at a spaTHE SENATE.
cial general meeting of its shareholders.
adopted a resolution confirming in the most
OrÂAw. Wednesday, May 6, 1908.
positive menner ail that had been previously
don. at the. said meeting by thé directors on
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Three the subject of the abandonment of the company by the shareholders of their shares not
o'clock.
fully paid up, ini sichange for shares completely paid up, for the. amount paid in by
Prayers and routine procaedlngs.
them. upon the shares?
2. Does the. government know that by this
ROSS RIFLE.
simple transaction thos. of the. shareholders
who had only paid 4 per cent-there were
INQUIRY.
soine-and those who had only paid 25 par
cent upon their shares--who were uearly ail
Mr. LANDRY inquired:
Hon.
of them-repudiated the obligation, volunt1. Has the government concluded any ar- arily and legaily contracted, to, pay up in full
rangement whatsoever for thse manufacture their allotment, and thus freed themnselves
from shares upon which they might stili have
cf bayonets adapted ta the Ross rifle?
been called te pey 75 per cent or 96 per cent?
2. If so, with whom P
3. Does the government know that .the comwhat quantity?
3. For
pany thus dirninished, at that date, by $156,4. At what pria. each?
5. Has the government asked for tenders for 600, the amount which the company might
have been able to draw upon a sum of $220,300
manufacture of those articles?
-the
6. And if sol which are the, papers which thon subscribed by its shareholders, and et
have published in their columus the notices one blow lowered its subscribed capital to thse
figure of $63,700.
given by the governmnt to, that effect?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn advlsed that the
Hon. 'Mr. SCOTT-The answers to the
transaction, as far as tha government Is
hon. gentleman's questions are as fol]ows:
1, 2, 3 and 4. His Excellency the Gov'- aware, Is contained ln chapter 54 of the
ernor General lu Couneil lias authorized Statutes of 1903. The 6th section rends
that a contract be entered into with thé as follows

MAY 6. 1908
The oompany may, pursuant to, clause 1, of
the eaid agreement accept from the presient
subseribers of the capital stock of the company a surrender of such stock and relieve
them from further liability upon the stock
subscribed for by them, and thereupon such
liability either to creditors of the company
or otherwise shall cease and determine
There la a long schedule attached to the
Âct which describes the phases of the transaction that took place between the Bridge
Company and the government.

zl
DELÂYED RETURNS.

Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I should lke to,
know from the leader of the House If there
is any answer to that return I moved for
three months ago respecting the Quebec
Bridge Company?

Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, flot at present.
The leader of the opposition in the other
Ohamber asked for a somewhat aimilar return, perhaps a larger return, and that Io
I arn advbsed that it 'wil
LÂNDRY-I suppose that ans- being prepared.
Hon. Mr.
It 'wiUl give
wer la that the goverument knows ail that be ready within a few days.
?
ail the particulars covered by the hon. gentook place
tleman's motion, covering aiso the points reHon. Mr. SCOTT-The only information ferred te in the motion of the bon. leader of
that 1 have is that whatever was doue was the opposition lu the other chamber.
done under this Act.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I suppose he asked
Éon. Mr. LANDRY-Tilat is not the
for that returu at the beginnlng of the sesquestion,
1sion.
Hon. Mr. SC0TT-That ls the only InHon. Mr. SCOTT-Hle asked for It lu
formation I could obtain.
December, a monta before the hon. gentleI think: the hon. gentleHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I ask, is It true, man's request.
and has this been brought to the knowledge man's request was on the 29th of January.
of the government, that on such a day such
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-ÂIld the order of
a thIug took place ?
tais House wili rernain ln abeyance.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I arn quite unable to
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Unll this returu ls
answer.
It la of course ln preparatioli.
prepared.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-Not had tîme enough
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-But mine i. shorter.
yet ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have had abundance
of time ; but my information Is that the
tranaactions between the Bridge Comnpany
and the government are based on the statute to which I have referred.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I arn asking If the
thing has been doue, flot what it has been
based upon. You may have power to hang
a man, but unless that power Io exercisedHon. Mr. SO TT-Whatever la autaorized by taat statute bas been carried out, 1
understand.
BILLS INTRODUCED.
Bill (147) An Act to repeal the Oauned
Gooda Âct.-(Hou. Mr. Scott.)
Bill (149) An Act to ameud the Ment and
Canned Foods Act.-(Hon. Mr. Scott.)
Bill (00) An Act to -amend the Chinese
Immigration Act.-(Hon. Sir Richard Cartwright.)

Hion. Mr. SCOTT-It la not conaidered
short by those who have to prepare the returu.
-Hon. Mr. LANDRY-O-ould the hon. gentleman give me any Information about that
littie return-that very short return-about
Mr. De Lisle ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I thought 1 had tat
I
Iu my possession. I findt I have net.
hope to be able to furnish It to-morrow.
RAILWÂY ACT ÂMENDMENT BILL.
FIRST READING.
Hion. Mr. CÂSGRAIN introduced Bill
(PP) An Act to r mend the Raiiway Act
as regards the preferential charge created
by the Issue of securities.
He said : A tais la rataer an Important
measure, I shall give the Hlouse a short
explanation. *The purpose of tae Bill is
to return to the law as It existed ln tae

si8

SENATE

Revised Statutes before 1903. Uinder the
law as it stands to-day, the working expenses of a railway are ebargeable on the
property, lnstead of being cliargeable on
the revenues of the property, and the object of thîs Bill whlch I arn now Introduclng Is to provîde tbat the worklng expenditures shall not rank before tbe bonds.
0f
course, I will be prepared to furnIlh tuiler
explanations whien the Bill is rend Vie
second time.
The Bill was read the first time.
THE LATE SENATOR LOVITT.
Hon: Mr. SCOTT-Before the orders of
the day are called, It ls my sad duty to
call Vie attention of Vie House to the absence of a gentleman Who was wlti us
wben we separated ln Vie beginning of
hast monVi. The late Hon. Senator Lovitt,
of Yarmouth, was a gentleman who was
higbly esteemed by bis colleagues ln Vis
House-a man of higli judgment, giving
on ail occasions an independent vote.
Thougli le rarehy addressed bon. gentlemen
from bis seat lu Vils Chamber, yet lie was
always attentive to bis duties, and Invariably exercised a wlse and prudent judgment lu Vie votes whlcb lie cast ln the
Senate. He bad for many years been lu
public lte. Tbirty-four years ago, lie was
elected to represent Vie constituency of
Yarmouth ln the provincial bouse. SubseqiIently lie represented tbat same constitueucy ln the House o! Gommons, and
soon atter this gnvernment assnmed office,
ln December, 1896, 1 thlnk, lie was calhed
to Vis Cliamber. During Vie ten years
that lie was a member of Vis <Jbamber,
lie earned Vie respect and esteem o! every
member of It. Retiring and modest ln bis
manner, we all feit.a Yery great sympaViy
for hlm in Vie mental suffering lie endured
durlng the last two years, owing to financlal loss ln regard to the bank wlth which
lie was connected. Those of us Who knew
the late Senator Lovitt were convinced
that whatever circumstances led to the
closing ot tbe bank door, It could be tbrougb
no fault of bis, as lie was regarded by
Viose wbo knew blm as a high-mlnded,
honourable gentleman. On behaît of tbîs
Chiamber, I desîre to extend to tbe members of bis famihy our deep sympathy lu
the affliction they bave suffered.
lon. Mr. CASGRAIN.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I
feel assured Viat every hou. gentleman on Vis
aide of Vie HEouse will most fully concur
ln the very appropriate remarks wblcb
have fallen from Vie lion, leader of the
House. Every bon, gentleman must necessurily, on grounds of frlendsblp aud sentiment and otherwise, bave deep feelings o!
regret et Vie death of any of our colieagues
lu this (Jbamber, but Vie late Senator Lovitt was a gentleman wbo eudeared blmself peeullarly to Vie members of Vhis
House, and 1 am sure the regret whicb
hîs associates feel by reason of bis deaVi
wlll be deep-seated and sincere. Tlie bon.
gentleman was one Wlio always stood ligb
In the estimation o! Vils body, aîthougli
lie dld not take as active a part as many
hon, gentlemen lu Vie proceedings of the
Senate, yet bis judgmeut was always esteemed as Viat of a man of strong calibre
of thouglit and action. He was a man
of considerabie Independ[ence o! Viouglit,
aud the expression of bis judgment was ahways regarded blgbly by bis colleagues.
Very few business men lu their day bave
recelved a greater trîbute of regret tlian
Vie late Senator Lovitt, owlng to the unfortunate and regrettable avents wbich occnrred lu bis business career wltliln the
last couple of years. Those avents gave risa
to expression from ail quartera, and more
partlcularly tro mtbose who knaw blm personally, as to bis bonour, bis problty and bis
honesty, and I know o! my personal knowledge that the deepeat regret was expressed on ail aides that lie sbould bave been
thi- victim of cîrcumstances wblch caused
hlm so mucli worry ln bis later days.
I
amn sure every bon, gentleman lu the Senate wlI join tu Vie expressions of condoleuco wbicb bave been conveyed to bis
sor iowlng family lu thelr bereavement
froui alI parts of the Dominion.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I cannot let this
sad occasion pass witiout expressing my
concurrence lu the remarks made by the
leaders on botb sides of the House to-day,
concernlng the sudden demise of our esteemed friand the late Senator Lovitt.
I had
the priviiege and pleasure of sittlng wi
hlm lu the House of Commons sa well as
in this House, and a more genial, kL-ndhearted. liberal man 1 neyer bad the plea-

MAY 6, 1908
ect whicb bas eng-aged the attention of this
country from the time the route was first
e xplored untîl the present day, and w-hile we
aLre celebratlng the tercentary of the
'ounder of Quebee, the name of the Geor,lsn Bsm canal ought to be coupled with
biat of Champlain, as he was the original
exrplorer of tbe route. 'They eall it the
leorgian Bay canal route; 1 amrn ot in favIt minimIzès the
>ur of that cognonien.
value, the exteut and the wonderful reGeorgian bay ls a
sources of the route.
ocal body of wster, and it would be more
approprlate to spesk of the canal as the aIlHon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Coming from the Canada water route, or at lest the Ottawa
province of New Brunswick, I cannot shlow River route.
We bave bad on ibis subject
this occasion to pass wlthout addlng My the views of experleuced men from a scieutrîbute to that of the leaders of botb aides tffic and a financial point of view.
To-day
of this House witb regard to the late Sena- I[tblnk It my duty to refer to what I would
tor Lovltt. Personally 1 bave known Sens- call tbe patrIotie and national point of view.
tor Lovltt for over forty yesrs, sud have We bad first the hon. mover of the motion,
durlng that tîme doue a good des) of busi- the bon. gentleman f rom De Lanaudière,
»ess with hlm. Everybody who knew hlm wbo gave us a very Important contribution
held blm lu tbe highest esteem. I do not on ibis question.
Bis scientifie knowledige
thlnk It la worth while to enter into any of these matters cannot be questioned. le
discussion as to bis merits or demerits, be- la one of the leading engineers in regard to
cause a man of tbe standing of the late waterways aud kiudred subjects, aud 1 amn
Senator Lovltt required no eulogy lu this glad tbat be, s young man, bas underChamber sud no endorsation f rom the people taken to press this projeet on bebaîf of Canbeyond the expression 0f a few kind words ada.
I bave also to congratulate other
that bis family msy kuow that he wss ap- senators who bave expressed tbeir approval.
The
preciated by those who knew hlm.
of the project; 1 need not name them ail.
late Senator Lovitt stood s0 bigh lu the Their names aud their views are on record
maritime provinces that that fact alone lu the Senate Debates. 1 have also llstened
places bis character on the hlghest pin- to the opinions expressed by the bon. senanacle sud nothlng furtber need be sald on tor from Halifax, sud the hon. senator f roin
the subject.
Kingstou lu opposition to the project. The
opposed it on
OTTAWA AND GEORGIÂN BAY CJANAL. hon. senator from Halifax
financial grounds, tbe other because be was
DEBÂTE CONTINUED.
Jealous, sud feared It would burt the St.
Lawrence route. I canuot sympathize with
The order of the day being called.
The hon. gentleResuming the adjourned debate on the mo- eltber of these opinious.
tion of the Hon. Mr. Casgrain, that he W1111
afraid
to the im- man from Halifax ueed flot be at ail
cali the attention of the Senate
construction of the cost of this project; it wlll not Interportance to Canada of the early
of the Georgian bay canal, sud will inquire fere with bis rigbts as a representatîve of
of the goverument if the report of the survey the port of Halifax or of auy other port lu
made of the waterway will be laid before the
the maritime provinces, nor-need the bon.
Senate during the present session?
from Kingston be afraid that the
Hon. Mr. OLORAN-l consider It a privi. senator
opeuing up of the Ottawa canal will interlege to address thîs bonourable Bouse, sud
fere witb the value or usefulness of the St.
through it the people of this country on the
route. 'We are not *bere advosubject of this canal. 1 consider it a privi- Lawrenlce
cating a scheme wbich will destroy any
lege for several cessons, but mainly one,
lu tbe past. We are here advothst 1 hope to live to see the Ottawa work built
Bay canal built before 1 arn cating a project to complement sud supsud Georgian
Tbere are
past.
obliged to leave this Chamber. It Is a pro- plement the works of tbe

lie w-as a most exem-j
sure of knowiug
plary manl ln bis conversation snd actions,
sud was universally respected by ail who
I felt very mucli sympathy for
knew blm.
him owlng to the sad financlal trouble hef
got Into, lu addition to, the bodly aliment
wblch followed, sud I arn sure tbat rny sympathy was shared by every member of the
Bouse. 1 join beartlly wlth the leaders on
both sides of the Bouse lu exteudlng to bis
bereaved famlly my syrnpathy lu the sad
loss tbey have sustained - l tbe death of
the late Senator Lovitt.1

52j

820

SENATE

men ln this country who have takea a deep carried to the sea-board. We have, under ProInterest ln the Ottawa canal projeet and vidence, outside of the Mississippi and the
have gone Oirough the country advocating St. Lawrence, one of the most beautiful and
the construction of Oie work. One ls the one of the greatest and safest natural artex'ex-Mayor of Ottawa, Mr. McLeod Stewart, les for trade that any country could possess,
another the Ex-Minister of Railwaàys in Oie and when we undertake the work 0f openold government, Mr. Haggart, another Mr. ing Up that route, we shall do [t nlot only
William Poupore, ex-member for Oie County for trade, but for the health and pleasure of
1 was with Oiem fteen or the people, for ail that can make a -people
of Pontiac.
The Ottawa river route would be
twenty years ago, a young acolyte. I fol- happy.
lowed Oiemn througb the provinces of On- a grand boulevard for the national healtb
tarlo and Quebec advocating this scheme as and pleasure as well as for national trade.
a young man, looking forward to the future Imagine that route open to Canada and to
To-day It la comof this country and neyer thinking that to- the rest of the world!
day I should be still speaking as an apostle posed of what ? Practically, as we 'used
of the scheme and to say of those men Oiat to say ln Oie old days, talking of our forthey have done a good and noble work for ests, they are virgin forests. We are the
Canada. To-day it le my privîlege to stand only country on Oie face of Oie earth to-day
bere and Ohiuk Oie'men I have mentioned who can say they have virgin waters.
and others like tbem, and I say here and There are waters flowing there by the mile,
now, determined aad calmly, that my ad- and ten, fifteen and twenty-flve feet deep,
hesion goes to the goverameat that wll without giving any resait to Canada, wlthThe Georgian Bay out producing anything, and why should
bud this great work.
canal route, which 1 would wisb to have we not take advantage of such a highway
known throughout the world as 'the Ail- to enable the farmers of Oie west to get
Canada water route from the ocean to Oie their produce to Oie sea-board and to the
heart of the continent, la a project which centres of Canada on easy terme ? Man's
shouid recelve universal support. The par- ways are railways, dear, often very dear,God's ways for
liament of Canada cannot deal with -a sometimes extortionate.
can under- Oie human klnd are river routes and waternobler one and no government
take one more useful for the development ways, free and neyer extortIonate. We have
It does spent money ln thîs country of ours on
of Oie resources of Ohia country.
not mean competition with any exiating things that do not pertain to Oie national
route. We simply wisb to accomplish what wealtb, and do not pertain, I wll say, to
nature clearly designed, that Oie Ottawa the national honour. We are spending ln
should be a great artery for comifterce be- some of our departments millions of
tween the sea-board and the heart of Oie money Oiat shouid be spent elsewhere.
There ls one great artery la When we are called upon to spend from
continent.
States, the Mississippi. There fIve to seven millions of money on military
the United
la another ln Canada known as Oie St. business, whlcb i.s altogether disproportionLawrence route, and we are now called upon ate to the needs of the country, arn I not
to give Canada a second water route, to justIfIed as a young Canadien tn askiag
provIde two great arteries for Oie life biood this bonourable House, la lt not time to
The Mississippi has been cali a hait tu regard to Oie military expenof the nation.
such an artery la the United States for diture, and put Oie money into useful
over Oie hundred years, and to-day Oie gov- works, wbich will bring traffic and will add
erament of the United States ls trylng to to the welfare and prosperity of Oie peoIncrease the capacity of Oiat artery by ple ? This le a state of affaire which I
deepening channels and digging drains and cannot tolerate any longer. This young
They are spendiag country bas jumped from one million nnd
canaIs bere and there.
millions upon millions la this work, while a quarter to six million expenditure on
we la Canada, with the largest wheat fields military matters, and yet we hesitate to
kaown to the civilized world, are making no spend a few million dollars as interest to
adequate preparation to open Up a channel bulld one of Oie most Important works for
by wbicb the products of those fields may be the welfare and developmeat of the cotinHon. Mr. CLORAN.

MAY 6. 1908
is in the sme position. Is this
try. I amn toid by the hon. gentleman from France
vigourous and prasperous young country ta
Halifax : 'But this country la aiready euo! a national debt of $250,000gaged Ini the expenditure of large amounts.' be afraid
Let us build these public
It la very well to be prudent, saving and 000 ? Why, no.
warks that are necessary. Let us take
economical, but if the Baidwins and Lafanthat are flot necèmsary ta
taines, Macdonalds and others had been from expenditures
ln put It Into those that wouid be useful and
econornical and savlng ln the sense
the country. I have no abjecwhich it lu now suggested, ho-w much re- will serve
? tion, I say once again, ta the expenditure
gard would we have for their rnemory
ln the public interest,
Where wauld our splendid camal. system a! money when It lu
when It lu gaing ta redound ta the credit
be ta-day ? Tlhese statesmen flfty or sLxty
But I do
years ago undertaok a enormaus task, with and advautage of the country.
abject ta useless expenditure of rnoney, and
a papulation of two and a haif or tbree
bringe fia credIt ta
million. They spent millions upon millions the expenditure which
us and la of fia service. The argument o!
ta bulld aur Lachine canal, the Welland
If we open
canal, the Grenville canal, and we have economy falis ta be graund.
after It le
spent millions ta improve the St. Lawrence up this Ottawa river route,
regard to-day for built, our children will be proud of us,
system. If we have any
are
the rnerory of tbese men, it lu because we as bath Conservatives and Liberals
apprecia- to-day proud o! the rnen who built
admire their judgment and their
expenditian of the great future for this country up Canada by the honest
expen- tures o! maney on other great public works.
when they entered into these large
economy should flot
dItures. Âccording ta certain views they The argument a!
touch public feeling ln this malter and it
were not prudent. They bult for posterity,
ta exand posterity lu faithful ta the memory of will nat. The people are prepared
pend the maney, and the sooner the wark
these men. They lef t us a national debt,
Are lu commenced, the better, because the
whIch ta-day is about $260,000,000.
The prowe sorry that that debt has been created? trade o! the west ls growlng.
of Canada who re- ducts o! the west are rnultiplying beyond
Where is the citizen
beyand calculagrets the building of the Intercolonial Rail- measure, and will soon be
of Canada ta- lion If the flow of Immnigration keeps up
way ? Who la the citizen
the St. Lawday who regrets the building of aur canal at the present rate. Wbat
the Canadian rence route, the Canadian Paciflc Railway
system, or the building of
unable
Paciftc Raiiway ? And here I must say and ail aur railway systerne are
that ta cope with ta-day, they wili be rnuch les
ta aur good friends the Conservatives,
or litteen years,
they saw much further than we did *able ta cape with ln ten
give tbern when, instead of havlng three or four or fIve
twentyfive years ago. 1 must
in the Norththat crtifit. The men now ln their graves hundred thousand population
thla west you have f rom five ta ten million. The
were me men who helped ta make
route ls not, therefore,
country prosperous. Are we going ta aur construction of this
pros- *in any way a menace or a threat againet the
graves befare we help.ta add ta that
routes. or ta the
perity 7 This project is objected ta by value of stocks af other
ia value a! property contralled by the gavsmre as a matter af expense. What
of canais and railthe expense ? I have noa fear of a national Iernment, In the matter
to iways. That question of econarny does flot
debt, as I have aiready had occasion
ta the people of the
say an the floor of this honourable House and will flot appeal
country, because, after ail, what wlM the
no mare than 1 have a fear of a munici
I arn nat going Ito detale
pal debt praperly incurred. To my mInd canal cost?
ln regard te the caut, as it had been dane
after observation of public affaire durini
hon. !riend !rarn
the past thirty years, the larger the deb t s0 thoroughly by rny
Some people estimate
.De Lanaudiêre.
the better and more prosperous the people
cost eighty-five million,
England, for Instance, with a debt of over a that it wii
say 90 and some say 100 mil-others
billion af rnoney le one af the richest coun
Millions cannai block this matter.
tries ln the world. Germany the same way lion.
d The matter of cost should not deter the
with a national debt of over a billion, an

SENATE
that where steamers eau corne and go witbout beiag tied up la canais for hours and
days at a time, you will get the travel of
the west and you will get the travel of the
The Georgian Bay canal, as the
south.
hon, gentleman from De Lanaudlêre polnted
out, wlll have f rom 25 te 29 locks only.
net taklng mhore than tlfteen te twenty minutes at each of thern, Iastead ef standing
three or four or five or six heurs in a canai.
Therefore, you have a cold storage route.
You have a route for national pleasure.
Yeu have a route for national trade and
Gentlemen talle of the depth of
traffie.
Is It
the canal. What Io It golng te be?
going te be fourteen feet, twenty or twentyThat Is a clrdumstance which
two feet?
an be easlly got over by engineering
science, just the same as when the Âllens
started la te, create nnd deveiop trans-Atiantic trade between Liverpool, Glasgow, LonThey started wlth a
don and Montreal.
channel la the St. Lawrence river of net
more than elghteen feet in 10w water.
Engineering science bas improved the channel te a depth ef about 25 or 30 feet, and
great credit must be given to the Hon.
John Young, who was then the master of
the harbour of Mentreal, who undertook
He was iaughed at and told
these works.
lie was undertaking an Impossible sceeme,
and putting on the shoulders of the Canadian people a trernendous expenditure. A&nd
The late
what Is the expenditure to-day?
John Young stands as the father of our
national trade as f ar as Montreal is conceraed.
He was the one who seunded the
note ef develepment which bas been foiiowed up, and I am proud to-day te, have to
say te tbe geverament that its choice ia the
person of Mr. G. W. Stepheas bas been n
I arn proud te, be able te, say
wise one.
that Mr. Stephens, a young man, feels the
full respensibllity of bis position, and, what
Is more, Is able te carry it eut. He ls one
of the yeung men of the day. He bas rettn-,ned from Europe after an officiai trip,
where he bas been eaabled te establisb the
fact that there la ne river la Europe which
presents a better channel fer shlppiag busiHe bias reness than the St. Lawrence.
turned from Europe with full information
Hon. '-%r. OWýENS-Hear, hear.
with regard te ail or neariy ail of the large
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Aud we know per- ports of England, Scotiand, F rance and
We know other countries, and he bas told the people
fectly well what that means.
Hon. -Mr. CLOPAN.

goverument or parliament. We are teday lu a position te do ten tirnes more for
the development of the country than our
forefathers were 25 or 80 years ago. We
frorn
have a revenue to-day anywhere
elghty te 110 millions, and ln the old days,
when they had a revenue of fifteen to
twenty million they undertook works nt
whIch sorne of us to-day would tremble.
We are building the Grand Trunk Pacific.
We are golng to undertake the Hudson Bay
route, and 1 amn ln favour of It at once. I
hiave ne objection te It, because the deveioprnent of that route In a few years will
pray the interest on the capital, the same
as the developrnent of the Georgian Bay
and Ottawa river route 'will pay for itoeif
almest befere It Is flisbed. I have ne hesltation as a young Canadian te burden
myself nnd my cIlidren witb any debt
which is incurred ln this noble undertakiug. I have no hesitation whatever, because I consider that the openiag up of
this route will brlng to eastern Canada frorn
the west al] that they can use la ore'and
grain and ail kinds of produce. The Ottnwzt river route is a cold storage route.
It là; net a canai route,. where sof t geods
will perish as they would wblle golng
through the Welland or Lachine or other
canais elght or ten miles long, where there
Is nothlng but beat, dirt and dust. The
Georgian Bay canal is a route where ail
kinde of grain, ail kinds of fruit'and animals can corne in ce]d storage, through the
virgin waters of thîs great west and north
cou ntry, where everythIng Is cool and fresh,
and perishable geods can be trnnsported
It
and delivered ln fIrst-class condition.
In
will be a route of pleasure for ail,
the development of this route, you wlil
have bydro-electrIe energy developed lu
Immense quantities, airnost for thp asking
for'it. You will have it for the piantlng of
You
poles and the stringlng of wires.
wlll have more ligbt than you wili need
What
and It wll be a route of pleasure.
a pleasant thlag It would be, If iastead
of brides and grooms taking their honeymoon trip down the Hudson river they
wouid go down the Georgian Bay canal?

MAY 6. 1908
of Montreal and the people of Canada that
is commerce and trade must be'directed
through the St Lawrence channel. But he
does flot stop there.
He foresees what la
camlng, the deveiopmnent of trade, and the
development of the trade means the enlargement of the vessels to carry frelgb t,
and'he 19 prepared ta recommend ta this
government that Vie channel be flot; merely
18 or 30 feet, but 40 feet, and If necessary
43.
Peraple to-day will say as they sald ln
years gone by «'But that is a large expenditure.'
Certalnly it la, but wbo. to-day will
denounce the teachînge of the late John
Young?
Who to-day wlll denounce Sir
Hugh Allen?
Who to-day wlll denounce
the man who built Up Vie port of Mantreal
and deepened the channel between Quebec
and the metropolis of Vie Dominion? Not
one.
I therefore, ln ail slncerity, :un1gratulate the government ln iiavlng as the
master mind of the future develapment of
our trade lu regard ta this matter a young
man lîke G. W. Stephens.
The hon. senstor f ram De Lanaudlère gave us an elabarate exposé of what Vie Ottawa and Georgian
Bay route wauld do for Vie population of
Canada alang Its banks and probably many
miles away tram Vie banks.
The exposé
was lu regard to electrlclty.
I fully appreclate, and I fully endarse ail Viat he
says in regard ta Viat part of the question.
He did not averstep the mark. I thlnk be
was rather below lu. The construction of
Vis route wlll result lu the development of
what ls naw becamlng almost a necessity of
lte, electrie lght and power. The building
of this route wUll give ta the people wflo i.,at
It for mlles on each aide ail the way down,
power and Iight and wlll give tbem ineans
whereby to make lite prosperous and
happy. The hon, gentleman tram De Lanaudière stated that lu regard ta Montrealand 1 am atrald-ln tact I know-Viat he
dwelt n lîttle toc- £nuch lu regard ta Vie
development f.r electriclty there.
People
are so jeaiaus. Senators are otten Jealaus
of one locality because Viey reside lu anailier.
They say ' Oh, it Is a Montreal atfair.'
It is flot a Montres! aitfair. It Is a
national affair. It la an affair that touches
the well-belng and the prosperity of millions
of people lu this cotintry, and I hope It la
the lest time I shall ever hear an bonourable representative of the people lu Vis

House disclaim or protest against a project
because It daes not suit his locality.
I
hope It will neyer be said again.
Times
have changed.
Ideals have become brIgbtened.
Minds have become more clear lu
regard ta Viese matters.
We are flot
bound dawn ta one Ilttle lacallty where we
resîde.
We are here ta work lu the general Intereste of the country, and when the
hon, gentleman tram De Lanaudière laid
stress on the tact Viat Vie construction of
this route wauld develap sufficlent hydroelectric energy above Montreai ta free It
tram the tyrsnny at a monapoly, Viat enough electric power could be develaped there
ta supply not only Vie 400,000 lubabitants,
but five million peaple, why was he ta be
blamed for lacalizing hie argument in that
regard?
He mlght bave deaIt with the
same emphasis and the same power ail
alang the route, wherever there was a lake
or rapid.
Hon. Mr. OWBNS-HEear, hear.
Han. Mr. CLORÂN-But because the
hon, gentleman spoke of the great benefits
that were gaing ta accrue ta Mantreal, I
L'eard It stated, flot on Vie floar of this
Hause, but autalde :'Oh, It la a Mantreal
sebeme.' It la flot a Montreal scheme. Far
tram ItL It lu a national scheme t ram the
headwaters of the lakes ta Vie outgaing
ocean. Wlben we discuss Vils matter, It
sliould be an Vie ground. Viat what la gaod
for one section must be goad for ail, and
we who came tram Vie centres of population have no grudge against Vie interests
0f localîties where population la sparse
and Vhil-I know that I have none.
We
lu Vie east are prepared ta build great
wcrks lu Vie west as we have been daing
for the lust 25 or 30 years.
We have
heiped ta build Vie Canadian Pacific Railway and we are ta-day heiping ta bulld
Vie Grand Trunk Pacifie sud Vie Canadian
Northeru.
We are prepared ta help Vie
farmers of the west ta build Vie Hudson
Bay Railway, alViaugh the construction of
Viat raad wauld nat do as much for Vie
development of Viat country as the opening up of Vie Ottawa river route. We have
no prejudices; we are broad, and have
given of aur substance ta the west and are
prepared ta continue doing so. We have
doue llkewise wiVi the enst.
The mari-

824

SE-NATE

Urne provinces have been benefited by the
We
assistance of Ontarlo and Quebec.
did flot grudge the building of thê Intercolonial Ralway, and why hoD. senators
shouid offer that as an argument against
taking up this scheme la more than I can
understand and more than thse people of
this country wiii accept. I stated la my
opening remarks that I would deal with
this question flot from a scientic, flnanciai
or commercial point ot view. That bas
been done so ably and so weil by those
who have preceded me that there is ne
need te dweii on these points, but 1 here
as a child of the people, voicing their
wants, cail through you to the government
to take up this national work as soon a3
possible. Thse hon. senator from Ottawa
(Hon. Mr. Belcourt), the hon. senator from
Westmoreland (Hon. Mr. Wood) and others,
besides our friend whe introduced tbe subject gave ample evidence that this scheme
from a scientlfic and financial point of
view is one which the goverament sbouid
undertake and whlch tlxey could undertake
on behaif of the people ot Canada without
sacriflcing a cent ef the patrimony. But
I have here the opinions of men that have
influenced me a good deal ln regard te
thia question, aithougis I did net need
much after travelling the ýentire valley
of the Ottawa with the ex-mayor cf Ottawa, Mr. MeLeod Stewart, and thse exmemnber frem Pontiac, Mr. Poupore, for
days and weeks at a trne cafling upon the
people te, uphold the hands ef any government that would construct t'bis work.
They are to-day In life, as I amn, and I
hope that their aima and ambitions will be
satisfted and fulfilled before they are calied te thse great nnknown. I hope tisat this
geverninent who have undertaken many
noble works on behait cf Canada wlll take
up this canal and do for the people cf
Ontarlo and Quebec what they have been
doing for thse far west and for the far
east. I hold la my bands the written opinion of one o! our great engineers, whicb
I thlk bas flot been given to the Hlouse1 refer te the late Walter Shanley, C.E.
Re wrltes as follows :
I believe the construction of this Ottawa
canal will greatly increase and benefit thie
commerce of the whole Dominion of Canada.
It could not but assist the Northwest beneficially li cheapening transportation, espiciall.v
Hlon. Mr. CLORAN.

in affording same to the water-powers along
thse route. The Ottawa vailey might becoe
thse greatest fleur miiling country in the
world.
Those wbo are interested lu the trade
,and commerce of thse country wilI agree
wîth me that that last remark Is perfectly
true. The construction of the canai would
deveiop water powers unrivalied even by
Niagara Falls, and create la the Ottawa
valley rivals te Duluth, Minneapolis, and
St. Paul. Every barge o! wheat comIng
down towards tihe clese o! navigation when
t.he ice begins te form couid be stopped at
points like Arnprior, Ottawa and Hawkesbury, and the wheat ground and !orwarded
te an ocean port by rail, Ia this way miliing centres would be created ail thse way
between Georgian bay and Montreal. Walter Slhanley, la ail his experience, neyer
stated a greater or mere probable truth
titan whien he said thse construction ef this
canal would make tise Ottawa valley one
ef the greatest fleur milflng countries In
the world. Mr. Shanley continues :
The trade would, of course, chiefly b. in
cerea is. Thse effect both in Ontario and Quebec w.ouid be beneficial as stimulating trade
generally.
Grain from Lakes Michigan a.nd Superior
couid be laid down in Montreal at a lower
rate and in Quebec at ne higlier rate than
the lowest rate y t ever reached between the
lakes and New Yýork. Whatever benefits the
country generally wiil net harm thse railways.
There la thse opinion of a man competent
te express an opinion on this subject who
says that the building cf this route wiii
net harm the rallway interests or the interests of thse government as represented
la the St. Lawrence route. He continues :
Se this canai wouid have a good effect on
the Canadian Pacific Railway and the Ottawa,
Ârnprier and Parry Seund Railway. Thse
New York Central Railway alongside the ire.
Erie canal increases its trafflo and its earnings year by year, and it wiil do se when
thse canal has been improved (work new in
pregress), te nia. feet draught.
If
This opinion was written years ago.
Mr. Shanley were alive to-day he would
be surprised te find that they are trying
te make thse Erie a feurteen feet canal. I
have ne doubt they would make It a twentyfive feet canal If It sulted their purposes,
but 1fr. Shanley says that even wlth fine
f eet draft thse traffic would be Increased.
He continues:

MIAY 6. 1908

8Y,5

Mr. ShanThis canal will certainly be most beneficiai ment in favour of thie scheme.
1ey was hlghly esteemed In his walk of lite
to the. hinber and wood-pulp industries.
We have lumbermen lu this Senate Inter- when, he was with us. He was one of our
eeted In pulp wood; why do tbey not exer- great engineers who helped to build -up and
We have aleo the
cise their influence sud force upon the gov-E develop this country.
emrnent the. immediate consideratlon ofE opinions of men who are authorîties lu commerce and finance and one of them 1 shall
thls sciieme. Mr. Shanley continues :
It la the opinion of Sir Wm. Van
successf ni development of minîng emeit- ruote.
The
igidustries in the Ottawa valley, sud espe- Hrne, gîven when b. wss presideut of the
au
Cialy of iron mining is maiuly dependent Ot- Ounadian PacIflc Rallway and interested to
cheap traneportatian that the. projeoted.
te extent of every cent of bis wealth in
tawa navigation will provide.
building Up the revenues of that great corThere ia not the slightest doubt about
It was given at a Urne when
poration.
It. To-day the Cobalt mines are being
it was his Interest to see that the Canadian
It la like hatching eggs
developed elowly.
Pacillc Railway should suifer no damage
If transportation tacilitakes time.
-it
and sustain no decrease of Its earning
ties were furnlshed, the developrnent would powers. He said:
proceed more rapidly. Mr. Shanley conI amn of the. opinion that the construction
tinues :
of the. Montreal, Ottawa and Georgian Bay
As between the lakes generaily and Mont- canal wiul benefit the. commerce of the Domreal, the season of navigation would be pro- inion generally. Ânything tending to lessen
bably ten days siiorter by wiay of the. Ottawa the cost of transportation between Manitoba
and the Nortiiwest and the. seaboard must
than by way of the. Welland canal.
have unqu.stionably a beneficial. effect. The
That is much lees tran the. hon. senator trade of this canal wouid chiefly b. in grain,
other freights.
fromn Kingstan sald. Mr. Shanley then food produets, minerai andafford ehould r.The. water-power' it would
proceeds ta Geai with the question from a suit in the establishment of important indusmniitary point of view, and tris will ut- tries aloug its course in Ontario and Quebec.
greatly inérea»e the trade
tract the attention of hon. gentlemen who This canal would Quebec snd other Canadian
of Montreal snd
It le seaporla. Ilt wouid aiea deveiop local memore milltary wise than I amn.
are
of the. water-power
a point whIch engaged tre attention of the sources by the. utilization ciiespuess of transMr. it would afford sud thie wouid have a good
many yenre ago.
Imperial autroritie's
portation. This canal
Shanley sys :
,ffect on the Canadian Pacific Railway, as it
take
As a miiitary defence, the construction cf would create more traffic tran it wouid
tus waterway would prove a valuabie auxili- away.
ary. provided the. 'Flag' also hoids the. naval
Hon, gentlemen who are iuterested Iu
supremacy of tiie lakes.
1 quit. incline ta the. belief that the. efiect railloads will please bear In mind that the
and resuits of tus projected line of navigation presldent of the Canadian Pacific Railway
would b. for « th. general advantsge of Can- held the opinion that tbe building of thie
ada.'
canal would bring more fraffic to hl@ road
That does away witr tre argument that than It would take away frorn it.
Sir
the waters between Georgian Bay aud William then proceede to say:
Montreal would corne under provincial conTii. pulp sud wood industries would b.
trol.
beneficially affeoted as it wouid reeuit iu the.
ail kinds of foreet products
Colonel Walker Powell, of Ottawa, lite utilization of are*not now availabie because
some of which
says as follows: of the cost of carniage.
adjutant general of Canada,
Th advantsge of the. Ottawa route as a
Sir William laye down a principle of tiade
means of miiitary defence are, that it is direct, sud it will b. s ready means of com- which le known to everybody to-day. Thirty
munication by water between the ses sud the or forty yeare ago when they started to
west, wile the. additional population, food build canais In the United States, the. presisupplies snd timber that wiul be avalable
will insur. an immediate militia develop. dents of the New York Centrai aud other
ment for local and interior defence. This railways were appreheneive that the. opening
waterway is mucii wanted, can be ciieaply
constructed and will greatly benefit Canada up of these canaIs wouid diminish the trade
and the. Empire.
of their roade, especlally where tiiey paraIiived
These opinions were given years ago by lelled the.ir roads, yet these sme men
personal Interests ta be ta state the tfact that every mile of canal
men who had no
served, and shauld weigh wlth the govern- bult alongside of and parallel ta a railway

SE-\-A TE
furnished more traffic ta the road than It
took fromn it.
In vlew of that experlence
and of the opinions whicb I have quoted,
there can be no besitation on the part of
this House ln favouring the construction of
the Ottawa canal so far as that point la
I have deait with the subject
coucerned.
from an economic point of vlew; I shall
deal with It now from a trade point of vlew.
I arn readlng thse opinions of men who once
spoke against thse canal, but wbo admit taday that thse resuit of constructing a canal
la to Increase thse trade of the nelgbbouring
Sir William Van Horne says:
rallways.
This oanal *would have a 'very favourable
effeot on ithe minerai resaurces of the Ottawa
valley and beyond.
Thse opening up of this waterway would
affect to some extent the coet of transportation of grain and. produee from the Great
lakes ta the Atlantic sea-board end the New
England States. I arn unable to make an
eztimate.
Thse coat of constructing this waterway nov
in camparison with 1860 would be mucli leas
because of improved methods and appliances.
Thse length of navigation will be about the
rame as at Sault Ste. Marie.
That la six end one-haîf or seven montha
There are opinions from two
of the year.
o! our most wortby citizens, one wbo has
now gone to an honoured grave, and the
other wbo la helplng to bulld up the forI arn sorry he la
tunes of otber countries.
flot here to, help us In building this great
work as he la helplng ta bulld up Cuba.
I amn sorry we have bast a man of bis abllity,
but we have bis opinion whlcb I bave quoted, and we have the opinion of the late
Walter Shanley approving of this Ottawa
canal for tbe development of thse trade of
this country, and ta furnlsh a mflltary route
Wby flot undertake it?
for the empire.
In 1897 Mr. McLeod Stewart, ex-Mayar of
Ottawa, wbo bas always been closely Identlfled wltb the Ottawa and Georgian Bay
canal scheme, and prapased ta bulld It
through a syndIcate of capitalists, thse govemnment to guarantee the bonds o! the coinpany, advanced a letter ta the Premier,
tram whIch 1 quote as follows:
In our opinion, wark on thse Ottawa as well
as an thse St. Lawrence ought to be pushed
vigorously and at once. Thse Americans are
keenly alive ta thse value of handling thse enormous traffic, and are making every effort to
retain the whole of it for UJnited States carriers ta United States ports. Whule ta this
end they conteinplate a deep wvaterway in thse
future, they are flot neglecting to deepen the
Erie barge canal ta nine feet. And, follou-ing
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

their example, we auglit ta neglect no advantage that we possesa. If they are beforehand
with us it will be a difficuit matter for Canada ta retain that supremacy in the carrying
trade of the narthern part o! this. continent
that Nature lias fitted lier to achieve. Thse
traffic ta which we are fairly entitled by our
position is sufficient already to fully emplay
bath the Ottawa and St. Lawrence toutes.
These latter are really cornplementary, instead of competitive, bath having Montreal
for their terminus. Thse true rivalry is with
American routes carrying trade ta New York.
The shortness o! the Ottawa route, and the
very low rates at which. freight can be carried by it, ensure that as soon as opened it
will gain and bring ta Montreal and Quebec
a share o! thse through traffic that now goes
ta New York. Its local trafflo also will be important and far in excess of that o! the St.
Lawrence canais. And every ton of through
freiglit moved on the Ottawa river as well as
every ton of increased production o! the Ottawa valley seeking export, will neoessarily
go ta Montreal or Quebec for an outlet, not
being liable ta be diverted at numerous points,
like the traffic on the St. Lawrence canais,
which experiences exhaustive drains at Buffalo, Oswego and Ogdensburg.
There is reasan ta believe that $15,000,000
will caver the actual coat of construction if
doue by a company. That is not one tenth
of the cost of a slip canal for acean-going
vessels even by the St. Lawrence ta the lakes,
and not mare than one-twentieth what it
wauld cost for sudh a canal by tIse cheapest
route between the lakes and New York. Grunting even that at soine future time aoean-going
vessels will pass by Montreal, and takre on
their cargoes at Toronto, Chicaga, Duluths
and Fart William, for the present and for
inany years ta cames the enlarged St. Lawrence canais and the Ottawa waterway will
meet ahl the needs a! Canadian commerce at
a very moderate expenditure.
The whole matter resolves itself into one
or two questions:t If this waterway, through
the heart o! aur own country, owîng ta present favourable conditions, can be constructed
without interference with other needed public
works, and without recourse ta the public
treasury, except ta the extent of a emaîl annual bonus a!ter completion, and can be coinpleted in a short time at comparatively slight
coat, la it worth m4aking an effort to obtain?
Would such a feeder and alternative through
route tend ta increase thse commerce of Montreal and Quebec and to benefit the great St.
Lawrence waterway P Are its prospective effects in develaping new territory and increasing production and national wealth, worth
tiying ta secure?
1 bave read with much interest a pamphilet on this question by a writer wbose
namne la not given.
He reviews thse hlstory
of the St. Lawrence" route, and points out
in forcible ternis thse number of ways ln
wbieb Canadian shipping ports and routes
have been discrirninated agnînst by thse
British governent In favour of thse Cunard line and United States ports.
Shortly

MAY 6. 1908
after the introduction of steam, Mfr., Joseph
Howe wrote ta Lord Gieuelg that the slow
and Inefficieut ten-gun brigs should give
place to steam vessels like the ' Sinlus,'
whicti he had encouutered while crossiug
Mr. Samuel Cunard, of
the Atlantic.
Halifax, came on the scene, and the result
was the adoption of a contract between the
Imperial goverument and the embryo Cunard Company for the carniage of mails
twice a moutb between Liverpool, Halifax
and Boston-New York was subsequently
added-with a side service from Pictou,
This aide serX.S., to Quebec In summer.
The
vice was, bowever, soon dropped.
first Cunarder to sali from Liverpool ta
Halifax and Boston was tbe 1Brtannia,l
Juiy 4, 1840. The company received a substautial subsldy, wbich was augmented at a
later date ta £186,000 a year.
The people of Upper and Lower Canada
telt tbat this state of thlugs was scarcely
fair, that Englaud wns building up Boston
and New York lu preference to, Quebec and
Their newspapers quoted Mfr.
Moutreal.
Howe's letter Iu whlch he sald that ' If
Great Britain is ta maintain ber footing
upon the Northi American continent, she
must, at any hazard of increased expeuditure, establisb a lune of rapld communication
wlth tbe provinces, through chaunels excluslvely Britisb and lut enior to, noue lu
security and expedition;' and asked why
this doctrine should not apply ta the St.
Lawrence route as well as ta Halifax,
especially as the bulk of Her Majesty's
subjects In British America were fouud in
the two provinces wbich the St. Lawrence
served.
It was coutended that the subsldy
ta the Cunards was a violation of tbe free
trade principles whicb biadt recently been
embraced by EugIand ta the injury of
Canada, the preferential duties baving been
abo]isbed. Lord Colchester, the imperlal
postmaster general, stated lu a letter to
the lords of the treasury Iu 1858, wbeu
the Cunard contract was being reuewed,
that tbe company received f 53,000 a year
more trom the Imperial treasury tban the
treasury derived from the ocean postage.
It 5was beld, therefore, tbat this £53,000 was
a bouuty, pure aud simple.
The chief
point was that the subsidy ta the Cunard
lune together wltb the subsidies pald by
the United States goverumeut ta the Col-

827

lins and other American steamers, had the
effect of cheapening ocean rates on freight
to and from New York, whicb, of course,
brougbt about the diversion of oceanThe
golng traffic from the St. Lawrence.
raiiway bonding system was establlsbed in
1855, and the merchants of Upper Canada
fouud it cheaper ta import and export
tbrough New York than through Quebec.
Again, it was saId that by bonuslng the
Cunards, the Imperial goverument was enabllng them ta carry British emigrants nt
a 10w rate past Canada to -the United
States; no passenger steamers man to Quebec, and the better ciass of emigrants
avolded the sailing ships, which, besides
being slow, otten barboured disease. It
was sliown that the imperial governme'it
was givlng subsidies ta vessels salling ta
Âustralla and the West Indies, and the
question was ssk-ed wby Canada should flot
inerely be overlooked In that respect, but
injured by the subsidies paid to the Cunard liue for running ta American ports.
It was-deemed particulàrly bard that she
should. be treated ln this fashion after she
bad spent so mucb ln developiug trade by
the St Lawrence tbrough the construction
of canais and railways designed to convey
freight to Montreal and Quebec.
The case was briefly stated. by Sir Bdmuad Head lu a letter to tbe Imperial government, 1856, but a more elaborate presentation was made by Sir Alexander Galt,
inspector generai (Finance Minister) of the
province, ta the colonial office, 1858.
Sir
Alexander observed that the province liait
already. spent no less than £7,000,000 on
canais and rallways, and was now auxtous
to reduce ocean rates on the St Lawr-ence
ta a par with those at New York:
'But,' lie continued, 'it has been conclusivelv
showu by the evidence taken before parliimentary committees in Canada, thiat the large
subsidies paid by the British and United
States governments ta thoir respective uines
of steamnships have operated. as a direct
bonnty to the ports of New York sud Boston,
reducing freights to sud fromn them, and so
far defeating the obWet of Canada aud drawing provincial trade maiuly iuta American
channels.'
The proviuce of Canada bad not been consulted wben the original coutract witb the
Cunards bad been framed, but bad expected to be wheu the coutract came up for
renewal.
lu this. however, she had been
disappointed :

SENATE
The Canadian public will therefore learn
with much feeling and profound regret that
it lias pleased Rer Majesty's government to
renew the contract tili 1867, without any op,
portunity having been afforded to the government of Canada to*urge such arrangements as
wonld have been conducive to the prosperity
of this colony. The line now subsidized by
the British government, although touching
fortnightly at Halifax, is essentialiy an American lime, and directiy prejudicial to Canada.
It la. in fact, wholly devoted to the trade between the United Kingdom and the United
States, olicring a direct bounty to the United
States ports of New York and Boston against
the British colonial ports in the St. Lawrence,
and placing the mother country in the invidious position of fostering foreign interests
ia preference to those of her oivn colonial subjects.
Ia July. 1859, Sir John Rose, a member
of the administration, was sent to England to urge the importance of subsidizing

thec Canadian line, but met with no succesa.
He appeared before a select commlttee on
pacliet and telegraphic service of the Brîtlali House in 1860, and w-rote to, the coloniai secretary reciting the foregoiug facts
In detail. He show-cd that the avowed purpose of the subsidy t0 the Cunards had
been * to assist In the- maintenance of a
rcgular service between Great Britain and
her Northi American Depeadencles,' aud, to
secure that end, the Cunards bad called
at Halifax aad conducted a brandi service
from there t0 Quebec. Whea the Cunards
resolved to give up the brandi service, owlng f0 Ifs beavy cost, fhe Canadlan government acquiesced; nor did It complain,
whlen fliey ceased to call at Halifax on fthe
ground tiat, In consequence of fie absence of- raîiway communication bef-ween
Halfax and fthc province of Canada, the
passenger and freiglif traffic afforded by
fiat port was very meagre. Wien, however, Uic Grand Truuk Raîlway w-as complefed from-fie Atlantic sea-board to Sarnia, the case assumed an entirely different
aspect~ and thc Canadian-government felt
that since fthe Cunards were sf111 osfensibly
subsidized to, promote a dloser connection
between Great Brîtain and lier North Âmerican colonies, It oughf at least to bave
been consulted wben Uic fime came for renewtng thc contract. Assurances In is
sense bad been given by the British goverument. but tic Cunards managed to abtain a renewal in advance of the proper
time on the plea that they proposcd to
strengthen ticir line. and that a new couHon. Mr. CLORAN.

tract would enable fiem to, do so on advantageous terms. The select committee
of 1860 corroborated Sir John's stafements,
showed at some lengti that Canada had a
substantial grievance, and observcd that
Great Britain and ber colony present tic
spectacle of compeflng agalnsf cadi other
by maintainlng rival subsidized lunes.'
Wien Mr. Cunard obtained bis firsf contract, thiere w-as but one otier tender,
wiich was higlier fian hIs. Tic Imperlal
autiorifies wvere most anxIous at Uiat tIme
to establisb a steamshlp service on tic
Atlantic, fearing ]est Uic Amerlcans, wio
had been opcratlng steamers on fleir inland
waters for ycars, and w-ho Uien possessed
a splendid mercantile fleet on Uic occan,
should antîdipate them. On seeking a renewal of bis contract w-lth an increased
subsidy, and on varlous other occasions,
Mr. Cunard made a point of cnlarging upon
tic danger to British commerce that must
arise If England permitf cd tic Americans,
w-ho by this time w-ere subsidizing Uic
Colas Ilne of steamers, f0 cripple or oust
Ail
bis lime by state-aided competItion.
agreed that Uic Cunard service w-as remarkably efficient, yet rival companies In
Englaad, Ilke the Inmans, w-ere disposed
to, tiink that Mr. Cunard w-as ilnduly favoured by fthc Imperial goverament, and
fiat Uic latter w-as f00 easily friglifened
by the AmerIcan bogey lie so often invoked.
Before Uic contract w-as given f0 the
Allans lu 1856, Uic carniage of Uic ocean
mails of Canada w-as performed for a
w-hile by other contractors, Uic McLeanMcLarty line, wliose service was not satisfactory. Tic British Post Office Department decllnied f0, send letters to Canada by
that line or by the Allans dowu to 1859,
unless tlicy were specially directcd ; in
other words, letters desfined for Canada
and specia]ly addrcssed f0 go by amy
named ship ot Uic Canadian limes werc
sent by ber, but no others. The British
authorities desired, as Uiey frankly adinowledged, Uiat letters for Canada should
ber'çarried f0 New York or Boston by tbe
Cunard vessels, ia order Uiat Uic Britisb
revenue from. tic sea postage migit be
imcreascd, to meet the lieavy subsidy f0
Uic Cunards. Again, on tic failure of a
Galway-American line of steamers, of

MAY 6, 1908
which more will be said lu a moment, the
Canadian government Irequested that the
subsidy paid to it by the imperial government should be transferred to the Allaus.
The Galway steamers had called at Newfoundland, and were subsidized partly for
thalt reason and partly because they served
the west of Ireland and had been built
with the money of a multitude of smal
Irish investors. It was contended in Canada, therefore, that as the venture had
collapsed, It was only Just and logleal .that
the subsidy should be given to the Canadian Une. Here, it was said, ls England
helping Boston and New York to the south
of Canada and Newfoundland to the north,
besides aiding lnes to Australla and other
colonies ; why, then. should Canada be
overlooked, when without additional expense to the British taxpayer the Newfoundland-Galway subsidy can be transferred to the Allans ? The imperial government could not, however, see Its way
to transfer the subsidy.

ble discours de l'honorable M. Belcourt, si
notre espace le permettait. Mais, nous pouvons y puiser, tout de même, des renseignements précieux pour la cause qui a déjà triomphé dans l'esprit public et qui n'attend plus
qu'une consécration officielle.
Un autre jour, nous utiliserons les chiffres

over to the Canadian treasury the sea postage which it collects from mail matter carried to Canada by Canadian steamships,
but gives no regular subsidy, and has never
given any, to any Canadian company on
the Atlantic.

Ils assuraient qu'un canal de 20 pieds pouvait

presque fantastiques, mais vrais tout de même, que notre commerce de l'Ouest nous permet d'espérer et auxquels nous devons nous
préparer. Aujoqrd'hui, nôus nous contentons
d'examiner le côté financier de la question.

Comme l'honorable M. Belcourt le fait remarquer, il y a longtemps que le canal de la
baie Georgienne serait fait, s'il avait été sur
le territoire d'à côté. Il nous rappelle la visite d'un expert américain, M. Geo. J. Wisner, qui avait été chargé par le président Roosevelt, avec deux autres messieurs, de faire

une enquête sur la possibilité d'un canal qui
aurait relié les grands lacs avec l'océan. Com-

me le fait remarquer l'honorable M. Belcourt,

le rapport fait par ces commissaires fut négatif, en ceci, qu'il ne conseillait aucune route et qu'il n'était pas loin, non plus, de considérer comme impossible une telle entreprise. M. Wisner, cependant, après un voyage
fait du côté canadien sur la route de la baie
Georgienne, déclara formellement que ce n'était pas les Etats-Unis qui étaient en état
d'entreprendre un tel projet mais bien le Canada.
Plus tard, lisons-nous toujours dans le mêThe Allans have never received a postal me discours, nous avons eu le rapport du département des Travaux publics. Les ingésubsidy from the imperial exchequer, nor nieurs y traitent de la possibilité de ce canal
has any other Canadian line operating on à partir de l'embouchure de la rivière dpa
reconnaisFrançais jusqu'à North-Bay,
the Atlantic. The British post office turns sent la parfaite praticabilité et yl'entreprise.
de

In 1861 postal arrangements with foreign
governments had to be made through the
imperial government whose officials, as Mr.
Sydney Smith reported, got it into theli r
heads that while the Cunard was the Br
tish, the Allans were an Amerlean line.
I have been discussing this subject from
a national point of view, and' I am proud
to find in the French Canadian press an
expression of opinion which completely
This
coincides with what I have stated.
expression of opinion is from ' La Presse
of Montreal :
LE CANAL DE LA BAIE GEORGIENNE.
La "Presse"

qui, depuis sa fondation, a

toujours préconisé le canal de la baie Geor
gienne, entrevoit l'heure mémorable oh oe
projet passera dans la réalité. De même qu e

nous avons consacré un espace considérable à
l'exposé si intéressant et si clair de l'honora
ble sénateur Casgrain, sur la question, de
même nous voudrions reproduire le remarqua -

être construit entre la baie Georgienne et
North-Bay au coût de $13,000,000.
Dernièrement encore, le département des
Travaux publics a fait faire une nouvelle
inspection; le résultat n'a pas été mis devant
la Chambre, mais l'ingénieur en chef a confirmé l'opinion qu'il n'y avait aucun- empêchement matériel à la construction d'un canal depuis le lac Huron jusqu'à Montréal.
L"' Engineering News ", de New-York, est du
même avis et, dans un article paru il y a
quelque temps, il démontrait que cette route
était la plus courte et la meilleure entre les
grands lacs et la mer.
Maintenant, quant au coût général, M. StLurent, l'ingénieur en chef de l'arpentage, l'a
estimé à $90,000,000, M. Wisner à $85,,000.
Il n'y a donc, ajoute l'honorable M. Belcourt,
qu'une minime différence de $5,000,000 entre
les deux opinions. Mais il faut remarquer
que M. Saint-Laurent calcule en même temps
le coût de l'installation des lumières des ports,
gédes bouées et tous les dommages
néraux occasionnés à cette entreprise. Estce une dépense excessive pour le CaConsidérons que le Canada peut
nada?
p. 100, fait
emprunter facilement à
remarquer M. Belcourt, cela fera un inannuellement;
térêt de $300,000 à peu près
ajoutons à cela $1,000,000 pour les dépenses
d'entretien, la somme sera portée à $4.600,000.
Ceci n'est en aucune façon au-dessus des ressources du Dominion, surtout quand on imagine le profit formidable que retire de ce canal le commerce canadien tout entier.
•4

SENATE

Eu réalité, ce canal ne coûtera pratiquement
rien au pays.
Ainsi, admettons que l'entrée du canal et
les droits de passage soient gratuits, la somme que le Gouvernement pourra parfaire avec
l'affermage des pouvoirs d'eau développés par
cette voie, sera amplement suffisante pour
solder les dépenses. On estime de 800,000 à
2,000,000 H.P. la force qui sera développée le
long de cette route unique. En se basant,
cependant, sur 800,000 H. P., loué à l'extrême
bon marché de $6 par H. P., le revenu du ca-

nal sera de $4,800,000. Donc, le canal, une fois

complété ne grèvera notre budget en aucune
façon.
M. Roosevelt a bien compris l'importance
vitale des cours d'eau pour l'industrie d'un
pays quand il institua une commission pour
faire inspecter les cours d'eau intérieurs aux
Etats-Unis et lorsqu'il préconise de faire servir à l'industrie toutes les digues et les barrages construits pour améliorer la navigation
et qui pourraient donner des centaines de
milliers de chevaux-vapeur.
Le canal de la baie Georgienne développera
un nombre incalculable d'industries.
Les moulins à pulpe se multiplieront, le
commerce du bois s'augmentera considérablement, les fonderies surgiront de partout; la
fabrication du ciment de Portland, dont on
trouve la matière première le long de la route
du canal, se fera sur une grande échelle. De
plus, la force électrique ainsi créée pourre
servir à la traction des tramways et même
des chemins de fer qui tôt ou tard remplaceront la vapeur par l'électricité.
Le Pacifique Canadien, dont la voie ferrée suit
la route proposée du canal, devra dans quelqueg
années, d'après l'opinion d'un expert, employer nécessairement l'électricité de préférence à la vapeur. Il y a quelques jours à
peine, MM. Mackenzie et Mann ont acheté des
pouvoirs d'eau considérables à Niagara, dans
l'intention d'opérer leur système de chemin
de fer par l'électricité. Avant sept ans, temps
ou sera complété le canal, la demande de fore motrice dépassera probablement tout ce
que nourra développer -le canal.
Le "New York Herald ", parlant des canaux du Saint-Laurent, dit dans un article,
qu'ils n'ont pas atteint le but dans lequel ils
ont été construits et qu'ils ont failli à attirer le commerce qui se dirige vers Buffalo.
Le caractère général de ce commerce, ajoute
le " New York Herald ", l'énorme capacité
des navires sur les grands lacs, et la facilit4
d'obtenir une cargaison de retour dans les
ports américains du lac Erié, met dans un
désavantage évident les canaux canadiens qui
ne peuvent transporter que des vaisseaux relativement petits. Mais, continue le " New
York Herald ", le Canada tient entre ses
mains un atout dans la construction du canal de la baie Georgienne. Cette route qui
utilisera la rivière des Français, le lac Nipissing et la rivière Ottawa, permettra aux vaisseaux de naviguer dans 20 pieds d'eau jusqu'à
Montréal, de plus est de -450 milles plus courte que toutes les autres routes du Saint-Laurent. Il semble impossible de lui faire la
moindre concurrence. Quand elle sera en
opération, la route de Buffalo sera déclassée,
sans espoir, et le Saint-Laurent contrôlera
alors le transport de tout le continent.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN.

Poor Canada bas a good deal to suffer,
and I suppose will have to suffer more.
Since 1841 Canada bas had a lot to put up
with.
She was supposed to be the spoiled
child of the empire, but my experience and
observation and what I can learn from
bistory shows that she bas been far from
spoiled by Downing street.
I find that
Canada bas had to fight its own way ln this
world without the aid of the mother country, so far as trade and commerce is con-

cerned. The St. Lawrence route whicb is
to-day the great asset of Canada and artery
of Canada's life blood bas been developed
by Canadian means alone. Downing street
did not do much on behalf of Canada in
regard to thls question, which is one of
vital Importance ln the development of our
own Dominion.
To suit thelr own purposes the wealtlh of England bas been spent
to build up foreign ports instead of the ports
of Canada.
In the past 50 or 60 years
millions of money have been given to the
United States while the Canadian St. Lawrence route bas been neglected.
That is
the tender mercy extended to us. If New
York and Boston are great ports to-day,
they can thank the British treasury for It.
They. owe it to the enormous subsidies
granted by the British government to the
Cunards and other Unes as against the
Allan and other Canadian lines. I stand
here to say that the government of Britain,
not only this present government but the
governments ln the past 60 years, have
dealt unfairly and unjustly with Canada
in regard to the development of trade and
traffic across the Atlantic.
I hold ln my
hand documents whereby it la proved that
one of the great United States lnes bas
been largely built up by British money,
while our Canadian lines have been left to
paddle their own canoe.
Thank God they
have been able to work their own way, and
this country owes the Allans a debt of gratitude for having fought their way through
the shoals and shallows of the St. Lawrence.
They are now being aided by the
Canadian Pacifie Railway and other hlnes,
but we owe nlothing to the mother country
for help to open up the St. Lawrence route.
Even to-day, when our government is trying with ail the prestige and power of this

country behind them to establish zan All
led linp, wbere do we find refusais and dis-

MAY 6, 1908
couragements coming from?
Not from any
sister eolony, but from Downing street. We,
a young country with six millions of people,
are prepared to grant subsidies to any lune
or Uines that would bind the empire together as nothing else would blnd it. We
meet with encouragement from Âustralia.
They are prepared to pay their fair share.
We are prepared to do as much, but the
mother country wili do nothIng.
Their
subsidies still go to the Ounard lune, and
they are able to build 'Lusitanlas' and
'Mauritanias' costing millions while no encouragement Is tended to our 'Empresses.'
When the leader of this government goes
to England and proposes to the British government a seheme by which to bind the
empire together not merely by cables but
by steamers, wbat encouragement does he
nieet w1th from the Imperial government?
Wben the leader of this government goes
to the Premier of the British goverument
and says, ' We have had to bind this empire together by steel rail and by cable,
and as representing the people of Canada I
come to yon, the British government and say
yon bave been helping to build up forelgu
ports by subsidizing uines to the United
States, bleedlng the British people to fatten
a foreign country, and now we ask you to
adopt means to build Up the empire and
bind It together, what Is the reply? It
Is the same old story that we have always
heard f rom Downing street
When Canada's Interests and those of our nelghbours
are involved, Canada's Interests must be
sacrificed.
When we stand up againat the
United States we are thrown down every
time. History tells us 'that one of the most
valuable assets of this country, the State of
Maine, was Cut ont of the heart of Canada
and given to the United States, depriving
us of Portland and other ports. To use a
Yankee expression, we have been thrown
every time. The latest occasion was ln connection with the Âlaskan boundary. I hope
the day is coming when the attitude assnmed by the leader o! this government will be
upheld by the people of Canada and that no
British government shall any longer dare to
sacrifice the righta of tie Canadian people.
W%%bether the Premier o! this country lives
long enough to see his plan adopted and
followed or whether he be succeeded by
another Prime Minister, I hope the policy

o! onr government will be to say to Downing street when Canadian Interesta are luvolved, yen shaîl nlot sacrifice them 'without
our consent.
When the Imperial governVie .&il-Red
ment refuses
to assist
line It is time that Vis country shonid
say that Canada, ln Vie Interest of
the empire, should have what has been
going to the United States for many a year.
And I hope the present governinent of
England, under Asquith and Lloyd-George
will deal with Vie matter. I hope that my
voice, humble as it la, weak as It may be,
but national and patriotie, wIll reach them,
and tell Viemn Viat we cannot tolerate this
discrimination any longer. We are bixilding up Vhis part of Vie empire at our own
expense. They talk of CJanada granting a
subsidy, or granting naval aid to Vie empire.
Why, we have been granting aid te the empire for Vie past twenty years. We have snnk,
over 20 millions ln canais and water routes.
We have given them an MIl-Red route over
onr bal! of Vie continent already ; we are
bulding Viem a second route, and we wll
give Viem a third route. We are doing al
Viat without any encouragement, and when
we ask them for a Ilttle help they decline
to give It. I feel strongly that If this AilRed route la to be an accomplished fact, it
wI be largely Vie result of Our own efforts.
Âlthough Vis ÂlI.Red route is not
under discussion, stili It is a question of
navigation, and the Georgian Bay route
may be a factor ln It ln Vie near future.
We are trying to transport our products
from Vie west to Vie sea coast as cheaply
and as fast as we can. We are trying to
get Viem Viere ln good condition, and If
Vie ÂU.-Red route ls establIsbed, 'which I
hope It will be wiVi Vie consent-I won't
say Vie consent, but wiViout detriment to
existing companies, Vien Vie Georgian Bay
canal would benefit them. This route will
be the shortest'from Vie heart of Canada
to Vie sea-board. It wili bring ail Vie large
centres of population ln the northwest and
ail Vie farms from three to four hnndred
miles nearer, to Vie sea-board Vian any
oVier route lni existence, 'wiVi a much
shorter time to accomplIsh Vie distance,
because Vie route Virough Vie St. Lawrence
caRnais Is one that takes considerable tlme.
It is a safe and good route, but by the
Ottawa and Georgian Bay canal fully two

SENATE

832

daye can be saved. On this route goods s ee the day when Vbis worl, wiil be accomwili flot perish, you will have good breezes Iplished, and when lie lias done that he will
and cold air nearly the whole distance. So have doue more than al our etatesmen for
that I eay Viat If we receive no encourage- Vie past generation. He wlll have given
ment from England lni regard to the ÂII- to Canada a permanent right of way for
Red route, I would ask the goverument the traffic of the world. The building of
to throw the money that would be voted that canal would mean more to the human
for that line into the coffers of the Geor- race than the building of the Suez or Pangian Bay canal. The government are pre- ama canais. Both those undertakings are
pared to speud, I belleve, a million and a supposed to be avenues flot only for tradte,
quarter of a subsidy annuaily for the but for war. Thls wIll be an avenue for
construction of the AIl-Red lune. That peace, development and prosperlty, for the
would almost pay the interet-half of growth of Vie nation at large, and 1 hope
If de do not Teceive the day le not far distant wbeu he wili
it any way.
any encouragement from Downing street, consider It hie duty on behalf of Vie people
from the present Britiesh goverfiment, of Canada to initiate Vhis work which we
Iu
Vie money lu are ail anxious to see accomplislied.
us devote
Vien let
Vie construction of Vis canal. I under- the sixties, one of the lead.ing newepaper
stand Vie old eaying Viat the mille of Vie men of Vie day. afterwarde a presidential
gode grind slowly, but I amn bound to say candidate ln the United States, eaid to, Vie
that Vie ways of Vie governiment and par- young men who were comlng ln from Engliament are worse ln comparison when land, Ireland and Scotlaud: ' Go west, young
great ends are to be achleved. They make men, Vie star of Vie empire pointe west.'
one weary. Parliament le slow ln accom- That le only 48 years ago. 'The young men
pllsblng thinge whIch are of excellent ser- went weet. The resuit Is Viey have a trevice to Vie country, and sometimes very mendous country bulît up by what was
fast la doing thinge Viat are not very use- suppoeed then to be the bone, alnew and
fui, and, as far as I am con -cerned, I hope Intelligence of Vie old country. You have
thua wiI be Vie laet time Viat an a¶3peal the beet people from, England, Scotland and
wlll have to be made on Vie floor of par- Irelaud, followIng Greeley'u advice to ' Go
liament to urge Vie government to con- west,' as Viey have doue for 48 or 50 yeare.
struct Vis work. These appeale have been It le strange--alViougli not strange to Viorne
made from time to timne for some fifty or who observe and study, and Viose who do
sixty years past, by men who were able observe aud study will underetand Itto advocate It on grounds of science, men Viat Vie development of the human race
who Ixad a kuowiedge of Vie country and has followed climatic geographîcal hunes.
who urged Vie construction of Vie route M[hà human race, to start with, directed
because It wouid eupply Vie wants of Vie Ite march of progress towarde Vie south.
country. They have been more or lese set The human race developed lu Africa. Then
asIde. They bave been encouraged by little It went east to Vie Indles, China and Japan.
promises here and Viere. I wish to etate Then Vie march of humanity came west
ln my position as a senator, Viat I amn f rom Italy, France and England, and hae
prepared to support any goverumeut 'who contInued up to Vie present day to come
To-day, If I
wIli undertake Vie construction of Vhie work. weet to Vie United States.
I feel so strongly Viat it le la Vie intereste am n ot too bold, I may etate Viat Vie Star
of Vie country at large that no attachment of Vie empire now points uorthwards, Viat
to party would prevent me f rom eupporting Vie human race bas taken a new trend ;
a goverumient Viat wIll undertake It I make that it le t>ound to develop not to Vie South,
Viat statement very deliberately, after hav- to the east or the wegt so mucli as to the
The
Ing studied Vie question to its f ull extent, north, and Canada owne Vie north.
and I hope that Vie hon, leader of the gov- trade of Vie empire le northward, and I
erument will bave another laurel added to would say to our young men, and to al
hie crown of usefulness and prestige that the immigrants who corne liere, instead of
he le *earIng to-day, on behaif of Vie iremainlng ln the large centres of the Dompeople of Canada. 1 hope lie wii live to 1inion that they go nortliward and nortliwest.
Hlon. Mr. CLORAN.

MAY 6. 1908
The star ef the empire is northward, aDd
when that star of the empire ls established
ln the north, we wll be sorry mortals; we
will be eorry citizens ef Canada wben we
will nlot be able to meet their demande,
wheu we will nlot be able te meet them
half-way ln bringing out to clvilizatlen and
the remainder of the human race wbat the.
north aud northwest [s able to produce.'
Therefore [t le the sacred duty et thîs gevernrneut te censider this question in ail [te
bearings, nlot only for tbe mouey we haveand God knows we bav-e more than we eau
spend at the preseut time-but te cousider It:
for the future generatiens. and for the near
future. We are spending money by hundreds of thousands te bring Immigrants te
our shores, and when tbey are bere, I ask
- the geverumeut te exercîse foresight, se
that when these people have earned. theit
living eut ef the land and desire te sel
the surplus or the excess et their produce,
that we wlll be lu a position to give tbem
an easy and cheap method te transport
thieir produce te the markets ef the world.

punies the clause was struck eut.
ail the change that 1 know ef.

833
That le

The motien was agreed te.
WINDING-UI> ACT AM4ENDMENT

BILL.

Hon. Mr. SCOT meved the second reading of Bill (144) Au Act te amend the Wlnding-Up Act
He sald: This Bill dees net propose te
Introduce nny new principle or any change
Iu maklng
lu Vie law as [t now stands.
the revisien ef the Revised Statutes, they
altered Vie pbraseology et the law as it
stood, and It left a doubt as te whether the
expression 'No lien or privilege shaIl be
created,' referred te ail the points that were
inentioned lu ail the paragraphe, and then
agalu lu the sixteenth line Viere was a mistake. The expression 'Or by the issue or
taklng eut' s houid read 'Or maklng eut.'
Heu. Mr. LOUGHEED--Cau my hon.
trieud say whether auy litigatien bas arisen
over any doubts wblch may be throwu on
the luterpretatien efthVe langunge in the
Revleed Statutes?

Hon. Mr. DERBYSHIRE-On behalf of
the hou, gentleman from Russell (Heu. Mr.
The
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I do net know.
Edwards) I move that the debate be adreport sent me from the department states
journed until Tuesday next.
that section 84 which It le proposed te
The motion was agreed to.
amend Je taken from sectien 66 of the ReThe
vised Statutes et 1886, chapter 129.
4QUEBECIAND NEW BRUNSWICK RAIL- Revlsed Statutes et 190 divlded Vie section
WÂY BILL.
lu two subsectiens lu euch a manner as te
ÂMENDMENTS 0F COMMITTEES CON- suggest Vie possible questien as te whether
CUJRRED IN.
or net Vie hypothetical sentence ' If betore
Hon. Mr. COSTIGÂIN moved the concur- the payment,' etc., ln lune 16, applied te
rence lu the ameudmeuts made by the both A and B. It provîdes that it sheuld
Heuse et Commons te Bill (P) An Act re- be se and iu the old Revieed Statutes secSe that the
ispectlng the Quebec and New«Brunswick tqou 66 it reads correctly.
object .le slmply te remove any possible
Rallway Company.
I
doubt there may be lu regard te [t
Hon. INr. LANDRY-Are the ameud- caunot state whether there bas been any
meuts very substantial, or are they merely litigatien under Vhie.
fermai?
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-De I understand
Hon. Mr. COSTIGAN-The Bill as It my hon. frieud te say Vis le taken from
passed the Senate gave the company power the eld statutes?
te amalgamnate or make arrangements with
Hon. M4r. SCOTT-Yes.
The rule lu
other companles net named.
the House of Commons, as 1 understand, le
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEFID-Is this a re-print
and it bas always been the practice, that lu
et .the ojd. Revleed Statutes?
,order te pass such a measure through the
Heu. Mr. SCOTT-No. it le reaily ne
House of Commons we have -te name Vie
companies with which you are associated. change, but the tailit was lu the Revised
aud therefore net having naied the com- Statutes ef 1906, maklug the change. . I53
REVISED EDITION

SEINATE
eems to me that before trustees should
s
as they are to be enhiold valuable lands
rusted with under this Bill. there should be
the congregation
s orne safeguards to protect
n asklng trustees of that charter to account
u: their trust. My hon. f riend wlll ob'or
very radical departure
1;erve that thîs la a
~rom well recognized principles of law, by
f
which to-day, It would be Impossible for
the representatives of a congregatioxi appointed la, possibly, a very general and lnLet
definite way to hold valuable lands.
as assume for the moment that ln a very
[nformai and irregular way trustees are
appolnted by a congregation ; how are we
going to determine lu thue event of litigatien, If those truetees have been regularly
Supposlng the congregation
appointed.
should divide iteelf Into two factions, as
very often la the case, and let us assume
that both should appoint trustees, who, le
golng to determîne wbo are the trustees of
the congregation ? So far as 1 can obHon. Mr. SCOTT-It does nlot follow it serve, there le no definîtion as to - what
constitutes a congregatioui, and If there le
exactly, but It le la effect.
any body of people hiable to eplit asunder
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-It le manlfestly a and indulge la controversces upon questions
substantive change la the Revlaed Statutes of this kind, It is the ordinary congregaAddltional language le employed tien. It la not a very great hardship, to
of 1906.
latter end of the section whlch le not Impose upon the congregation, that they
la the
to be found la the exlstlng law.
ehouid apply to the provincial or Dominwordlng ls very Ion authorîties for letters patent, or for
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The
1 bave compared it. some procees of Incorporation, so that thelr
nearly the sanie.
representatîves should be able to properly
The transposition le different.
I think this le very dangerhold lande.
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill oua leglelatlon lndeed, and that has been
was read the second time.
peculiarly exemplIied very recently ln a
case whlch 1 mest now cail to mmnd, which
LAND TITLES ACT AMENDMENT BILL. involved a very emal and apparently unImportant congregation la the clty of EdSECOND READING.
monton, la iltigation 'which went to the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second readPrlvy Councfl, and which represented la
lng of Bill (138) An Act to amend the Land coste an amount far la excese of the value
Tities Act.
of the property held by tbem, and far la
a great niany of excese probably of what wlll be round for
He sald : There are
these bodies la the Northwest which are many years to corne la the coffers of that
not incorporated, and the object of thîs congregatlon. However. when the Bill
Bill la to allow the truetees or the head of goee into commIttee we can dîscuss It furthe churcli to hold the church properties, ther, but 1 muet place myseif on record as
being opposed to the principle which le
thme trustees to continue to be elected.
embodied la this measure.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I think thie
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-A large and populous
Blill is open to many objections, owiag to
have been
A very important trust body in the province of Alberta
its Indefiniteness.
incorporated, but there are a number of
le being invested ln the proposed representthat probably are repreatives of the chureh or congregation, and It Chrîstian bodies
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT.

stead of placing the words 'No lien or priviiege shahl be created' at the top, as they
should have done, to apply to ahl the paragraphe, they simply lntroduced it la the
firet line of each, and there was a doubt
as to whether it applled. to ail the conditions
Then the expression la regard
that arose.
attacbment should read 1making.'
to taking
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-That le a clerical
error.
Hon. Mr. SCÔTT-Then the expression
'If before thue payaient over to the plaintiff
of the moneys, 'was lef t out, and two words
added at the bottoni. It simply inakes the
There le no change conparagraph clear.
law. It was intended to
templated la the
leave the law as It stood before the revielon
of the statutes.
Hon. '.%r. LOUGHIEED)-Is thîs a reprint of the former Revised Statutes?

MAY 7, 1908
sented by the pastor of the church, flot
outeide of that, and therefore the objeet
of this Bill was to give them an opportunity cf holding property according te the
wlshes cf the majority of the congregation.

835

manner proposed by my hon. friend. My
hon. friend la followIng the practice adopted yesterday ln mcving that the ruies be
suspended.
Hon. Mfr. LÂNDRY-I object te it

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-The very law
which la being amended, nameiy the Lanid
Tities Act, makes provision that nic trust
shall appear upon the face of the certillcate : so that my hon. friend will apprediate at once the powers vested lni the
trustees, and the possibility of trustees
appointed, say, ln a very irregular way,
and possibly by Irresponsible congregations,
d.lsposing of lands which they should hcld,
witbout any machinery being prcvided by
iaw te call them te account for such a disposition.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG-The hon, gentleman
(Hon. Mr. Talbot) is net censurable for
making any new departure, because we
have been followlng this practice.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I asked yesterday,
when a similar motion was. moved, If it
was a petition asking for leave te present
a petition, and was told that it was ; however, I muet accept the record as 1 find ît.

Hon. Mr. XOUNG-Had It been a petitien te present a petition there would have
The motion was agreed te, and the Bill been ne necesaity te suspend the rule.
was read the second trne.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-There la ne necesThe Senate adjourned until three o'clock, sity tc suspend the raies te-day.
to-morrow.
Hon. Mr. POWER-Âs far as rny memory gees, the uniform practice bas been
that Indieated by the hen. senator from
Stadacona, and, like hlm, I asked the
question yesterday with respect te those
petitions brought In, and got the Impression
THE SENATE.
that they were simply petitione asklng
for leave te present petitions. That has
OTTAWA, Thursday, May 7, 1908
been the unlform practice and 1 do net
thlnk lit should be departed frem.
The SPEAKER teck the Chair at Three
o'cleck.
Hon. Mr. TÂLBOT-I arn net very weli
poeted on the ruies, and I made an effort
and routine proceedings.
Prayers
te fellow the same course test was taken
case cf the Lake ChamBRANDON TRÂNSFE&R RÂILWÂY COM- yesteday lnx the
plain and the St. Lawrence Ship Canal
PÂNY.
Company. It wvas permitted yesterday,
and'I do net see why objection shouid be
PRESENTÂTION OF PETITION POSTtaken to my motion to-day. Since ebjecPONED.
tien has been taken, I give tii!. as a notice
Hon. Mr. TALBOT mnoved the suspension of motion for to-morrow.
of miles 24a, 110 and 112, s0 as te allcw
the presentation of the petition of the
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-I asked yesterday
Brandon Transfer Rallway Company.
whether It was a petition fer leave te, present a petition and was answered ln the
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-That motion le net affirmative, and It was for that reason I
ln order. The hon. gentleman should pro- let It pase.
ceed by presentlng a petition asklng for
The SPEÂKER-The motion being ohleave te present a petition.
jected te, I would suggeet te the hon, genHon. Mr. YOUNG-Yesterday, on two oc- tleman te bring ln a petition asklng for
casions, the matter was deait with lnx te leave te present a petition.
531

SEINATE
Tuie tirne lias iiow%arrived, indeed, shall I
THE EXPORT 0F PULP WOOD FRO-M
say we bave already lest xuuch v-aluabie
CANADA.
tirne hy not hav-ing taken steps more promptMOTION.
Bon. Mr. BAIRD rnoved:
That in the opinioný of the, Senate it is ad-visable that a commission ho appointed consitn
frepresentatives from the different

1legsa ues of the severai provinces, together
with such other persons as may have the mnan-

agement of the Crown Lands of Canada, with
best means
porwer to report on theour forests ia to adopt
fo the preservation of
the best
interests of Canada, in view of the large
mrount of logs and pulp wood that are annually exported frorn Canada.

He said : la moving the resolution
whIcb stands In niy namne. 1 regret
that sane other member of the Senate
who la better qualified,
bad
taken
the matter up; qtut feeling as 1 do, the
great need for considering the question
embodded in the resolution, at the earliest
possible moment. in order that the people of
thid country rnay be fully alive to ail the
facts ln connection with the pulp Industry,
I make the attempt, trusting that the Senate
wlll give If the consîderaf ion Its merits demand la aIl its bearIngs on the future weltare of Canada.
There Is, to my mmnd, no question of such
vital Importance to Canada, which bas corne
before this Senate for many years.
It is
the duty of this parliameat to be leaders of
publie opinion, not foilowers, especialiy In
thé Imatter now before us, as we should be
better informed as to, the wants and requirements of the country.
Supplementing
oui views wlfh such legisiation as wiIl preserve our natural resources la the inferests
of the labouring men of Canada, whose Iaterests play such an Important part la thîe
welfare of the country.
'The greatest good to the greatest numnber,' should be the motto of every legislator who should apply bis best energies f0
flic attalamenf of tbat object.
Canada owns lu ber Iumbe", mines and
lisheries, resources of untold value, wbich If
properly husbanded, will for many years
gîve ernploymenf f0 our people.
In rny
humble opinion, If we were to bend our
energies, and part of the expenses lncurred
¶n bringing some of the Immigrants whe
have reached our shores, Iu the direction
lidicated by this resolution, we wouid accomplîsb a great benefit f0 our ewn peoffie,
keeping our young men af home.
The SPEAKER.

Iy te proteet the resources of our forests by
a proper systern of tire protection, and by a
greater encouragement towards the manufacture of pulp and paper iu Canada. Caiiada is, at muchi cost, eacouragiug Immigration f0 our shores, toward wbicb I offer ne
protest, provided a good, clvillzed class of
people corne bere, but ivbile we are directlng our energies ln the direction of immigration, let us not forgef f0 keep our eyes
steadily on our greaf natural resources, and
so legîsiate as f0 preserve thern lu the best
If we
Interegt of future generations.
neglect the present opportunity we fail in
our duty as leg-isiators.
One cannot look backward withouf reflecting, shall I say with sorrow. on the
manner Iu whlch we have neglecfed the
preservatiou of Our hest assef, the forests of
this country.
Fire lias beenl the worst eniery

of the
forest. and until very receatly rnany of the
provinces liave net taken very active steps.
but I arn glad f0 say that lu the last few
years they bave become fuliy alive as f0 the
necessity of proper tire protection, which

lias been very rnaterially assisted by the
Fire bas
efforts 0f the forestry convention.
destroyed more than the axe and the saw,
alnd the lumbermen bave been destructive
They
beyond reasea and common sease.
have destroyed young trees in the cutting
aud skiddîng 0f legs, which la 15 or 20
years would arneunt f0 more than the eut
ltself.
The forest areas

0f Canada are the largest ln the world.
Dr. Robert Bell estimates thant the forest area of Canada Is
2.000,000 square rnles, of wbich over onehaîf rnay be pulp wood.
Two important rallway uines are aow under construction in the province of New
Brunswick. One from the town of Camnpbellton. on the nertlaeast coast of New Bruns.St.
wick, te St. Leonard, 110 miles long.
Leonard is a town situated on tbe Canadian
side of the St. John river, on ifs bank, whlcb
river is the bouudary betweeu New Brunswick and 'Maine at that peint.
A charter was renewed lu this Heuse at
the present session, te build a bridge over
the St. John river te counect the Interna-

MAY 7, 1908

837

tional Railway witb the American system of organ of the paper and pulp makers of
raiiways nt Van Buren ln the State of the United States, makes the following
Maine, directly oppèosite St. Leonard, and statement ln an Issue of that magazine for
ou the American bank of the St. John JanuarY, 1908. 'The wood situation of
This whole territory covered by the to-day le a very serions matter. There
river.
International Itailway Is well covered with is flot a minl ln the United States mnanufacPulp and paper men are turing paper from pulp, that le flot largely
Pull) and logs.
dependent on Canada for its wood. Dur110w actually turning their attention to the
American side of the ing the year 1907, the United States imerectiiîg of milis ou the
river, as soon as the rallway Ene ls coin- ported from Canada 650,366 cords of pulp
wvood, enoughi to manufacture, say 520,000
pleted.
The Grand Trunk Pacifie passes fromn tons of news-paper, whiie Its Imports from
Grand Falls to Moncton througb the centre Canada were 149,827 tous of ground pulp,
of the province of New Brunswick, almoet valued at $3,230,272. The actual qunntity
That rail- of pulp wood is supposed to bie fromn 800,entirely tlirongb forest lande.
way connects wlth the International andi 000 to 1,000,000 cords, as large quontities
Canîidiann Pacilfie Rallwny at St. Leonard. get out of Canada nlong the boundarles
When tbese lines are completed, tbey wlll between Maine and New Brunswick, and
open up the greater part ef the lumber Georgin bay and Lake Superior without
Whlch under any record heing made. This le quite evilande of New Brunswick.
exlstlng regulations as to the export of pull) dent, as the Aierîcan people are flot nwood nnd logs, the product of the 'whole pro- ious to have it ail recorded.
Acordlng to the speclal report of the
vince wll be sent to the United States for
Already the Americans have United States Census Bureau, the coneuiipmanufacture.
got control of most of the lumb-'r lands on tion of dotuostie spruce wood used by the
the north shore of New Brunswick. The United States pulp mille Increased. 47 per
lumber cut in that section willl he, this year, cent ln quantlty, and =2 per cent ln prîce,
about 100,000,000 feet of whlch one-haif wil l n five yenrs, from 1900 to 1905. Whille
be sblpped as pulp wood during the coming the coneuinption of Canadian spruce wood
by the United States mills lncreased. 102
summer.
Ânierlca's scarclty of pulp wood is Can- per cent ln quantit-y and 150 per cent ln
price ln the saine perlod.
ada's opportun ity.
The average cost of wood used for meGuildford Pinchot chief forester of the
United States government on -returning to chanical and chemical pulp wae more than
Washlngtom, November, 1907, from a six doubled In the five years named. for every
month's tour of inspection In which hie varlety of pulp wood except domeetic poptrnve]led 5,000 miles, lseued a statement lar. Canadian poplar Increased 167 per
to the press, in whlch hie said : That In cent.
There are 108 pulp mille ln New York
20 years the timber supply of the United
States on government reserves and pri- State wltb a yearly capaclty of 987,00()
vate holdings, at the present rate of *cut- corde of wood. These mîlis wiii strip
ting 'will be exhausted, although It le pos- nenriy 100,000 acres per year, whlch added
aîble tUaI the growth of that period miglit t0 the cut of lumber by the mille, estimated
extend the fa mine another five yeare. The aI 245,000,000 wlll exhaust the whole supply
policy of preeervlug our natural resources of the Adirondache In 7 yeare.- Estlmatlng
for manufacture by our own people le far 650,360 cords of pulp wood as the amount
above and beyond any polilleal considera- exported 10 the United States ln 1907, at
tion. The American people are fully alive $4 per cord we get $2,601,440, made 1Dtb
to the facî tUat the end of thelr pulp sup- pulp at $7, $4,552,520, and made Into paper,
PlY le ln slght. They are therefore pur- nearly $20,000,000. We are therefore losing
choaing every timber limit tUaI cen be oh- $ 1000,000 yearly, as between the value
lof pulp wood and the manufactured artained, as a -reserve.'
Let us see Uow the pulp arens of thet~ icle.
From these figures it can be eaeily calUnited Stateq, are being strlpped of pulp
The 'Palier MI]],' the recognized 1 culated that the benefit by the manufacture.
wood.

SENATE

838

of pulp and paper lu Canada is about elght
tîmes greater than from the sale ef puip
wood for export. And if the expert of pu]p
'wood be prohibited, foreiguers wiil be cernpelled to manufacture ln Canada and the
United States wili be forced to remove the
duty on pulp and paper, whleb will give
stIli. greater impetus to our pulp and paper
Canada bas lost ln the
manufacturers.
neighbourhood. cf $70,000,000 in four years,
on acceunt ef the pulp wood net being manufactured Into paper.
It rnay be* said that shouid we pi;phlt
the export of puip wcod, the United States
may retaiate by putting on an extra duty
on paper and puip wood. Âny persen who
bas made a careful study of the pulp and
paper situation ln the United States knows
that 'thls wlll not be doue. It cannot be
doue under the pressure now being mnade ln
the United States fer cheaper paper, when
It la a fact that ne person eau deny, that
the puip resources are belng s0 rapldly exhannted la that country. We are toid by
cempetent experts that the timber suppiy
cf pulp wood lu the United States will
be exhausted lu 30 years.
The firat paper mli lu Canada, says the
Puip and Paper Magazine,' was started at
Jacques Cartier, Quebec, by a Mr. Jackson,
ln Âugust, 1800, aud was lu successful eperatien till 1857. The second mlii was started
at St. Âudrew's, Quebec, In 1803, the same
,Year lu whlch the Fourdrluier machine,
which was te revelutionize paper maklug,
was Iutroduced Into Engiaud.
Âceerdlug te the ceusus ef 1851, Upper
Canada bad five mills. aud Lower Canada
had aise five. Thé census cf 1871 gave
twelve milis te Ontario, seven te, Quebec,
eue te Neva Scotia, and eue te New Brunswick. The censfis of 1881 recorded 36
paper mîlis and 5 pulp mîlls.
The subsequent pregress cf the puip aud
paper industry Is recorded lu the 1Pulp
and Paper Handbeek of Canada' lu the
varlous edîitiens as fellews
Pulp Milîs.
Total
capacity lu

Tears.
1888 .. ......
1892......
1899.....
1907

.

.

Hon. Mr. BAIRD.

No. cf milis.
34
37
39
58

tons per 24
hours.
154
312
1.145
2,361

The total capnclty ef the milis producingchemîcai pulp by the sulphite and soda
precesses ln 1899l was about 500 tons per
day, ünd iu 1907 about 550 tous per day,
sp 'tbat the increase lu the iast fIve years
hag ,been almost wholly la mechanical, or
ground wood pulp.
Paper Milis.

Years.
1888.....
1892.....
1899.....
1907.....

Total
capacity in
tous per 24
heurs.
No. of Mills
173
40
37
312
33
46
966

The era cf manufacturlug pulp frem
wood lu Canada began lu the decade cf
188W-90. The yeariy capacity ef [ts pulp
mîlls at the preseut time is about 700,000
tnuk of puip and 290,000 tons ef paper.
Puip fIrst figures lu the trade and navigationr ireturns cf Canada lu 1890, wbeu the
total expert was vaiued at $168,180, of
whlch $460 went te Great Brîtaîn, $147,098
to, the United States, and $20,622 te ether
countries. In 1897 the total expert was
valued at $741,959, of whlch $164,188 went
te Great Britain and 8576,720 te the United
States. In ulue meuths cf the fiscal year
ending Mardi, 1907, the expert of puip was
$2,9M4,945, of wblch $558,600 weut te Great
Britaîn, $2,397,448 to the United States,
and the balance te France, Mexico, Japan,
the West Ladies aud Italy.
The experts cf Canadian-made paper in
theê .alne montha cf 1907 were valued at
$1,657,740, besîdes $20,412 cf wali-papers
Great Britaîn was the largest Importer cf
paper, the amount sent te, that country ln
the fine months belng $920,272, te Âustralia $33,326, New Zealand $139,687, aud te
the United States $109,273. This ls a large
Increase ln recent years, the exports for
the whole cf the year 1903 ameuntlng te
less than $90W,000, lncludlng wall-papers.
The Union Paper and Bag Company,
which ewns 2,000 square miles of apruce
lauds ln the province of Quebee, recentiy
explained that they eut their dividends from
7 te 4 per cent te apply the difference te
the purchase- of timber lands lu Canada, on
account ef the rapid increase ln the market
price of pulp woed, and the disappearauce
of spruce forests frem the continent. Last

MAY 7, 1908
year Wisconsin inxported 70,000 corde of
pulp wood from the province of Quebec, to
supply its mille.
In order to fully appreciate what the
manufacture of pulp aud paper means to
us, and the rapid growth of these Industries
we have only to see what bas been doue ln
the United States.
In 1850 there were 443 mills In the United
States making paper fromn rage, witb a c*apital of $7,260,864, with a product valned at
.$10,187,8u4
In 1880 there were 742 establishments,
with a capital of $48,000,000, produciug
paper and pulp valued at fifty-seven and s
baîf million dollars.
In 1900 there were 763 establishments
comprising over 1,200 mills with a capital
of 167j million dollars, producing paper and
puip to the value of 1271 million dollars. A
most remarkable growth.
-By 1908 the capital had increased to 277J
million dollars with an output of $189,000,000, whle the amount of wages paid out
NIne-tenths of the paper
was U38,000,000.
now used le made from pulp wood.
In the next four years at the present rate
of increase we w111 lose $200,000,000, as the
cousumption of paper le rapidly lncreasing,
the supply ln the United States is rapldly
The United States will draw
decreasing.
more heavily on us for pulp wood, as time
goes on, and they now fully realize their
ehortage.
As long as we allow our pulp wood and
log" to go ont of Canada, just so long will
pulp and paper mille, and saw mille, besitate to ereet mille In this country, as the
country to the south of us have the mille
For example: Let ns
now ln operation.
see what is being doue lu Ontario.
From 1892 to 1899 only seven mille were
erected.
From 1899 to 1907 nineteen were erected,
aud the Increase is attributed to the regulafions of the Outario goverument, passed ln
1900, reqnlring ail lumber cut lu the province to be manufactnred lu Canada.
This le how the probable prohibition of
pulp wood by the Canadian goverament appeals to one American Congressman. Mr.
Littlefield says:
'Canada bas the largeet suppiy of pulp
wood ln tbe world. And there is already
au agitation lu Canada for export duty on

839

Why are the Canadians askpulp wood.
lng for this duty? It le because tbey want
aIl the returns their forests wiIl give tbem.
And tbey are right. It le laudable on their
part and it ls just as laudable for us, whiie
we stand on the proposition ' America for
the Americans,' and they, 'Canada for the
Canadiens.'
Sir William Van Horne says tbat the time
lias arrlvedl for the Canadian people to take
action to protect the pulp areas of this
country, If we are to reserve them for
Canada, and prevent the United States
manufacturers from decimating our foreete
and injnring our water supply.
When 1
tell you that Americans own 2,000 square
miles of timber limite, nearly ail ln the
province of Quebec, von will probably realize to some extent the serlousnees of the
situation.
Now, this meane that unless
something ls doue. and done qulckly. to
prevent the wbolesale exportation of pnlp
wood, fihe United States mille will ln time
denude our pulp wood areas.
If, however,
the federal or provincial anthorities take
action and prevent the Americans taklng
away our pulp wood lu sucb tremendous
quantitles, we wlll ho lu a position to force
the United States mills to locate on thus aide
of the hune.
0f course, the American paper manufacturer Io auxious to have ne export dnty on
Canadian puip wood, for It wlll be easler
to secure ail be requires to keep his mille
running over-fime.
With what resuit, may I ask? Weil, to
keep the Canadian manufactures ont of the
Now, let ns cut off
United States market
the snpply of pulp wood, and lu six montha
you will findt the American capitaliste erectIng paper mille lu Canada.
Speaking of fihe agitation ln favour of the
renewal of the duty ou pulp and paper coming luto fthe United States from Canada, as
recommended by thec newspaper -men of the
United States owing to the growing demand
for papor ln otber countries, and on account
of the scarclty of pulp wood lu thec United
States.

J. Tirrell, a member of the Honse 0f Representatives at Waehington saye:
If there are any gentlemen ou this iffoor
who wish to sec the pulp and paper Induetry of the United States wiped ont; wbo
wish to throw tens of thousande of Ameni-

SEINATE

840

eaui wage-earners ont of employmeut, ani
bave tbem walkiag the streets; if tbey wisb
to, see tbe smoke and fire of 108 milîs extinguisbed la tbe state of New York, and
tbe lndustry bampered so tbat it no longer
becomes a factor la tbe development of the
country, tben it la only necesaary to wipe
ont tbe tariff on pulp and paper, and gîve
Canada the power to pasa a prohbitive
export law, and close the milîs of tbe United
States.
Tbe pulp and paper brancb of the Canadian Manufacturera' Association, Iast montb
unanlmously adopted a resolution favonring
the prohibition of export of pnlp from Canada, as belng la tbe interest of our water
supply, and tbe upbulldlng of Canada.
We sbould educate tbe people as to tbe
greût advantages tbat would accrue to ns
by the mannfactnring of our raw producta
by Canadians around thelr own fireside.
Let 'Canada for tbe Candinua' be !ipressed upon tbe wliole of Canada, not
Canada for the Americaus.'
Teacb Canadians tbat every tree now
Irlhar It Is
standing la a valuable asset.
wortb more to tbe owner than cash in the
bank, at the sane time disconrage by every
possible effort the cnttlug of amaîl trees.
Tbe goveranheut lias sent many valuable
men tbrough Canada into every district, lustrnctlng the farmers as to the snccessful
making of cheese and butter, rotation of
cropa, proper cultivation of tbe soil, tbe differeut klnds of seeds wbicb will grow most
successfully la tbe latitudes to wbicb tbey
are adupted, aIl] of wbîch bias been materially assisted by the Experitueutal Parm,
money well apent, wblcb la briugiug lu
frnltful returus.
Our leading statesman bas coined tbe
pbrase, 'The tweutietb century is Canada's
But wbat bave
century,' la very well said.
we as tbe representatives of tbe people doue
to make it a successEul Canadian century?
Are 'we preaervlug tbe natural resources of
tbls country, tbat tbey may go dowu to
posteritv stamped wltb au economical management ou our part?
Are we managiug
those natural resources lu tbe future interif not, tben we are failests of Canada?
ing lu tbe'discbarge of our duty as legisîfitors.
I bave only beard two arguments offered
One is. tbat if
a9gainst an export duty.
Non. Mr. BAIRD.

you compel the amall pulp wood owner to
selI in Canada witbout competition, hie will
1 bave
be forced to seli at a low figure.
only to refer to Ontario for an answer to,
this question.
In 1900 an Act was passed to compel ail
lumber eut in Ontario to be mRnufactured
lu Canada, and since tbat date lum-ber never
sold so blgh. except the present year, wbicb
Is on account of a financlal depression ail
over the world.
The other objection is that the United
States may retaliate by passing a high duty*
on our products eutering the country. This
they wlll not do. They caniflot do, as we
bave tbe pulp.- and tbey must have It.
No American statesman lu the last five
years bas v'entured to tbreaten Canada witb
lncreased duties. Canada eau no longer be
forced to give America tbe lion's abare of
We are ln a position to do
bier products.
the bargalnlng.
Let us mak-e use of our privilege.
Our premier bas stated that the twenVery
tietb century la Canada's century.
good indeed, but bow are we golng to
make tbe twentieth century the beat ? Are
we, by wlse legislation, leglalation whicb
will preserve tbe forests of tbe country,
golng to make this Century tbe best ? Are
we *stamping tbla perîod wltb wlse and
intelligent legislation, calculated to preserve our forests, so tbat they will be
taken down to, posterity as a valuable
asset for tbose wbio corne after us ? 1 say
it la of the greatest importance that we
%hould becoule alive to the necessit-y of
preserving tbe natural resources of tbe
country. We bave tbe greatest natura]
resources of any country la tbe world. We
look across to England and we flnd tbat
their resources are very limited. but tbey
bave made it the greateat country la the
world, tbrougb their akill, ability and energy.
There la no reason wby Canada cannot,
lu the future, be made one of tbe greatest
aud wealtbiest countries on the face of
tbe globe. But unlesa we awake now, and
develop and protect our natural resources
by wise legisiation, lose sigbt of polities
for a sbort time. aud get togetber and solve
this problemi -wbicb 1 bave no doubt tbe
two Houses asseinbled in parliament will
be able to do, we cannot rise to the position w-e sbouid occupy. Wbat bave 1 to

MAY 7, 1908
off er ? In tbe first place. 1 would suggest a commission. It is a matter, to niy mind,
tbat the local -governments of Canada lu wblch both federal and local governments
sbould do as Ontario bas done, enaet a ought to be interested. They sbould act in
law that ail lumber cut on Canadian land conjunction-get seie of the best practical
sbould be nianufactured in Canada. Then men in the country, they need nlot necessathe government sbould place a prohibitive riy be members of parliament, 'Who Wil
It
duty on the marketing of lumber not con- take this matter into consideration.
would suit me better If the goverrumelat
trolled by the local legislature. It is estimated that the United States forests Eelt In a position to act now, because I bewill be completeir denuded of .puip tieve that public opinion ln Canada Is ripe
Wood ini twenity years. They begin now to deai witb Vis question, and protect th(,
to realize this. Let us move before pulp Wood ln the lnterests of the Dominion.
it s tgo late. and conserve our forests
Hon Mr. EDWÂRDS-I must congrattiln the best interest of the p~eople of
matters off late my hon. friend for Introducing ln this
Canada. Do nlot put these
until it is too ]ate. Sureir we should learn Chamber a subject whlcb, ln my humble
fromn the experience of the great country opinion, is one of the most important that
to the south of us. There are ma things can. come before the people of- Canada.
we learn from those people. and we sbould Next to agriculture, there certainly is no
now consider the mistakes tbey have made, more important question for Canada than
and sbould profit thereby. I Rhail not en- tbe preservation of ber forest reserves. 1
deavour to cover 'the Wboie ground ln this have no doubt that xny bon. frlend and
matter, and 1 apologize for having to read niyself have exactly the samne object ln
the greater part of my speech, because it view. If we disagree, bowever, as to the
contained a great many facts and figures, application, or the means of bringing about
and It was necessary that my figures should the resuit, lt will bie merely a disagreebe correct. I trust that every miember in ment upon tbat point, and not oue upofi
this House who feels interèsted lu this the main object. He is correct lu stating
subject wlll take lt up. I have felt keenly that forest fires have been the great enemy
those
in the matter mysel! for a number of years. o! the forests of Canada. There are
I have had sometbing to do wlth lumber unaequalnted wvith the subject wbo ImaaIl my life, and I have witnessed the reck- gine that the lumberman's axe bas been
less waste wbich bas gone on lu our for- the great destroyer o! the forest, but sucb
ests. The public now realize the extent is Dot the case. I think it ls absolutely
of that waste and are taking steps to pre- isafe to say that forest fires bave done
vent it I sec no reason 'why tbe govern- rwenty times, the destruction to the forest
mefit should nlot deal with the question this that the lumbermen's axes have done, and
Let us have an expression of I say, as a practical lumberman, without
session.
It would be a good move on the hesitation, that If forest fires had been
opinion.
part of this government to send intelligent kept from our forests, and If our timber
bright men ail over the country to teach had been cut scientlfically and judicious]y
the farmer the value o! every tree on bis fromn the first, our forest areas In Canada
farm, in the samne way that he was taught would be still unbroken, and you could
There hardly tell that the lumberman's axe bad
how' te produce butter and cheese.
many farmers who do not con- any effect on them. It Io, unfortuiiately, a
are a great
sider these things, and who look upon Vie regret!ul fact that mucb of our forest area
forest as an enemy. No doubit years ago, ha& been destroyed and ]ost perbnps forwben the forests were very beavy and the ever; but if the people of Canada awake
fies were so troublesome they became a to-day to Vie real situation, and apply the
sort of pest to the farmers, and the desire miethods which are possible of application,
was to cut the forest down, so that the Canada need neyer suifer for Vie want of
wînd could b]ow tirougb the districts and timber. This sul>ject is one whicb I hope
relieve them of the files. 1 desire that the will be fully discussed bere. It cannot
Dominion and local goverriments may take be too much dlscussed Virougbout the enhils inatter into consideration aud appoint tire area o! this Dominion, for unles-4 our

842

SENATE

forests are preserved, as bas been very
forcibly said by my hon. friend, Our waterpowers wlil aise become impaired, and
thereby another of the great assets of Canada wlll be destroyed. For it ls only by
the preservation of the forests that our
water-powers can aise be preserved. Every
province of Canada bas bad Its full share
of timber areas. The province of Quebec
is perbaps one of the most fortunate provinces of the Dominion ln that respect,
for the reason that it is the most northerly
province in which our large water sources
are situated, and If those northern forests
are preserved, Canada, ln the future,
greatest
must become one of the
manufacturing countries ln the ,worid.
Coal Is the great source of motive power in
It Is a dimînishing
the United iStates.
quantlty, and it is onîy a question of it me
when coal must cesse to be the producer oft
But by the preservation oft
motive power.
our forests and the maintenance of our
streams our water powers wll go on forever; the suppiy will neyer cease and every
Canadian ean look torward with an assurance that If those two great sources are
preserved Canada must sooner or later becorne If not the greatest, one of the greatest
manufacturing countries In the world. My
hon. friend and myseif up to this point thoroughly agree, but there Is a point to which
I shail shortly reter on which we wili disMy hon. frlend makes the question
agree.
one of the cutting of pulp Wood and the exportatIon of a certain arnount of it to the
1 amn one of those who wii
United States.
be heartily glad when the day comes-and
the day le sure to corne--when ail our forest products will be manufactured ln Canada; but I would not at this moment shut
of the exportation of the small amount of
Our pulP Wood whieh aanually goes to tbe
United States. There are those who believe
that If that expert were cut off immediateiy
the pulp milis of the United States would
Such is not the
be transplanted to Canada.
The evolution would nlot corne about
case.
ln so short a space of time. It le golng on,
however, and will go on until within a
reasonable period oft years the greater portion, If not the whole of our puip wood.
wiil be manufactured Into pulp and paper
The state of New York ls the
In Canada.
largeet paper manufacturîng stite in the
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS.

It draws from Canada a
United States.
certain portion of Its raw material. Many
milis have been bult ln that state, but ne
sane manufacturer is going to buiid many
more paper manufacturing mille in the
United States for tue reason that the tenure
of those milis, so far as the suppiy of materialiIs concerned, cannot be guaranteed,
and it would be very foolish indeed to rely
upon the local supply. What wiil be the lite
of the pulp and paper milis of the United
With few exceptions, those muills
States?
are cheap and of Inferlor construction.
Their lifetirne cannot be more than ten or
If we stop
tweive years at the outside.
the exportation of puip wood to-day do you
immediateiy close those mille in the United
By no manner or menus. While
States?
their supply Is becoming exhausted, it is not
yet exhausted, and for severai years to corne
they wiIl have a suffIciency to keep them
going. Would the milis be erected in Canada If we ceased exporting pulp Wood? Not
at ail. Why? For two very good reasons,
that the United States tariff would not enable us to manufacture for that country
and,' therefore, we could not expert paper
to the United States. Again, we cannot export paper to Great Britain from the tact
that Great Britain is suprerne in the production of paper, procuring its 'raw material
from Scandinavia cheaper than it can be
supplied from Canada or any other source.
I have personaily investigated this matter
at my own individual expense, and know
That being the
whereof I arn speaking.
Simply *We
case, what would happen?
would irise that rnuch business ln Canada.
We could not erect the paper mille and put
them lnto Immediate operation here, but the
By degrees the
evolution wll go on.
change wili corne about, and ln a short
period of years-I think certainly before 20
years-we will hear no more of this question, because the business, by naturai evolution, will be transterred to Canada. There
are those whio believe that because a few
hundred thousand cords of pulp Wood go
to the United States, our resources ln that
respect wlll soon be exhausted. Those who
speak that way have very Ilttie knowledge
oft our resources In so far as timber supply
This cry cornes frorn what
is concerned.
Not generaliy from gentleman
sources?
like rny hon. friend here. but front Cana-

843

MAY 71 1908
dian manufacturers of paper who want to
control the market for themselves, and dbtain from the producers of timber in this
country supplies for their milîs at their
It would be a very nice thing
own price.
indeed for the gentlemen wbo own the pulp
and paper mlis to be able to say, 'Yeu
saal nlot oel abroad; you mnust seli at
home,' and for a few of tbem In this
country to combine and make pricea at
which they wIll. buy pulp wood, and,
under the unfortunate tarier of Canada,
dictate the price of the article. That Ia the
condition whicb a few gentlemen lu this
country would Ilke to bring about.

right which they had under their purchase.
I quite agree it was within their power to
do it; but I have always denied, and now
deny, that Ontario did the rigbt thing wben
And let me
she passed that enactment
say here that Ontario was a dir~ect loser bY
the transaction.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN.

How?

Hear, hear.

Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-The fact was then
and tbe fact is to-day that the round log
on the shore of Georgian Bay wiIl seli for
more than the aawn lumber nfter it is manufactured.
Hon. Mr. POWIDR-Was nlot that same
argument used wben it was proposed to put
Do you
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex).
an expert duty on legs going fromt the pro- saw legs for notbing?
vince of Ontario?
Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-Tbe log will seli
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN1,-Hear, bear.
for more before it is manufactured tban
It Is sawn up, for tbis reason; that It
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-My bon. friend after
round log for
hear, hear;' I have not forgotten that can be taken across In the
says 1
haîf the price It can be taken any other way.
little question, and I shahl answer it later
The mili refuse can be used to make sait,
on.
and for other purposes In Saginaw, and is
Hon. Mr. POWER-I have an open mind worth s0 much more; therefore the United
on tbe whole subject, and I amn anious for States lumbermen can afford to pay more
Information.
for the round log tban for the lumber it will
If Canada bas flot lest *by Its
produce.
Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-How could that policy, let us be sound and logical, and when
have the sme effect? How would the re- our butter and cheese and other exporta get
suit be parallel?
down to Montreai, hire men to roll them
FOWER-It is just this; 'there arouud and pay tbem to do it In order to
-Hon. Mr.
The case wouid
were lumber mills In tbe province of On- make money for Canada.
the ground might naturaliy have be exnctly pnrallel. The enactment appealtarie and
been taken that If the people who eut legs ed then and wIlh appeal now to sentiment,
were net allowed to expert them to the but it wouid neyer appeal to sound logIcal
United States, the Canadian milimen, business men wbo understand the business.
would get the loge at their own price.
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-We wili answer
Whether a stick measures six Inches In dia- you after a wbiie.
meter or two feet does flot seem to me to
Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-My hon. friend
alter the principle.
wii have some trouble answering me.
Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS--I was aware that
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN-Not the slightest.
my hon. friend was not a practical dumberWhat happened at that time was
man.
Hon. Mr. mDWARDS-My hon. friend
tbis-what my hon. friend dlaims would be
may make statementa, but he cannot answer
the resuit was not claimed at ahl. This was
me.
the position; Ontario had sohd several of ber
licenses under certain regulations with no
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRAIN-We will be the
restrictions as to the exportation of timber, judges of that.
and Ontario enacted, and I say wrongly enHon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-My bon. friend
acted, a law wbicb deprived those gentlemen who had bought those licenses of a who introduced this question is and bas

SEŽNATE

844

been ail bis life a manufacturer of sawn
1
lumber, and a very respectable one.
ask hlm this question: bas be ever found
any fault wlth the selling of sawn lumber
for expert to the United States or Great
He bas no
Britain or any other country?
more right to Eind fault wîth the sale of
pulp wood for export than he bas witb tbe
sale of sawn lumber for export The great
question la, not what sbould be done wltb
the article aftPr it la cut down, but the preservatiou of our forests, and every province of the Dominion and the Dominion itself sbould manage the forests in sncb aý
Is
way that they will neyer be depleted.
this golng to be done as the resuit of certain enactments as to what an Individual
s1hal do with the producta of bis forest?
Not at aIl; but there la a wçay of doing lt
and that way la to cnt carefirlly and judiciously. Wbat la the proper way to cut? 1
make this statement, and make it advisedly; my belief la that more timber dies and
goes to destruction ln Canada annually than
la cut. Tbat la my lirm belief as a pracNon',
tical lumberman of many years.
Every limit in Canwhat should be doue?
ada sbould be operated in a judîcious way,
cuttlng only the old and matured timber,
If
and flot one stick of the amall tiniber.
timber were cut under the metbod wblcb I
wonld advocate, and wblch I strongly advocate, there would not be nearly s0 mucli
I do nlot believe ln
pnlp wOod for sale.
cuttlng amaîl nndergrowth timber. It should
Whble I am
be preserved for the future.
heartll n accord wlth the appointmnt of
a commission to Investigate this matter
tborougbly, my doctrine is that 'wbat should
be looked Into la not wbat shonld be sold
or bow It should be sold or mauufactnred,
but how to maintain and preserve the great
It la a matter
foreist wealth of Canada.
of the higbest importance to the country;
but it la f oolish to interfere witb trade and
tell your neigbibour where and hon' he
81hould sel] bis producta and wbat he shou'ld
do n'ith tbat n'hicb la bis, and which he bas
I myself
a rigbt to seil where be pleases.
arn preparing to engage in the manufacture
of pulp and paper, but I am not going to
cut auy of the amail trees, neither shahl I
ask for protection; but I hope, before I go
Into the manufacture of this article, that
every vestige of protection on paper shall
Hoin. Mr

EDWARDS.

I
be rernoved from tbe Canadian tariff.
may be bad, but F'il be banged If I wiIl be
a sneak thief. I would rather be a robber
who would boldly demand a man's money
than steal It tbrough tariffs or anytbing of
that kind.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-That la bard on
the Minister of Trade and Commerce.
Hon. Mr. EDWAItDS-Il wlll ask the
Minister of Trade and Commerce, If be
ifnds any fault with what I say ; I do
nlot tbink he 'wllI. I want to point out,
and 1 do so with all respect, one Ilttie
mistake whlch my hon. frlend. bas made.
I do nlot recall the number of corda of
pulp wood 'whlch be said we so]d to the
United States annually, but be sald it
was sold at $4 a cord, and tben be took
tue price of paper and clalmed tbat ln
five years Canada bas leat seventy millions of dollars as tbe result of selllng the
pulp wood for export. Tbat statement la
very mlaleading, because It bas cost sometbing to manufacture tbe pulp Into paper,
and tbat cost would have to be deducted
from tbe price.
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN--Our people would
get the wages.
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS--We can get wagea
at a loss to Canada, and I dlaim that you
deprive the farmers of Canada and the
smaîl lumbermen of Canada of thls market for the smail amount 01. materlal wblcb
they bave te sel], and lxi is respect it
would be a very improper -imposition upon
them. I hope the day will nleyer corne wben
thia government will pass _&ny sucli enactment. Educate the Canadian people not
on tbe narrow Uines of protection and wbat
they sbould do ln trading -wltb one auother, but 'educate tbem to preserve one
of our greatest resources, our forests and
as a consequefice of preserving them, preserving aiso our water-powers, and In time
this Dominion will reap a reward sucb
as no Canadian can realize at present. Educate tbe Canadian people to preserve what
tbey have, but not on the bines of a system
of slavery such as la brougbt about by
protection; teacb them just as we are
teaching them in agriculture how to preserve our forests and you wlll do uit<nld
good to Canada.

MAY 7, 1908
Hon. Mr. MeMULLEN moved the adjonrnment et the debate until Tuesday
next.

4

FRENCH EDITION 0F EXPERIMENTAL
FARM REPORT.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-What
Hon. Mr. COMEAU (ln the absence of
reason ls there for postponlng this ques- Hon. Mr. Choquette) inquired:
tion ? It bas been on the erder paper for
know that the Experi..
Does
a long time and should be disposed ef ln mental the governinent for 1906 bas flot yet
Farcis Report
some way.
been publisbed ini French P And, if the
answer is in the affirmative, what insane
Hon. Mfr. McMULLEN-It bas only been does it propose to take to hasten snob publicasimilar delay in the futur--?
lntroduced to-day, sud I waut to look lnto tion an& prevent
some matters betore attempt!ng to speak 1Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I hold ln xny baud a
on the subject. I walted expectlng some copy of the Experimental Farm report lu
member of the Senate to go on and speak, Frenchi, which was lssned durlng thie sumbut as ne one rose, 1 moved the adjouru- mer of 1907. It was dewn to the* year
1906. The iast report made by the department of the debate.
ment was oniy presented to the Heuse of
The motion was agreed to.
lit
Commons during the preseut session.
has been translated and is now ln the
THE EXCHFrQUER COURT JUDGE.
bande ot the printer.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mfr. COmEÂU (in the absence of TENDERS FOR IRON WORK ON INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY.
1
Hon. Mfr. Choquette) inquired:
1. Does the Hon. W. Casseis, recently ap.
pntdJudge of the Exchequer Court of
Caaaspeak French and does he know the
civil law of the province of Quebec P
2. If not, does the government propose to
judge
appoint French and ifi of the said court who
acquainted with the
knows a second
civil iaw- cf the province of Quebec, so that
French-Canadian citizens shall be upon an
equai footing with* Englieh-Canadian citizens
before ail the tribunals cf this country as
prescribed by the constitutionP
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Mr. Casseis ls a niative, I belieTe, of the city et Quebec, and
ne doubt ln bis eariier years was a fluent
For
speaker of the Frenchi language.
many years hie bas been living ln Toronto,
and probnbly is net se well up lu the
Frencli language as hie was lu bis earller
Ilte. I notlced ln repiying te the address
presented to hlm by the Bar ot Montreai,
that bie expressed the hope that the next
time hie addressed them hie weuld speak
to them ln their own language, whlcb
seemed te please the Bar et Montreal, who
found ne tanît wlth hlm for the manner lu
wblch lie reterred te lits knowledge et the
French language. I am net aware whether lei versed lu the civil law ef Quebec
or net, but he is a gentleman et ability,
and I have xie doubt hoe can very 50011
beceme versed ln civil law. It is not proposed te appoint any ether gentleman on
the bench.

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mfr. BOLDUC (lu absence of Hon.
Mr. Landry) inquired:
Did the government during the last fiscal
year. ask for tenders for the supply cf al
the iren work which it boueht for the use cf
the Intercolonial from Lévis to St. Fiavie P
Who tendered P
Who obtained the contract and at what
price?
If tenders were net asked for, who supplied
the goverument with the articles cf ironwork
which were bought for the Intercolonial from
Lévis te St. Flavie?
Hon Mr. SCOTT-The answers te the hon.
gentleman's questions are as teliows:
1. The oniy iron work asked fer by te
department during the fiscal year 1907-08,
between the above named peints, wes for
a short span bridge at Trois Saurmons.
Tenders were asked for this work.
2. The Dominion Bridge Cempany, Mentreal, Que.
3. The Dominion Bridge Cempany, Mentreal, nt $3.89- per 100 pounds.
SUPPL'Y

0F BRUSIHES FOR
COLONIAL RAILWÂY.

INTER-

INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC (in absence et Hon.
Mr. Landry) inquîred:

SE -NATE
FORTS AT
Who supplied the government with the CLEANIN<G 0F DE LEVIS. ST. JOSEPH
brushes which have been bought for the use
of the Intercolonial railway?
INQUIRY.
Was it after tenders had been asked for
that these purchases took place?
Hon. '.%r. BOLDUC (tn absence of Hon.
Who tendered, and at what price was
contract awarded?
Mr. Landry) Inquired:
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The answers te te
Who obtained the contract for the cleanixig
bon, gentleman's questions are as followe: of the ground in front of Forts No. 1 and No.
de Lévis?
at
1. Brushes are being suppiied tbe railway 2 At St. Joseph
what priesP
Hector Lamontagne & Co.,
by Messrs.
Is it by e job, by a square yard or acreP
Who has been named to, superintend and
Mentreal; Robert Carrier, Lévis; A. -M. Bell
accept the work?
&Ce., Halifax, and L. S. Macoun, Ottawa.
At what salary?
2. Yes.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe answers to the
3. The foliowing parties tendered: Hector bon. gentlemanl's questions are as follows:
Lamontagne &'Co., Mentreal; Cragg Bros.
1. Mr. M. Gosselin.
& Ce., Halifax; CaverbIll, Learmonte & Ce.,
2). $375.
Montreal; Robert Carrier. LAvis; The E.
3. By the job.
Cavanagb Company, Montreal; A. M. Bell
4. Mr. L. J. «Matbieu, clerk of military
& Co., Halifax; L. S. Macoun, Ottawa; A. works, Quebec.
Prudhomme & Fils, Montreal.
5. Mr. Mathieu, wbo ls a permanent offiContracts were awarded at tbe foliowing cial of the departlfeflt, and In recelpt of an
prices:
annual salary ef $1,500, received no extra
Te Hector Lamentagne & Co.-Car wash remuneratioli for supervisIng this work.
brushes at $8 per dozen; artists' fiat brusbes
J-Inch, 65 cents per dozen; 'wbitewasb
SHIPBUILDING INDUST1RIES 0F
brusbes at $1.40 per dozen ; artists' flat
CANADA.
brusbes, 1-incb at 85 cents per dezen; deck
INQUIRY.
scrub brnsbes at $2.80 per dozen.
Mr. DOMVILLE rose te:
Carrier-Counter dusters, $2.10
Hon.
To Robert
per dozen; paint brusbes, round, $11.25 per
Oeil attention to, the desirability of assistdozen; point brushes, fiat $12.96 per dozen; ing financiafly thé shipbuilding industries cf
has
paint brusbes, flat, $5.40 per dozen; paint Canada. and wxll ask if the government
any consideration, or i
dozen ; artists'
eniesubîect
brusbes, flat, $2,70 per
brusbes, round, 30 cents per dozen ; artista'
He said : I corne from, a shipbuilding probrusbes, round, 34 cents per dezen.
vince, New Brunswick, alongaide of Nova
To A. M. Bell & Co.-Scrub brusbes, $1L20
Scotia, wbicb, for many years, bad tbeir
per dezen; steve brushes, $1.40 per dozen;
main Industry In shipbuilding, with their
battery brusbes, $1.95 per dozen; varnleb
lumber. Tbey bulIt shipe and manned
brusbes, 1-inch, $1.65 per dozen; varnisb
tbem with their own men and sent tbemn
brushes, li-incb, $2.80 per dozen; painters'
te sea. Their earnings came back, and
dusters, $4.85 per dezen; paint brushes, gray
every ship on the ocenn was reaily a facand wbite, $12.75 per dezen; sasb bruebes,
tory producing revenue to the province.
No. 2, 57 cents; No. 3, 70 cents; No. 4, 85
After the Iron sbips came into vogue, the
cents; No. 5, 95 cents; No. 6, $1.30; No. 7,
trade lu wooden vessels fell off, and tbey
$1.40; No. 8, $1.05; No. 9, $2.10; Ne. 10, $2.65.
t
looked witb a bxiety for some industry that
Te L. S. Macoun.-Turkey feather duswouid take Its place and maintain the
tare. $2.85 per dozen; varnisb brushes, ovai, commercial standing of the maritime pro$8.50 per doen; paint brushas, round, $9 per
vince. I would aek wbat le geing te brIng
dozen; stencil bruebes, No. 3, $1 par dozen;
them up ? We do 'net object to a very vast
stencil bruses, No. 4, $1.30 per dozen; expenditure in the west; we bave no reastencil brushas, No. 5, $1.60 per dozen;
son to say that tbe west sball not be destencil brushes, No. 6, $1.90 per dezen;
But, In tbe meantime, we, iu
veloped.
stencil brushas, No. 7, $2.50 per dozen; the maritime provinces, must tbink ef our
stencil brusbes, No. 8, $3 per dozen.
Hon. Mr. BOLDUC.

MAY 7, 1908
present position, and wbat our position lu
fixe future la to be. We are uaturaily consldering wbetber we are golug to get a
wharf, or whetber the goverument are goIng to do nny dredglng. Every vessel that
cornes there to load leaves a certain amount
of toll. There Is toli for loadlng and toli
for unloading, aud so on, but I vwil] not go
Into that branch of the question on this
occasion. Every vessel that entera our
ports leaves so mucb mouey there, but
We
that la not what we are looking at.
are iooking at the future. There Is the
Transcontinental Itallway; we ail pay ourshare of tbat. There la fixe Georgian Bay
Canal, belug dlscnssed, and no doubt that
Is a worthy enterprîse. We contribute our
sbare. There ls fihe Hudson Bay Railway
whlch la to be mun Up there to brlng down
the caribou aud ail other game. We do not
object to that.
Hon. Mr. PERLEY-It wlll take
wheat ont.

the

Hou. Mfr. DOMVILLE-Where are tbey
going to take It ?
Hon. Mfr. PERLEY-To England.

We
a fterwards. We couid do the sanie.
couid obtain our material from Engiand
n .0W, but we wouid be met wlth the tarift
on the material and wouid be at the disa dvantage of having to pay the heavy
f relgbt from the old country to Canada, and
ve would not be helilng to buld up our
1ocal Industries, because we would flot be
uising -the iron and steel produced ln CanLda. We wish to be placed on an even
E
1~eel ln that matter. My suggestion la that
iomethIng sbould be done ln the direction
)f, we w111 eall it a bonus or assistance,
-bonus is a good word-so that we may
)e on an even keel with England aud
foreign ships, and will have ships coustructed lu Canada, bonused to a certain
extent, so that they can be built by us
as cbeapiy as tbey can be assembled ln
Our own ships wouid
the old country.
ten be sailing with our own produce, and
we wouid be educating and maintaining a
fleet of sailors, 'which would be a good
thing for the empire, who, when necessary, would be able to render assistance
to the old country ln manning their ships.
We would prodùce hardy seameu such as
we used to have, such as England produced
when they went to fight the Spanish pirates
ln South Âmerica, so that we couid seud
our sailors ont on such expeditions If the
opportuuity offered.

Hon. Mfr. DOMVILLE-We do not object
to that ; but we thlnk fixe direction of legisiation shonld be, perbaps, to our mndlvidual advantage, If we chose to s0 cai l t,
ln New Brunswick and Nova Scotia. Nova
Scotia has doue weli wlth their bounties
and their steel, iron and coal. That i. a
step lu thxe rlght direction, but we want to
come down to what la more beneficiai to
us. That la shipbuling. We can build
vooden ships which wili compete tu design
snd model wlth any lu the n-orid. The
'Marco Polo'1 was bult lu St. John, and
notlxing could compete with her. But as
the trade passed away from us, and trou
vessels came lu, we suffered severely, and
we vant to get back to our previous suThe
premacy lu shipbuiiding, If we cau.
roliing mlii producing Iron eau roll thxe
plates and angles and varions pie.ces that
go into a modern vessel, and we want to
bnild thips ln Halifax or St. John, even
as tlxey did. first of ail lu Ireiaud at BelThey
fast There was no iron there.
brought over aIl the material to Belfast,
erected the ships there, and sailed tbem

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-As pirates ?
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-Yes, If you like.
There la no faut found with the goverument. We do not care anythiug about the
government of the pant, and we are giad
to see the present government getting
aiong, but that cuts no Ice witb the great
prosperity of fixe maritime provinces. Governmenta pass away and new goverumeuts
The soli stili remains, aud we
corne lu.
must have Industries suitabie to the soli.
They could bardly manufacture the goods
required at the bead of Lake Superlor, at
Fort Fraucia for Instance, where 1 was the
1
other day, on account of the distance.
observed that they were getting coal for.
$3.25 a ton delivered at Fort Francis. They
furnaces,
have their Iron mines and bat
their structural steel for fixe 'west and rolling vire. We wouid neyer pay the frelgbt
from St. John to compete wlth thein, but
we must ask the goverument to cousider the

SENATE
matter as to wbiether they will flot as.sist us by means of a bounty or bonus of s0 much per
ton f rom the Dominion goverament.
lie
on such a basis as wilI revive a past in- stated that the delogates from the lake ports
The Board of Trade of St. John and the maritime provinces had agreed te
dustry.
sent me a communication under date the ask the govornment te grant a bonus of $6
per gross ton for the termi cf ten years ta
3Oth Aprîl. wbich reads as follows:
assist in steel ship building in Canada.
The niembers cf the cabinet evinced a deep
interest in the subject and among the imporSt. John, New Brunswick, Canada.
tant questions asked was oneby the Finance
April 20, 1908.
Minister as ta what constituted the construcSenator Jas Domille,
tion cf a ship, that is to say, would the materOttawa..
ial b. îli Canadian or what part cf it? This
Dear Sir,-I have the honour ta enclose question was answered very fully by Messris.
herowith, copy of a report re E'teel Shipbuild- Britain and Nichol, practical ship builders cf
ing in Canada, submitted to the board by Mr. Toronto. They said the steel plates had so
George Robertson, as our representativo on far been imported, but there was no reason
a delegaition ito the government two years.
whi- they should net b. made in Canada, reHoping this may be of use to you.
ferring specially te facilities for work cf that
1 beg ta romain, yours faithfully
kind in Cape Breton. I judge f rom the inforW. E. ÂNDERSON.
mation given by these gentlemen that in a
Secretary.
short time after the enterprise became firmly
To the Prosident and Council cf the St. John established on a paying basis, that practically
ail the material used in the construction cf
Board of Trade.
steel
Gentlemen,-Pursuant ta my appointment tured ships could be produced and mannfacin Canada.
delegation in
meet
delegate
as your representingto ail thea ship building
Mr. Clergue, cf Sanît Ste. Marie also gave
Ottawa
valuable address
interests in Canada for the purpose of meet- a most interesting and cf the question. dealing the Dominion cabinet and endeavouring ing with mnany aspects
Alderman Johnston cf Halifax, made a
to secure a sufficient bounty to insure the very interesting
address referring to the
establishing of steel ship building in the Dosfflendid position his province held ait cne
minion on a paying and premanent basis, 1
time in the wooden ship building and the prebeg leave ta report as follows:
That on March 22 the delegation met in sent -lonosomeu -look of the old shýip yards, and
Ottawa, and wore received by the Minister his belief that the establishing cf steel ship
cf Finance and other members of the cabinet. building throughout the maritime provinces
The followîng gentlemen were present at the would assist in retaining cur young mon at
meeting, Hon. Mr. Fielding, Hon. Sir William home, and would be one cf the greatest boons
that could be conferred lapon the maritime
Mulock, Hon. Mr. FLtzpatrick, Hon. Mr. provinces
and decidedly in the interests cf the
Emmorson, Hon. Mr. Prefontaine and Hon. whole Dominion.
Senstor Power of Halifax, Mr. Roche, M.P.,
cf Halifax, Mr. Carney, M.P., cf Halifax and
This is net an application frem men cf
Mr. Johnston cf Cape Breton. The following straw.
They are the leadlng men of Halldelegates were present: Mayor Scharfe, cf
Dartmouth, Mr. DeWolfe, Halifax, Mr. Ahli- fax, and they say they will put seme money
son, Halifax, Alderman Johnston cf Halifax, Into It, and they recognize that It la a bona
Mr. Bertram cf Toronto, Mr. Nichol, Toronto,
Mr. Clergue, Sanit Ste. Marie, Mr. Robertson: fide and praisewerthy industry for theni to
St. John, New Brunswick.
assist.
They therefere appreach the gevMr. DeWolfe cf Halifax introduced the individual members cf the delegation to the ernment asklng them If they' wlll assist
ministers and then referred to the efforts theni.
They ask for 9 moderate suni which
Halifax was making to establish a ship build- wlll put them on an even keel, and tbey
ing plant in that city, an Englîsh firm offering to take a large interest in the project pro- point eut what It will do te bufld up the
viding the government would grant a b-ýnus country, and they sny, ' We are going te
to a-sist the enterprise. Halifax has promised a grant cf $100,000 in cash. The Nova sal the sens as we did before, witli a CanaS<'otia government $100,000, and Dartmouth diýan fleet, carrying Canadian produce.'
$100.000, ail for the samne purpose. A provisThat is wbnt tlie east says.
Let us see
ional company has been formed and the sum
cf $30,000 subscribed for the purposes cf pro- what the west says. Take Ontarie: T£here
motion, and a very large and suitable site has is n finm at Collingwood. Thomnas Long. I
bean secured for the yardà
Mr. DeWolfe
went very fully inta the subject and recited think is the namae. I recelved a letter freni
the efforts ihat had been made in the past Mvf. Thomas Long, Collingwood Shipbulldstating that nothing had besýn accomplished, ing Company, Llimited.
Re was down
because cf the divergence cf opinion between
ship builders on the Great lakes and tho-e here the other day nnd hie asked me te
who contemplated establishing a yard in a present a statement te tiie House as bis
Canadian sea port. The point made was thaL
the competition would be much more keenly view of the question. The letter reads as
felt in maritime province ports than it would follows
b3on tbe Great lekes f ro'n yards already
The national importance&of the shipbauilding
long estabIishiýd in Great Britain, and that
for the first few years at any rate, of its exis- industry cannot b. over-estimated at the pretence a Canadian shipyard should be ass&sted sent stage of development of Canada's resourHon. Mr. DOMVILLE.

MAY 7, 1908

ces. The future of Canada is assured. The
great fertile plains to the west of Lake Superlor offer a home to millions of settlers, and the.
rpdincrease in population and production
proves that the offer is not being
=erl
Vast acreage under cultivation
spurned.
means immense quantities of grain for. shipment to points east, and a large population in
the. wheat produoing section of the west will
demand heavy roturn shipmonts of manufactured articles from the. east. The question
thoen that confronts the nation to-day is hcw
to provide the best, cheapest and most successfui means for conveying this tonnage fromn
point of production to destination. A glance
at the. map of Canada immediately points out
the great natural waterway from the sea to
the. head of Lake Superior as the. outiet for al
trade to and fromn the west. The moment for
Canada to arise fromn her seeming indiflerence
to the question of water transportation is at
hand. Tho merchant marine of Canada is
neitiier sufficient nor worthy of this country,
and now when the caîl goes forth for an increase in our tonnage is the time for our
Canadian statesmen to answer the. caîl by doing ail in their power ta assist in building up
a Canadian fleet wortiiy of the future we all
fondly believe the. hand of Providence holds
eut to us if we build but wisely and well.
Hitherto as the. demand was made for ad«ditional tonnage Canadian capital was invested
in Britishi or United States ships, and as we
ail well know the. type and variety have not
added muoh to the, prestige of our merchait;
marine. Our money has been oxpended in
foreign lanids, our skiiled mechanics and
tradesmen seek employment where such labour
is in demand, and as a consequence Canada's
growth in wealth, population and native industries is retarded. ls tuis the, way to lay
the. foundationw of a nation? Isl it; the policy
pursued by England, Germany, France, the
Uinited States or other nations? Are we etili
to b. content witii the. cast-off ships of the.
Are w. still
British and United States fleta
to consent ta make our marine iiighway a
dumping ground for the. refuse of otiier
nations? W. hear a great deal about the. neceseity of allowing no physical or moral degener-*te among the. new settlers coming into our
land, and justly so. Why should not the. saine
policy b. foilowed wiien it cornes to the question of importinig siiips? The, beat siiould b.
non, toc good-for our trade. Why should diacarded ships from other land b. not only permitted but practically encouraged to corne hore
and become Canadianized without question?
So long as a vessel keeps afloat is she to b.
considered good enougii for cur Canadian
trade? Not grown honourably old in the, servic, cf lier own land, but worn out in the, service cf strangers is she to corne te Canada to
seek a watery graveP Du fIres for ship and
equipment is the, rule for %ritisii ships entering this country, and duty free for ail repaire
don. ta Canadian shipa in Amerîcan ports is
our motte. Wiiat is the result? Tii. siiipbuilding industry in Canada, wiiicii at one
time was a conaiderable and valuable asset.
has dwindled. ta almost nothing. We are content to pay duty on ail raw material imported
for new and repair work, and for much of thie
.equiprnent, and allow the. United States te im54

849

pose a duty cf 50 per cent on any repair work
dons ta American siiips in Canadian yards,
and yet we hope to flourish and prospor. The
ultimate result is apparent. Canadian siiipbuilders cannot uuccessfuly compote againat
sunob manifestiy unfair handicaps. Âlthough
the veesels bulit in Canada are cf a much superior type ta those imported, and much more
suitable for the.lake trade, yet prospective purchasers refuse ta pay the higiier prie made
necessary by existing conditions, and go elsewhere to secure their ships. We have been applying the golden rule ta our neighbours evon
beyond the. lirnit, and it is now time for every
Canadian who looks at tuis question from a
national standpoint ta proteat against this
grave injustice and demand protection in whatever forai it may come.
In the firat place lot us se. that the. saine
rule applies te ti United States as the
If American
United States applies te us.
owners must pay fifty per cent duty on the.
ceat of repaira to shipa in Canadian ports
make Canadien owners pay flfty per cent on
any repaire tiiey may have don. ta their
Canadian work
ships in American ports.
should be don. on anadian oil when the
facilities for doing it are found here complote in every detail. Wiien patriotismn.fails
to appeal ta a man it la time ta appeal to
his pociiet. In the. case of British ships, the.
could easily place Canadian
government
builders on a fair competing basis with
Britishi builders by granting them a rebate
on nov work sufficient ta caver the, amount
paid for freight and duty on the. raw material
importod fromn Great Britain. In this way
a great induatry would soon apring up along
the lakes and rivers from the Atlantic cost
te the, head of lake Superior. and viien haîf a
century has elapsod Canada's ships yull be
her cyn, and second ta no merchant; marine
in the. world.
Some may peint ta our great transcontinental railways that are rapidly ilinging their
iren arma acros the. continent and ask viiat
*'ior, is ne.ded in the vay of transportation
facilities. Tiiese lines are a great boon te
the. woat. and most justly deserve aIl the, aid
and encouragement afforded them by the. gevernment, but thougiitful men who looki ta the.
future realize that unleas our great waterand manned with
ways are properly eeee
ne botter th.a
ontyl
first-class slips t.
a apighty giant paralyzed in the. moat vital
part. The coat of lake carrnage le only a
arnall fraction of tii. cost of transportationî
by rail, say about one-eighth and viien nature
bas so bountifully provided us witii vatervavQ of such magnitude as w. posase it is
a national grq",Il net; ta have themn furrowod
with a fleet of vossels capable of iiandling
quickly and economically ail the, produce
off erpd for transportation. and tuis fleet
siiould b. native production-Canadian built
Witii proper protecand Canadien owned.
tion and assistance to tiie ehip building industry tuas would b. an easy matter. Tii.
over nment employa men and money ta induce immigration te this countrv. Would net
a great industrv aucli as would aoon sprig
up li.re in thý building of eliips. b. an excellent mpane of drawing to our shores the beat
clb.s of men from other 'lands P
WhaI qqtigfieq the child fails to please the
mani. Canada has nov cast off her swaddling

REVISED EDITION

SENATE
clothes and stands forth claiming for hersei
the position and privileges due a nation. Then
lot lier take a nation's view cf this question,
and see that her own interests are ne longer
allowed te enlier, but that her men shall find
at home a markiet for their labour, her capital a first-class field for investment and her
industrial gen jus a fighting chance at least,
on native soil. Let the country assert that
the min who gees inte foreign fields to purohase hie requirements for the sake of a
paltry gain shail net find in Canadase marine
a home for the disabled and dangereus crafts
that are considered unfit for any other
natîon'e trade.

every taciiity sliouid be gîven In the way
et admitting raw material free et duty
used in tee construction et vessels. As to
another matter tbat lie ailuded te, that ls
tee need et deing someteing fer tee maritime previnces, there may be two opinions
on teat point. I de net teink they are overlooked In tee distribution et tee loaves
and fisbes at tee present moment.

I think that covers the whoie §ituation.
I hope my hon. friend, the Minister ef Trade
and Commerce, will look upon the subjeet
favourably. I think that he le now persuaded that the niatter le somethlng whicl i
worthy of consideration. The people of the
maritime provinces wiil be gratified te know
that 1 have brouglit tbis subject te te
notice ef the goverument, and I hope te
government will teel that I have done se
I have
net at «Il In an offensive way.
mereiy asked them te consider wliat they
can de.

Hon. 'Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTMy bon. friend suggests teat I have Nova
I
Scotia more particularîr In my eye.
speak generally, and de net want te particularize ; but I think If we went ite a
debtor and crediter account, lie would fInd
that the present governmept have net In
tee sllghtest degree overiooked the just
Howdlaims et tee maritime provinces.
ever, teat 'would iead me into a discussion
whidh might unnecessarily prelong the matter. Ail I can say is, I shalh tee! It my
duty te cal! the attention et my celleagues
te tee matter which lie lias brouglit up. It
is pre-eminentiy a question of money grant
wiceh belengs rateer te the ]ewer Chamber
tean te the Senate, and, teerefore, lie muet
be content fer tee present wite tee assurance that I shalh see te it teat his representations are consldered In council. That
mudli I can promise hlm at ail events,
and I shall de so witli great pleasure.

Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTI have, In commen wite tee House, listened 'wlth great Interest te my hon. frlend.
When I first knew hlm lie was a distInguislied. leader et cavairy rather than a
bold pirate, but I have ne doubt bis versaThe
tile genius is equal te either part.
question lie lias raised is undoubtedly one
that deserves and wiii receive tee considerAt tee same
ation ef tee government.
Urne, I may point eut te hlm that It ls net
one to be rasbiy undertaken at this time.
We would have te be very wei] convinced
that we couid really advantage tee varicus
Interests teat lie lias alluded te, and tjiat
there is a fair prospect et creating an
There
industry of tee kInd In Canada.
is eue point te whlci lie aliuded teat I
teink is beyend ail question a very fair
ene for bringing te tee attention of the
government, and teat la the tact that slpbuilders liere are çonsiderably handicapped
by tee henvy duties whidh would be Inpesed on mucli cf the mateirlal used In te
construction cf slips. Witheut piedging
tee Finance Mintiter on tee peint, I may
express my own individuai opinion,. but
my hon. friend muet understand thnt it
ls my own Individual opinion, that peint
ls very well worth consideratien and teat
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE.

Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-The riglit hon.
gentleman is teinking et Nova Scetia.

Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL - le
there net a drawback allowed to ail slipbulders et any duties that are paid on articles whidh go Into tee construction et a
ship ?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThere le, but as my lion. friend le aware,
it has beên represented, and wite some
terce, that as teat le interpreted by the
customs autherities. It does net at ail cever
That
the fui! ameunt et the duties paid.
is a matter et detail, and te settie it, as
my lion. friend probably knews, 1 would
have te reter to the department lu charge
et lt.
ISLE ROUGH FLOATING LIGHIT.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. BOLJDUC (in tee absence et
Hon. Mr. Landry) inqnired:

IMAY 7, 190885
How much annually has
Floating light cost during
1906 and 1907F
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe
me by the departnient, is
1904-5.. ....
1905-6

..

answer sent to
as follows:

$ 6,ff35 90

.......

,.

the Isle. Rough
the. years 1905,

..

22,715 44

1906-7..........5,123

75

The expenditure for 1905-6 is large owing
te the fact that mn that year the sum of
$14,260 was spent for repairs.
DELAYED RETURNS.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-Before the orders
of the day are called, 1 wishi to ask the
leader of the House *if lie is prepared to
lay on the table several returus which 1
inoved for ol'(r a month ago. I nmeved for
one on Mardi 27. It la asklng for information wltm regard to railway crossings
protection. 1 moved for another ou Aprîl
1, asking for a return of the number of
persnns kilIed or injure'i as shown by the
records of the Board of Railway Commissieners, for three years, showlng the railways in detaîl wherc the Injuries teok
place. Then I moved for another on April
9, simply asking for a llst, which could be
supplled by the Railway Commission, of the
raîlways under the control of the Commission and those tha-t are net under the confr01 of the Commission ln Canada. I Rn
sure these two last returns couîd be prepared in ha-If an hour by any officiai wlth
the records before hlm, and It Is rather
remarkable that we have not bad them
breught down sooner. I notice that when
thxe hon. senater from De Salaberry moved
for a return on January 28, lt iras brouglit
down the very next day.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-That may lie; seme
departments are loaded down wlth demands for returns, and they have to employ extra help te prepare them.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-I thlnk these are
the only three returns asked for f romn the
Raiîway Commission.
THIRD READING.
Bill (JJ) An Act for the relief of Edith
May Gilmnore. --<Hon. Mr. Perley.)
54ý

EXPENDITURES

0F THE SENÂTE.

MOTION.
The order of the day belng called:
Consideration cf tii. Message from tii.
Hause of Commans requesting the. Senate to
furnish that Hanse wmth a return shawing
the cost, outside af the indemnity, of the.
Senate, for sessions 1905, 1906 and 1907, respectively.-<Hon. Mr. Scott.)
Hon. Mr. POWER-At the suggestion of
the hon. Secretary of State, I propose te
move a resolutien whidi the ion, leader of
the opposition has agreed te second; but I
see he is not ln bis place. Perhaps the
hon. gentleman from Hastings wli take
his place as seconder.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-ýI wmli
let you kueir iren I hear wrlat it ls?
lion. Mr. POWER-Thls Is a rather ImThe House cf Commens
portant inatter.
have sent te inquire about the details of
our expendîture and it lu a subjeet wiich
I think should be deait with carefuîiy.
We have te reply te their message, and
me should do sa wîti reasonable consideraI tierefore meve that the Hon.
tion.
Messrs. Lougheed, Landry, Toung, Tessier
and the mover be a committee te prepare
and report te the Senate a reply te the
message from the House of Commons witi
respect ta the cost of the Senate for the
sessions of 1905, 1906 and 1907. respectiveiy.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I have
iio objection te seco nd -tiat motion if thxe
hou. gentleman tbinks that is the best mode
I should. ilke te ask If lie
.)f proceedlng.
las taken the trouble te look up the precedents on this question ? I find that so far
hack as 1884, on the 2Sth of March, a simiLir order mas called fer by the Heuse of
Commens on a motion made by a gentleman
u-ljo at tint time toek a great deai of Interfst ln the expenditure of money by tuis
Chamber. 1 refer te the hon. senator from
North Wellington. Tiat motion remained
for some time upon the notice paper. If
yen refer te the jeurnals of the House
of Commens of that date, page 302, you wiii
leara mhat action mas taken at that time.
1 find ne further reference te that. Ne
action mas taken until Mardi, 1890, mien
R similar motien mas made, -and this reselution mas passed by the Senate :

SEIN ATE
That a message lie sent te the Flouse of
Comnions te inform that House in answer
ta its message requestinu the Senate to grant
leave to the officers in charge of the stationery and contingencies of the Senate to
attend before the Select Standing Committee
of the Hlouae of Commona on public Âccounts
at the next meeting te give information reapecting the distribution of each stationery
and the expenditure for contingencies as set
out on page D-17-18 of the repart of the
Anditor General ça appropriation and accounts for the year ending June 30, 1889, and
ta bring with them aIl records relating ta
such item.
Thbat ahi matters ia relation ta the internal
economy of this Flouse are under the contrel
and supervision of a cojamitte. on coutjnlent
accounts subject ta the approval of the
enate. that the saià committee is now engaged
in examining the accounts and vouchers of
the clerk including the distribution of statneyand expeaditure referred ta in the
.aid message, and that as soon as the report
la subinitted by the said conîmittee ta this
Flouse it will be transmitted ta the Flouse of
Commons for the use of the Select Standing
Committee on Public Accounts.
You wili find a record of the action tak-en
by the Senate at that tinie in the debates
on the 15th of May, 3890, page 873.
It
appears that the commlttee did not act very
expedltiously in the matter. A report had
bi'en made to the Senate by tire Contingent
.Accounts Commlittee, who performned tire
duîties that the lion. gentleman's motion
proposes ta relegate ta tiret sub-commlttee
wWCh bie bas named.
Hou. Mr. Reid presented the fifth report
of the Select Standing Committee on the Contingent Âccounts of the Senate.
The report was received and read ai length
at the table.
Hon. Mr. Reid moved that the report be
adopted.
Hon. Mr. ÂBBOTT-Hon. gentlemen will
remember that we had a message from the
Flouse of Commons at the beginning of the
session requesting the presence of Fome of
ur offirers before their conîmittee te give
explanations respecting aur contingent accounts. There was an understanding of some
kind that we should look into the matter
ourselves.
Hon, Mr. REID-Yes, and we pramised ta
1end- theni our report and the demand was
that we muet hurry up, and that is the reason why we have been hurrving up now ta
bring in the repart.
Hon. Mr. ABBOTT-I may say that the proceedings of aur committee 'are shown by the
reoort which has just been adopted, and
1 movedThat a message be sent ta the Flouse of
Commons tranqmitting te that Flouse a copy
of the'fifth report of the committee of this
Flouse on Contingencies, adopted by this Flouse
ta dIny, caliinz the attention of tlîst Flous2
ta the several clauses of that report referring
ta the expenditure upon contingencies during
the past year.
The motion was agreed ta.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

It seeins ta mue If sve foilowv tint precedent ail tirat wll be necessary for this com'îî:ttee ta recaînmend la tiret the report of
thre Standing Committee on Cantingencles of
tils F-louse, wbicli was presented ta the Senatc some mouths aga, be forwarded ta thre
Flouse ot Commans. That wll le pursulng
preciseiy thre ame course tbat was foilowed
la 189 by the Flan. Mr. Abbott who was
lealing tbe Senate.
I need scarceiy sey
thât I tbmnk the demand on tbe -part of tire
IIlause of Commons ta nîlnutely Investigate
tbe expenditures la thîs Flouse la arrogat-

mig ta tbemiseives a lîttie more than tbey
aie- euttled ta, and It Is quite evîdent thre

Sejate ceame ta that conclusion nt thre time%%Len Mr. Abbott moved tire resalutian
svbici I have Just read.
Migit I ask the
hadn, gentleman wira bas moved tibis resalution, If It is bis Intention that the committee lie has named shouîd perform a some-

what similar duty ta tbat perfarrned by
tire Contingent Accaunts Commlttee on thre
o'casion ta ivbicb I bave referred, and recommend ta tire Senate thre sendlng to tire
Ilouse af Conimons, In auswer ta tireir deniîand for an account of our expendIture.
the report wblcir was muade by tbe Àirditlng
Joîmttee on the accounts presented ta tbe

Flause by thre Contingencies Commlttee
some mnontba ago? It seerus ta me timat tiret
would Ire tbe most dlguiled course ta pursue unless yon are prepared ta admit tbat
tire Senate la subject ta Investigation by a
conittee of tie Flouse of Cammons as ta

every cent they tink proper ta expend. If
1 understand. a certain emount la vated annually for tbe.cantngent accounts of this
Flouse, and It la tire privilege of tire Senate
ta expend It la sncb a manner as tbey think
ber t in tire Interest of tbe Senate and of

the public.
Beyond that Information, I
%vould not be prepared to admit tire rigbt
af tire Hanse of Commons ta make the deiliard wbIch they bave mede.
Perbeps thre
ton. senator from Welington may take a
,liffrrent vlew on this question, as he was
one of tbe principal mavera la tirose daya
oif rttacks on tis body, and more particulariy in cannection wltir tire expenditures.

Hon. M r. FERGUSON-Tire request made
on thre present occasion is not tire sanie re*1uest tîxat wis made on tire occasion refer red to.
Then they asked for detals of
14:itionerv and al] otirer thing-s.
Ail tiret is

MAY 7, 1908

853

ask-d for now le the statement cf the cost particuiariy, by the department before the
Since the
I (Ie net know why they ask It at ail, be- Bill was read the second time.
cause tbey can get It f rom the Auditor's Bill was rend the second time it has been
considered by the authorlties of the zwo
repcrt.
Industrial schools of Halif ax, during the
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOW.DLL-Tbat adjournment, and it bas received furtber
le w±iy 1 suggevtcd sendiug tbem a copy. of consideration by the Minister of Justice
the Âudltor's report.
and hie deputy, and certain amendments
Heun. Mr. POWER-Wltb respect to the have been sbown by this furtber consideracuestion asked by the hon. senator from tioD to be desirable. These amendments
Hastings, 1 sbouid net care te undertake to I shahl take tbe liberty of moving. 1 move
antecipate the action et the committee. that clause 1 be amended by Insertlng ut
Sistking for myself, hewever, I may say the beginning of the fourth lune tbereof,
that I am disposed te take the same view 1Except where the context precludes sncb
wblch the bon. geitleman blmseif takes; construction.' This Âct lu tbe Revised Staand I mlgbt say furtber, tat be bas placed tutes ls divided Iuto several sections, and
tbe House and tbe commlttee under an the f rst lu headed 'General,' but it bas been
obligation by the trouble which be bas fonnd from experience- that even protestaken te look up tbe precedents ou the sional. men, ln consulting the Revised StaWitb that Information betore tutes, bave flot noticed that the firet 51
matter.
tbem, the commlttee wiil be lu a position sections of the Act apply te ail parts of the
country, and this amendment Is for the
to report lu a very short time, and 1 boe
their report will be eatlsfactory te the bon. purpose of calling attention to tbat tact
Tbere are certain sections amôugst the first
gentleman.
51 whicb would not âpply, and tbat Is wby
The motion was. agreed te.
the words wbicb I bave read should be
PRISONS AND REFORMATORIES ACT added to the clause.
AMENDMENT BILL.
The motion was agreed to, and the clause
IN COMMITTEE.
ns ameuded was adopted.
The House resolved itsef luto a ComOn clause 2,
mlttee of the Wbele ou Bill (KK) An Act
2. Subsection 5 of section 29 of t2he said
to amend the Prisons and Refermatorles
chapter is repealed.
Act lu so far as the same affects the province of Nova Scotia.
Hou. Mr. POWER-In ail the other reformatories, botb maie and female, lu the
<In the Committee.)
Dominion, the maximum age at whlch a
Heu. Mr. POWER-There are two re- *juvenile offender cau be sentenced to a reIu some
formatories lu the clty of Halifax, ouf formatory scbool is sixteen years.
known as the Protestant Industrial Sehool- *way tbat I bave neyer quite understoodI tblnk tbey uow cali It the Industrial and I have been generaily pretty watcbtul
School-and the other St. Patrick's Home. about legislation-without my knowlng 1t,
Tbe provisions of the RevIsed Statutes a change was made ln the law a few years
chapter 148, deal wlth botb. Tbey deal Iago rallsing the age to la. That bas been
lu greater detnll with St. Patrick's Home found uusatlsfactory, and It le distasteful
to both Institutions, and this provision Is
anmd one et the objecte et this BilI
te extend te the Induitrlal Scbool somg slmply te place thîs Institution ou the same
of tbe provisions wbicb have for year s footing as other Institutions of the same
9
Tbat i~ kind, to make the maximum age 16.
applied te St. Patrck's Home.
Another ob
the principal objecte.
eue of
The clause was adepted.
ject le te introduce certain ameudmente
On sub-clause 1 of clause 3,
some of wbicii are copied from tbe Ontari.o
This -Bill, as originally Introduced
Act.
Hon. Mr. Power-It was necessary to rewas submitted te tbe Depnrtment cf JUE
y peal the first subsection of section 90, lietice aud was considered, althongh net ter

SENATE
ýcause that section said 18 years. This sub.stltutes 16 for 18, and anotber amendmeut
whlch I propose is that clause 3 be amended
-by substltuting the word 'sentence' for the
'word 1order,'l inUe 15 of the Bill. I do
this ut the recommendation of tise Department of Justice, because thse word 'sentence' 1 s used Iu ail the other legisiation
wlth respect to reforusatories, an'd the
Department of Justice objects to, having
diff erent pbraseology.
The aindment was agreed to, and thse
subciause as ameuded was adopted.
On clause 3 of clause 3,
in
3. If any boy se, seutenced and detained the
the. industrial school has in the opinion of durboard of directors so couducted hlimseif good
iga terni of six consecutive months by
ihaviour, diligence and iudustry as to warrant his beiug set at large aud no longer de.
tained in the school, aud if the judge, stipendiary magistrate, justice or justices before
whomn sucT ho was convicted or the stipendiary Mgistrate or police court of the city of
reHalifax concur with the said board insuch
commeudiug the issue. of a liceuse to
of Justhe Minister
boy to b. at large, then he appoints to, issue
tice, or such person as
auch liceuses, may issue a liceuse to Such
boy to b. at large iu the province of Nova
Scotia, or in such part thereof as is specitied
iu the license.
Hou. Mr. POWER-Then there is another
ameudiunt furtber dowu, Iu subclause 3.
It is deemed sufficlent ttiat the dîrectors
of the institution, wlth the concurrence of
thse M-Ninister of Justice, should let the boy
go, and that thse expense and dlffieulty of
going before a judge or stipeudiary magistrate Is unealled&for, and the Department of
Justice bave no objection to thîs ameudI miove that ail the words lu subment.
clause 3 of thse proposed section 90, between
the words ' scbool' lui the 30tb Une of the
lu
Bill, sud thse last 'the' Inue 34, be strlcken ont.

of the school, bind thse said boy to such person for a terni not to exteud. without his

consent, beyoud a terni of five years from the
commeudement of isis imprisoumeut.
Hou. Mr. POWER-This sub-clause la
substautially a copy of section 65 of tbe
copy of the Revised Statutes which affect
Outario, sud the Departmeut of Justice
suggests that after the word 'persou' lu
thse first hune, the words ' not belng a Roman
In the correspondCatholic,' be luserted.
ing enactment, wltb reference to thse St.
Patrick's Home, it sald:
If auy respectaM1e sud trustworthy person
beiug s Roman Catholic-And the Justice Department thought bots
Institutions ougbt to be piaced on the saine
footing, and that those words should be
inserted:
The amndment was adopted.

Hon. Mr. POWER-I have another amend.
The Bill
muent to propose 10 thils clause.
printed provides that the boy could be
ns
apprentlced only witb thse consent of bis
The authorities of
parents or guardian.
the two Institutions, I tisink. partlcularhy,
thse Industriai Scbool, demurred 10 tbis.
Tisey sald tIsat very often thse parent o'
guardian was a person of bad charactei
who would not give cousent, and tbat
tisese words sbould be stricken out altogether; but it was feit tisaI it would be perhaps an undue interference witb parental
rigbts, partlcularly as tise boys wiso were
sent to, these industrial scbools are sometimes seat tisere for very trifllng offences.
Tise son of
sncb for Instance as truancy.
respectable man migist be sent to sncb an
a
Institution for truncy, and It wouîd be very
bard lndeed and very unfair that tisat child
*sbould be apprentlced for five years wihout
So tbis amendthe consent of bis fatiser.
ment la suggested, and It bas ýbeen concurThse amendment was agreed to, and thse red lu by the Mister of Justice wlth a
vlew of meeting tbe case. I move tIsaI thse
clause as ameuded was adopted.
subclause be further amended by iusertîug
Ou subclause 4,
after thse word 'boy' lu thse 9tb Une of the
thse followlng:
4. If anv respectable aud trustworthy per -Bill
sou is williug to undertake thse charge of any
Or if sucb eonsent cannot be obtained, with
boy over the age of twelve years, (seutenced
of
of the
under any statut., of the Dominion) who has thse consent Halifax. stipendiary magistrate
so conducted himself as meationed in the next the city of
precediug subsection. as au apprentice to the
0f course if tisat consent is applied for.
trade or calling of such person, thse superintendent of thse industrial

school miay, with

the consent of thse parent or guardian of thse
boy and in thse naine of the board of directors
Hon. Mr. POWFTZ.

the parents in sucb a case as tisat referrécd
bo could appear before tise stipendiary

855

MAY 8. 1908

better to consider them ln detail in ComThey affect the
mittee of the Whole.
registration of vesseis, and certain regulations respecting masters and mates and
There ls a
one or two respecting pilots.
considerable *number of them, but they are
ail of very minor signtflcance and do flot
affect the prînciple of the Act.

magistrate, and the cousent would, fot be
obtained.
The amendment was agreed to, and the
subelause as amended was adopted.
Clauses i and 5 were agreed to with
certain amendments proposed by the séiiator lni charge of the Bill.

IThe

Hon. Mr. BAKER, from. the committee,
motion was agreed to, and the Bill
reported the Bill with smre amendments.
*was rend the second time.
The Senate adjourned tiUl three o'ciock,
to-morrow.
WINDING-UP ACT AMEND3LENT BILL.
IN COMMITTEE.

THE SENATIE.
OTTÂwÂ, Frlday, May 8, 1908.
The SPEAKER took the chair at Threel

The House resoived ltself into a Committee of the Whole on Bill (144) An Act to
amend the Winding-up Act.
(ln the Committee.)

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED--Can my hon.
friend say what bas given rise to this parHave any doubtq
THE TERCENTENARY CFELEBRATIOM ticular legisiation?
arisen under the present Act?
AT QUEBBC.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-In the last Une but
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.C.)-Before'
to. one of the section whlch is to be amended,
the orders of the day are called, I desire
ask the hon. Secretary of State If the gov-, the expression used Is 'making of'1 instead
,ernment or the gentlemen ln charge 0f the! of ' taking out' 0f any attachments. That
The
<Quebec function in Juiy, have lnvlted the! la evidently a typographical error.
of Canada and. Department of Justice had It under conprevlous Governors General
their ladies to attend the celîberation? I sideration, and they state that section 84,
taken
think there are five Ex-Governors General which It is proposed to amend, le
living, and it wouid be a -moat graceful from section 66 of the Revised Statutes of
1886, chapter M2. The revisors of 1906
thing to do.
divIded the section' Into two subsections in
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-L saw ln the press that such- a manner as to suggest a possible
I have no question.as to whether or not the hypothean Invitation had been sent.
I shail be tical sentence 'If before the payment over
officiai L-nowledge of it at aIl.
I will have to the plaIntiff, &c.,' appiied only to one
very glad to.make Inquiry.
to get the Information from Qué'bec, of of the paragraphs, and It was to remove
The commissioners are authorlzed that doubt that this Bill was introduced.
course.
it ls doubtfui whether the point wouid
to act on their own motion.
ever have arisen; however this wll make It
CANADA SHIPPING ACT AMENDMENT. clear.
BILL..
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL, from the commitSECOND READING.
tee, reported the Bill without amendaient.
Hon. Sir RIOHARD CARTWRIGHT
ACT AMENDtnoved the second reading of Bill (NN) An OHINESE IMMIGRATION
Act to amend the Canada Shlpping Act
MENT BILL.
He said: This Bill consists ot a number
SECOND READING POSTPONED.
-of mînor amendments whlch have beeii
The order of the day being called second
drawn up by the Depnrtment of Marine
As none of tbem are of reading Bill (00) An Act to amend the
and Fîsherles.
any very special prominence, it would be Chinese Immigration Act.
Prayers and routine proceedings.

SEINATE
My hon. friend
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Can my rigbt flot apply ia this case.
bon. friend informn the House what the ab- gave me an assurance yesterday that lie
I find that it la flot would Inquire about tbese returns.
ject of the Bill Is?
printed.
I gave the
'Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-So I dld.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT-It order and asked for an explaniation, wbicb
wviil be distributed before Tuesday, but 1 1 have flot received up ta this time.
can give the ban, gentleman a general exHon. Mfr. FERGUSON-I bappen to,
He wIlI remember there was a
planation.
wby
It appeared know that tbere 18 a pecuIIar reason
suit in Sydney, N.S., ln which
those returns are flot produced. I waut to
that Chinainen when tbey once get into the
know If I arn to get those returns?
country cannot very well be deported, and
Hon. 3fr. SCOTT-I will Insist upon an
If tbey prefer ta spend a few montba ln
to paying $500 aaswer.
jail et the public expense
We are
capitation tax, they can remain.
The Senate adjourned until Tuesday next
taking power ta deport them under sucli at three o'cloek.
Also we want ta put cercircumatances.
tain limitations on the age of Chinese chilIt bas
dren Who are admItted ta scbool.
been reported that an abuse bas occurred
THE SENATE.
Ia that respect, and- tbat Chinamen of
OTTAWA, Tuesday, May 12, 1908.
rather mature age bave been, under existIng law, atteriding tbe achools, ta wbicb
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree
the ilB'riti.sb Columbia authorities obJect o*clock.
Those are tbe two
and very praperly.
I move
chief alterations that are made.
Prayers and mutine proceedlngs.
Viat Vie arder be discbarged and placed on
NATIONAL TRANSCONTINENTAL 003fthe orders of the day for Tuesday next
MISSIONERS' PRIVATE CAR.
The Motion was agreed ta.
INQUIRY.
DELAYED RETURNS.
Hon. 31r. LANDRY inquired:
ON THE MOTION TO ADJOURN.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-May I ask My
bon. friend tbe Secretary of State wbetber
be bas made any Inquiry for the returns 1
spoke about yesterday?

Has any private car been put at the disNational
posai of the Commissioners of the Mr. ParTranscontinental Railway of which
ent is the chairinan?
How much did the goverament pay for such
a car?
Hlow much for the fitting?
How much each year up ta date has been
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-I gave orders ta ah- spent for its maintenance and repairs?
0f course tbey are
tain them If possible.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-The answers to the
Dot lu My possession.
lion. gentleman's questions are as foliows:
1. The Transcontinental Railway ComHon. Mfr. FERGUSON-No, but Vie hon.
gentleman promised ta Inquire of the de- missioners purchased the car 'Victoria' ta
partment as ta wbether they are going ta be used as a business and office car.
2. $8,000. The alterations to the car cost
prepare them or not.
the commissioaels ln 1906-7, .$1,400.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-My bon. friend knows
3. Fittings ln 1906-7, $3,016.93 ; flttings
very well Viat Vie mavement for returns ia 1907-8, $328.78.
bas been far beyond Vie usual demand Vhis
4. Maintenance ln 1906-7, $867.65 ; mainsession, and tbe departments are much be- tenance in 1907-8, $1,465.60.
Repaira in
hind and It cannot be belped.
1906-7, $23.25; repairs In 1907-8, $2,564.67.
The car was damaged on'the Ilne twice
Hon. Mfr. FERGIJSON-I thinlz these ar(
during the years 1907-8, which accounts for
the only returns ask-ed for from the Railway Commission, so that the plea that somE the bigh expenditure on account of repairs,
of the other departments may lie busy doe5 for that year.
Hon. Mr. MITCHELL.

857

iMAY 12, 1908

SYDNEY STEEL WORNS STRIKE.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY inquired:
1. (a) Who was in charge of the Sydney
Field Battery during the strike at the steel.
works at Sydney in 1905? (b) How many men
ieonging to the 17th Sydney
weye on dutField Battery durink the said strike?
2. (a) How many of these men have been
p aid and who paid them? (b) mhe town of
Sydney, the county of Cape Breton, or the
governinent?
3. How many horses were in use by the 17th
Sydney Field Battery during the said strike?

4. (a) Did the Steel company furnish any

of the said horses, and il so, how înany? (b>
How much iras paid for thejr hire, and to
whom and when was such payment made?*
5. (a> Who furnished the forage for the
horses used by the l7th Sydney Field Battery
during the abore strike? (b) How much forage was furnished and at what price per ton
for hay. and per bushel for oats ?
6. lJxd the Steel company supply 0any

rations for the men of the Sydney Field bat.

6. (a) No.

(b) H. B. Campbell.

(c) No,

the time being too short.
7. The cheques were forwarded to the
District Oflicer Commanding MllItary Dis-

trict No. 9, Halifax, by reglstered mail,
who trans'ferred them to Major Crowe for

distribution.
8. No, Major Crowe was pald for 3 days
oniy, namely : July 4 to 6, inclusive. It is
presumed that Captain D. L. McDonald
then took command and held same until
July 11, the completion of the period for
wblch the 17th Battery vas caled out.
9. (a) Six officers. (b) :
Major W. Crowve, 3 days pay. $11 70
3 0>0 $14 70
Allowance for borse .. . .
Captain D. L. McDonald, 7
19 74
days pay........ ...
Allowance for borse .. .. 7 00 26 74
Lieutenant C. Downing, 7
......
i 06
days pay.. ....
Âilowance for horse .. .. 7 00 18 0>6
Lieutenant H. G. McLeod, 8
12 64
.....
days pay.. ....
Ailowance for horse .. .. 7 00 19 64
Surgeon-Major F. O'Neil, 19
74 10
days pay.. .........
12 (0
Fild allowance .. .....
Horse allowance, 7 days. 7 00 93 10
Veterlnary Lieutenant E. C.
12 64
Thurston, 8 days pay
Horse. ailowance, 7 days. 7 00 19 64

tery, and if so, at what price per day per
man? If not, who suppiied the rations and
were tenders asked?
7. If the men of the l7th Sydney Field Batterv have been paid by the government for
their services during the said strike, to whom
was the money sent for distribution to the
men P
8. Was the man to whom was sent the.
money to pay the men the man who was in
command of the I7th Sydney Field Battery
during the entire period of the strike?
9. (a) How manv of the officers of the 17th
Field Battery recelved pay during the etrike ?
(b) What were the narnes of the officers who
received pay and how much was paid to each
officer P
10.(a) If the government paid the members
10. (a> The money was sent out to the
of the l7th Sydney Field Battery, at what
date was the money sent out? (b) Was the District Officer Commandlng Military Dismoneyt.paid by c heque?
What vas the
trict No. 9 on October 25, 1904, by regisamount.

tered mail. (b) Two cheques for $W6.29
and f58.80, respectiveiy, the former in
1. (a) Major W. Crowe and Captain D. L. favour of Major W. Crowe, and the latter
of Surgeon-Major F. O'Neil.
McDonaid. (b) 56 ail ranks.
2. (a) 56 ail ranks. (b) The total cost of
Legai proceedings have been Instituted
the strike at Sydney Mines vwas $7,8W9.09. against the municipality for the recovery
The munlclpality advanced $2.500, and the of this amount.
*Hon. R. W. SCOTT, Secretary of State:

balance was advanced
goverament.

by

the Dominion

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-The hou. gentleman
said some legal proceedings were belng in4 and 5. (a) No. (b) The horses were fur- stltuted.
nished by the officers, non-conmlissloned
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tes.
officers and men who rode tbem, for which
3. 26 borses.-

were paid an aliowance of $1 per
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-For the reimbursediem, and 50 cents per dlem was paid Major mentW. Crowe out of wblchle he purcbased the
proceedings
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-Legal
forage for the 'whole number.
Horse a]iowance paid, $178 ; forage al- bave been instituted against the muniellowance paid, $89.
paiity for the recovery of this amount.
tbey

SENATE
Freshi veul.
Fresh beef. .10
Mess beef.............10
4. Contract flot yet awarded.

FENCES ON THE INTERCOLONIAL
RAIL WAY.
MOTION.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY moved:
That an Order of thîs Ho1use do Issue
forA copy of ail the correspondence exchanged
in 1906 and 1907, between Mr. L. C. A. Casgran of Nicolet and Messrs. J. Butler, deptminister of Railways and Canais, and T.
in
C-. lrpee, engineer, or any other persons On
the Departmeut of Raiways and Canais,
the ubject of the fences aloag the liue of the
Interoloual RaiIlway. across the couaty of
Nicolet and the neighbouring counties ?
The motion was agreed to.
CONSTRUCTION 0F NEW POST OFFICE
AT NICOLET.
INQUIRY.
Hon. Mr. LÂN1,DRY lnquired:
When does the goverament intend to open to
the public the new post office which it has
just constructed at~ icolet, the work upon
which has been finished for several weeks aiready?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-This departmnent is
advlsed by the Public Works Department
that the new public building at Nicolet,
wiil be ready for occupation at an early
date.
OROSSINýG 0F ST. LAWRENOIE
TWEE'N -MURRAY BAY AND
VIERE OUELLE WHARF.

BERI-

INQTJIRY.
Hou. Mr. LANDRY lnquired:
Have tenders been asked for the furuishing
of meat on board the vessel which makes regularly .the crossing of the river St. Lawrence
beween Murray bay and the Rivière Onelle
wharf ?
How mauy tenders have been receivedP
Which is the lowest, and how much does it
ask ?
Who obtaiaed the contract, and for what
price P
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The nnswers to the
questions are as follows
1. Yes.
2. Two.
3. Joseph Warren:
10
Fresh pork. ...........
.1.2
pork..........
Salt
Sausage..............15
Ham...............15
l
..
Bacon............
Fresb mutton...........10
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

.10

PURCH ASING BY GOVERNMENT
PARTMENTS.

DE-

MOTION.
Hon. Mr. MACDONALD (B.4C.) nioved:
That in the opinion of the Senate the employaient -f and purchasing through the
mnediumx of middlemen by the spending departinents of the government should be discontinued.
That such a way of purchasing is irnproper
and extravagant, is unfair to legitirnate mercliants, and an unnecessary waste of publie
money.
That tenders for ail necessarysple
should be advertised for when the amount
invoived is over one thousand dollars.
Ill said: I want to assure the h-ouse at
thue outset that it is flot my Intention to
make any charge against aay meniber of
the goveraneat or any deputy or officiai.
'My soie object is to get a strong opinion
from this House in condemnation of what
We ail adI regard as n wrong l)ractice.
mit that thlngs have been doue lun the
purchasing of supplies for the government
I
whlch ought not to bave, been doue.
mnay be toid that the Senate shiouid flot lnterfere In matters of this klnd, but we
should remem<ber that this Is a co-ordinate
branch of parliament and tbat It is our
right and duty to take cognizance of ail
public aiffairs, financiai and otherwise. We
do not corne to tels'House to be dumb -or
bllnd, but to take an Intelligent view of al
public'affairs, and If we see anytbing going
wrong, it is our bounden duty to try and
Therefore, whetber this resocorrect It.
lution is carried or flot, or wbetber It wiil
have an effect on the goverament,. lt is my
duty to offer it, and I tbînk it Is the duty
I arn not going
of the House to adopt it.
bnck to grieve over splhied millk or wrongs
that have been doue. Every one who reads
the proceedings of pariament, and what is
taking place la the Public Accounts Coinmlittee, knows that evidence bas been given.
flot by Conservatives, but by officiais of the
government, lu support of wbat I say. I
know ttuat every member of tbe -Sennte and
the two ministers on the floo;ý of this House
desire above all tbings a clegi administraWhat bas been
tion of the governmeflt.
disclosed of late must have been a matter

MAY 12, 1908

859

Per- would be legitimate; but thiugs should nlot
been unable to stop the be ailowed to go as far as they have been
baps they bave
evil; but unfortunately these ttings are going ln Ibis direction.
clone, and we neyer ean have clean governIlon. Mr. SCOTT-The hon. gentleman'sI
ment until the middlemau is doue away
or
They are Insatiate ln their greed view lu reference to the employment
witb.
middlemfen are sound, and shared in b3
and bring discredit on the goverument and
1 every member of this government. I do
ou tbe departmeuts tbey deal witb.
with the
thiuk, tberefore, this resolutiou wiii com- nlot kuow the tacts ln counectiou
1 may mention Individual case to whicb be bas referred.
the Hlouse.
mend itseif te
will occur
one, Incident that bas taken place and lt may -be wrong. Those things
been disclosed 'before the Public uotwithstanding tbe most careful watching
wbich bas
department.
Accounts Committee. The engineer of the and inqulry by tbe bead of the
Mackenzie, knew per- This goveruiment is spending over one
Intercolonial Railway,
and lu the
fectly well the feeling lu th1e country about hundred million dollars a year,
middlemen; yet ln the face distribution of tbat large sum, I1 think it
dealings 'with
for auy privatç
or ail tbat. wbeu be wanted supplies of would be quite Impossible
of going to a wholesale conceru t0 exercise greater caution and
steel rails, lnstead
You must employ other people lu
man to purcbase tbem, he weuî to a mid- care.
I think bis name ,ertaiu subordinate positions, aud. no
Scotia.
dieman in Nova
It
From tbat mlddleman he doubt, advautage is very ofteu taken of
Is Wallberg.
wortb $900, for whlob to permit 'wbat would be cailed a wrong;
purchased supplies
Now, that Is neltber fair but the bon. gentleman's statement cannot
lie paid $1,400.
the man who would witb apply te any considerable amount, not a
nor bonest, and
cent. That
bis eyes open make sucb a purcbase under fraction of oue-teuth of one per
sbould be dismissed by 1 sbouid be qulte prepared te challenge,
the circumstances
No member of tbis and 1 ahould ask no better authorlty than
the government.
As that of tbe Auditor General's Report. Now,
sucli a transaction.
House can justify
tenders, the
I said before, 1 am not golng to 'brlng any ln refereuce to calllng for
goverument or any de- policy of the government, foliowing out the
charge against tbe
there
partment; I merely put this forward es an pollcy of a former government-aud
expression of opinion on Is an order in council standing-is t0 caîl
effort to get an
Unless tbe competitîve sys- for tenders ln every case wbere the exthe subject.
and upwards.
tem ln calllng for contracts is carried out pendîture Involved Is $5,000
Is oaly one apology 10 make If a
If There
you will inevitably have dlshonesty.
place, and
purchases are made Ilirougli favourites of devîntion from this policy takes
where a minIster, on bis own asthe governmeut, tbere will always be over- that Is
tbe time is
reachlng, because they have a pull with surance and honour, states that
short aud that there are circumstances conthe goverunient and get what they want
hlm ln askIf iby any action on our part we could put nected with it that wll justify
lng bis colleagues to allow It to go; but lt
a stop to such a practice and lead to a rerare indeed,
turn to tbe competitive system of contracts Is ln very rare lnstances--very
aud the invariable practice, I venture t0 say
for public works, it would be a good thlng
Merchants seeing pur- lu ninety-eigbt cases out of one bundred.
for the country.
cllsses made tbrougb favoured middlemen is to give the coutract t0 the lowest tender,
or Liberal.
are led to become dishonest themselves, whetber lie is Conservative
Even the statements the bon. gentleman
and t0 ask for more than the rlgbt prices.
preferenc4e to
Tbey ask tbemselves why, If the mIddlemen makes as te justifying the
thena one polîtical party over another Is not tolerget sucb figures, tbey sbould not get
As 1 sald before, there
The riglit way ls t0 advertise for ated or permitted.
aise.
will be individual Instances lu the expendi'tenders aud award the contract t0 the
One can ssy tbis mucli; suppose ture of so large a sum of money where Imlowest.
wbleh the
a Conservati ve and a Liberal sent lu ten- proper practices wlll occur snd
1 sbould flot most bonest and conscientiolis man cannot
equal or nearly equal.
ders
In referbe nt aIl surprIsed If the contract was -avert. You cannot avoid tbem.
to a friend of the government. That ence 10 expendîtures for smaller amounts,
given

of regret to ministers in this House.

860SENAT
sometimes it costs more to advertise iu the
papers than the amount of the purchase,
because, as hon, gentlemen know very well,
tbis kind of patronage for newspapers botbAppeals are made
ers every governent.
tbat advertlsernents wbich appear ln one
paper sbould appear la another. They dlaim
tbat their circulation entities thern to It,
and, therefore, the minîster besîtates to lncur the necessary cost of advertislag for
srnall amounts of two or three thousand
The usual practice ln ail departdollars.
ments la to send out Invitations to a number of houges ln the trade, la order that
there rnay be competition, Invitlng them to
tender. That ls the practice that ls followed
as far as possible. I amrn ft famillar witb the
Incident mentioned by the hon, gentleman.
There may be smre explanation whIlcb, If
further Investigation were made, would, I
wlll flot say justlfy It, but allow it to be
Sornetimes tbings are requlred
condoned.
In a burry, and the los of tirne calllng for
tenders would Involve a greater lnJury to
tbe publie service than making the purchase
at once; but so far as the mlddlernan is
concerned, the bon. gentleman bas no
stronger views tlian the members of the
goverament have on that subject
The motion was agreed to.
Bi-SR F'IRDS IN THE EDMONTON DISTRICT.

E
ered by foresta, and I think it la of the
utmost importance that the goverament
should move at once to bave placed along
the sections ln course of construction a
proper staff of firewardens, who will look
a! ter the forest along the line where men
make fires for clearing the right of way,
cooking and other purposes.
Hon. '-%r. SCOTT-When It was first proposed to built the Northern TranscontinentaI Railway, the government gave smre
consideration to this subject, and correspoadence took place witb sme of the provinces, tbose particularly la the east-I do
not k-now that there was any witb those
ln the west, because at tbat tirne there was
no construction la view la the west, and 1
thlnk the proposition finally settled at Quebec was that we sbould pay tbe firewardens that tbey rnight choose to appoint at
We are laterested
the different stations.
la the preservation of the timber, la tbe
different provinces, New Brunswick, Nova
Scotia, Ontario and Quebec, and we were
quite prepared to pay the cost of the Oire
protectors, who would proceed along the
lune and watch for fires, and take measures
to extlnguish tbem, or to caution people te
Receatly, la New
be careful about lires.
Brunswick-I cannot say exactly what It
ls--whetber tbe - New Brunswick government ts assuming the wbole control or nlot,
but the subject Is engaglng the attention
I arn not prepared te
of the goverament.
say that anytblag bas been arranged wltb
regard to Saskatchewanl and Alberta. I
shall be glad to Inquire frorn the Minîster
of the Interior If anything bas been doue
I was quite amazed
la tbat direction.
Havlng smre
wbea I read the paragrapb.
kanowledge of the value o! timber, I cousider it a fearful calarnlty to the country
to allow Its merchantable timber to be destroyed by lire.
Hon. Mr. PERLLEY-I uaderstand the
hon. Secretary of State to sny that tbere
have been no fire guardians appointed la
New Brunswick *along the lune of the NatI saw a
ional Transcontinental Raihway.
statemeut la the press that a Mr. Ferris o!
New Brunswick bad been appolnted.

Hon. Mr. BAIRD-Before the orders of
the day are- called, I wlsh to direct attention to a paragraph wbieb appears la today's Issue of the Montreal 'Gazette.' It
tg as follows:
Devastating Bush Fires.
Hundreds'of suare miles of timber destroyed.
Edmonton, May 11.-Charles Tompkins, contractor on the Grand Trunk Pacifie, seventy
miles west of here, brings a report of devasta.
ting bush fires which swept through the distric.t last week. Hundreds o! square miles o!
timber wqere destroyed and a construction
camp was only saved b y the strenuous work
of the men engaged on th grade, who worked
ail Thursda- night when the wind suddenly
veered and the camp was saved.
I desire to ask tbe hon, leader of the
House If the goverament bas taken any
steps to furnish firewardens on the line of
the Transcontinental under construction?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe original arrang'eAs is well -known to everybody in this
House, fromn Moncton to the Pacifie ocean, ment was that wne proposed to pay the cost
tbree-quarters o! that proposed Hne la cov- and permit them to appoint the men. Tbey
Hon. Mr. SCOTT.

MAY 12, 1908
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I tbink it muet only
were quite as mucb interested as we, were.
I wlli telewiliing to -bear the burden be a matter o! a few days.
We were quite
phone to the Bureau to-morrow.
and let tbem take the responsibllity of appointing good men.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I wll inlquire again
in a week-not a few days.
PUBICATION'0F FRENCH -EDITION
PRINTING 0F JOURNA-LS 0F THE
0F RIDVISED STATUTffl.
SENATE.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I desire to ask the
LANDRY--Could tbe bon. SecHon. Mr.
hon. leader of The goverument in the Sen- retary of State tell us why the Journals
ate If auy progress bas been made in the of the Senate of last session are not printed
publication of the French edition of the Re- la Frenchi?
I was promlsed, before
vised Statutes?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I think the Eaglish
recess, that lu three weeks from, the date
Journals of the House o! Commons have
of the ndjournmeflt we would have it, and
prluted recently. 1 do not think
1 naturally supposed that we migbt receive only been
they bave been Issued very long.
lt.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I arn speaking of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I have made inquiries the Senate-not the House of Commons?
very frequently of tbe King's Printer, and
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Hon. gentlemen muet
lie bas been very much embarrassed by the
recollect that la the last six years tbe printSome three or
action of the transiators.
A greater
country bas doubled.
four weeks ago, after the final revise was ing of the
number o! books have been lssued, and
sent ln, and the volume sent out for signabas been sltting longer, and
ture for printing off, lt came .bnck with au parliament
the Bureau ls entirely too small for the
Innumerable number of further corrections,
But I do not hesitate to say that
which was most lrrItatlng and tantalizing. work.
The printing
tbe Bureau ls Up to date.
I thInk I explained before to this House,
a bureaus at London and Washington do not
that the translator tnsisted upon making
When a speech le delivered
new translation of tbe British North Amn- approacli It.
in the House ln Washington it le several
erica Act, and of the several constitutional
Speeches are
ln print.
Acts. Weil, that seeme s0 moastrous, that days before it is
satis- deiivered lu the House of Commons here at
we should have It altered after hbelng
ln the morning, and you have
lied wltb the present translation -for forty 3 or 4 o'clock
tbem before you In print at 10 o'clock ln
He was remonstrated with, but
years.
Even a bundred columus bizive
for some very côxisiderable time lie declined French.
been delivered ln the morning, whlcb la the
1 gave Instructions
to make any change.
that we have an efficient staff
to the King's Prînter flot to print unlesa he best proof
But with the volume of work and
there.
gave the French version as it appeared, and
it la Impossible to keep Up
as we have accepted it. He finally agreed the iimited space,
wlth ail the reports.
That lnvolved a very considerable
to that
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-But thîs ls not a
The subsequent aelay was caused
delay.
by the fact that 1 mentioned to the House *hundred columna f rom, one evening till the
just now, that after the final revise was next morning; it is the Journals o! the
sent back for signature, be made very con- *House tbat ouglit to have been prlnted 36.5
sîderable changes, most unfair and un- *days ago.
reasonable, necessltatlng great delay. The
Hou. Mr. SCOTT-They are neyer underPrinting Bureau bas not been to blame ln taken untîl after parliament rises.
I do
any way. 1 bave frequentiy called the at- tflot think the translation even Is comtention of the Premier to the tact thal nienced.
,more care sbould be exercised ln the seiec
Mr. LANDRY-Do you not furnish
tien o! translators.wben we are la a burr3 rHon.
Bureau wltb any worlk durlng vacation?
the
to get anything done.
Hou. Mr. SCOT'-I wili try aud get a
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Wben does the bon
report for the bon. gentleman to-morrow.
gentleman expect we will bave it?

62

SENATE

BRIDGE COMMISSIONERS' REPORT.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I should like aise
to ask the hon. leader of the House, when
he mnay expect the report of the Quebec
Bridge Commissioners ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The final portion of
It is now completed, and they are waltlng
to get it ready. It will probably be lssued
ln a week.
CENTRAL CHEDMICAL COMPANY PETITION.
Hon. Mr. KERR-I move the suspension
of the rules of the House, for the purpose
of enabling me to present the petltion of
the Central Chemical Company, of Phillipstown. New York.

I arn stating wbat rny views are on the
necesslty of cornplying wlth the rules.
The motion was agreed to.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose the pet!tion wlll be referred to the Standing Orders Committee, and the usuel report will
be made before we proceed wlth the Bill.
Hon. Mr. KERR-Yes. This question
only arose lmmediately before the Enster
adjournment The attention of the owners
of the patent was callcd to the fact that
somethlng whlch they had done mlght have
irnptLIred the vaidity of their patent, and
tbat la the reason why we are so late in
coming with this petition. There Is a large
amount of money invested ln these patents and It Is an Important matter to thein.

Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-I desire to caîl the
THIRD READINGS.
hon. gentleman's attention to the tact that,
Bill (LL) An Act respectlng the Phoenix
according to our rules, no motiou for the
suspension of the ruIes ln regard to a Assurance Company, LlmIted.-(ýHon. Mr.
private Bill is ln order, unleas such sus- Bostock.)
Bill (KK) An Act to amend the Prisons
pension bas lIeen recommended by the
Comm ittee on Standing Orders. 1 have and Reformatorles Act ln so far as the
no objection to the suspension of the mules, sarne affects the province of Nova Scotia.
but If we are golng to adopt this practice -(Hon. Mr. Power.)
In this House, It simply amounts to this :
UP ACT AMENDMENT BILL.
our rules mean nothlng at ail. If we do WINDING
THIRD READING.
not want the report of the Standing Commlttee, we need not get It. The best thlng
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the third readthen is to move that ail our rules be sus- ing of Bill (144) An Act to a.mend the
pended, and let us go as we please. The Winding Up Act.
time for presenting petitions bas long sine
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-I should like to
expired. It was once extended to Marclb
I
Commlttee on know the reason of the amendment.
18, and since that time the
Standing Orders have met, and they have have read the section of the Act and find
not judged ln thelr -wisdorn that It was ne- no difficulty whatever in Its present forrn.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Department of
cessary to prolong that extension. 1 think
Justice consldered that a doubt exlsted as
this petition should be referred to the Committee on Standing Orders to see If It Ia to 'whether the leading Une appled to the
ail right, and to ascertain If there la any 'whole paragraph. In revlslng, the officiais
reason for the extension of Urne. They divlded tbe section. The law Is practically
are going to meet to-morrow, and If they the samae as it was before the revision of
want to extend the time, it will be done the Statutes ; but they made a change,'
thought
ln the regular way, and, If not, why ehould and the Department of Justice
that some doubt had arisen as to the pronot the bon, gentleman brlng ln n petition
asking for leave to present a petition. That per application of the leading word. There
would be the correct way to bring- the mat- la no material change.
ter before the House, and in that case I
Is no
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-There
do not see that any suspension of the rules change at ali-absolutely noue.
is necessary. At ail events, the House 1,Q
Hlon. Mr. SCOTT-Tbe Department of
the judge of the matter, I would not press
Justice thought there was.
rny objection if everybody agrees to Jt, but
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

MIAY 12, 1908

863

Hon. Mr. BELC.OURT-The only change does rny bon. friend the mover of the
- 1motion say ln regard to that?
la the substitution of T for M.
Hon. Mr. CASGRIN-It cannot have
Hon. Mfr. -SCOTT-I gave the full exThe hast word in any retroactive effect.
pinnatien at the time.
Hon. Mfr. LOUGEED-I doubt that very
the hast paragrapb wns net in the original.
The main fenture was that the Department much.
of Justice gave Its opinion that as it was
Hon. Mr. CÂSGRIN-Thftt la niy Infordrawn up the words 1No lien or privilege mation.
shail be granted,' did net apply te both
Hon. Mfr. LOUGHEED-Frorn the date
paragrnphs, that the Bevislng Commission
bad made a change, perhaps unwittingly, of the passage of the Act, it is certainly
and it was euly te conform the law te what golng to effect the standard of the mortIt was orlglnally befere they lnterfered gages or securities upon the road.
It
Hon. Mr. KER.R-No, pardon me.
wlth It.
only affects the position of the penalties.
Hon. Mfr. BELCOtYRT-I cannot for the
The effect of the law as It is now, as It
life cf me see why it was necessary.
was made ln 1903l by the Insertion of those
The motion was agreed te. and the Bill werds 'Property and assets.' where they
appear ln the 5th lune of the Âct, «was te
wns rend the thIrd time and passed.
give the penalties a precedent. The clause
RAILWAY ACT AMENDMENT BILL. ln the Act reads as follows:
The company rnay "ecure such securities,
SECOND READING.
ba mortgage deed creating such mortgages,
Hon. Mfr. CASGRAIN moved the second charges and encumbrances upen the whole cf
property, assets, rents and
reading of Bill (PP) An Act te amead the snch cornpany., present or future, revenues of
or both, s
the
Rallway Act as regards the preferential are described therein, but such prop.erty,
assets, rents and revenues shall be subject,
charge crented by the Issue of securities.
any
Be sald: This Is a very short Bill. It in the first instance to the paymeat of
penalty thea or thereafter imposed upon the
fifth
simply proposes te strike eut ln the
for Act, an next,
compa n n-cmpiance with the requirelneofe sectien 138 ef the Raiiway A&ct, ments of this expenditure of to the payrnent of
the railway.
the werking
chapter 37, the words 'preperty and asthose two words
The effect of inserting
The objeet ls te revert te the law
sets.'
Before 1903 was te make tbem a charge in precedence
as It existed beo re 1903.
This is slmply
mortgages were first liens on the raiiway, te the rnertgage security.
te restere It to the position la wbich It was,
and nething was allowed te cerne before
them. Penalties aud worklug expenses by strlkiag out the words 'property and.'
were net allewed te rank befere the mort- It slmply restores the mortgage securities
New it la proposed te revert to the position which they occupled ln 1903,
gage bond.
te the law as it existed previeusly. £rhe as respects their prlorlty over penalties for
way tbe law stands to-day, a rallway un- infringement of the requirements of the
In other words, It makes the penalder the pretext of werking expenditures Act.
migbt speud n very large surn of rnoney, ties stand behlnd the mortgages.
and when the bondholders would waut te
Hon. Mr. BEIQU-I thlnk the bon. genassume the rond and foreclose the mort- tleman will see that the effect o! the Bill
gage. they would find very heavy and ex- wlll go further than that. 1 muet say that
pensive charges ln front of their bonds. I I amn entlrely ln faveur of the Bill. As a
believe that this Is a Bill that le abselutely matter o! tact, on referring te page 604
1 really Ïbelieve that It was of the Debates cf the Senate for 1906, It
necessary.
overloeked when the iaw was ahtered.
will be found thnt I Introduced a Bill
1 ask the exactly sirnilar te the one which la now
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEBD-May
House. It received
bon. leader ef the Bouse if the geveranent before this honourable
te this ques- Its second readlng on June 12, 1906, and as
bad given any censlderatien
for England,
tion? It means that It enhances te the I left a few dnys afterwards
the securities the matter drepped. However, I must cali
extent rnentioned ln the Act,
What attention te this fact ; it would go f urther
already existing upen the road.

SEINATE
tlian bas been stated by the hon. senator
of Toronto. It would not affect penalties
only, but wouid affect the working expenses.
The working expenditure is a very serious
As defined by subsection (ce) of
thlng.
section-2, of the Ilailway Act, it includes
Ail expeases for the maintenance of the raiiway. and ail snch tolls, rente or annuai suins
as are paid in respect of property ieased to or
held by the company, apart from the rent of
respect of the hire of
y eased line,
rarolng stock, letor tein the comnpany; aiso ail
rent charges or iaterests on the purchase
money of lands belonging ta the company, purchased but not paid for, or not fuliy paid for;
sud aise ail expeases of or incidentai to working the raiiway and the trafxc thereon, includ-

in.' ahl necessary repairs and supplies to roiling stock, while on the lines of another coinpany; aise rates, taxes, insurance and compensation for accidents or' losses; aiso ail
salaries and wages of persans empioyed in and

about the workxing of the raiiway and traffic;
and aul office admaaagement expenses, inciading directars' fees agency, legal and other
like expenses ? also ail costs and expenses of
and incidentai ta the compiience by the coinpany with anv order of the board under this
Act; sud generaily ail such charges, if any,
not otherwise specified, as in ail cases of Eng.
lish railway companies are usuaiiy carried
ta the debit of revenues as distinguished froin

capital account.

tute for the words
the word 'toits' so
read :'Such tolls,
The word might be
ixito comiuittee.

property and assets,
that the clause wouid
rents and revenues,'
inserted when. we go

Hon. Mr. POWER-Tolls are revenues.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-I think they are
revenues, but the question was raised by
the hon. senator from Calgary. I do not
think: there couid be auy question as to
whether tolls would be covered by revenue. However, I arn of opinion that the
working expenuses should be a first charge
upon the rents and revenues of the road,
and shouid not be a first charge upon the
property Itself, because otherwise it might
be the ineans of destroying the value of
the bonds. At the tixue of their issue, the
property might be sufficlelit to ineet the
full value of the bonds, but by mismanagement of the road, by letting credit balances
accuaxulate, or tees and legal expeuses and
expenses of ail kinds accuniulate on the
road, aIl these dlaims wouid have precedence.

It WlII be seen that this definition is
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I question if the
no ample that it wonld be lu the power
already protect not oniy the
of a railway company, or of Its managers, iaw does flot
public but the mortgages ln this respect.
to destroy the value ot the bonds by letof the company must
tlag, for Instance, the credit balance accu- After ail, the property
be necessariiy treated as one entire promulate between that company and Cther
amn assuming, would
raiiways, by purchasing supplies whclx perty. The mortgage, 1

might be dlsposed of, lu fact might be
soid, such ns coul, but which would rank,
as forrnlng part of the workiug expendlture, nnd, therefore, It seems to me that
the ameadment would be lu the rlght direction, In 1906 the matter was considered
by the Canadian Paciflc Railway, and I

had a letter fromn thein statlng that they
would not object to the change, that they
did net think they would be concemned.
raliways o!
I qulte understand that
very high standing wouid net be afbut
fected by a law of tbat klud,
It is a qurprise to me that capltalists under
a law such as this would Invest money ln

railway bonds, because they would be at
the mercy of the manager of the railway.
I fiiid on referring to the discussion on
that occasion. that the leader of the opposition raiSed the question, as to whether
rents and revenues wouid comprise tolîs,
and, therefore, lt migbt be weli to substi-

Hou. Mr. BEIQUE.

cover the entire property. If there be any
default ln the -mortgage, the mortgagee
witI at once proceed against the property
of the company, but the essentiai consideration la niy mind Is nlot the rights of the
mortgagee ln the first Instance, but the
The publie mnust
rights of the public.
have the road operated. Immediately the
road ceases to operate, the public sbould
lhave a rigbt to say that the wbole of that
property mnust be hiable for the working
expenses of the road, and If It Is not s0
hiable It simply means that the road Is to
The public Interests require,
stand stili.
in the first place, that that road shouid ha
in continuons operation, and to warrant
that operation; assurning the rents and the
revenues which are to be the oniy source
of revenue to psy that expenditure, are not
sufficient for that purpose, then that expenditure shoutd be met out of the property and the assets of the company. There

MAY 12, 1908

865

la another consideration te whichi some
littie attention might be pald, and that
la, by tbis legisiation we are enhancing
tbe security of the mortgagees wblch they
had not taken into contemplation at the
tîme of negotiating their mortgage, because we practicahiy exempt !rom, the
payment o! tbe working expenditure the
property and assets of the road, and rely
upon the rents sud revenues meeting the
worklng expenditure. Sa many questions
arise ln cousidering a question of thus
klnd, that I do not care ta tde mysel! ta
any view whlch can be bette ventilated
ln carnmittee ; but It la a further reaching
Bill than wauld be indicated ln the* sbort
provision which appears ln the Bill ltself.

the Exchequer Court Act. A few years
ago, I thlnk ln 1902, thnt Act was amended for the purpose, whenever a railway company becomes Insaivent or ceases to opes'ate Its road, of permitting the appoIntmeut
of a recelver who shall have power ta
issue certificates whicb would rank before
the bonds in cases of tltat klnd. 0f course,
the bondiiolders would have an occasion
to be heard as ta the advisabillity and the
extent to which sucb certificates should
be lssued, but the rights of the publie
would be properly protected. What la at
Issue la tus Instance le really the proper
protection of the bondholders, flot leavlng
It ta their debtors to deviate the guarantee that bas been given to the lender.

Hon. Mr. POWER-Tbere migit be some
force ln tbe objection taken by the leader
of the opposition If we were leglslatlng for
the first time. But, as I understand the
law, It whll be, after this arndment lu
adopted, tbe same law that was in operation up to 1903. Now we bad a good many
rallways in Canada, previous ta 1903, and
1 do nat thlnk tbe mehancholy fate wbIch
the b1oungentleman professes ta see ln the
operation o! roada if this Bill becomes law
befell tbose roads. The rnost Important
thlng ls that the credit o! tbe country
We cannot bui]d
should. be preserved.
railways in Canada, except upon borrowed
meney, and If It gets ta be understood ln,
countries wbere tbey lend us monéy, and
lni Canada Itseh!, tiat the money wblcb la
loaned on *a railway bas not the whole
secuîlty of that rallway beblnd It, capitalists will naturally be slow ta lend for
rallway building. I tink, therefore, that
the mortgage siould taire precedence o!
everytblng else, and surehy tbe rents and
revenues of a road wlll pay the working
expensea. They did s0 before 1903.

The motion was agreed ta, and the Bill
was read the second time.

Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It scarcely does
sla the case o! tie Intercolonial RaHlway.
Hon * Mr. POWER-We are not mortgagIng the Intercolonial Railway.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-It ls qulte proper,
as stated by the bon senator from Calgary, that the -rights o! the public ta bave
railways operated must be protected; but
we have rnacbinery for that purpose under
55

THE OTTAWA AND GEORGIAN BAY
CANAL.
DEBÂTE CONCLUDED.
The order of the day being called:
Resuming the adjourned debate on the. motion of the Hon. Mr. Casgrain, that he wili
cail the attention of the Senate ta the importance to Canada of the early construction of
the, Georgian bay canal, and will inquire of
the government if the, report o! the survey
made of that iraterway wTIb laid before tii.
Senate during the present sessionV
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-I rise with smre.
diffidence ta attempt to say a few words
on this v'éry Important question. It la a
question of long standing before the people and particularly' the people a! ti
portion of Canada. As far back as I cau
remember, it was an Important factor i
the electIons which took place ln thus section a! the country. The Georgian Bay
canal was one of the most important questions at that trne. However, a Urne arose
when thus question djd not agitate tbe
public mmnd ta any great extent ; but for
lat ten or twelve years It has again beem
taken up. It was lost sight o! for a tirne
because of tbe very large amount expend.
ed on the St Lawrence canals, and on the
construction o! our varlous railways. Canada, ln ber short bistory, bas certainly been
arnong the forernost countries i tbe world
ln the construction of railways. There
are those, bowever. who belleve now that
tbe time bas arisen when this canal project should be taken bold o! vigorously.

RETISIED EDITION

SEINATE

1 must confess that wbile 1 arn an Ottawa sncb ln .Canada

should view this as a
national question, because 1 hoid It is one
affecting tbe wbole country and not the
The east and the
Ottawa valley alone.
west are as largely Interested ln it as are
Then
tbe people ln the Ottawa valley.
there would be the question as to wbether,
ln vlew of our large expenditure on public
works, Canada ls prepared to undertake
sucb an enterprise as tbis. Tbere la aise
the further question, If It Is undertaken,
what sort of a canal shall it be? Sball it
be simply a barge canal, or shahl It be a
That ls a question whicb
sblp canal?
Tbere la
should be looked closely into.
one thing 'wbicb we must not lose sigbt
of; tbe vessels which cross tbe Atlantic are
It
growing larger snd larger every year.
will only be a sbort period of years wben
tbe vessels whlch cross the Atlantic will be
too large to navigate tbe lnland waters, no
matter wbat Improvernents may be made.
But suppose as it la suggested by those wbo
approve of constructing a sbIP canal, tbat
tbe boats which traverse the great lakes
saal proceed as far est as Montreal and
there transfer their cargoes to ocean vessels, the fact rnust nlot be lost sigbt of,
tbat tbe large vessels wbich now ply On
tbe lakes, even if they can utilize this canal,
I arn one of tbose
must bave ses, roorn.
who believe tbat the Urne wIli soon be
passed when tbe larger vessels crossing
tbe ocean, will corne to tbe port of Montreal. A vast sum Of Money bas been spent
on deepening the channel 0f the -St. Lawrence to Que'bec to accommodate our largBut is tbere sea room ln
est steamers.
tbat cbannel to make It sate for the largeat
My opinsteamers to corne to Montreal?
Ion la, no, sud wbile I think Montreal wilI
always be a great ses port, the larger vessels which cross the Atlantic must, ln a
short time, make tbeir terminus at Quebec
or sorne other port nearer tbe sea-4board.
It may be said tbat tbere will not be tbe
same danger for the larger vessels wbich
ply on tbe lakes coming to Montreal, because on tbe Ottawa river we have no tidal
waters; but there Is always danger of a,
rudder getting ont of order, or sometbing
bappening to lose coutrol lu a river chanHon. Mr. POWER-More than that.
nel, and It will not be safe to caiculate
Hon. Mr. EDWA'RDS-Those who are that large steamers can navigate from the
But even supopposed to the scheme, if there are any great ]akes to 'Montreal.
Hom. Mr. EDWARDS.

river man, baving ail my lnterests upon
tbe Ottawa river, I bave neot been, and
arn not now, as entbuslastic a supporter
of this scbeme as some of my frienda arle.
It will appear perbaps a little like heresy
for an Ottawa river man to say this. However, I bold tbis, tbat It is a serious question for the people of Canada to consider ;
but tbe time for tbis project bas nlot ypt
arrlved. It must arrive, however, and the
canai must be bult. The great quéstion la
wben ? The government of the day bas
gone tbis far; it bas autborized a survey
and estirnates to be prepared, ffrst as to
the feasibilty of building this canal, and
next as to tbe cost of dolng s0. Anotber
question wbicb bas arisen la as to the character of tbe canal. The subject la one
whlch can be far more intelligently discussed after this report to wbich I bave
referred bas been brought down, aud tbst
The
1 tblnk wIli be lu the near future.
surveys and estirnâtes are approachlng
completion, and we may expeet the report
at no distant day. The questions 'whicb
arise with those wbo are not farnîllar wltb
tbe subject are these; first, la the scberne
a feasib]e onie? la there a sufficlency of
water at the surnmithead. to furnlsb a supif
ply for the working of the cana] ?
tbere la not, then tbe project faîlls to tbe
grolind. Tbe next question ls, If tbe work
can be performed, should It be done at
present ln view of the a7mount that we
bave lnvested la rail ways, and would It
be a competitor witb enterprIses for which
we bave made ourselves responsible ? Â
great many believe tbat it wlll be no serions competitor 'wlth tbe rllways, but
tbat it will bave the effeet of regulating
the rates of transportation. If It will bave
that effect, then It will be of grent value
to the country. One of the difficultiesbecause we must look at both sides of the
qluEPtiOn-ls this, that the canal at best
can only operate for six montbs of tbe
year whlle our railways operate continuons]Y. In view of that condition, wili this
country be justified In spending perbaps a
*bundred millions upon the enterprise?

MAY 12, 1908
posing that is true, lt la no reason why
this great project should be abandoned entIrely.
If It la entertalned, liowever, It
sbould be carefully considered what sort
of a canal sbould be built. There la another subject with regard to. distance.
Prom Port Arthur to Montreal by the St.
Lawrence route the distance la 1,M0 miles,
while by the Ottawa river route it le nine
bnndred miles.
I amrn ot advocating the
St. Lawrence route as against the Ottawa
route; but as a Canadian I amn not looking
merely at what 1s best for the district
Wbatever ls done with rewhere 1 live.
gard to these greqt waterways I want to
see d'one ln the best interests of the entire
Domlion.
1 amrnfot an enthuslastlc supporter of thîs great project as some are,
The distance
but I ar n ot opposing ItL
ln miles as between Montreal. and Port
Arthur by way of the Ottawa route la
three hundred miles less than by Ihe St.
Lawrence route, and yet the time distance
la practically the same, the reason belng
that steamers can travel faster on the St.
Lawrence route than on the Ottawa route.
It therefore wiil make practlcally no difference, so far as tlme is concerned, which
route la taken between Port Arthur and
Montreal.

on tbe Georgian Bay than ln the St. Lawrence system.

Hon. Mr. OWENS-There la more canalIng on the St. Lawrence route,

Hou. Mr. SULÀLIVAN-Common sense, of
course.

Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-But the posaibilidies ni navigation on the St. Lawrence
route are sncb that vessels can mun practlcally ut full speed except In the River
St. Clair, and et two or three other points,
whereas on the Ottawa route It would be
perfectly impossible for large steamers to
make any sncb speed, and lt la safe to
say you get It down to nearly hait speed,
s0 that, as to time, there ls ne very greaVb
dîfference.
Hon. M~r. BELCOURT--.My hon. triend
bas not answered my question. 1 should
like to know on wbat autbority that statement la based ?
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS- -I suppose hon.
gentlemen who have made speecbes on this
subject, have gone to a great deal more
trouble than I have to prepare themaelves
for speaking.
Hon. Mr. BEIQUE-The bon, gentleman
sbould be able to answer their questions.

HEon. Mr. EDWÂRDS--I have obtalned
the very beet Information I could get on
the subject, and I arn surprlsed to find
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-There la a differ- that the opinion of the best autborities toence ln distance, but not ln time.
day ls that, as to Urne, there will be pracbecause the tically no difference between the two
Hon. Mr. ]DWÀRDS-Yes,'
vessels wiil go faster by the St Lawrence routes, because of the smallnesa of the
Ottawa river relatively to the St. Lawroute.
rence.
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-Has My hon.
Hon. Mr. BELCbOURT-Who la the aufrlend any autborlty for that ?
thority ?
Mr. EDWARDS---Yes Hon.

Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-No, there la more
on the Ottawa route. The number of locks
on the Ottawa route, I grant you, la less.
Tbere will be twenty-seven locks altogether on the Ottawa route, and there are
more thau that number on the St. Lawrence route.

Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-There lu, however, anotber aide to this subject, and1
there are few people ln Canada who realIze tbe Importance of lt-I refer to the
water-power question. Hon. gentlemen
wbo are entbuslastic for the construction
of this canal, will tell you tbat lmmedlately
upon Its construction a great many waterHon. Mr. BELCOURT-There are torty- powers wIll be developed and brought lnte
nine on the St. Lawrence route
operatîon. I want to tell bon. gentlemen,
-Hon. Mr. SULLIVAN-The bon, gentle- tbat If this canal could be brought lntoman la mistaken. There will be many more operation, neit year, or five years after554

SENATE
As I have said on many occasions, coal is
a dirninishing quantlty tbrougbout the country. Our water-powers, if preserved, will
go on torever, and Canada bas an asset in
will take ten tbat respect ot wbich few people have any
Hon. Mr. BELCOURT-It
conception. Few men bave the siightest
years to build the canal.
idea of the extent and the value of our
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-If It takes ten water-power. I arn one of tbose wbo beyears to bulld the canal, then I Bay ln leve that If this Ottawa and Georgian
ten years after the canal le bulIt it will Bay canal were bult to-morrow, ln s0 far
not bave the effect of brlnging into opera- as bringing lnto efrect at once any of our
tion ten water-powers. Then you rnay say great water-powers or to any great extent,
that it la a question of sucb smail Impor- sucb will not be the case. I cannot meatance, tbat It Is not wortby of serIons con- sure at wbat time la tbe blstory of tbe
sideratlon. I do not say s0 at al; I Eay country that wIll corne about, but I bave
the very reverse. I consider it the rnost no0 doubt that ln a reasonabie number of
Important question of ail. Canada ls rlch years ail our water-powers wiil go Into opln water-powers, and the portion of the eration. This canal will maire it possible for
country through whicb this canal will go a great many water-powers to be developed
la lu that respect tbe ricbest ln Canada. that would not otherwise go into operation.
Our water-powers do not amount to very The.improvement la storing the water for
mucb as an asset to-day, and may not the purpose of the canal will create a reamount to mnch for some years to corne; serve wbich wlll be useful for regulating
That
but a tirne wIll corne ln the history of the operation of tbe water-powers.
our water-powers will, play is a subject so Important for Canada, that
Canada when
a most Important part ln the world. On I feel almost Incapable of discussing It. It
tbe Ottawa river, our possiblities la this Is an Immense subject for Canada, and tbe
direction are enormous, and la thîs fea- flrst question tbat iippeals to me Is wbeture alone îles tbe most Important ques- ther tbe scheme.is a feasible one. I hope
I bave it will prove to be. If the canal Is to be
tion for tbe Canadian people.
polnted out la a short way the difference bult, wbat sort of a canai sbouid It be,
between tbe two routes, the St Lawrence is a matter whicb should be well cons!and tbe Ottawa. If I am asked the ques- dered. The question ls, shall the canal be
tion if tbe enlargement of tbe Welland bulIt at ail, and If so, wben ? As I stated
canal and the Improvement of the naviga- before, this is a question whicb bas ention of the St. Lawrence river wli have gaged the attention of the people of Canada
thre effect of bringlng Into operation. nu- for some years, and was a live question
with tbema many years ago. If I were
rnerous water-powers, I say, no.
On tbe Ottawa river, we not oniy have offerlng my opinion as a Canadian, I
water-powers, but we have enormous lakres, wouid say : 'Do flot commence It at the
la every part of our entIre country, where moment. ' Sorne gentlemen tblnk It sbouid
It Is possible to irnpound the water. It la be built at once. I say we should investiI
Impossible to lmpound the enormous gate carefully before we proceed, and
the amn one of those wbo believe that we bave
streams. It Is Impossible to regulate
flow of water at ahl seasons in the streams, other undertakings at the present moment
so, that you bave such a condition as you whIch are more pressing for Canada.
see to-day, an enormous amount of water
Hon. Mr. OWENS-No.
rnning, no use to anybody, but a danger
Hon. Mr. EDWARDS-Great as this proto rnany. It can, however be lmpounded ln
ject will be in the future,-and 1 hope not
the lakes, so that these water powers
do flot thînk
as to operate in the too remnote future-I
can be so regulated
the time bas yet arrived wben Canada is
Not oniy will Il bave
perpetually.
to invest tbe large arnount nethat effect, so far as the water-powers are prepared
cessary for the construction of this great
concerned. but it will keep the navigation
not tbrow cold water upon it
of the stream always regular and good. work. I do
Hion. Mr. EDWÂRDS.
wards, tbere wili not be five water-powers
brought Into operation as n consequence
of its construction.

MAY 12, 1908
as a scheme because of its possibilities ln
developing the country. 1 arn a firrer beIlever ln it now than 1 have been ln the
past. I have been a doubter ln regard to
It, but 1 have now become more favourable to It. I hope ln the interests of Can-.
ada it will be built, but bulIt at a lime
when Canada cau afford It
Hon. Mr. BERNIER-The hon. gentleman does flot seemi to have taken ilito consideration the necessities which arise for
the canal ln the interests of the Northwest
and ln solving the problem of transportation. Has he anything to say about that ?
Hon. Mr. EDWÂRDS-The Canadian
Northwest ln a very short time will have
three transcontinental routes and when
these three railways cannot carry the traffic
of the country on their single lunes, they
There Is a very
can be double-tracked.
nice economical question-and I admit It
at once--as to this matter of carry lng by
water or by rail. That Is a very nice
question. I amn not prepared to discuss
It, but I arn favourable to the opinion that
so far as rallways are concerned they will
be the most effective means for the transportation <if the products oif the great west.
I tJiink the three great railways n1hlch we
wlll have in a short tlrne--and two will be
effective ln moving the crop next yearwlll be able to transport everythlng that
can be produced ln that country for many
years to corne.

869

such magnitude that the first question to
be deterrnined is as to whethier it Is feasIble, and what wlll be the efflciency of this
scheme when it is carrled out; but -I amn
afrald that hie Is rather despondent, and
is not as progressive as hie usually is when
lie expresses a doubt as to whettier 'Montreal wlll remain the head of lnland navi*He Is not as
gation on the St. Lawrence.
progressive as I would have hoped, because
we have the experience of the whole world
We have It ln
lu a contrary direction.
Germany, we have It ln England, we have
It ln France, that no eff orts are spared to
create artificlal Inland navigation on canais.
For my part. I cannot understand where
the real difficulties la regard to maintÀlnlng
Montreal as the head of lnland navigation
It ls a question of *deepenlng a
exlst.
very srnall portion of the route, between
Montreal aud Quebec, and It is much easler
than was the building of the Manchester
canal or a number of other canaIs ln EuAs far as the water powers are
rope.
concerned, the argument of the hon. member seerned to be ln the direction that bie ls
afrald that there wlll be too rnany waterpowers developed if this canal Is bult, and
that lt wlll put upon the market sncb a
large amount of water power, tbat It wll
retard the development of exiàtlng power
I understood the bon. gentleman
plants.
to say that if thls canal Io bult, he belleved It wlll be the means of developlng a
large amount of water power.

Hon. Mr. EDWARDS--Maklng It posWbat I dlaim Is, that it
sible to do so.
will make It possible to develop a large
arnount of wa'ter power; but .[ further
dlaim that these water powers cannot ho
snccessfully put into operation until there
Hon Mr. REIOUE-I did not intend to Is business for thern.
speak on tis question, and 1 confess I
*Hon. Mr. BE.QUE-Exact]y, and that
have not the necessary data to deal prothere wlll be sncb an amount of water
1 rise because of
perly wlth the matter.
that It may
dlsappointment at sorne of the remarks Power whlch can be developed
the fnrtber development of other
whlch have fallen f rom the hon. gentleman retard
I generalîr take pleasure powers whlch are uow -being used on the
frorn Russell.
As was stated, the
ln seeing eye to eye wlth the hon. gentle- Ottawa or elsewhere.
is a man lu whose judg- development of the Ottawa and Georgian
man, because hie
the building of a
ment 1 have a great deal of confidence, and Bay route wlll involve
business experience. number of locks, and I believe tbere
a man of very great
the water powers
1 agree with hlm lu sorne of the statements will be room for
I think hie is qulte that are now being developed, as well as
which hie bas made.
be created hy
rig¶it in saying- that it is an enterprise of the water powers that can

Hon. Mr. MAODONÂLD (B.C.)-i)of't
forget the Hudson Bay Rallway.
Hon. Mr. EDWARD-Il hope to see that
project lu the air also for a long time.

870

SEiN'LATE

One of
the development of that canal.
the main arguments in favour of building
the canal as soon as possible, If the data
whIch have been placed before the hon.
House are true data is that It wlll be
the means of dlverting American trade to
Canadian ports. If this scheme Is a
felsable acheme, and wlll be the means of
navlgatlng large vessels from the lakes to
the sea, I thlnk it cannot be built too 50011,
and It should be built before the traffic
Is diverted from the St. Lawrence to the
south. We know perfectly well that a'
single state of the United States republie,
New York State, is 110W spendlng an enormous sum, over one hundred million dollare, merely for the purpose of deepenlng
the Erie canal a few feet.

repeat that if bis data are correct, to my
mind this Is an enterprise which should be
carried out as soon as possible for tbe purpose of dlverting United States traffic towards the St. Lawrence and to our maritime provinces, and preventing Canadian
traffic being diverted to United States ports
by the deepenlng of the Erie canal.
Hon. 'Mr. De BOUCHEiRVILLE-MaIly
of us must have thought when the question

of the Georgian Bay canal was brought before us for discussion, that we should have
I take occasion to say that I did not
data.
iatend to cast any doubt on the data furnished by the hon, gentleman from De
Lanaudière, but he dld not furnlsh us wlth
It seeme to me
the necessary Information.
-and I think every hon. gentleman ln the
Hon. Mr. De BOUGOHERVIIJLE-How House should be of the same opinlon-that
many feet?
jwhen this question Is before us for discusHon. Mr. BEDIQUE-From fine feet to sion, the government "should have placed beBay
It le for the purpose of fore us the report on the Georgian
fourteen feet.
That report was promlsed to us
deepenlng the canal that the State of New canal.
year, but we have
York le spending, 1 think it Is $112,000,000. iast year, and again this
project without the reNow, If a stâte can carry out an enterprise been discusslng the
like te ask where Is
of that klnd, surely this Dominion should port before us. I should
Bay
to carry out the enterprise of build- the necessIty of building the Georgian
be able
canal unless it be to help the northern and
ing the Georgian Bay canal, and If this
grain.
canal le bult, accordlng to the data whlcb western provinces to transport their
Another reason for the building of the canal
have been placed before the House-and
people may net
1 repeat, as far as I am concerned, i do is that the United States
be able to take advantage of their canais
flot know whether they are accurate or nlot
commerce
-the question should be thoroughly Investi- being deepened, and take this
as was suggated-if the data are correct and the canal through the United States,
by the hon, gentleman
lu constructed, [t would be the means of gested just now
That hon. %gentlefrom DeSalaberry.
dlvertlng United States business to such an
man says that If once the trade Is dlverted,
extent that in Itself It would be sufficlent to
pay for the maintenance of the canal and It wili be hard to bring It back; but 1 amn
for the lnterest on the outlay whlch it in faveur of not allowing outsiders to have
the monopoly of transporting the grain
would involve.
from the Northwest. It is not necessary
Hon. Mr. De BOUCHE RVI LL-What to build a canal of 22 fret for that purpose
1 -at least I do not see that there le any
are the data put before the Flouse?
neyer heard any.
It le admitted 'by everynecessity for It.
.Hon. Mr. BE)IQUE-The data to which I body-I thlnk even by my hou. friend from
refer, are to be found la the speechesmiade Russel-that wlth the Georgian Bay canal
by hon. gentlemen ln this Flouse, and es- we will have a shorter route to Montreal
We
peclally the hon, gentleman from De Lanau- from the great lakes than any other.
dlère and the hon, gentleman from Ottawa. should, however, have the report of the
I was not ln the Flouse when the hon, gen- gentlemen who surveyed the Georgian Bay
A 16-foot canal wouid ibe better
tleman from De Lanaudière spoke, but I route.
I amn told the Eria canal is
was in the Flouse when the hou. gentleman than 14 feet.
from Ottawa spolie, and I must say that I to be 14 feet from Buffalo to Albany. Even
was very much impressed with the data of if we had a canai of 14 feet, we would have
al kinds which ha placed before us, and, 1 an advantage over the United States canal.
Hon. Mr'. BEIQUE.

MAY 12, 1908
I think the report of Mr. Shaniey was that
a canal of 9 feet would cost much
I had ocless than thlrty million.
casion to, see Mr. Shanley a few
1 met hlm at
months before his death.
the -St. Lawrence Hall in Montreal, and I
was asklng about the cost of the canal. I
sald 'When you made your report the cost
of labour -was cheaper than It la now," and
lie answered that the great faclties that
they bad to transport whatever they wanted for the work, and the Up to date plant
which the contractors would have to do the
work, plant sucli as was not In existence
lni those days, would amply compensate
for the Increased price of labour. Ilis estimate was that the canal 9 feet deep would
cost mucli less than thlrty million. The present estimate for a canal 22 feet deep la one
hundred million, and If the canal Is to be
only 16 feet deep, It would probably cost
only haif of that sum, fifty million dollars.
There la another point ln regard to the
matter. Mr. ýShanley dld flot take into consîderation what we should take Into consîderation now ; If you want to bulld a shlp
canal 22 feet, you will flot only have 27
10Cks, but you will have to deal with the Ottawa river Itself. If we ]iad the report
before us, we miglit ascertain that; but we
We may not find 22
have not the report.
feet depth ln the Ottawa at certain places.
Âccordlng to the hon, gentleman from De
Lanaudière, it costs, I think, three dollars
per cubic yard to excavate stone, and there
will be a great deal of atone excavation ini
the Ottawa, and you would have to spend
an Immense sum for that. Then, agaîn, If
you had boats of ten thousand tons capacity, you would have to ralse aIl the bridges
on the route, and you would have to raise
the ralîroads. You would have the Hawkesbury bridge; you would have the two bridges
at Lachine, and probabiy another bridge
a.bove here, because every bridge would
require to, be elevated so that the shîps
But that Is not the
could pass under it.
Instead of the country 'belng
only point
ln favour of the canal, I think there Is a
large section who are opposed to it, and,
In my opinion, they have tairen the means
of preventing its construction, by introducIag the new scheme of a 22 foot canal. It
la not necessary to buiid a 22 foot canal
to compete wlth the United States people.

Sixteen feet is more than is necessary, and
Why dld they
14 feet would be plenty.
introduce this phase of it? I am speaklng
They say
for the people 0f Montreal.
You
' We are the head of navigation.'
are the head of navigation of steamers of
over 30 feet draught, but wben ocean
steamers can go through f rom Montreal
up to Ottawa, and on through to Chicagp,
do you think you can caîl Montreal the
head of navigation? It will be Chicago
that wIll be considered the head of navigation, or Port Arthur on Lake Superior.
Wlien ocean going ships of 20 feet drauglit
can pass through to the great laites, I do
not thlnk you can say that Montreai would
be the head of navigation. Hon, gentlemen thlnk that by having steamboats pas
by them they will gain nothing. If we had
a amaller canal from here to Montreal, It
would cost much lesa, probably haif of
what the proposed one would cost, on account of the deepening of the Ottawaprobably less than one-haîf-one-third. But
ls there an understanding between some
people not to gîve us the proper Information, sînce we have had to discuss this
question of the Georgian Bay canal? Whv
do they not give us ail the Information and
Why le It that for two
the true data?
years this Information lias been promised,
and we have not yet recelved the report
on the Georglan Bay canal route?
Hon. .Mr. CÂSGRAIN-In closing thus debate, the first thing I have to offer la sincere
thanks to the bon. gentlemen 'who have
taken part ln the discussion. and especially
to those who made sucl klnd references
to the study 1 have made of this question;
also to the senators who have listened 50, attentively to the discussion of this question.
I said ln introducing thîs question, that 1
knew of no body of men ln Canada so well
qualified to discuss inteliigently and dispassionateiy sucli a large question as this, and
I think the discussion whlch has taken
place fully justlfled the position that I[ took
then, that senators have shown that they
take a deep interest In this enterprise. It
has been said on various occasions
that the press does not take enough
interest ln otir debates. Since this question has been discussed, the press have reported our discussions, very fully through-

SENATE
out Canada, and even across the water;
and, as far as Montreal la concerned, ' La
Presse,' wlth its 100,000 of circulation, the
largest by far circulation of any paper
ln Canada, bas pubiished a verbatlm translation of the Speech that I bail the honour
It shows that
of maklng ln this House.
when we take' up a live question ln the
Senate, we are sure to flnd a responsIve
each from the press of this country.
The bon. gentleman from Russell, appears to thiuk that we sbould have a
barge canal of 14 f eet navigation. the
We aisame as on the St. Lawrence.
ready bave one 14 foot canal, the fleet
for -which has neyer been bult. It lu
neot lit to pasa ail the vessels wbIch ply on
our great lakes, and I do not see that there
would be very much advantage lu bavlng
two 14 feet canais, one on the St. Lawrence
If a 14 foot
and one on the Ottawa.
canal Is big enough, the best tbing the
country can do la to save Its money for
other public works and use the 14 foot
canal, now In operation, because It 'will
snpply ail the demands, If we are to be
satisfied wlth transhipping gooda at Fort
Colborne and so on. But If there la to be
a canal from Montreni to Georgian Bay
via tbe Ottawa river, there la no question
but It must be a 22 foot canal. That would
mean 20 feet of navigation. Wlth sucb
ji chnai you wll bave the advantage that
ail the vesseis which ply Lake -Superior,
(ieorgian Bay, Lake Michigan, ail the
vesseis that pass Sauit Ste. Marie, will
be able to use tbe Ottawa route tbrough
to the ocean port of Montres]. Witb a
22 feet canal, yen wlll be ln a position
to easiiy accommodate ahl the ocean goiug
cargo boas lu the world. Not many cargo
boats exceed 20 feet lu draft, because cargo
boats, commoniy called tramp boats, bave
to cali at varlous ports; for Instance
the cargo boats wbich ply to the Argentine
well up
ktepublic losd et Rosario,
the river lu the Argentine 'Republlc.
But they complete their load at La Plata,
ontside of the bar. We bave aise ou the
Danube vessels loadiug at Ibraila and Galatz, but they complete their loading at
Sunina outside of the bar. Now these two
great rivera, the Danube and the river
Plate are the competitors o! the St. Lawrence, snd they bave at their moutbs bars
lion. Mr. CASGRAIN.

wbere there ls only nineteen to tweutyone feet of water according to the season
aud weatber less than 22 feet of the proposed canal. Remember, these cargo boats
have to vîsit varlous ports tbrougbout the
world, sud tbat la why the tweuty-two feet
draft la quite sufficient for ail general trsding. As the hou, gentleman from Montarville bas mast sald, If this canal were constructed, Montreal would becomé an ocesu
port and a laite port.
The bon. member from Russell bas spoken
of the water-powers on the Ottàwa route.
It la well establisbed that at these twentyseven iocks, sud my impoundiug the
water ln the wsy the bou. gentleman described, there wIll be at least one million
horse-power ail the year round. Wbat does,
that mea? It lo equlvaleut to seven million tons of coal yearly from an inexbaustible mine. If you look at the production
of coal ln tbe most progressive countries:
lu the world, you wlll see that In 1906
the production Iu Great Britain was SIX
tons per head of the population. Iu the
United States, Germsny aud Belgium the
production per head was four tons, lD
France one ton, lu Austrls-Huugary one
ton, and lu Canada a ton and one-haîf per
head of the population. Now, lu Canada
we bave msuy water-powera already lu
use sud a great mauy which are yet undeveioped. sud we could use a great deal
more power lu Canada than we produce
witb a ton aud one-baîf of coal per bead
.of the population, so there %ylllbe a dem and
for ail those water-powers just as soon as
If we could put the
they are avalla-ble.
water-powera o! the Ottawa river lnto
operation, as I bave said, tbey wouid furuilb as mucli power Ènnually as could be
geuerated by seven million tous of coal,
and we could give empioymeut lu that waY
to a couple of millions more of people, wbo
would be just as buay and productive as
the people of the UiJted States, Great BniThen Cantain, Germany sud Belgium.
ada wonld only bave the equivalent of an
annual cousumption of two and one-balf
tons of coal. Even then, we would be stil]
a ton and one-half per bead behind the
United States, Gcrmauy and Beigium.
Therefore. I claim
la the use o! coal.
it would be very easy to use up the
There la
wbole of that water-power.

MAY 12, 1908
another advantage of water over coal. After
the first installatioiv of power generated by
water, It Is infinitely cheaper than poiler
generated by con], and, conaequently, many
Industries whicb would be unprofitable If
run with coal at $3 per ton would become
profitable wltb the cbeap power produced
by water. If this one million horse-power,
Is equal to seven million tons of coal, putting coal at the 10w price of one doliar
and n haIt per ton, it Is worth over ten million dollars per annum which la three
Urnes more than would be necessnry to pay
tbree per cent on one bundred million dotlars, the estlmated cost of thîs work. The
progress of aIl the great Industrinl nations
lias been ln the ratio of their production of
con]. That ls to say, cheap power underlies their progress, nnd without cbeap power
it would not have been possible for tbem
to have attalned the bigb position- they
hold ln the Industrmal world. Therefore, ln
making the production of cheap power
possible, we shall secure many Industries
whicb we could not have under present
conditions, and thus we shall add a great
deal to the national wealtb of this cour try.
Take the manufacture of wood pulp for
Instance. The bon. member from Russell
wlll bear me out when I say that wood
pulp cannot be profitably produced ln thîs
country by stenm-power. It requires cbenp
power. With coal at $3 per ton we could
flot have the pulp Industry, and wood pulp
la onlY One of many such Industries. I
may give a few other Illustrations of the
use to whlch chenp electrlc power can be
put. One la electric smelting. whicb la
now in its infnncy. Smeltlng by electrlclty
ail manner of minerais, including such base
ores as the ores of iron, is now possible,
thus absolutely dlapensing witb coal and
making the production of Iron possible
where the transportation charges of the ore
or of the coal made tbe production costly
or impossible.
The process of electric smelting la based
simply on the enormous temperature produced by the electrlc furnace.
The ores
fuse and the oxygen 'whicb tbey contain
la driven off ns gas leaving the pure molten
mets] behind.
It la different ID prînciple
froin smelting witb coke, wbere the carbon
of the burnlng coke first combines wlth
one atom of! oxygen o! the air, making car-

bon monoxide and then witb another atom
of oxygen from the ore which does not
fuse forming carbonic ncid gas and escaping as such from the furnace. The oxygen
of the ore Is thus slowly taken up by the
rarbon of the coke until nothing but the
iretal la left iu a inolten state.
Another use of electric power la fixing,
as It la called, atniospherlc nitrogen so as
to makre it available for fertlling agrIcultural lands lu precisely the sane way that
the famous nitrates fromn Chule and the
guano fromn Perul are used. -The atmosphere contains an Inexhaustible supply o!
nîtrogen, but ln an lnert form, as the scientiots say, that ls, lt la not taken up rendlly
by plants, or rather by the bacteriae
tbrough which they feed on nitrogen. The
best mens bave always been to supply the
nîtrogen to the ground ln the formi o! a
soluble sait, and hitherto only nitrate and
guano and animal or vegetable manure
have been used, because'chemists bad not
found the way to produce nItrogen saIt.
out of atmospberic nitrogen.
But by
mens of the terrific temperature of the
electrlc furnace, that long sought resuit bas
been achieved. and the production o! nitrate
f rom atmospberic nitrogen la to-day an lnAt such temdustrial fnct ln Norway.
penature the recalcitrant nitrogen combines
witb lme and makea a soluble saît-that la
ail that la necessary for the purposes of
fertllizing.
And those eminently useful applications
of the. electrie furuace are only recent deThe world's scientists and
velopments.
Inventors are looklng for more, and It la
pretty safe to predlct that more will be
found.
Let me now briefly summarise my arguments so as to concentrate attention on the
salient points.
The canal o! 22 feet will be a linge higliway and wlll develop 1,000,000 borse power.
As a higbway, it wlll brlng the Atlantic
ocean Into the henrt of North Amerîca.
Ttie lakes will be a great lnland sea, more
important tban the Baltlc, and scarcely les
It
so than the historic Medîterranean.
will liberate tbe Immense lake fleet from Its
winter fastness and will increase by twothirds its present usefulness. As a cousequence, the grent standing charges whlcb
are now borne by only 7 montb% of navi-

SENATE
gation, will be spread over 2 months, thus
reducing the daily share and enabiing the
fleet to carry lake cargoes more cheaply.
It wiil Bave a large amount of handiug
of cargo as weii as dimlnlsh the distance,
and thus ensure greater economy of transportation for the products from the west.
And It wiii dlvert to Canadian route and
terrltory, ail or nearly ail, the exports and
Importa between Europe and the country
West of the lakes.
As a source of power, It provides the
equivalent of an inexhaustable coal mine
yieldlng Borne seven millions of tons every
year, sufficlent for ail the Industrl needs
of two or more millions of people, as busy
and as productive as those of Great BrItain,
the United States, Germany and Belgium.
It wiii provide power so cheap that many
novel applications wlill be possible whicb
are now Impossible with coal.
It will lie
rigbt on the great highway to the west,
aiong lands of great resources, thus offering
the greatest attraction for the settlement
of Immigrants and for the esta'blishment
of Industries of every kind.
And Ilnaiiy, the sacrifice of money la not
for ever.
In years to corne, when the
power la fuliy utlized, the capitalization
of the reasonable profit from Its use wiil be
double, or trebie even, the cost of the whole
canai.
Ail this can be dons for $100,000,000, and we are ln the happy position of
belng able to, afford It.
'Let me now enunciate a mere truism.
I make no apology for doing so because
truisms do bear enunclating sometlmes Iu
order that we may be reminded of their
soiid, If seif-evident, truths.
Materlal weaith ln its ultimate analysis. la
the transformation of the raw materials of
nature into usetul commodities, and the
transportation o! such materls and commodities from where they are produced to
where they are wanted. That transformation requires power-pientlfui and cheap;
and .that transportation requires hlgbways
-counnodous and economical.
When we consider that the Ottawa river
canal so exactly and ln such eminent degree
meets both those Indispensable requirements of mnaterl wealtb, need we look for
further proofs of its incalculable benefits?
Works sucb as this are the very foundation
of ail prosperity.
With the Intercolonial
Hon. Mr. CASGRAIN.

Ralway, the work of the statesmen who
founded the confederation, witb the Canadian Pacific, the work of that other eminent statesman, Sir John Macdonald, and
with the Grand Trunk Pacifie, the work of
our great Prime Minister, the Ottawa river
canai would rank as one of the very corneratones of the future greatness of a young,
vigorous and ambitions country.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The report is under
way.
T do not know when II: wili be
brought downCHIINESE IMMIGRATION ACT.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRLIGHT
moved the second reading of Bill (00) An
Act te, amend the Chinese immigration Act
He said. The object of this measure la
two-fold : Firet of ail te enable us to de.
port Chinamen who may have obtained in
some Iliegal or surreptitieus manner entrY
into this country, and wbom it ts destrable
to returu to the place from wbence they
came; and ln the next place to, substituts
certain restrictions which wlll prevent the
clause under which Chinese of a greater
age thàn 17 bave obtalned admission te
British Columbia schools, and ln that way
have escaped payment of the capitation
tax. These are the two objecta contalued
la the Bill. Wben the Bill goes Into committee, I shail be pleased te give any explanation whIcb any hon. member may ssk
for.
Hon. Mr. LOUG-HEED-May I ask my
bon. frlend in what way we corne te Intervene on questions of education, as far as
British Columbia la concernsd ?
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThis la an ameadment te, the existing Act
Under the present statute,
certain classes of Chinese are admitted
without payment of the capitation ta.
Among those are students or acholars attending achools, and the ailegation of tbe
gentlemen from British Columbia bas been
that this priviiege bas been abused te, a
considerable extsnt, and tbat Chinese of
mature years, over age ln fact have gene
through the formula of attending schooi for
the purpose of escaplng payment of tbe
capitation tax. The hon. gentlemen w~iil
understand, there wIli be serions objections

MAY 12, 1908
to Chinese over 17 attending schoola, and the purchaser for the packer. The third
the sme objection, I believe, bas been change la merely a clerical error, the word
mrarked'1 instead of 1packed.'
taken ln the United States, and they have
been excluded there. Thts Bill i. an amendHon. Mr. LOU[GHIEED-Is it propomèd to
ment to the present law.
still hold the packer lhable under clause 2 ?
The motion was agreed to, and the Bill
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The whoiesaie ms.n
wag read the second time.
wbo put on his label la the man who wouid
CÂNNED GOODS ACT REPEÂL BILL. be liable.
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Why shouid they
Hon. Mr. SCOTT moved the second read- exempt the packer ? By what procema of
lng of Bill (147) An Act to Repeal the reasoning should, the packer, If he pute up
Canned Goodm Act
an inferlor article, be exempt frorn promecuHe said: This Act bas pasmedl sme twenty tion ? It meems to me they are both equaliy
years ago, and applied only to gooda put liable.
Up for conaumption lu Canada. Borne quesHlon. Mr. SCOTT-The wholesale dealer
tion arome am to the jurimdiction of parliament to pas. a Bill of that kInd, and it was Issues the article to the public, and he asnever put into operation. Another Act sumes the liablhity. I think it la a greater
wam pamsed to revise the sme object from protection, because he ha. his reputation
time to time, and applied to goods that at atake. In ail cames the 'whohesale man
were shipped from one province. to an- who buys frorn packers Insista on having
other, or from Canada to morne ontside hi. label on the goodm. The wholesahe dealer
Insist, on having his narne lssued by the
country.
packer, and the liabIlIty la assumed by hlm.
Hon. Mr. LOUGREED-Is It Intended It shlfts the responsibility from the packer
to substitute this Act by another?
to the man who first gives the goode to
Hon:. Mr. SCOTT-The provisions of it the public.
were enacted lIn the Act of 1907, but this
Hon. Mr. GIBSON-This ls doue ln every
Act ha. neyer been actually repealed. The
business. The sme factory wlll give eut
Justice Departinent gave an opinion a short a dozen different labels to suit the conditime ago that It wsts ultra vires.
tions of the trade. They supply the sme
It ever article to different merchs.nts, and It does
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-Ham
*
been temted ln ane court of law ?
not do any harm. I do not see why the
34 packThe motion was agreed to, and the Bill packers object to ItL There were
ers brought in under the Canadian Canner.'
time, and pamaed.
was read the second
organization. These Individual canner.'
CÂNNED GOODS ACT ÂMENDMENT
marks, w,îre not retained by the blgger
BILL.
concerne.. They simply gobbled up the
smaller ones, and put their own labels on
SECOND READING.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT rnoved the second read- their cana, and new thiey insist on having
ing of Bill (149) An Act to amend the goode marked for them. There is not a
shirtmaker or a watchmaker in the country
Meat and %anned Gooda Act.
He said : The changes ln this are not who has not the words on hlm goods 6spevery Important. The firat provision applles cially made for ' so-and-so, although they
the law to ail factories, and those who may ail corne from one factory. We had
desire to be exempt muet apply to the a case with regard to the packing of lobGovernor ln Council. who decides whe- sters. The English merchant inmisted on
ther they shahl be exempt or not. being permitted to put his own label on
The next change ln the law relates the cans of lobsters that went over to
to the dealer. The rule, It appears now, la Engiand. Every member of this House
that ln those establishments the man who seemed te be agreeable to that. If that
buya the goods flrst, the whoiesale man, had flot been done, it wourld have injured
put on his own label; so that It aubstitutes the. lebater packers, and of course, sooner

SENATE
than spoil the trade it was decided that
they would not take them unless tlieir own
brand was put on. The Canadian trade
had no more rIglit to an exclusive market
The wholesale
than any other packers.
men wbo are equally responsible to the
people as the cannera are, should be aliowed to put on their own label.

uniess the House suspends the rules or
grants leave. There is something ln wbat
be says as to whether the door sbould not
be always open for the presentation of
Buis when tbey bave got to that stage.
Bon. Mr. LANDRY-I tbink tbey are
more strict lu the House of Commôns than
we are here.

Hon. Mr. YOUNG.-They have more t1me.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I take a different
vlew from the bon. gentleman bebind me,
Hon. Mr. De BOUCHF}RVILLE-I obbut 1 wl]] not Infllct it on the House just ject to this motion.
now. Wben we go Into committee, I wifl
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tben I move that
discuss the question.
the report be taken Into consideration teThe motion was agreed to, and the Bill1
morrow.
was read the second time.
Hon. Mr. De BOUCHERVILLE-I unThe Senate adjourned until tbree o'clock,
derstand that the motion was to approve
to-morrow.
of gbe report
The SPEAKER-No, the motion was to
suspend the mules to approve of the report
to-day ; but It bas to be carried unaniOTTAWA, Wednesday, May 13, 1908.
mously, and inasmucb as the House Is flot
The SPEAKER took the Chair at Tbree unanimous, the hon, gentleman moves that
o'clock.
it ve taken Into consideration to-momrow.
Prayers and routine proceedlngs.
The motion was agreed to.
SUSPENSION O.P RULES.
BILUL IINTRODUdED.
'Hon. Mr. YOUNG, from the Committee
Bill] (RH) An Act for tbe relief of Catheon Standing Orders, presented their 24tb
rine Anu Cannon.--{Hon. Mr. Baird.)
The time for receiving
report. He said:
Bill (S5) An Act respecting the Lake
petitions for private Bill1s expires to-morChamplain and St. Lawrence Ship Canal
rnw, and the commlttee feit, that It was
Company.--(Hon. Mm. Belcoumt.)
desirable to grant a further extension, and
Bill1 (TT) An Act respecting certain patalso to extend the Urne for recelving reenta of the General ChemIcal Company.ports from the standing commIttees, and (Hon. Mr. Kerr.)
with the consent of tbe House, I move
Bill1 (UU) An Act for the relief of Mary
.the euspension of the rulea lu order tbat Alexandem.--(Hon. Mr. Derbyshire.)
we inay concur ln the report at once.
Bi111 (VV) An Act for the relief of Ada

THE SENATE.

Hon. Mr. De BOUCHERVILLE-I uderstand that the time expires to-morrow.
There was an extension o! time granted
some time ago, therefore, If we adopt this
motion It meaxis that we are going to give
up the miles altogether, and I thlnk It
would be better to strike the mules from
our records ratixer than to continually disregard them by extendlng the time.

Katurab Stewart Paulding.-(Hon. Mr.
Derbyshire.)
Bill1 (WW) An Act to amend the Canadian Temperance Act.-(Hon. Mr. McGregor.)
A POINT 0F ORDER.

The notice of Inquiry being calied:
By the Hon. Mr. Landry :
Hlon. Mr. YOUNG-There is sometblng
That he will inquire of the governmentwhether
Doee
ln wbat the bon, gentleman says, but per- George the govermomnt kaow merchant, Mr.
was
Tanguay, of Quebec,
mnitme to point out that the tirne for pre- for several years and until the recent muisentlng petitions bas expired, and no fur- cipal eleetions held in February last, tone of
the aldermen of -the city of Quebec, end one
ther petitions can corne before tihe House of the inost devoted partisans of a civie adHgon. Mr. GIBSON.

MAY 12, 1908
ministration of whîch Mr. Parent, the. preeent
president of thi Transcontinental Railway
Commission, had been the head?
Dos it likewise know whether in the. course
of the month of May, 1900, this saine Mr.
Tanguay-at a special meeting of the city
council had been secretly called, and to which
the mayor had nlot been summoned, in order
nlot to off end hie proverbial modesty, so it
was said--ciused to b. voted. at the expense
of the taxpayers, a bonus of $5.000, which had
or had not found its way to the, bottom of the
poohet of His Honour P
Hlow much has this saine Mr. George Tanguay received yearly f rom the. coenmissio'ners
of the Tranecontinental railway, of which Mr.
Parent became the president, for goods and
merchandise, during each of the years- 1904-5,
1905-. 1906-7 and 1907-8?
Hon. Mr. POW!ER-I wish ta raise a
question of order on this inquiry.
To m.
y
mmnd the last of the three questions le the.
oniy one whicb le regular; nnd 1 think the.
words '0Of -which Mr. Parent became president,' are aiso out of order.
I have neot
investigated thie question very
carefully,
but later on I shall do so If lits honour
It le
thinke lt necessary that I shouid.
clear on the authorities and to the common
sense of thie Hlouse, that notices of thls
klnd are irregular and ont o! order.
I
take Bonrinot, page 434.
H. says very
littie about it, but 1 find the foliowing:
-It (the question) siionld be simply and
severely accurate in its aliegations. If it is
hypothetical, it i. objectionable, and as a
roie should not b. answered. It siiould not
be ironical or convey an imputation.
Then May, page 243, sys this:

ta reader the. question intelligible will b.
refused a place on the. notice paper. The.
expression of an opinion cannat E. sought
for by a question, nor the solution of an abstract legai case, or of a hypothetical proposition. Nor is it in order ta ask inerely
whether certain things, such as statements
made in a newspaper, are true; but attention
may b. drawn to such statements, if the
member, who pute the question, maires humself responsible for their accuracy. No question can b. a8kedl whichi reflects on the.
character or condnct, or stated on p. 278, can
onlv be dealt with on a substantive motion;
and for the samne reason, a question is not
permitted which makes or impiies charges
of a personal character.
Then at pages 277 and 278, 1 fInd:
Certain matters cannot b. debated, save
upon a substantive motion which can be deait
with by amendrnent, or b y the distinct vote
of the Hans., sucli as the. conduct of the
Sovereign, the. Heir ta the. Throne, the Viceroy and (*overnor Generai of India, the Lord
Lient. of Ireland, the. Speaker. the Chairman
of Ways and -Means, members of eithetHanses of parliament, and judges of the,
superior courts of the. United Kingdom, including persons holding the. position of a
judze, such as a judje in a court of baakruptcy and of a connty court.
I thiak that a commissioner of the National Transcontinental Railway holde a
position somewhat analogous ta that of a
judge. May continues:
For the saine reason, no charges of a personai character -can b. raised, gave upon a
direct and substantive motion ta that effect.
No statement of that kind oaa, tiierefore, b.
embodied in -a notice stating that the. attention of the. Houe will b. called ta a matter
of that nature.

I do nat propose to eniarge on thus matter.
1 think the House has shown a great
deai of forbearance toWards the hon, gentleman, because we have bad for a long
time notices o! thus kind which are contrary
ta. aur parliamentary experience and caicuiated ta bring the Senate into hostile collision with bodies and persans thnt we reaiiy
shouid not have such colliions with. I deTiie purpose of a question is ta obtain in- sire ýta have an authoritative decision as to
formation and not to supply it ta the Hanse.
whether notices o! this kind can *be given.
«I may observe that that is not the genHon. Mr. LÂNDRY-The han, gentleman
eral purpose of the hon. gentleman's queswiia has 3nst ralsed the point-of order, Io
tions, certalnly not of this question.)
quite correct In saylng h.e was not quite
A uestion may not contain statements of
fatuniss they b. necessary to make the prepared. 1 might give bhlm tilt to-morrow
question intelligible, and can b. anthenticat- ta prepare himeel!. I will give hlm*three
ed, nor shonld a question contain arguments, or four days if hie likes ; but the authoritY
inferences, imputations, epethets, or contradoes not appiy to the question at ail.
versial or ironical expressions.
Bonrinot says:
And then on page 250, 1 find:

Âs the notice paper is pnbiisiied by autiiority of the Hlouse, a notice of a motion
or of a question ta b. put ta a member, containing unbecoming expressions, infringing
its miles, or otiierwise irregular, may, under
the Speaker's authority, be corrected by the.
cierks at the table.
Then on page 249 1 find the foilowing ta
wlclh I particularly direct your Honour's
attention:

A question which publishes the names of
persans or rtatements not strictly necessary

It bas been decided in numerous instances
i the. Englisii Commons that a member may

SENATE
make an explanation which ie necessary for
a clear underetanding of bis question; but
hoe may not enter upon a general discussion.
He alIso enys :
It Bhould net be ironical or ocnvey apy imputation.
Did the lion, gentleman show how my
question was Ironical or that it conveyed
any Imputation ? My question la a simple
one. 1 do not affirm the facts. I asked
if the governnient bas beard that sucli facts
exist or not. The government la at liberty
to say tbey know nothIng at ail about
It, or that they know sucli Is the fact. I ask
does the goverument know wlietlier Mr.
George Tanguay, of Quebec, mercliant, was
for several years, and until the recent
municipal elections, lield ln February last,
one of the aldermien of the city o! Quebec,
and one of the most devoted partisans of
a clil administration of whIcli Mr. Parent, the present president of the Transcontinental R;ilway Commission, bas been the
liead.
Hon. Mr. POWER-What lias parliament
to do ivith that ?
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tbe hon, gentleman
cannot see the point, but I will point it
out to hlm. If the government knows that
ail thse persons wlio have been serving under Mr. Parent, whie he wis mayor of
Quebec, are now precisely the pereons that
are autliorized by tlie government to--day,
or by Mr. Parent. Where is the trony ln
that? Tliere is no irony at ail. 1 want
to know If the government. 'wlen tliey
epend tlie mnoney o! thet country lu giving
Mr. George Tanguay $10,000 or $12,000
every year-because that ls the sum that
wIll appear wlien the minister gives us
tlie answer-are aware that Mr. George
Tanguay or another person Is now to receive annually $10,000 or $12,000 because
o f lis liaving served ln the administration
of Mr. Parent. 1 do not eay tliat It lo the
reai reason. I do not affirm the fact, but
1 want to know If the goverument Is aware
that those persons tliat are receiving $10,000 or $12,000 yearly lave eerved and are
devoted servants of Mr. Parent? It la
the public money tliat is belng squandered
on this occasion. It is the public money
tliat goes to these people. If the government say tliay are not aware of this fact,
Hon. Mr. LANDRY.

that is an end of it. Perbaps tfiey will
look into it ln the future. That Is the olijeet of thie question. There Is no irony ln
that. I do flot assert It as a fact ; but 1
ask If the government is aware that sncb
a thing bas taken place. If they are flot
aware they wifl flot be s0 gnllty s If they
knew of the fact. Last year, Mr. Tanguay received $12,000 and the year before
lie recelved $10,000, and anotber gentleman received $15,000 last year, and the
year before I cannot remember what it
was. The government will say whetber
There Is
they are aware of that or not.
no irony ln that, and now the hon, gentleman says we must flot say anything against
Mr. Parent because he is a judge. Wlien
was lie na.med a judge ? He la a publie
employee, under the control of parliament'We desire to know bow lie is spendlng the
money lie receives from the publice? He Io
We
giving that to bis faithful servants.
want to know how it ls given. And we
are told that we cannot name Mr. Parent
here, because he is assumed to be a judge
of the land. I really agree witli my bon.
friend that lie was not quite prepared
wben lie raised that point of order.
Hon. Mr. CHIOQUETT-I ar n ot going
to pronounce exactly on the point of order,
because I have not preparcd myself to be
But I
able to say If It la weil taken.
regret very mucli that the lion, gentleman
bas seen lit to place this question on the
order paper, liecause it should flot be tliere.
1 do not know If the questions are absolutely out of order, but 1, as a citizen of
Quebec, regret that my hon. frlend lias
asked tbem. Hle lias a riglit to know If
this one or that one recelved s0 mucli
nioney from the goverament.
The SPEAKER-The
must limit bis remarks
order.

bon. gentleman
to tlie point of

Hon. Mr. CHOQUTTE-Yea, I understand.
I take It for granted that the
It
point la weil taken for the moment.
seems to me tliat it ouglit to be well taken,
thougli I am n ot prepared to say that It ls.
In asking a question it is not necessary to
drag ln the past record of men wlio may
have received money from tlie goverlilient,
and to say that tliis man lias beau a ser-

MAY 13, 1908
vaut of that manx, -1 do not tbink this at ail
1 say, as a member of the
necessary.
Senate and as a citizen of Quebec, I regret
tbat my hon. friend bas seen fit, for purposes of bis own, to say that this gentleman bas been a fervent 'municipal frîend
I may say moreover that
of Mr. Parent
I have had political and municipal contesta
It seema to me
with Mr. Parent myseif.
It la rIght for the hon. gentleman to put tbe
question whetber tbis party or tbat party
lbas been paid this money or that money
f rom the commission ut the Transcontinental, of which Mr. Parent la chairman. This
may be a proper question to put; but I do
not think It ls ln order to put a question
as It appears on our records, especially ln
view of tbis, that ln aome of these questions gentlemen are named as belng members of the city coundil, althougb tbey were
not membera uf tbe clty council at tbe
Therefore I
time Mr. Parent was tbere.
-ope the point of order la weIl taken; but
If It la not well taken I regret tbaît my bon.
friend dues not put bis question dlrectly
instead of expressing It In words whicb do
not serve tbe purpose be la aiming at.

879

The SPEAKIDR-I would say Au addition, that there are other reasons wby these
two clauses abould be ruled out of order,
because their tone does not corne up to the
miles of the House.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is the hon, gentleman prepared to answer the question?
The members of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
the government have no Information of the
character the bon, gentleman auggests, and
I quite agree witb the remark of the hon.
gentleman from Quebec, that the dignity
of the Senate ougbt flot to be offended tu,
thxe degree the hon. senator does offend on
He bas eigbt or
very many occasions.
ten inquiries of a simîlar character, ln
wbicb he attacks, practically, the character
of private individuals. and I tbink the
Senate ouglit not to be the medium for giving the bon, gentleman the opportunity for
making Insinuations ln which he likes tu
Indulge.
Hon. Mr. L-À.NDRY-I will ask my question to-morrow witbout those two paragrapbs, and we wIll see If 'We can obtain
from the bon, gentleman any Information
regarding the expenditure of this public
I give notice to-day that I will
money.
renew my question to-morrow omitting the
As to the preamble,
first two paragraphs.
I think the question of preamble applies
There
to inembers and flot to questions.
There are two or
la nu preamble at ail.
three different questions.

Hon. Mr. ELLIS--Mlgbt I mention to
tbe bon, gentleman, that the second paragrapb covers moat objectionable matter? It
le botb an ironicaI statement aud a statement the facts or trutb of wbicb nobody
would knuw, as to -the motives for whicb
the $5,0O0 was given, apparently a gift of
the council of Quebec, and sucb statements
ougbt flot to appear on tbe records of the
Hon. Mr. L01UGEED-1 sbould like as
House.
one member to knuw If a notice uf inquiry
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I arn simply askIng la to be treated as a motion.
If these are the facts. I do not say that
I stated that a
The SPEAKER-No.
aIl this la true.
motion, by virtue of Rule 27, cannot be
prefaced by a preamble, and that likewise
Tbe SPEAKER-Rule 27 states:
be prefaced by a preN-o motion lîrefaced by a written preamble a question cannot
amble, and 1 take for granted tbat the two
is meceived by the -Sexiste.
I take It that this applies as weli by the questions put in this case can only be a disauthorities Bourinot #tnd May, to questions guised preamble to the inquiry that la put,
put, whieb must still be more pointed and and also, besides the fact that the two,
cuver but the necessary matter wbich la to questions-at aIl events the second quesMy opinion being asked, I tion-offend ngainst the mIle which saya,
lie answered.
would sRy tbat the motion is irregular, be- that there shall be ho Ironlcal qualification
cause the two -frst clauses are but dis- ln a question.
guiaed preambles to the question asked.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I wlsh to show my
LANDFtY-We are not con- good-will towards the hon. gentleman from
Hon. Mr,
The bon, gentleman says be
Stadacona.
siderIng tbat phase of It.

SENATE
proposes to give notice of an inquiry whlch
will be the sanie as the present notice,
I
strlklng out the first two paragraplis.
%wlsh to direct the hon. gentleman's attention to the last paragraph contalnlng these
words, '0f which Mr. Parent became the
president2' These words are irregular, and
The hon, gentleman bas a
out ot order.
rlght to ask about George Tanguay and
what moneys lie recelved from the Transcontinental Rallwny Commission, but the
other matter does not forin a proper part
of the question that should lie asked.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-For my own Information, I should Ilke ratber a clearer exposition from His Honour the Speaker as to
the distinction, If there ls a distinction-because I understand that lie holds there Is
not a distinction between a notice of inquiry and a motion. Apparently, under the
ruies, they would both come under the sanie
category. Rule 27 would apply to notices
as well as motions, I do not flud anytbing between ruies 21 and 26, whlch are
ail the miles dealîng with notices of Inqulry, touchilng the question of preamble,
therefore amn I to understand that the
rullng of His Honour the Speaker will
hereafter apply to a notice of Inqulry,
or ln other words, does a notice of lnqulry
mean a motion ?
The SPEAKER-I 'will try to make myself as clear as possible. The Inquiry must
lie a clear question and cannot, lu consequence, contain a preamble. I assimilate
It on that score to a motion 'whlch cannot
bave a preamble.
Hon. 'Ai. FERGUSON-Permit me to
eall the attention of Ris Honour to the
long establislied practice of this House,
based on the practice of the House of
Lords, I believe, that an inquiry to be
debatable must really have wbat would
lie a preamble according to the ruling we
have just now had, when an hon. member
gives notice that hé wiil cali the attention
He
of the House to a certain matter.
naines that matter. Lt is really a preamble, and lie will then base au Inquîry
on It and lie could not make the inquiry
and debate it without liaving this very
objectionable feature of a preamible. Therefore, a preambie becomes necessary, ncHon. -Mr. POWER.

cording to our practice, to an inquiry that
is debatable.
The SPEAKER-The hon, gentleman
draws a distinction whlch 1 admit. The
cailing of the attention of tic Senate to
a niatter is not the putting of a question,
and my statement bore on the question
Itself, on the question solely and not on
the other lnquiry which calîs for a debate.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I am not golng to
attack Ris Honour's muling, but I wnnt to
know for the future, If I placed those
three questions la three different paragraphs, and first asked No. 1. Where
would the preamble lie to that question ?
The day after I would ask the second
question and where wouid the preamble
lie? The same way ivith the third question.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I respectfully submit iliat Ris Honour Is not undergolng an
examination on the rules.
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE B0WELL-I
confess I amn somnewhat puzzled to know
what constitutes a preamble under the rullng given by the chair. The first question Is, to my mind, simple enough : does,
the goverament know that such a person
exIsts and that that person lbas received
government money? Are we' to understand that tliat la a preamble ? I confess
1 have not understood that it would be a
preamble. The second question does strike
me as going too far. If I understand the
ruling and the practice of both bHuses,
it Is that no fact must be stated In a
For Inquestion put for Information.
stance, does the second question uot contain a fact, because It states, does the
g-overument know whetber in the course
of the month of May the saine -Mr. Tanguay, nt a speciai meeting of thp council,
lied been cailed secretly and to whicb the
nîayor hadl not been summoned, In order
not to offend bis proverbial modesty and
se on. Weil, first of ail, the government
nay say : 'We do not know whether any
meeting of the council ever was called,
nlor do we know that the mayor was not
slumoned.' If I were putting the question, I should put it in another way, with-

.MAY 13, 1908
,out stating fliat thnt la a tact which la
stated ln thxe motion. I weuld consider
I
that portion would be eut ef order.
ceule back te where I started. 1 am sf111
puzzled te know wliat consfitutes a preamble te a motion. I thlxi that question
miglif be pesitively and distinctly asked
wlthout statlng any mefemence te it at aIl.
The bion. gentleman who spoke last, says
we have ne riglit te ask questions affectIng the disposition cf this meney. Meneys
have been paid te Mr. Parent or by the
Transcontinental Commissioners. and the
Hous. lias a iglif te know how that meney
Is disposed of. A question o! that kiuid
ls pertinent. I corne back te where I
started; 1 arn lni a rnuddle as te what
constitutes n preamble.
The SPEAKER-When I said that the
two firsf paragraplis were irregular, I
teek if fer granted thaf they ceuld only be
They are either
a preamble te the third.
a preamble, or are eut ef order as questions.
Hon. Mm. CHOQUE~TE-This matter lias
been seftled, and there Is only ene way of
confinulng the discussion, namely, by an
We have 'been deappeal te the House.
bating the matter affer if bas been settled,
and the wliole discussion la eut of order.
THE SERVICES OF MRE. EDMOND
TASCHEREAÂU.
À POINT 0F ORDER.
The notice of inquiry being calied:
By the. Hou. Mfr. Landry :
Thnt h. wiii inquire cf the goverumentDome the govemument know vhether Mr.
Edmond Taschereau, cf Quebec. notary, vas
during the,' sevemal years and ixntii the. lat
municipal electiens, eue cf the aldermen cf
detie city cf Quebec and one cf the lat
voted partisans of the civic administration
whie head vas Mr. Parent, te-day the. president cf eic Transcontinental RailWay GemmissionF
Dose it likevise know whether this same
Mfr. Taschereau vas employed as notary, and
in that capacity uigned the dfed of agreement
entercd inte on the l9th October, 1903, betveen
the Ioderai. autierities and the Quebec Bridge
and Railway Company, relating to the. financiai obligations contracted by the government
with the-said companyF
How mucli vas he paid for thnt transaction
e.nd by vhom? By the. government or by the
companyF
How mucli. in addition, did hie receive frein
the Commissioners of the. Transcontinental
56

881

i ailwaY, Of which Mfr. Parent is president,
for having as notary verîfied the tities cf
ownership of certain lands acquired by the
aforesaid commission for the- passage of its
road?
Âpart fromt what it lias already paid him.
doe the Transcontinental Railway Commis,sien etil ove anything te 1fr. Edmond Taeclieleau ?
Wliat amount? And for what services?
Hon. Mfr. LANDRY-Is there any objection te this question?

Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Yes. It lu laid down
lu the last edition of Bourinot that a repiy
te a question bias been refused becanse It
'Nov, thxe
referred te a matter cf opinion.
lion. gentleman expresses an opinion In this
The autherities lay devu thxe
Inquiry.
ruie that a question sliould. be:
It (the question) shouId be simply and
severely accurate in its allegations. If it is
hypethetical it is objectionabkle and, ai a ruie.
shonld net b. answered. It should net b.
ironical or cenvey an imputation.
The hon, gentleman surely wlll concede
that this Inquiry conveys an Imputation?
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-What imputation?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The Imputation that
Mr. Taschereau lu 'one of the =est deveted partisans of the civic administration
Ia net that
whose head was Mr. Parent.'
an Imputation?
Hon. Mm. LOUGItEFD-That la for thxe
purpose of identifying hlm.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I neyer knew that
it couid be called an Imputation te say that
a man lu a friend of M1r. Parent.
Hon. Mfr. SCOTT-Is it a pelite thing te
cai a man a partisan ? Ie It fair te a man
who. Is net present te defend himseif, te
maire sucb a charge ?
Hon. -Sir MACKENZIE BOWII[ra-The
hon, gentleman ifply aiks If the goverument know that lie la a partisan.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHBED-1f lie be a devoted partisan, there can be ne objection
te that.
Hon. Mm. LÂNDRY-I want te know If
there lu auy objection raised te inquimy
NO. 2?
The hon. genHeu. Mr. S4JOTT-Yes.
tleman dees net ask the question; he states

REVI8uD EDITION

882

SENATE

himeif that Mr. Taschereau is one of tbe
most devoted partisans of the civic administration, whose head was Mr. Parent.
He
Sureiy there le an imputation there!
does not ask the government for Information.
Hon. Mr. POWER-I taire It that thia
notice ls open to the same objection as the
preceding one, tbough flot to the same exTbe hon. gentleman bas a rlgbt ta
tent.
ask bow mucli bas Mr. Tascbereau been
paid out of the moneys wbIch come from
the treasury of Canada. He bas no riglit
ta inquire about tbe last municipal elections
and speak of tbis gentleman as being a
devoted partisan of Mr. Parent, &c.

on1e, I took pains to avoid making a statement. I simply ask do the government
know, and 1 ivisb to knoW If tbe bon.
gentleman ls prepared to give me an answer ?
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I1 have no answer. The
department deciined to give an answer on
the grounds I have mentioned.
Hon. Mr. FERGUSON-There. sureiy cau
;13Cno objection except to the flrst question.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The question muet be
taken as a whoie.

Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-If tbe hon. gentleman Baya : 'I refuse to answer,' that reHon. Mr. LANlYRY-May and Bourinot moves the difficuity aitogether.
do not say tbat the Inquiry should be
.Hon. Mr. POWER-The point of order
atricken out because It la out o! order,
but they say that the government xnay re- bas been raised, and I tbInk sbould be
setled.
fuse to answer those questions.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-My question le comHon. Mr. CHOQUETTE-They may reprised of six paragraphs. The goverument
f use to answer tbem too.
may very well say that they refuse to
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-If the government answer tbe first paragrapb. I wish to
can refuse to answer tbem, that Implies know If they refuse tu anawer the second
that tbey may be put.
paragrapb.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-The refusai bad refHon. Mr. SCOTT-I have no a nswer.
erence to the firat paragrapli, not to the
Hon. Mr. POWER-The point of order
subsequent three on the paper. May laya
it down distinctly, that it la unparllament- bas been raised and tliat takes precedence.
ary to put questions Mie this ln which the
Tbe SPEAKER-I decide that the fIrat
bon. senator expresses an opinion of someparagrapb la Irregular.
body outaide of this Chamber.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-On what ground?
Bon. Mr. LANDRY-I ask: Does the
The SPEÂKER-Qpli the ground that it
government know wbetber Mr. Edmond
Tascbereau, of Quebec, notary, was, during states a fact. *It la aitected by the same
tbe severai years, and untIl the last muni- Irreguiarlty as the ifirat inqulry, it practicipal elections, one of the aldermen o! the caiiy being a preface or preamble to the
city of Quebec ?' WbMat Imputation is tbere succeeding question. It states a tact. It
states : 1Whoae bead was Mr. Parent?'
in that ?
That la flot a question.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Read on.
lDon. Mr. FERGUSON-That rûling oniy
1qn. Mr, LANDRY-And wbetber the
applies to the flrst question ?
goverannent kinow that lie is one of the
inost devoted partisans of Mr. Parent.
Hon. Mr. LÂNDRY-WiII the hon. leader
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-Thie hon, gentleman of the Senate give me a rep]y to tbe second
paragrapb ?
states that as a matter of tact.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It is open to the same
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-No, I do not state
ItL 1 tool, pains to frame my question, so objection. Wbere there la an objection to
as not to state it. In the first question, I any. part of the question, 1 decline to furmade a statement, but in preparing this piish an answer. I have no answer to give.
Hon. Mr-. SCOTT.

MAY 13, 1908
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Very goad. I will
bring up the question to-rnorrow.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is be ready ta give
THE NATIONAL TRANSCONTINENTAL an answer ta No. 6?
RAILWAY COMLMISSION.
Over and above the suais which have been
paid ta Mr. Ulric Barthe as salary as secreINQUIRY.
-ftary of the Québec Bridge and Rlailway Comnpany, or as reimbursement of his travellin1g
The -notice 0f lnquiry being called:
expenees. have the Commissioners of the.
Transcontinental railway paid any other
:
By the, Hon. Mr. Landry
inoneys ta the saine Mr. BartheP
That he will inquire of the governmentW'hemn, for whet services, anid what samout P
How muoh have the Transcontinental RailÂmongst these payments are 'there any
Way Commissionere, of whomn Mr. Parent is
pireident, paid each year, during the years whatsoever which have relation ta hie presence
1905-6, 1906-7 and 1907-8 te the Quebec Preserv- at meetings of a committee known under the
ing Company, of Quebec, a commercial house. name of the Quebec Terminus Committee?
Under this head, how much hau been paid
the head of which, Mr. L. Letourneau, had
been an alderman of the city of Quebse be- ta hum, and at what date was each of such
fore the municipal elections of February last P ruyments made?'
What was the amount of each of such payHon. Mr. SCOTT-If the hôn. gentleman monts p
'wouid stri-ke out the words-' A commerHan. Mr. SCOTT-No, the oniy answers
clal bouse, the head of whicb, Mr. L. LeI bave been able ta get are ta Nos. 8, 10
tourneau, l2ad been an alderman of the
and 11.
clty of Quebec before the municipal elections of February last' the Inqulry would
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Tben I wiil let the
I want ta know wby Innlot be irregular.
othere stand.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Is the bou, gentle- quiry No. 7, a motion by Mr. McMullen, ls
It le dated llth
placed before mine.
man ready ta answer Vie question ?
Wby does . It nlot corne bef are
March.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-No, I have no answer mine of the 7tb of May?
to any of Vie questions ln whlch the bon.
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I bave answers ta
gentleman has made innuendoce against perNos. 8, 10 aud Il, which I arn ready ta
sons outside of Vils Chamber.
give.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I amn asking If the
hon, gentleman wiil answer the question
Hon. Mr. LAND.RY-Tbe hon. gentlemnan
If 1 strike out these words that he bas bas trouble enougb wIi me wltbout adding
quoted ?
I arn askIng why No.
neediese trouble.
7 inquiryv le put between No. 6 and No. 8. I
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I cannot give an answer, because I have not bad one furnished think No. 7 shouid be No. 1.
ta me.
The hon. gentleman knows that I
Hon. Mr. POWER-I tbink the hon, gengive more Urne ta bis inquiries tban ta Vie
tleman froin Wellington aeked, that this
legisiation of this House. He knows that
notice o! his shouid be put down for taI amn endeavouring ta meet Vie questions
He pute four turnes more day.
that be raises.
questions Vian ail tie other senators of
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-It le ln Vie wrong
It is very unreasonabie and place.
this House.
It should be nt the end of the list
unfair, ani although I amn most anxions ta
meet bis wishes be is neyer satisfied.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I ebouid think the
notices of lnquiry and mations should be
Han. Mr. LANDRY-I arn ta be thankput lu order of precedence as regards dates.
fui.
The SPEAKER-The oniy explanation I
Hon. Mr. FE.RGUSON-Tbe bon. gentlecan give le tbat some of these notices bave
Il
man ls entiled ta the greatest credit.
already appeared an Vie Order Paper and,
shows bis lndustry.
The hon, gentleman
have been adjourned.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I suppose Vie hon. says they ehould appear lu order of dates.
gentleman is not ready ta give an answer I have no opinion ta give. I wHI have ta
ta any o! these questions?7
confer with the officiais.

SENATE
THE BUSINESS 0F PARLIAMENT
MOTION.
Mr. McMULLEN moved:
Hon.
That the Senate deems it expedient to invite the Hlouse of Commons to co-operate with
it, by means of a. joint Oommittee te consider
the advisability of devising methods whereby
a more equal division of the initiation of
private and public legisiation imay b. secured
between the two branches of parliarnent, and
adopting ries governing debate which will
limit the. time of discussion so as ta botter
expedite business.
Re said: As an attenipt in some way to
facilitate the business of parIlament and
close the sessions la a shorter time than
we are llkely to do this year, I put tels
notice on the order paper. For a number
of years the length of the sittlngs of parThis year
liament has been increaslng.
w. have sat about five and one-half moaths
It
--- wll be six months on the 2Sth o! thus
month since parIlament was sunimoned ln
I do flot wish for a moNovember last.
ment to challenge the rlght of any meniber of the opposition to have fulli-me ta
discuss every question that can possibly
come before parliament that Is a uiatter o!
It ls highly delatereat ta the Dominion.
uirable that the opposition should not be
fettered la the. discharge of their duty. At
the same time, when we find that on the
floor o! one branch of this parlament, statements are made and reiterated day atter
day, and nlght a!ter nlght ln almost the
sme language, and that &~great deal of
timne ls la that way spent uselessly, it la
high time that some consideration should be
given to the question whether It is possible
by a better division o! the business that
comes before parllament by which the Senate wouid get a larger share, or whether
we should flot adopt a system. the same as
they have ln Engiand, known as the glosure, so as to contrai the iength of deabates
and *bring parliament within a reasonable
For niy own part,
expenditure of time.
I see a very great risk as regards the f uture of this Dominion, if matters are allowed to go on la the way they have been
It will result
gaing the Iast few yea.rs.
ln drivlng froni pariament altogether sanie
of the ýbest men we have in this country.
Men who are professionai men, and aise
men largely engaged ln other icallings ln
l!.e wlli be forced, if their business is such
The. SPEAKER.

that it requires a fair share of their personai attention,. to retire from pariament
aitogether, and you will have parliament
filed with a second or third:class lot of
men who are willing to accept office and
devote ail their time to pollics. You wi
find that, lu the House of Commons, especlally, men will nlot be got to accept a
nomination for a constItuency If they have
to spend five, six or seven months of the
year ln Ottawa attending parliament. The
session is so prolonged, and discussions on
questions are so iimitless, that they wear
out the patience of many of the best muemabers, and they wIll decline to accept the
duties of representatives ln parliament.
We know very welI that we canuot now
get the best material in the country to
accept nominations for parliameat. I do
not. think there is a constituency ln the
Dominion, that bas not at times to depiore
the tact that nmen who would. be an advantage to the constituency and an ornanment to parliament are forced. to decline
nomination, because they do neot feel disposed to make the enormous sacrifice they
are called upon to make ln golng ta parliament, because of the length of the sessions. There ls either one of two ways by
which we can bring about a change. We
have elther to apply the closure the same
as they do ln England and the United
States to the procedure of this Hlouse and
of the otber Chamber, or you have to
reduce largeiy -the number of representatives ln botb Houses. I honestly think
that In the Inception of the canfederation
scheme, there were altogether tno many
representativei fixed for each province.
It would have been very much better If
there had been oaly haif the number. Quebec, as we know, bas 65 members ln the
Elouse of Commons, and the population of
Quebec dlvlded by 65 gives the unit by
which the other provinces are to be represénted. Taking that as a basis, If we
should go on increasiag ln population year
by year, and we hope It wIlI increase,
represeatatives wili be very numerous. We
will find that there are no two Chambers
in Ottawa large enough to hold the nuniber of members that Canada will have
before many years. For Instance, If we
take the representation as it now is-we

MAY 13, 1908
Dominion, prepared ta grapple with a quesbave some thret hundred altogether memution o! that kind, and try ta recast aur
bers of the Hoiuse of Gommons and senawbole system. The only other recourse
tors during the present session. With an
have ls ta app]y the closure ta the
lndemnity of $2,500 for eacb member, It we
discussians ln both Honses. The clasure
amounts to $750,000, or virtually 12J cents
was Introduced by Gladstone ln the Briper capita of our population. Theu, from
tish parlIament, In 1882, at the time of
year to year, as we increase in population,
the Irish agitation for Home Rule, and ln
the number of representatives wil linon
havé order ta prevent; a perpetual discussion
crease. We are now supposed to
that question, and an abuse of the privibetween six and seven million of a populege enjoyed by members of speaklng an
lation. SupposIng we sbould have, after
any motion as long as they lked,
a few years, tenr'millions, and thue populaand having that speech repeated by athers,
tion of Quebec should be two million, the
power was given ta the Speaker ta arrange
number of members of the House of Gomwhen a debate should end and a vote be
mons would be tbree hundred and o! the
Af tan a discussion commenced ha
taken.
Senate one luundred and twenty, and the conld limIt the tlme to be occupied ta a
Indemnity would be $1,3W0,000, a cost of
certain numben of deys or hours, and, when
ten and one bal! cents per capita of the that time expired, a vote of the Hanse had
population. If we should have twenty mil- ta be taken.
the closura was
In 188
lions of population, we would have, under amanded, so that It was necessary that ana
the present arrangement, about 480 mem- hundred' members should demand a ruling
bers of the House of Gommons and 240 of the Speaker as ta whan a debate shoutid
senators, to whom would be paid $,8,
close. It was thought that it was placing
000 In indemnities, or eight cents per ca- too much powen In the hande of one man
pita. If the population should Increase ta ta aliaw the Speaker ta exercisa arbitranlly,
30,000,000 and Quebec should have three If ha was disposed ta do sa, and It was
millions, we would have about 600 mem- thiought better that there should be an apbers af the Honse of Commons and 240 plication an the part of one bundrad memsenators, costing about $2,100,000 per an- bers bef ana the Speaker could apply the
nnm, or seven cents per capîta, and so clasura.
That, of Itself, was, I think, a
the Increase would go où from year ta very gaod measure ta adopt.
We should
year. Let us compare that 'witb the num- atm at brInging about a shortening o! the
As I
ber o! representatives In the United States. session, If it -la possible ta do so.
Witb about 80,000,000 of a population, have said, It wili injure this country ln
there are 391 members o! the Honse af the future and drive some o! aur best men
Representatives and 91 senators. The In- ont of public Ilfe altogethe, and, therefane,
demnity te $7,500 eacb. It costs the peopl r ln the public Interest, it is. necessary that
of the United States, therefore, foui same effart sbould be made ta shorten thue
and tbree-quarter cents per head of their sessions.
ln my humble opinion the prepopulation for IndemnIty ta their represent sent session bas been unnecessarily lengtbatIves ln Congress, white it ts costing us ened.
I do not deny that important quesat the present time about three times ai tions have been bronglut up and dlscussed;
mucb. 0f course, as the population In but after ail, the time that 'bas been spant
creases, the cost per capita for Indemnit
ln dabatiug a good many questions that
le reduced. If we are to, make s reductiai have been brought up ln the other chamben
bas been frittered away. The Senate ls
lu the number o! our representatives,
Yau
doing the
admit It ls a very serious matter.
tchanged in the country wlth not
cannat make a reduction unless yau ge e work that It should do, and takIng long
are
the consent o! the smallest province In th 1-adjornments; but these adjournments
go back ta the orl due ta the fact that business iesBo retarded
Dominion ; yon have ta
Zinal elements, of wblcb aur Dominion i ln the Honse of Gommons that we have
composed and vIrtually lay the foundation nothing on aur Order Paper, sncb as we
over again ta do that. I question ver,, Ssbould expeet fnom the othen Hanse ln
As
accupy our tlme profit*ably.
much If there ls any master-hand In thi sorder ta

886

SEINATE

a resuit, we have been forced te ad1iourn, 1 do net think the Increase has been te
and the press of the country is disposed an extent that would justify doubiing the
to ftnd fault with the Senate when ln real- expense oft Hansard' in Clve years. *What
lty the fauit Is with the House ot Com- wiii *be the end et it if we are going te
It is going to
mens ln holding back business froim week double it every ten years?
to week and month to month that they be an enormeus cogt te the people et tbis
We have been here cou ntry In the end.
shouid send Up te us.
now neariy six months and the probabill(B.C.)-The
Hon. Mr. MÂODONALD
tien are that we may be here two rnuntbs
I understand that not one hait et first part ef the hon. gentlemnan's motion
more.
the estimates have gone through yet. Is a very eid subjeet ln this Hlouse. Year
Sornething should be done, ln view ot the atter year rnernbers have urged the gevexisting condition ot things, te introduce ernment te brlng more legisiation Into, this
The lead- chamber. That bas been dons te a certain
a better system for the future.
ers shouid corne together and make some extent, but If ail the Bis comlng Into, pararrangement te sherten the session. Other- liament were passed In thîs House first II:
wlse we shall seon have te sit here the would net shorten the session by one day.
whoie year round. If parliament should Those Buis go back trom thîs Heuse te be
lncrease ln numbers, as I have shewn It arnended and dlscussed ln the other House,
probabiy wiil as eur population Increases, fixe same as they are to-day, and, besides
we shall eventualiy have te be ln session that, members ln the other House have Bis
1 have handed them by their constituents la the
for twelve months et the year.
gene ever the 'Hansard' this year, and I country, ralway Bis and ot.her Bis which
find that up te the present tirne there are they desîre thern te put through, and they
8,634 columns et ' Hansard ' at a cest et wouid net entrust them te anybody else.
The Premier has etatied that They want te put those Buis through thern$4l662.
I selves and te see what the eff et wiil be
1Hansard'1 costs about $5.40 a coiurnn.
Se that that part et
gone over the ten years ln which the on the other Heuse.
have
present geverument were ln opposition, the fixe hon. gentlernan's motion rnay be just ns
In regard te the most
ten years previeus te 1896, and the number weli bletted eut.
et ceiumns et 'HIansard'1 used In that Urne, Important matter rnentlonsd la *my hon.
The present opposition friend!s motion, the shortening ot the sesln ail was 49,628.
bas been ln opposition for ten years, and sien, there are two thlngs which wouid
The
The shorten the session and two oniy.
they have just doubled the amount.
ameunt that they have used Up te the pre- first la te retorrn the abuse et tîme lu corsTake the
sent tirne, net Inciudlng the present session, mîttees et the Whole. House.
Se that they have matter et passing the estirnates: an Item
la 84,440 columus.
largely Increased the cost sO far as the Is rneved by the minister, a member rlses
The cost et the and asks a question, and the mninister re* Hansard' Is concerned.
' Hansard ' during the last ten years was piles and they go on bobbing up and dewn,
f459,492, and the cost during the preceding see-saw for a whole heur, and the Item
There is ne
ten years, when the present party whlch Is remains just the same.
If they could
now ln power was ln opposition, was $267,- change made in fixe vote.
991, or about hait the former sum. It has limit the time et speech ln Gommilttee et
neariy doubied during the period that the the Whole Heuse te speaklng twice, that
present opposition have occupied their pre- wouid save a rnonth or two months ot the
session; but the great thlng Is that the
sent position.
goverament have failed up te thîs day to
Hen. Mr. FF2RGUSON-Does nxy hon. realize that they are trustees ot the people,
trlend take into account the Increase of
for the people and by the peeple. They
public business and money expended?
do net keep an open acceunt or an open
Hon. Mr. McMULLEN-I arn quite pre- mind, and aIl this discussion is taken te
pared to admit that there has been an get returns et public matters that shouîd
lncreased arnount of business-no doubt be breught dewn by the geverument, and
about that-some Increase. but, atter ail, the government are backed Up by members
Hlon. Mr. MeMULLEN.

MAY 13, 1908
of the House of Gommons, who wish ta
smother the truth and will net let It came
ont ln the Public Accounts Commlttee or
If any question presses
ln the House.
closely an any department of the gaverument, the whale af the members on the
governent slde wlll snppress It, and they
That ls
wlIl support a lie-a falsehood.
my opinion of the members of the House
of Gommons.
Hon. Mr. CLORAN-Is that not a little
severe, on the membere of the Hanuse of
Gommons?
The SPEAKER-I would draw the attention of the hon. members to the fact that
strictures are nlot permissible.
Hou. Mr. MACDONALiD <B.C.)-Well, I
If Information le moved
take that back.
for and the goverament try ta keep It back,
they are eupported by a majarlty of the
Honse. If the mînisters would realize
that they are worklng for the public, that
whenever a motion la made for a retura la
regard ta any public work or aay ezpeadlture of maaey, they would say, 1Yes, It
will corne dawn to-morrow,' there would be
no room for an opposition ta keep the debates goiag from day ta day. and untIl
tbat le done yeu wlll neyer have a short
session.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHTThere Is not the alightest doubt that the
object deslred ta be obtained by the motion of my hon. frlend le one that
I thlnk members of both sldes would
gladly cooperate la brlnglng about, and I
eee no reason wby we ehould nat invite
the attention af the other Chamber ta the
enarmous length ta whlch the sessions have
grawn. My awn experlence la that matter-and I thlnk the hon. gentleman from
Hastings would corraborate lt-e that, ta
a very considerable exteut, -the mIechief
arises, I arn afrald, from the authorities on
the twoaisdes not havlng their followers ln
as good order as they nsed ta have them.
I can recollect when I used ta have the
pleasure or the hanaur. of oppoeiag my hon.
friead and hie then leaders, Sir John Macdonald .and Sir Charles Tupper, that althaugh they- were good' fIghters-and I
thlnk they condncted the opposition as vlg-

887

ourously as anybody need desire ta have
an opposition conducted, 1 remember we
got through, I tblnk, ln an average of three
My
months la live successive years.
hon. frlend cau correct me if I arn
wrong, and that was, I thlak, because
tbe discipline on both aides of the House
was better -than It la to-day. There la a
serions danger of the administration of the
country being very rnuch hampered, and
the public business belng very serlously
retarded, If the sessions af parilament are
prolonged for six or seven or elght months.
Ail hon, gentlemen who have had any experience la public Ilfe, are aware that It
la with the utmet difficulty that ministers an attend ta the regular dutles of
their office, If, let us say, six or seven or
eight manths are taken Up ln parliameatary debates of more or lees utility. Everybody knows that at this present moment
mînisters la the Hanse of Commons-I
wont say the ministers of thîs Houseare perhaps as hard-worked men as are
to be found la Hia Majesty's Dominions
They usually have a very
.anywhere.
heavy correspondence whlch they muet conduct. They are usually obllged ta Interview or recelve deputations, from. a number of people. They have ta attend the
committees of the Hanse of Gommons ;
they have likewlse ta be present for the
mast part la their seats la the House, often
up ta an extrernely late honr ln the evenýng, and they have, I may add, on the days
when the Hanse of Gommons la not aitting, as a rule, ta ait ln councl for seven
or elght heurs together, la addition ta discharging the ordlnary business of their
depnrtrnents. Now, It le not possible for
men ta do that and have aay sufficient
time lef t for the consIderation of public qnestions. That has te be done
after the Hanse rises, and there la no
doubt that a great deal of the enormous
expenditure complainedl of which le now
golng on la varions public abjects ]b
Canada, ts due to the undue proportion
of the tIme of mînisters whlch ls now
taken up la attending ta the Hanuse of
Gommons debates. I think that that le a
point whlcb wlll have ta be very seriausly
consldered by this commlttee, If the two
Houses should eleet ta employ their ser-

SEINATE
vices ia endeavouring to produce a better
otate of affairs. So far as tbis particuiar
branch of the legislature is concerned, I
am strongly of opinion that it would be
to the advantage of the country, and It
would add to the digaity of this Honse, If
.a large proportion, at any rate, of the private legislation was of necessity orIginated ln this Chamber, just as the divorce
cases are. In order to give any substanUial relief to the House of Commons, lu
order to give this House a better status
and more Important work to do, iowever,
it is necessary that It should be compnlsory,
either by resolution or by statute, that a
large proportion of the legisiation must of
I think that
necessity origInate here.
won]d be a considerable Improvement. As
for the question of the debates ln the House
of Commons, the picture my hion. friend has
drawn Is no doubt alarming. If you are golng to have 16 or 17 thousand pages of 'HRansard,' one thing Is pretty clear, and that Is
that nQbody in the House or out of It will lie
much the better for It, for no human being,
unless he expects to attain the age of
Methusaleh, can ever be expected to rend
through a 'Hansard' whlch contains thonaands of pages. When I was a member of
the other House-and I liad experience of
both modes of reportIng debates-I came to
the conclusion that the best thing that
could be done-and 1 stated It on the fioor
of the House again and again-was to
abolisli 'Hansard' altogether. I am wel
convinced that If 'Hansard 1 were abolished, we would have had very mucli better
reports ln the newspapers than we now
have, and that the public would be mucb
better Informed as to the conduct of public
affaIrs than they now are, and what Is
more, that these persons who abuse the ear
of the House, nnd waste the time of parliament, would, by a process of natural
selection, be weeded out Men will not
two or tbree or
go on Inflicting
four hours harangues on any legislative
bodies when they find that ail the newspapers have to say for them la that Mr.
Bo-and-So replied, or Mr. So-and-So made
a few remarks. At present, an hon, gentleman cou spread himseif to any citent,
and have his remarks reported to, his conlie
Without thec Hansard,'
stituents.
Hlon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHT.

wouid not be able to do that, and I thinik,
making a suggestion on nMy own account
alone, If the committee desires t.o shorten
the session, one of the most effective modes
they can adopt would be to put an end
to the *Hansard,' and leave the varions,
newspapers on elther side to distinguish between those gentlemen whose remarks are
worth whiie reporting and those who are
flot ; but in any case, I see no reason at
all, If my hon. friends opposite do not
objeet, to Inviting the House of Commons
to, see If what threatens to, be a very formidable abuse and a very formidable obstacle to the conduct of public affairs as
they ought to be conducted In the country
-that la the inordinate and enormous
length of the sessions, can ln any way be
put an end to. 1 may add, that though
It might be necessary, I would be sorry
to see the closure adopted ln either House.
It may become necessary; but taking everything Into account, I would exhaust every
possible expedient before I would personally be disposed to recommend the adoption of the closure.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-I had not Intended making any observations on this,
question, and my right: boni friend will
pardon me If I make a few remarks therefore, notwitbstanding bis having, possibly,
as he may have thought, closed the debate.
Hon. Sir RICHARD CARTWRIGHIT-I
shonld Ilke to hear from my hon. friend.
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED-It seems to, me
that the parliamentary system such as we
have it to-day is at the root of the evil, and
nnless some Prime Minister of this DominIon Io sufficientiy strong to, cut off many of
the mouldering branches of that system, we
shall continue to labour under the dIffilculties whIch now confront lis, and the
increaslng dimfculties which will confront
One can. very
us session after session.
well nnderstand such a system becoming so clogged hy the many so-caJiedT
prileges which arise session after session
as to make parliament really unfit for thproper transaction' of the ' public -business.
What Is the parliamentary system that we
We fiad a system made np,
find to-day?
la fact, of two hostile camps, pitted the
Take for Instance
one against the other.

MAY 13, 1908
in tbe Dominion of Canada we have an expenditure ln round figures of $100,000,0O0
We find the dominant party
annually.
clalming the absolute rlgtut, Without consultlng tbe opposition party, to expend that
I am slmply deallng
amount of money.
witb this entirely Irrespective,0f Who May
be the dominant .party to-day; but that la
the parinmentary system, flot only as we
know It lu Canada, but wherever responAnd how Is
sible governmeut Mbains.
that mouey expended, and how are the affairs of the country administered? Not,
certainly, as ny business body of men
wonld administer their own affairs. Not.
certaînly, as any commercial company or
any financial. Institution would for a moment concelve of admlnlstering the fInancil responsibilities or commercial obligations wltb whicb they are calied xupon to
deal. It seems to me that we must necessarlly labour under the difflculties whIcb
have been already so well polnted ont, unless we can devise smre 'way of engraftlng
upon the parliamentary *system many of the
admirable features whicb, through necessity. business companles must Introduce and
adopt for the purpose of transacting the
Now,
business whIcb pertains to tbem.
tbere la an absence of rnutuality-a-bsolutely I miglit say-with reference to the transWhy
action of parllamentary business.
If a financlal Institushould this bie so?
tion, snch as a bank, sncb as a large lusurance cornpafly. a railway Company, or
any other commercial Institution, meets annuaily, as tbey do ln their annual meetings,
tbey do not for a moment think of arraylng
thernselves Into two hostýe campa, thre
directorate clalming they have absolute autbority to deal witU tbe affaira of the comnpany, as againat say n mlnority of -sharebolders wbo may not entirely agree with
them. The principle of mutuality ls at
once recognlzed and foilowed, so far as tne
best Interests of that company are concernWhy sbonld It not be s0 ln parliaed.
Does the business of* the
rnentary life?
Wonid it not bie
country flot demand It?
Would it not evInce
patriotlc to do this?
a national spirit of the higbest patrlotism
that both parties sbouid attempt to get together and to mutually transact the actual
Is tbat practical?
business of tbe country.
1 say bon. gentlemen tbat it Is, If the do-

889

minant party wlll take the initiative aiong
these Unes. Let me Instance a case. Take
for Instance the present session of parliaHad the government of the day
ment.
serlously given consideration to thue transaction of public business ln barmony 'wi.tb
the demands of the country, when parliament assembled business would have been
I ar nfot assuming that this is an
ready2
isolated Instance whereln the government
fails, because we go back to former governments, anid we find practically the
saine Indifference, or the saine lnabllity te
grapple ivith the requirements of the occasion ln evidence. .I say, ln the first Instance, that tbe goverument of tbe day
wben parliament assembled sbould Certainly have ail the business coming before parliament ready for Its ultimate transaction.
We have been In session now nearly six
The other day. I think it was
months.
last week, the Prime Minister, aimost after
six months badl been spient, brought down
a programme sufficiently Important to demand the attention of parliament for the
ensulng six months, provided we take thxe
saine amount of time for tUe transaction of
the business whlch bas been foreshadowed
that we have already taken for that whîcb
This ls not along
bas been dlsposed of.
business Uines, abuses of the kind wlll certainiy have to be wiped out, and tbey can
only bie wiped ont through Initial stepa bieIng taken by the dominant party of the
WUat do we find with reference to
day.
I
the Investigation of public accounts?
think we have no less tbàn three Committees slttlng ln the House of Gommons luvestigating the aileged maladministration 0f
This sbonid flot ho
different departments.
CommIttees of parliament sbould not
jio.
have responslbllitles of that klnd always
thrust upon them, when they are utterly
unable to efficlentiy grappie with questions
of that nature. Instead of a committee of
parliament, for instance, such as the Public
Accounts <Jommlttee, belng calied to probe
Into the affaira of a departrnent, arrayed
as I said before, ln two hostile camps, the
counsel for the government attemptlng to
obstrnct, practicaliy, tbe obtaining of aIl information whiie the other aide may attempt to get ail tbe Information from a
sbould have a fixed and well paid Investi-

SE-NAT E
gating board made up of men appointed
by parliament, as 15the case with the Auditor Generai, w-ho would probe Into those
departments, and whose report upon the
administration of any of tbem, sgo far as
public erpenditure and administration are
concerned, wonld meet with the sarne
weigbt and tbe sarne approval that the
report of the Auditor General does with
reference to any of the matters corning
witbin bis department. Would that be un1 say it wouid not, and I
reasonable?
contend tbat it would be placing ln the
bands of parliament, înachinery IrInfltely
more efficient than thç system whicb w-e
have to-day of a comrnittee, of the House
of Gommons attempting. under the most
adverse circumstances, to elicit Information, which finally they discover they canThat would be one method by
flot obtain.
which the proceedings of parliarnent might
1 arn of opinion, wtth rny
be shortened.
right hon. frlend, that the adoption at present of the closure wouid not very greatly
facilitate the sbortening of our sessions.
[t Is necessary also, tbat the idea should
be deveioped that the public business eauflot be promoted by the rnaking of long
speeches, and we want to get away from
the Impression that a public man's services
msust be measured in proportion to the
length of bis speeches on tue varîous quesPublic
tions comning before parliament.
opinion may protest against the length of
ur sessions, but public opinion by n free
expression upon this question could rectlfy
abuses of this kind very mucbi more reaaiîy
than any other machlnery that couid be set
ln motion. The tisse bas corne when both
parties sbouid get together and engraft on
our parliamentary systern business ssethods,
and drop altogether the ldea that business
can only be transacted by hostile camps being arrayed one against the other. In.this
connection, 1 înight say that one of the
great evls of to-day la prolonging the ses.
sions lies ln this, that the goverfiment in
Inltiating its business brIngs down its measures and forces them tbrough entirely irrespective of the sentiments, the wisbes, or
the views of the opposition. The whole
matter is practically cut and dried in
caucus. The îeasure is introduced. by the
government in tlue House. and then It is nt
once thrown for dissection and discussion
Hon. Mr. LOUGHEED.

into what miglit be termed an inflammatory
body, then follow the most vigorous steps
to inflame the body more and more as the
discussion of the subjeet proceeds until
Wben one
exhaustion graclually tollows.
cornes to Investigate the system under
which we labour, It seerna really extraordinary tbat we are able to transact the
public business with the lited success
we achieve. -I think the House Is indebted to the hon. senator frorn Wellington for
introducing the subject, and 1 trust we rnay
ultirnately make some progress toward the
desired end.
Hon. Mr. POWER-The bon. leader of
the opposition bas, to a certain extent, misapprebended the object of a session of parAs far as the observation of a
liament.
few years goes, my Impression is that a
session of parliament Is the tisse and this
is the locality where the government etart
wvith an idea that they may get eorne business through, and as a rule are not very
The opposisanguine about succeeding.
tion, as conducted tu modern tisses, start
with the Idea that the governent sbiall not
get business .through, or shall get as littie
as possible through, and the great object of
a session of parliarnent, as looked at from
an opposition point of view, is flot the
transaction of business, but the ousting of
the governssent f rom their position and the
1 arn sursubstitution of the opposition.
prised that an old parliamentarlan Ilke the
leader of the opposition should have talked
ln the Ingenuous way lie dld about this
matter. He knows better; and the hon. gentleman knows that be bas been to-day at
another gatherlng, flot a meeting of either
Flouse of parliament, where that doctrine
has been acted upon to the fullest extent, wbere It was decided not to go on
witb the business of the country but to try
to burst the governent The hon. gentleman cannot make us believe that he is
a sort of Moses coming to market to buy
green giasses; he knows better. I quite
sympathize wlth the bon. gentleman from
North Wellington la tblnking that it would
be better if Our business were conducted in
a more businesslike way, but I do not feel
in the slightest degree sanguine that any
good will be done by any attempt to act
We are now ln the middle of a
just now.

MAY 13, 1908
session wliich promises to cover nearly a
wbole year, and the other -House is
flot at the present time lu that cairn
and equabie trame ef mind whlcb the hon.
leader of the opposition thlnlcs it ought te
be ln, and which It should be ln, lu order
te deal wlth a reselutien sucb as that aubmltted by the~ hon. gentleman from WëlI noticed that beth the hon.
lingten.
leader of the opposition and the riglit Hon.
Minister of Trade and Commerce deprecated the introduction ef the closure. There
has been ne hurry lu lntroduclng the clesure
here. but the closure was teund neceusary
lu England wlth a vlew te enabllhg the
public business to be trnacted, and untl
the change of heurt whlcb the hon. leader
ef the opposition seema te foresee takes
place lu the members ef the House ef Gemmens, it will be tound that we cannot get
through wîth the public business lu that
flouse, wltheut resertlng te the clesure.
They have the sme thlug lu the United
States, and ln the varions state legisiatures
They de net cali It cieef the repubie.
sure, but It Is the previeus question, and
the question Is put lu exactly the same
words as lu the Cemmons lu Engiand, that
the question be uow put, and the majorltY
have seme pewer of protectlflg themselves.
Iu thîs country, se far as parliament la
cencerned, the minerity raie, aud I de
net thilk that the way lu whlch the minority have ruled for the lat tew years makes
It desîrabie thnt tbey should be ailowed
te rule parliameut any longer. I do
net see why we should undertake te talk
about adoptlng mules gevernlug debate
which wIil limît tbe tîme et discussion
se ns te better expedite business. The
Senate ls neyer responsîble feor prolengiflg
n session. We de net need any rules te
shorten our debates, ns we are at present
censtltuted nt auy rate. The etber flouse
would uaturally resent auy attempt on
the part et the Senate te tell them that
they were net conducting their business
lu the proper way. It is net for us te tell
them how they should conduct their business. As cîtizens et Canada, we may
niake observations on the length et the sessien, but we have ne right as eue flouse
*te try te advise the ether flouse hew It
Ne
sbould transaet its internai business.

891.

sort et mearangement ef the preseut divisien ef business between the two flouses
wli shorten the session. The reot ef the
matter la lu the flouse et Gemmons, and If
that flouse cau be induced either te adopt
seme mule which wlll prevent these everlastlng discussions, or If the members et
the two aides will meet together In that
spirit pt Christian bmothemheed, wbich the
hon. leader ef the opposition seems te
thlnk shenid prevail, yen may get semcathlng doue ; but ne action we cau take
here wlll matemlally affect the question. We
have discnssed ourselves tee much this session. We have talked about the constitution et the Senate and how it ceuld be lmpmoved, how our business ahould be transacted, and varions ether things, and now
we propose te dIscuss our relations wlth the
fleuse et Gemmons. I thluk that our relations with the ether flouse at the present time are perfect]y satistactmy, te ns
at auy rate. Whenever they de send us n
legisiative measure we give It our best
consideration, and we amend a very
considerable number ot the measures they
send up. That censtitutes about the euly
relation between the twe flouses that we
need conceru ourselves about. When the
other flouse adopta a better metbed et
trausnctlng the publit business, and there
la seme pesaibllity et cenflnIng the sessiens ef parliameut withln measonabie limia, then If the heu. senator trom North
Wellngton Introduces a measure te further impreve the situation, 1 shall be happy
te support hlm, but at the present tume
1 do net think thîs motion la opportune.
flou. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL,-Thls
la a qt'estion, as has beau iutimated by
the heu. senator frem British Columbia,
that has beau dlscussed In this flouse for
n grat many years. Scarcely a session
passes witheut our devotIng some tume te
JInding tanit with the progreas ef public businéas. I am very much luclined te
agmee witb the bou. Minîster of Trade and
Commerce, particularly ou the subject et
centinulng flHansard.' Like himself, 1 was
lu faveur ef the abolition ef It wben 1 sat
lu the flouse ef Gommons, whenever the
questi'on came up, and 1 think he wvas netunted by the same feeling, that the use

892

SEINATE

we had three or four
of officiai reports, whiie very valuabie for of that was that
questions, is abused hours discussion on a minor question wbicb
reference on important
settled ln five or ten minfor the purpose of placing upon record long migbt have been
That ls one Instance that 1 obof con- utes.
speeches, nlot witb the hope
rernark is applcable to ni
vinclng those who listen to thern, but for served, and my
gay goverllments and ail ministers wbo are nlot
the benefit of constituents. I frankly
frankly questions put
that 1 bave made speeches ln the'House prepared to answer
ln to tJbem by the opposition. ,Another great
of Commons myseif with that obJeet
presents Itself and creates
view, nnd 1 fancy there are others bere difficulty wbicb
prolongation of the sessions of parliawho have tnken the sarne course. * The a
measures of a debatable or
abolition of the officiai reports, wouid, to ment is wben
cliaracter, go far as the opporny mmnd, tend ln a great mensure to the questionahie
concerned, are presented, Inshortening of the session ; but experience sition are
shouid be given to parliamiert by
bas taughit me tiiat sessions mîgbt be short- formation
those who are responsIble for atternpting te
ened to a very great entent If ministers
sucb measures, and tbey are not
were prepared, 'when parlament meets, to enact
enough, and very often Information
bave whatever Important mensures -*ey frank
whlch properly and legitîmately
Intend to bring before parliament ready to Is refused
-be supplied by the minister, the opbe laid upon the table wîtii proper expia- shouid
proiong the debate untii tbey senation. I do not say that the present gov- position
We have had Inthe Information.
erament are the oniy sinners ln this res- cure
stances of that kind rnany times, and never
pect. MJy hon. friends wbo sit opposite
present
vey log epe-more frequent]y than during the
me, ave ad
ho nd
I amn speaking from, persoxial exxe session.
two
ie,
andw bi have had aaeyln
m'eieo
my hon. f riend the
itseif to ail gov- perience, and I tbink Commerce wIil agree
diikulty whIcb presents
be carrled to such Minister of Trade and
ernrncts ; but it may
of the etateanents 1 have
asto
au etcueepparlamet l pepe-witb me in most
mnade ln reference to the business of partui essn. tI be parirent ils terpe
We are constantiy discussîng
atpsi liament.
sth
noied
tuýea qesion I ae
e edu.T
wa hudadsol
tion to elicit from ministers the meaning
my inind, the appointrnt of a commnittee
or objet of government meaures when
it
this kînd would be impracticabie.to see
t1 iey are introduced, and the effect it îs of
I am giad
ponthecoutrywould resuIt la nothing.
hve
thouht heywoud
senator from Welinfgtonl la
thon.
be ta
Ifhougbtd thy wof avme upntontr
t
n hig Vaticular as hhasd beetRuformer
given at once It would save a great deai of
onuro an steat
ha te
noticed aiso slncei patca he bas
discussion afterwards. I have
ne
a
of hon.
th
knoo
he aser
that when inatters affecting the manage- Iisc
1kowfnoo.getand ques- hscabr
ment of departments corne up
occupied more time and covered
are askýed by the opposition man who
tions
i n the good old
sucb tluigs more pages of ' Hansard' we sat opposite
aowhether suchi and
la the east when
dfulimes
curdadwercran
hv
House of Commons than
nd htbte cetin dificul- encb other la the
bls aveccre
Since be bas,
plnae ano the bon, gentleman hirnseif.
,
bae aren that d te
tisakl
bere he bas seen tbe folly of a policy
been
tak place an
says yes that
fheamomen
f that klnd, and Is quite willlng now to
ruhtt
the~~~~~~~~~~ moetioa yntc
the discussion at ex-tend bis reforms to sucb an extent as te
took steps to correct il,
I can speak of an Incident affect otlhers wbo are foliowing la bis lilasonce ceased.
of
whicb came uder my own observation. Itrions footsteps wbile be was a member
The bon. senator
successor ln the goverament of wbich the House of Commons.
My
nut
I was a member 'was nsked a simple ques- from Victoria, B.C., put the case la a
Commons. H e thougbt sheli 'when he snid that diffIcultîes arise
tion la the House of
dett was a refleétion upon himself and hé froni the fnct that every constitiency
siring legisîntion apon nny particular quesI calied bim over and
refused to answer.
that business in the
asked why he did not answer the *ques- tion wiil put
He said he 'wouid not. 'The
tion?
Hon. Mr. POWER.

resuit

bands

0f the representative

of that coni-

MAY 13. 1908
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL-I arn
stituency who will take good care te show
not advocating It but I say that even If
to hlm constituente that he i. doing smreI do flot know how we it were adopted. nobody would read. the
thing for them.
eau avold the difficulty, unies. we adopt speeches unless it was some person who
I
the suggestion made by the hon. Minlstoe had a personal krterest lu the matter.
of Trade and Commerce and require that bave a fui! set of 1 Hansard' of bath
certaIn measures, whether they be of a Houses frorn the time of confederatian.
private character- or not, shall be Ixitro- They taeUp a long raw of sheives lni my
duced lu this House and not ln the House library. Not once ln a year doee any one
Even supposlng you do corne ta me and ask to see thôse books,
of Commons.
the question whlch le flow and, I frankly confess, unless It ls nmethat Take
before the Hanse of Commone, how wili it tbug personai to myseif I neyer look at
shorten the debate or the duration of a ses- thern. It did corne hiandy when we were
There is a very grave question be- discussing a great canal question a numsion?
fore the House and counltry jiit flow. ber of years ago. The Hon. Mr. MackenThe governrnent take one view of the ne- zie had.tsken strong grounds on the quescessity for arnending the election law ln a tln and ln fighting It lu ny neighbourcertain line, and ln certain partlculare.the hood they came ta mne to refer ta Hanopposition look upon It as an attempt to get sard' luI order ta show that the party we
possession of the franchise of the country were opposing were opposed ta the proet. That I. about the only time 1 rela order that they may secure a majorlty
I arn giving no opin- member * Hansard'1 belng called Into reat the next election.
Ian one way ar the other, although I have quisitbon.
Âpart frorn that, I do flot fully agree
strong convictions on the question; but be
that as It may, m.ny mesure whlch mlght with my hon. friend. ta my right as ta the
be lntraduced ta regulate the management division of labour. I arn somewhat ln
of the business of the country' could ln nlo favour of compromise, and while it wouid
way affect ttiat except you adopt the cia- be a good Idea, If It couid be doue, ta take
sure, and limit the speeches ta a certain a measure like -Vte one that is now occupyTo that proposition, persanaiiy, I ing the time of the House of Commons, and
time.
The. evil arislng from tra)m appearances ls Iîkeîy to occupy it
decidediy abject.
free discussion le much less tian Vie evil until the snow fies. If Vie leaders on both
you would have If you tried ta gag afly aides would get together, and ln a matter
member ln Vie expression of hlm opinions of that klnd where politice and partisanon questions of any Important character. lsm should not prevali, agree upon a plan
I arn totally opposed ta anything lîke tyran- best calcuiated ta ensure honest elections
ny lu the management of publie affaire, or over Vie whoie country, It wouid b. much
controling Individuals ln freeiy discuasing better Vian the' present eystem. Unies.
ail matters which carne before parliameiit. there le an abject underlying Vie proposiI hope the Urne le far distant wben it wHii tions which rnay ho made by elther party
be necessary lu his country ta introduce an a question of Vis kind lu order ta get
any system of that kind. though It has an advantage aver Vie ather, Viere la no
been adopted lu tbe mother of parliaments. resan why parties, no matter what Vieir
Perbapa It would ho a rnuch easier way ta, opinions may ho on public questions, should
adopt the Yankee princîpie, Viat le, let a not meet and came to an honest conclusion
man prepare his speech and hand lu 50 or as ta what Vie election laws sbould b. ln
pionfte
retoscethhos
100 pages for publication lu 'Hansard'
and gave the tîrne of the Hanse ln discus- electors of Vie country and have members
The result of that would ba pre- elected by fair and honourable means lnslan.
clsely what has been pointed out by the stead of by ballot box stuffing, or bagua bailot boxes. I suppose 60 long as partylsu'
Tade
hon.Mîniterof nd ommece.
Hon. Mr. DOMVILLE-It would be very existe <o Vie extent It does to-day that le
expeusIve to the country printing ai! those scarcely 'ta be expected. I mention sme
of Vie causes whlcb, I think, tend to iengthspeeches,

894

SEINATE

en the session. A readiness on the part
of the governmcnt with their Buis and an
equally honest readlness to answer questions and give Information when asked
for, would put a stop to nlnety-nine pet
cent of the discussions and thnie wasted lia
the other House ln the consideration of
measures 'whieh corne before them.
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex)-I amn sme'what Impressed with the view presented
by the bon. senator f rom Halifax, althougli
T feel that we should tbank the hon. sentator trom Wellington for brlnging up the
subject. 1 feel as If the i-egulation of the
discussion of the other House iengthened
debates and matters germane to the prolongation of the session, are matters wlth
which we bave realiy nothing to do tinless
It is made quite clear that the conduct
of thé other House Interferes with the
operation of parliamentary Institutions or
brings discredit upon thie governmeât ot
the country. 0f course, as a brandi of
parliament, we are lnterested ln maintaining the dignIty of parliament wlietlier
represented by the House of Commons or
by tliis Chamber. Beyond that, I would
feel, If 1 were a member of the House of
Gommons, Ilke resenting any Interference
witl the House eitber as to the length o!
the session or the lengtb o! the discussions,
or the mode Iu which the House o! Gommons conducts its business. 0f course it
goes witliout saying that this session Is a
long session; it goes wltliout seaylng thst
tbere bave been many long sessions and
after an experlence of eleven years ln the
House of Oommons, I know that speeches
are sometimes unnecessarly long, and perbaps like other bon. members of that House
who have seats bere, 1 should pieed guiity
to having offended ln that particular myself. Upon my observations of the Britlèh House of Commons-and 1 think other
bon. senators wiil corro'borate that view
-the practice there Is to curtail speeches
to veéry narrow limit. In discusslng the
great South African war lt was sala that
Chiamberlain in twenty-five minutes presented the views of the government and
made a defence of the goverampnt so far
as the war was concerned. Should such a
defence be made ln our House o! Gommons, I fear very much that no member o!
Hon. Sir MACKENZIE BOWELL.

that House would make a defence wlicb
lie would consider adequate ln that time.
There is no doubt party government Is
open to tliat abuse, If abuse you can caîl
It There la no doubt thait, under our iparty
system, government Is apt to be ohstructed by a resolute, determined and resourcefui opposition. A cynic lias gala that
party government consias ln this, that
lf the cleverest men of the country are
occupying their time in preventing tlie
other hlf carrying on the government of
There may be nme force
the country.
ln that, but that is one of the Incidents ln
parliamentary government, and we must
leave It largedy to the judgment of members of the House of Gommons themselves
and let public opinion, whicli, after ail,
regulates parliament as well as individuals,
determine wliat course it should pursuie, at
the mime time expressing as 'we do in dlgnified and proper language our opinlon
that there Is a tendency to prolong the
session. 1 admit witli the hon. senator
from Wellington that the prolongation of
lhe session may produce the evils to which
lie refers. It la a very serlous thing for
business men t0 be absent frorn their business, to lie prevented froni the management of their private affairs as long as it
is necessary lni thus country to, attend a
session uf parliament. That is a serions
thing1 and the end of It may lie, as my
lion. friend bas suggested,. that smre men
wlio are adînirnbly fitted for representatives ln either House, will lie deterred by
theee ircumnstances from giving the public
the benefit of their services.
This, too, is a matter whicli wll probably
cure ltself t0 a certain extent in the course
As the Minister of Trade and
of time.
Commerce bias said, In our eariy days a
session of one hundred days was coneiderWlien the sesslons exed a long session.
tended to four montlis, we coneidered we
Matters have changwere i'mposed upon.
ed since then, and wliat the remedy is, it
fiat tie closure which bas been adopted
myseif, speaking after some experience,
thaf fhe ciosure which lias heen adopted
ln England la nof, atter al, a good thing.
There ougit f0 lie some lirait of discussion.
Ais the Duke of Wellington said, 'Tie
King's government must go on,' and If tie

MAY 13, 1908
resolute minority, for pure purposes. 0f ob- privileges rnay be abused, and If it apstruction, continue ta obstruct, atter public pears ln the course of.debate tliat they are
questions have been tharoughly ventilsitedl, needlessly prolonged; If It appears to oneand after the st useful word has been third or one-fourth of the members oit the
said, then I tbink the majority should have Hanse that the subjeet is exhanated, tbat
same rights. The minority Io flot parlia- ail that may be said usefuily ha. been sald,
The majority i. parliament, and If, then I see no reason why the majority
ment
the
lu the exercise 0f an obstructIve polley, should leave ltself lu the hande of
whicbi serv es no useful purpose-for you miuority, becanse, after ail, the majority
oan very soon exhaust the merits of a legisiates, flot the minority.
The hon. gentleman tram Hastings, and
question-debates are pralonged, lrrelevaiqt
the Minister of Trade and Commerce, have
matter ls luterpolated. into them, long quotations, ta no purpose whatever, are read referred to a division of labour between
I think it wouid -be an
ln order to kihi time, then I ttink the ma- the two Hanses.
to exercise these rights and improvement, and ln regard to some matjority ought
The mIle of the
the British parIlament-as goad an ex- ters It would save tirne.
as we British parliarnent la that the (lrmen of
ample of parliamentary government
have lu the world-bns feit ln tbe intereut the Committee of Ways and Means and the
of- Public business the neceeelty of adopt- ChaIrman of a Committee of the Honse of
They have Lords meet at -the beginniug of the session
Ini nme systern of closure.
One was referred ta and divide evenly betweeu them the private
two uystems there.
That saves times, because a Bill
by thue hon. gentleman from London. Firsit Bis.
once pausing through the House of Lords,
tbnt wben 100 members rise and go into
the division lobby and say that the debate as a Bill passing through the Senate, and
of Lords,
éhal! be closed, then the debate ls closedl being approved by the House
accordingly.
Another uystem lu In Com- generaliy passes through the Lower Honse
T1hat would save
mittee of the Wtiole, after the estimates lu a very short time.
have been diucussed for a conuidemable some time. Horwever, that lu only a very
length of time, the leader of the House Ilmited mens of *curtailing the length of
we find that discusthen moves -that -the estimates do pais. the * session, because
sions are not, as a rule, on prIvate Bills,
They call that closure by compartments. It
course
was adopted by Mr. Balfour ln order ta but are upon public questions. 0f
Dvery one can
we con offer suggestions.
Thoat lu anget his estimates tbrough.
other system of closure. I -think the la-t- cure an evil, except the particniar person
Every .man looking at a gaie
afflicted.
ter system lu perhapu even more preferaie
make on a
United knows the next best move to
In the
thon thie former one.
It i. very eatsy for the minchesa-board.
States, the system of closure, as I underdown tteir Buis early In
stand it, is that a reuolution le passed that jutera to bring
Sa they wshould, but did you
the seseIon.
at a certain time the vote be taken, fixiug
able to do lt, and If
a term three dayu or, perhaps, a week ever find ministers
von keep parliament ln session for six or
hence. Then those who have ta speak do
year, how are they ta
so luI the luterval more brlefly tban they seven months each
Every minister
get their Bills ready?
otherwise would, sud after the speeches are
sbould give clear explanations aud answer
Members are
over the vote lu taken.
questions civilly and flot provake debste.
warned that they are Ilmited as ta Urne,
'Yau wiil have ta reorgunize human nature
and that at al events the discussion ia
you get that out of any minuster
1 do not see before
Ilmited to a fixed period.
that hnd been born or-mny be boru lu tbe
why any very usetul purpose wihich a par-Ministers like the battie, -and sa,
liament serves cauld flot be served Iu that future.
do the opposition, snd ln the exdltement of
0f courue, the sentiment of free
way.
speech la a noble sentiment, aud the »ng- thei moipent they grapple with each other
If there -would
]ish parllainent has asserted ltself lu that and'the battie goes on.
equal to any parliament beý ésome way of opplyiug the Conciliation
respect, perbapa,
In the -world; aud yet free speech rnay be Act ta members of parliament before they
abuued as any of nature's blesslngs or corne into a confiict; If before the strike

SENATE
criticisin
began leaders could 4be brought tog-ether, ta precated. It bas been entirely a beginnlng
golnig ta be the of the Hanuse of <Jom¶ons from
fiad out what was really
and 1 do nlot thinli there Is one
acute form of the attack, or wiat was to end,
the de- lion, gentleman who lias nlot transgressed
golng to be the attacklng point of
the procedure in
bate, and <uvoid that ,by settling matters the rules by crlticlsing
the 4jommons aud mapping out methods
beforehand, no0 daubt thîngs would go much
better than
But you cannot do that by by whlch It, could do business
more easlly.
it Is belng done. It la nlot to be wondered
Act of Parliament or by any committee.
Irregular discusThese thlngs must regulate themselves. I at that we should have an
sion, because the motion Itself is Irregular.
sonietimes think the fonly cure for our long
one respect, as was pointed
sessions, resta with the good sense of the It is Irregular la
out, at a former stage of the placlng of
House of 1Commoas, the sufferings w-hlch
as there are two distinct
they endure by prolonged sessions, and notice, lnasmuch
propositions, whicb have no0 connection with
the objection whleb public opinion through
la the same motion.
the press and constîtuencles may make ta each other, lnvolved
spart from that, the latter part of the
I do not Ilke ex'actly the Idea of the But
It
and 1 think it la out of
Senate savIng te -the Bouse of Gommons motion la lrregiilar,
'You should do business lu a certain way,' order:
abollsh 'Bnansard' or eut down the
That the, Senate deems it expedient ta inco-operate with
or that members of the Bouse of vite tii. Bouse of Commons to
speeches,
it by means of a joint committee ta consider
-I do the advisability of devising methods whereby
Commons should do this or that.
not thlnk any adrIce ou that score would a more equal division of the initiation of
legisiation may be secured
prvt
be taken In thie ,splnlt In 'whlch we would between nd publie
ýýthe two branches of parliament, and
I thought they were open to adopting rue governing debate which will
give IL. If
conviction, that they xnight regard 12his limit the. time of discussion se as ta better
expedite business.
body ae wlse because of Its years, and neThe hon. gentleman f rom Wellington, in
cept adrice from us, thafi a committee like
thus motion, bas not stated where he proposes
that suggested would be very useful, -and
to apply these rules governing debate. It
our section of the commlttee would give
migbt be, for ail I know, la the councl of
advlce to the members of the Bouse of
the town of Mount Forest, or in the municiGommons 'wich, I think, would he profitpallty of Wellington. 1 do not thlak we
able te tbem, and proifitable to the country
would have very much te do with that here;
at large.
neverthelesa as far as the motion la conHon. Mr. FERGUSON-There was one cerned, It mîglit appiy to any ot these
It mighit apply, and my firat conremarie made by he hon. gentleman fr-om places.
thus Bouse;
Halifax wlth whlch I fully agree, and that Is clusIon was it would apply to
deal but 1 understood my hon. friend to say,
that this Bouse bas talked a great
of
too much about ltself and about Senate and 1 certaInly understood a number
hon, gentlemen who addressed the
We other
reformn dunlng the preseat session.
to be
hanve nad a number of motions on the sub- Bouse, that there does not appear
for closure or anything like
ject, and we bave had a number of gen- auy aecessity
penbaps
tIE men making speeches on what they that here, for the general complalit
the geapleased to call Senate reform-two flot In the last year or. two, but
were
la that
or three long speeches eacb on that subjeet. eral complaînt againat thîs Bouse
was very fully discussed there have net been sufficlent debatesI thînk the subject
two years ago la the Bouse. We had a not that there were too many. The only
an
very long and elaborate discussion on thE Inference to be drawn-still It la only
the
question, and I consider that the !Senate inference-is that this Bouse suggests
which
nad stretched forth Its hand and answered adoption of rules governing debate
se
for ltself, and it might shlow that questior 1 wili limit the timne of discussion
better expedite busineýss,' apL as 'ta
to stand and* not be supplemented by o
numýber of debates during the present ses - plies to the House of 4jommans, and
irresien. While that was ta be deprecated. J Eif it does sa apply It, it la
sud out of order, and something
present debate la more ta be de -gular
think the
Hon. Mr. ROSS (Middlesex%

MAY 13, 1908

897

witb which ve have nothing, to do. The ened out in his manner. The hon, gentleHouse of Commons miglit very well regard man from Hastings said that when I was
nil our criticism in that respect as simply -there i èontrIbuted very much to the
Impertinence, as we would regard speeches length of the session and to the number of
by. members of the House of Commons as pages o! 1Hanuard ' Vihat I filiea. I .dld
to the manner ln whicb we should'con- my duty as I bumbly. knew It.to be-ny
duct *our business -here.- Sometimes we duty when I was a me*mber of the oppo0have occasion to speak rather sharply about sition ln Vie House 'of Gommonis. I enwhat they say of us, and they talk very deavoured to do It under my leader, and
freely about the Senate ln regard to as far as I was concerned, I endeavoured
adjournments ; but 1 do flot think they to watch my hon. frlend. who was thena
u ndertake*to point out to us the way.in a Mlnlster of the Crown, and It; took
'Wbich we should amend.«our ruies wlth watchful care on my part to see that
regard to conducting debates. 1 think we everything was right, and I hope be apbave already had too inucli discussion on preclated my efforts in Vint direction.
The hon. gentleman from Marshfield also
the question 'of Senate reform for Vie
thlnks we are dictatlng to Vie Gommons,
dIgnlty of this House, and this debate
migbt have been very well omitted from and has thrown ont Vie Insinuation Viat
breùlnning to end, as It bas been nothlng perbapa 1, as a member o! the House, andmore or less Vian a critlclsmn of the House a new member, amn a littie too fresh. I
of Commons. Having made bis crlticism, should go behind hon. gentlemen like bimand ellcited a discussion ou. Vie question, I self who have sat here. for so many years
thlnk my hon. friend wiil surely be ln- and ask bis permission before I place a
celined to drop bis motion and flot press notice on the Order Paper and brlng It
It to a vote, because I certalnly would before Vis Cbamber at ail. Young memfeel called upon to vote against It If It; mers coming Into- this House sbould lreep
behind. They should virtually bang on to,
were so pressed.
Vie coat tails of Viose who have been here
i
HÉon. Mr. McMULLEN-MJY lho". friend ' ormn - .
1 mouVis unless wltb Vie consent of older
froma Halifax Viought that Vie course taken
they have got to get per;members ;
oe
n
akn
n
by my resolution was to some extent dic-,msinbfr
ommns s t gentleman who Is called by a commission
tatng o
Ve Huseo!
lh
efc
ose a
on oVl
hoW Viey should conduct their business. I!t
think, h e certainly must bave read be i to introduce any ineasure be thinka Is la
%ween. the 1 nes to find anythlng ln Vie the Interests of- the country, and I have
reqointion that makes, dlrectly or indirect-; <'one Vis from a patriotie desire to serve
Il~ my country, because I belleve It: la a move
ly,. nny Insinuation la Viat regard.
simply ask by the resolution- to, appoint a. la -the right direction, and I believe Viat
committee' to con!fer wlVi them wli re- changes can be made tiat would be very
gard to the lengti of Vie session. Wbat mulcb ln the interestis of the country. I
was my reasôn for dolng Viat ? There' entirely agree with Vie remarks of Vie
la flot a puible Journal la Vis country Vtha Minîster of Trade and- Commerce. I behas not declared Viat ,the sessions are too Ileve that If ' Hansard'1 was entlrely abo.long, that the discussions in Vie House o! lished, or If It was cut down to a point
ilievetullyresitla rlvngat which Vie verbiage would be Virown
~oximos
jI .te good men from Viat Chamber, be- ont,.and nothing but Vie kernel of the deajuie they cannot afford to *remaîn away bate would be included and erlnted, the
fyom Vhir private bushiiesà for such a long gentlemen 'who denît ont Viose unllmltedt4ipe.. We know that is Vie view. Several speeches would leara after a while Vint It
geptllçpen la Vie House of Gommons have was no use, because Viey would not be
tOld me that Viey will be forced to decline printed. If we can get a change. of that
the pomaination If parliament Is to be lengVi- kind, It would be a good one. You- lmve
57
REVISED

EDITION

SEN &TE

898

AT
CELEBRATION
elther to adopt that or abolish * Hansard' TERCENTENARY
QUEBEC.
altogether, if you Intend to shorten the
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-I would cail the
sessions of parliament. 1 thlnk something'
ol that klnd mlght be done. I make ne attention of the government to the fact that
Insinuations whatever agatnst the mem- the 'Gazette' gives notice that the governth plno
bers of the House of Gommons, and 1 treatmetasdcedoabdo
oabnnteplno
It 'bas been statedmetasdce
Uiem most cordially.
on the Plains. A
that there -were reasons why this session assemble 25,000 men 'Gazette-' reads as
bu 1 ayparagraph ln to-day's
odinry
e
eholà thn lnge
they are making speeches that have been olw.
There No arxny for Quebeo-Government abandons
relterated over and over again.
planU te assemble 25,000 men on the plaine.
should ha some means of puttîng a stop
Ottawa, May 11-(Special).-The assembling
gen- of 25,000 troops at Queberc for the 300th aanito that. I entlrely agree wlth the hon.
of Abrathe battle of
tleman from London (Hon. Mr. Coffey) that versary of not teke place. the Plaine days' pay
The four
metod aioped, omehaut, wi.fl
shoud besom
oetrouble, the transportation difficulty, and the
ehdaotd
there sbud esm
means devised, -whereby we mlght shorten 50 per cent cf etabliehment complaint have
6weep s
up the work and perform the business ba- beIi* eettied with one conoarnad. far as the
The rural
Militia department te
wlth more expeditlon, and corps will go te cam the anme as Usuel, and
fore parlianient
have more time to attend toour own busi- the Québec Battlafelds Commission wifl
utles
neasat orn, sarifce t ai cfus.chooee any regiinen'ts it desires to add military
nessnt ome sacifie t al ofus.splendeur, to tzhe festivitias.
ntles
It was announced t0 some corps at the drill
otin wlch
Tha ous on he
dlide
n
The ousediviedth moton wichhall to-day th-at the Quabac aflair was, 'off.'
There was general surprise, of course; but at
was carrled on the followlng division:
once tha corps eattled down to change their
arrangements for about the fifth time sinca it
Yeas 28, Nays 23.
was firet announeed cths't the flower cf.Canaat
affsemhled Z3W' Quebeo in
di-an youth wss te be ~ 4
CONTENTS:
1VP
<i
~ Le4';.V
Lue ~
~
Baird,
Beith'
Botok,

Caimpbell,

The Hon. Messrs.
MoDons.ld (C.B.),
McHugh,
MCMullen,

Mesweeney,

Cartwright
Miller,
Rilay,
(Sir Richard),
Rose (Middlesex),
Coffey,
Roy,
Derbysbire,
Scott,
Da.e=11
Shahyn,
Gibson,
Sulliva.n,
Gilmer,
Tessier,
Godbout.
Thompson,
King,
Wateol.-28.
Legris,
Lougheed,
NON-CONTENTS:
The Hon. Messrs.
MoKay (Trure),
MeLiaren,
MoMillan,
Marner,
Mentplaisir,
Prey,
Poirier,
Power,
Rose (Halifax),

Bernier,
Bouchervilae de,
BoweLl
(Sir Mackenzie),
Casgrain,
Buis,
Fergueon,
Forgent,
Kerr,
-Wilson,
Landry,
Macdonald (Victoria),
MacKeen,

Wood,
Yeo.-23.

BILL INTRODUCED.

tha Militia departmaut, is &ack of mcnay to
carry out the scheme. It was given out ait
'the departmnent this mnornig that avery. sltarnative lied been tried to accomplish the task
with tha money et band, but 'it could not ha
,doue. The cutting down of the drill pay had
been suggested as tha iut ehance of bringing
the troope to Quabac, and it was net aocepted.
by the militia, e thera was ne ether course
to pursue, éince the .money was not fortheoming, ths.n to calU the affair cff. It would have
takan $300.000 or e, more than is allowed the
depaî-tment, iA ie claimel. te have takan tha
niumbar cf troops asked for te Quebae, and it
was net forthcoming.
Yesterdey about fitteen commanding offloars
cf corps frcm varicus parts cf Canada waitad
ontIi. Minister cf Militis te -explain that they
could not eomply with the terme that thay
weuld cnýly draw psy for four days. The minlaVer than statad that other -arrangements
woul.d ha made.
Tha work cf cheosing what regi.ments will
go te Quabe will ha lof t te the Quebec Battiefields Commission, se any regiment that is
net i.nvited. will net blame the departinent.
In tact, tha Militi-a Departmant wijll have
nothing te do with the affair exoept to arrange transportation. for tha troops chofan.
I want te know if thera ls any truth In
that report.?

the
Hon. Mr. SCOTT-I understood
supBill (WW) An Act to incorporate the paper n-as quotlng from a statement
by the Minister of ýMiiiTrqders' Lite Insurance Company.-(Hon. posed to be made
tia. I know that bas been bis view. I
Mr. Jaffray.)
Hon. Mr. MoMULLEN.

MIAY 13, 1908

898e

Hon. Mr. SC(>j.£-I wiiI get tbe Informaknoyw tbat he bas expressed that opinion.
unable 'to, provide transportation, tion for the bon. gentleman.
He was
ther difficuities arose, and whether
e~
Hlon. MLr. LÂNDRY-Could we have an
#W final order was given or flot I do flot
answer to-morrow ?
xnow.
Hon. MAr. SCOTT-I think so.
Hon. Mr. LANDRY-Has lie abandoned
-departinent ln order to
the bead of bis
T'he Senate adjotrned until tbree o'clock
allow the Battiefields Commission to raie
to-morrow.
tbe department ?

INDEX
PART I-SENATOIRS
The followmng alibreviatjons are used: lot R., 2nd R., Srd R., ltht, 2nd and 3rd Readinge; *, without
remark or debate ; Âocta., Âcoounta ; Adjn., Adjourned ; Aint,, Amendment ; Aintà., Amendinents; B.,
Bül; B.C., British Columbia; Can., Canada or Canadian; Com.,- Committee; GJo., Company ; Consdn.,
Consideration ; C0or., Correspondence ; Dept., Departinent ; Govt., Government ; Ris Ex.,- Hie Excellency
the Governor General ; -H. of C., Houe of Gommons; Incorp., Incorporation; Inq., Inquiry: Man.,
moved; N.B., New Brunswick; N.W.T., North West TerManitoba; 'N-s. Meseage; M., Motion; ma.,
ritories; N.b., Nova Scatia; Ont., Ontario; Ponlt., Parlioment; P.E.I., Prince Edward Island; P. O.,
Pont Office; Ques., Question : R-A., Royal Assent; BRin., Remnrks; Rép., Reported; Ret., Returned;
_Ry., Railwoy; Sel., Select; 6 n h., 6 months boist; Withdn., Withdrawn.

*]bEIQUE, Hon. F. L.-Con.
BAIRD, Hon. G. T.
Rules of the Sonate: Anit. ta M. (.Mr. Davis)
Âdjouruiments: M., 405.
409.
Bush Pires: inq., 860.
Sonate Debtes:-M. ta adopt Toport, 1323;
Cannon Divorce B. <RR): Int., 876; 2nd B.,.
remn., 1327; M. ta adopt report, 1M85.
M2; Srd R.*, 928.
Standiug Committees: on M. (Mr. Ross,
Pulp 'wood from Canada, The export of:
,Middlesex), rem., 351, 403.
M., 838.
BEITH, Hon. R.
BAKER, Hoen. G. B.
Campbellford, Lake On>tariio emnd Western
(3huroh of Englaud, Miseionoy Society B.
Ry. Co. B. (.14): Int., 97; 2nd R.0, -174; Brd
338; 3rd R.*' 380.
<.75); lnt., m2; 2nd R.
R.0, 213.
Domixion Gnarontee GJo. B. (V)>: M. not
Canada Weathor Ineuranoe O. B. (37>:- lut.,
to concur in Gommons Amte., 1476.
640; Znd R.t 703; 3rd R.B 781.
Robin and Frank P&tents B. <E): Int., 175;
BEI-QUE, Hon. P. L.
- 2nd R,, 219; Srd R.', 380.
M.
A"odenta &t Railway ýCrossings. M., 176.
Wdisdsor Pum!p and Fonndry Go. Patents B.
Architectural institute ci Canada B. (87>:
(72): lut., 231; 2nd R.*, 291; Srd R.*, 380.
luit., 759; 9nd R.O. 778, Srd R.*, 97:1.
BELCOURT, Hon. N. A.
.livil Service Âot Aont. B. <189>: on 2nd B.
Âddress, The: M. toaedopt, 3.
'remn., 1525; in Coin., remn.. 160.
Briitish Yukon Rty. (Co. B. (21): In-t., 382.
'Custonia Acit Âmit. B. (194): ou 2nd R., rem.
ând R.0, 4M; 3rd R.*' 503.
1474.
Contingent Accounts Gommiittee: on report,
Dominion Lumbering Go., B. <H)l: lut., 176;
rem., 134.
M. 2nd R., 221; rein., 223, 226, 228; M.
Georgiaan Bay Canal: on M. (MT. (Jegroin),
agreed 'to, 229; ou M. Srd B., -ee.,9U9; Srd
-rein, 430.
&B kagrffed 'ta, 837. (See innder lBu1-flake Champlain and &t. >La-wunn .iShip
Seriatin.)
Canal Co. B. (SS): lInt., 876; 2nd -R.' 986;
qGeSegiaun Bay Camal: on M. (Mr. Casgriu)
$rd R.', 1042.
Serm., 969.
Public Owuership cf Public 'Utilities: rein.,
RI. 'M sud
Juvenile Delinquenits B. (QQ):
661.
R., 971; jei Coin., 1038, 1042; M. 3rd R..
Standing Bules cf ithe Sonate: on MI. (Mr.
1149; rom., .1152, 1156; M. Srd R. cari'ied.
Oomeau), rein.. 146.
1165.
Hon. T. A.
Point of Order on Shuslw&P e.n Tàcenpeoix DERNIER,
Contingent AcSnts Coin nittee: on 'repart,
1.170.
Eiver B. <(49): ro..
rein., 75, 132.
Procedure, A Question cf: remn., 949.
agrain),
Georgian Bey Canal: on M. ý(Mr.
Reforin of the Sénalte: Alut. ta M- (Moe. Merein., 680.
Mullen) 640.
9022-A

INDEX
BOWELL, Hon. Sir M., K.C.M.G.-Con.
BERNIER, Hon. T. A.-Con.
Ang1o-Ca-inaàian and Continental B-.nk B.
Georrian Bay Canal route, Exploration of:
(J): on 2nd R.. rem., 263.
inq., 61.
q.
Business of Fia.rliament: on M. (Mr. M'cGrand Tr'uk Pacifie Site -in Ottawa:
Mellon), rem., 891, 968, 1010.
73.
Hudson *Bay, Construction of -a Railway to:
Canadien Cattie. British Embargo on: rem.,
on M. (Mr. Davis), rem., W5.
263.
Manitoba, The boundaries of: inq., 215.
Civil Service Commission: inq., 714.
Ottawa and Georgdan Bay Canal: dnq., 45.
Civif Service JInsuranoe Retuoen: rem., 210.
Sonatorii Divisos: rem., 1181.
Civil Service Suspensions: inq., 786.
Standing Rules cf the Sonate: on M. (Mr.
Civil Servie Act Âm.t. B. '(189>: on 2nd R.,
Comeu), rem., 143.
rem., 1528; inl Cern., rem., 1600. 1601, 1602,
1605, 1615, 1619, 1623.
BOLDUC, Hon. 3.
Cocmmittso of Selection: on M. (Mr. Scott),
Poîp iwood from Canada. The export of:
rem.. 40.
rent., 1384.
Contingent Âcoounts Committee: on report,
rem., 74, 129.
BOSTOCK, Hlon. .
Custome Act Âmt. B. (194): on 2nd R., rem.,
Ashoroft, Barkerville and Fort George Ry.
14U8, 1475; on Srd R.. rem., 1515.
Co. B. (58): Int., 231; 2nd R.0, 291; 3rd R.O.
Domimion Elections Âot Âmt. B. (115): on
368.
2nd R., Tom., 1697; in Cern., rem., 1704,
Bank oi Vancouver B. (82):- Int., 501; 2nd
1712. 1713, 1715.
B.,0 589; 3rd R.*, 703.
Frenoh Convention B. (57): in Cern., rem.,
Bcu.ndary Kamnloops and Car.iboc R. Co. B.
707.
(36): tnt., 231; 2nd R.*, 266; Srd R.0, 318.
French Tzrety: inq., 82, 1339.
.
Calgary and Fonnie Ry. Co. B. (33)->:
Pur Seal Fisheries: rem.. W65.
231; Sud R.*, 266; Srd R.0, 318.
Hindoc Immigration: "om., 483.
Kamloops and Yellowhead Pass Ry. Co. B.
Hudson Bay. Construction of Raillway to:
(39): Int., 211; 2nd ýR.0, 219; 3rd R.*, 318.
on M. te adjn., rem., 567.
Co. B. (40):
Pacifie Coast Fire Insurance,
Japoaeso ini B.C., Arrest of: inq., 367.
'Int., 793; 2nd B.*, 805; 3rd R.*, 928.
Japanese Immigration: rom., 94, 270.
Phoenix IsurmSuc Co. B. (LL>: Int., 779;
Lead Bounties B. (191):- on 2nd R., rom., 1493.
B.*, 862.
2nd R.0, 779; Srd
Majcr's Hill Park B. <89): in Cern., rem.,
Priiviîege, Questions of: rem., 122.
1555, 1562.
Rilway Charters, Ronewei of: -rem., 550.
Shuawap and Thompeon River Co. B. (49):- Ms.rkig of Gold and Silvor Plated Ware B.
(AÂ>: in Com., rem., 1216, 135W.
tnt., 714; Znd R., 740; Srd R., 1206. (Sec
Opium P-rohibition B. <205): on 2nd -R., rem.,
under BiIls-Serabim.)
,1597; in Cern., rem., 1673.
Vancouver Iuland »ud Eastern Ry. Co. B.
Poerlianent, Supplyig information te: rem.,
(87>: Iut., 480; 2nd R.*, 520; Srd R.0, 721.
1103.
Point cf Order on inq. by Mr. Landry: rem.,
BOUCHERVILLE, Hon. C. E. de, C.M.G.
880.
Business of Parliament: on MV.(Mr. MeMnI.
Printing of Parliament: on M. te adapt relon), rem., 966.
port, rem., 781, 10O0.
Georgiain Bay' Canal: on M. (MY. Caagri.in),
Privilege, Questions cf: rom., 124, 125, 362.
-rem., 970.
Prorogation: rem., 1443, 1684.
Juvonile Delinquents -B. ý(QQ): in Cern., rem.,
Public Bills in Sonate, Introduction of: rem.,
1037, 1042; on &rd R., M. for 3 -m. h., 1152;
60.
M. lost, 1158.
Publie Lande B. (181):- on 2nd R., rem., 1627;
.Tuveie Offenders, Au Institution for: on
in Cern., Tom.. 163, 1635; on Srd R., rem.,
M. (Mr. Comoau), rem., 1080, 1165.
1662.
06.
Standing Cccnmittees: Âmt. te report,
Quebec, Lieutena.nt 'Governorship of:- reen...
BOWELL, Hon. Sir M., K.C.M.G.
212.
Reports te the Sonate, Delay in eubmitting:
Address, The: on M. (Mr. Beloourt) to adopt,
rem., 1394.
rem., 25, 52.
Rules ci the Sonate: rem., 317.
Adjournmen-ts: on M. (Mr. Ponley), rem.,
Sonaite Dbates: on report, rem., 1324.
1041.
Sonato, Expenditures cf the: on M. (Mn.
Alberta and B. C. Ry. Co. B. (DDD>: Int..
Power), Tom.. 851.
1025; 2nd R.*, 1053; 3rd R.', 1172.

IYENDEX
BOWELL, Hon. Sir MX, K.C.M.G.-Cont.
Semakorial. Divisions: on M. (Mr. Ross.
Middlesex), rem., UT7?.
Standing Cominittees: ou amt. to report.
roin., 64, es; on M. (Mr. ROsa, Middlesex).
rein., 765.
Stanuding unies of the Senate: on M. (Mr.
Douglas>. rom., 2S1.
Supply Bill No. 1: on lst R., oeem.. 287.
Supply .Bill No. 4 (220): on Sud R., rem.,
1729, 1732.
Tobacco Restraint B. <173): iu Coin., rein..

1460.
Tans-Canada Ry. Co. B. (~M) - on 2nd R.,
rein., 292.
Under Secretaries i Canada, Âppoiutment
ci: on m. <1f.r. Rosm, Middlesex). rem.,

C&RTWRIGHT, Rt. Hlon. Sir.R.,GC.GCon.
Manitoba Gratin Act Âmt., B. (ZZ>- Int.,
905; M. 2nd R., 982; in Coin., rom., 1012,
1018, 1037, 1089, 1095; Srd R.'. 1105; M. to
concur in Commons aints.. 1648; M. agreed
to, .169
MaTine end Ftiehories Investigation: r ei.,
1287.
National Ba-ttefields Bl. (III): lut., 480; 2nd
R., 520; in Coin., remn., 524; Srd R.', 537.
Parliament, Supplying information to: rein..
Supply Bill No. 1: on lst R., rein.,« 288.
Sh-ipbunlding Induetries of Canada; reply to
inq., 850.
'Under Secreta-ries in Canada, appointinent
cf: on M. (Mr. Ross, 'Middlesex). rein., 345.

364.

CÂSGRÂIN. Hlon. J. P. IB
Conimittees. Concurrence in reports of
rem.. 293.
Dominion Lands Survey B. (9)': on 2nd 'R..
CAMPBELL, Han. Â.
rem.. 217: in Coin.. 276. 277. 307.
Âddress, The: eonded. 6.
Georgian Bay Canal: M.. 247; remn.. 971
Civtil Service Act Âznt. B. (189>:- B. rep.
Railway &et Âmt. B. (PP>: Int.. 817; 1trt
froin coin., 1624.
R., 818; M. 2ud R.. 863; in Coin.. rein.,
937, 1064, 1073, 1359; M. that Coin. rise
MetallMo Shingle and 8iding Co. B. (HH1H):
carried. B. dropped, 137.
let R.0, 1414; sud R.9, i3476; Drd R.0. 1496.
Railwaç Charters. Renewal of: remn.. 545.
Pontiac Central Ry. Go. B. CEE): lut., 567;
Standing rules of the Sonate: on M. (Mr.
2nd R.',. 632; ard R., M8.
Comeau). rom.. 145.
Divorce B. (GGG>: Juil., 1276; 2nd
Townsend
Trans-Canada Ry. Co. B. (M): on 2nd B.R.'; Srd R.'. .1343.
remn.. 291.
Water Carniage of Goods B. <Z): lIté., 382:
473; iu Coin., rem., 990; Ord R.', CROQUETTE. Hou. P. AM. 2nd'R..
1004.
Canadian Cattie. British Embargro on: remn.,
263.
CARTWRIG1HT, Rt. Hem. SiT R.. G.C.M.G.
Exoheaner Court Judgae of Canada: inq..
652. 845.
Addres, The: on M. iMr. Beloourt> to adopt.
Experimentai Farm Reports. ina., 652. 845
17.
rein.,
Indianapolis. State Life Insurance Co. of:
Business of Po.rliament: ou M. (Mfr. Moini., .
Mullen), rein., 887.
National Battiofields B. (III): on 2nd R..
rom., à»0.
Canada Shippiing Act Âmit. B. (lWN):.tnt.,
Point of Order on inci. by Mr. Landry: remn.,
770; 2ud R., 85W; iu Com., 913, 051; 3rd R.',
1011; Gommons amits. co>curred in, 681.
Privilege, Question of: rein., 523.
Chinese Immigration Act Âiut. B. (00): nt.,
Traus.Caaada Rjr. Co. B. (M).- In.t., 247;
817; mnd R., 874; i Coin., 1046; Srd R.',
M. 2nd R.. 291. 3rd R.'. 368.
Com-mons aints. ooncu.rred. in, 1323.
1050;
Quebec Rv. Listht sud Power Co. B. (73)>:
French Convention B. (57)- lInt., 480; 2nd
Int., 480:- 2nd R.O. 520. 3rd R.'. 919.
R., 703; 3rd R.', 714.
'Union Jack, Hoistiug the: rein., 906.

CLORÂN. Hon. H. J.
French Treaity: reply te iaq., 1349.
Fur Seal Fishories: rein., 365.
Contingent Âccounts Committee: on report,
rom., 130.
Gold and Silver Itarking Amt. Act B. (OC):
Gammeil Divorce Case :on report, rein.. 551.
lut., lot R., 470; Sud R.', Srd -R.', 487.
Georgian Bay Canal: on M. (Mr. Casgraiu'>.
Inspection endgale of Grain B. (CCC): lot
R., 2nd R.', 1053; i Coin., rein., 1131,1300;
aint. caroeied, 1374; in Coin., Sein., 1411, M.
to concur in amts., 1416; rein., 1419'; M. to
suspend rules, 1437; M. 3rd R., 1444; Conimoue anite. concurred iiu. 1650.
9022-À j

rein.. 819.
Gilmore Divorce Bill: on report. rem., 721.
Italian Immigration: ina., 42.5.
Juvenile Offenders. An Institution for: on
M. (Mr. Comeau). rem., 1080.

INDEX
DÂNDURÂNr, Hon. R. .(Spoaker>.-Con.
CIORAN, Hon. H. J.-Con.
Reform of the Sonate: rom.. 729.
Japanese Immigration: romn.. 269.
Rulos of the Sonate. Suspension cf: on Id
Privilege. Questions of: rom., 85, 126, 448,
(Mr. Douglas). rem.. 88.
485, 522.
Rulos of the Sonate: rem.. 818.
Public Bis in Sonate, Introduction cf
Sonatorial Divisions: ruling on 1 ,t. of order
rem., 60.
.(Mr. Ells). 1178.
Public Ownership) cf Public Utilitis rom.,
Standing Committoos: on report. rem.. 65;
875
amt. ruled out cf order, 69; on M. (Mi
Bules cf the Sonate: on M. (Mr. Davis),
Ross, Mididlesex), rem., M4, M5.
rom.. 407. 412.
Suspension of miles: on M. (Mr. Davis).
Rehm and Frank Patents B. (E):- on 2nd
rom.. 62, 63.
R.. rom.. 9.20.
Telogms.ph Systemi cf Canada: en M. (Mr
Restriction cf Divorce B. (HH) lut., 640;
Davis). M. ruled out of ordor. à34.
M. 2nd R.. 792; M. lest 724.
Spratte Divorce B. (BBB): aint. te Brd R., DAVID. Hon. L. 0.
1025; amt. lest. 1035.
Privilege. Questions of: rom., 452
Standing Committees: on M. (Mr. Boss,
Reform'cf the Sonate: amt. to M. (Mr. Me
Middlesex), rem.. 768.
Mullon).* 184
Standing rules cf the Sonate: on M. (Mr.
Rules of tbe Sonate: on M. (Mr. Davis).
Comoau), rom., 189. 145; on M. (Mr. Dougrom.. 415.
las). rom.. 234.
Travellers' Life Assurance Co. B. (35): mIn
906; M te
Union Jack. Hoîsting the: rem.,
617; 2nd R.O. 679; 3rd R.O. 781.
adjn.. 907.
DAVIS. Hon. T. 0.
COPFEY. Hon. T.
Adjournments: on M. (Mr. Baird), rem..
Reform cf the Sonate: rom., 117.
405.
Windsor. Chathani and London Ry. Co. B.
Committee of Selection: on M. (Mr. Scott),
MN: Int.. 262; 2nd R.0, 291; 3rd R.0, 368.
rem.. 40.
COMEÂU, Hlon. A. Il.
Edmonton. Yukon and Pacifie Ry. Co. B.
(68): Int.. 501; 2nd R.. 539; 3rd R.*. 951.
Convicts under age of twenty: M.. 29.r
Hudson Bay Railway: M.. 455. 561.
Juvenile Ofienders, Ân Institution for: M.,
1075.
Inspection and Sale cf Grain B. (CCC>:- in
Com.. rom., 1301. 1306; amt.. 1311; rom.,
Reform cf the Sonate: rom.. 645.
1340. 1416, 1429. 1437; on 3rd R.. rem., 1446.
Standing mules of the Senate: M. 137.
Manitoba Grain Act Amt. B. (ZZ): ini Cern..
COSTIGAN. Hon. J.
rom., 1013, 1015. 1019. 1020, 1035; amt.,
Inland Fisheries: inq., 1277; rem., 1277.
1084; rom., 1087; amt. withdr., 1091; amt.,
New Brunswick Interprovincial Bridge Co.
1093; amt. withdn.. 1097-. on M. te concur.
B. (76): Int.. 480; 2nd R.". 520. 3rd R.0,
rom., 1649.
591.
Privilege, Questions of: rom., 1452.
Quebec and New Brunswick Ry. Ce. B. (P):
liailway Charters. Ronewal cf:- rom.. 546.
iJnt., 1.s.t R.0, 2nd R., 319; 3rd IR.. 501;
Refomm cf the Sonate: rom., 177.
*Commons amts. concurmod in, F33.
Rules cf the Sonate: M.. 406, rom., 415.
Saskatchewan Power Ce. B. (O): Int.. 270;
DANDURAND, Hon. R. (Speaker),
2nd R., 306; 3rd B.*, 774.
Business cf Parliament: on M. (Mm. MeStanding Committees: on report, rom., 67,
Mullen). rom., 968.
69.
Contingent Accounts Cernmitteo: on report,
Standing miles cf the Sonate, on M. (Mr.
rem..' 76.
Douglas). rom.. 234.
Committees, Concurrence in reporte of*
Suspension cf rules: M., 62; rom., 63.
295.
Telegraph System cf Canada: M., 332; rom.,
Juvonile Offenders, An Institution for: on
Su3.
M. (Mr. Comoau). rom., 1079.
Point cf Order on resolution re Manitebn DERBYSHIRE. Hon. D.
876; 2nd
Alexander Divorce B. (UU): li.,
boundaries: rom.. 425; ruling,. 471.
Peint cf Order on inq. by Mr. Landmy: rom..
R.*. 926 : Srd R.O. 928.
879, 881.
Ottawa, Brockville and St. Lawrence Ry.
Peint cf Order on Shuswar and Thompson
Co. B. (74): lut.. 480; 2nd R.1, 520: 3rd
River B. (49): ruling, 1171.
R.0, 721; Commons ents. ooncurred in, 798.
Privilegze, Questions cf: rom., 360, 448, 1452
Pauldingr Divorce B. (VV): lut., 876; 2nd
I>rocedure. A Question cf: rem., 950.
R.*. 926; 3rd B.*. 928.

INDEX
ELLIS, Hlon. J. V.-Con.
Privilege. Questions of: rem.. M6.
Reform of the Sonate: rem.. 747.
Senatorial Divisions: on vt. of order. 117.
DE VEBER. Hon. L. G.
Standing Committeos: on report. rem-. 68-,
on M. (Mr. Rosa). rem., 351.
Ânglo-Canadian and Continental Bank B.
WJ: Int.. 2nd R., 202: 3rd R., U23.
Synod of Keewatin B. (MM): Int.. 779; 92ci
.R.,799. Srd R.0, 100".
Northern Empire Ri'. Co. B. (86): Int.. 714;
2nd R.*. 740. 3rd R.*. 920.
Tobacco Restreint B. (173). on 2nd R.. rem
Western Alberta Ry. Co. B. (K): lot R..'
1410.
214; M. 2nd R.. 264; 3rd R.O, 504.
E'ERGUSON. Hon. D.
DOMVILLE. Hon. J.
Accidents at Railway Crossinge: rem., 274,
Aluminum, Imports and Exports of: M.. 272
292.
Committee of Seloction: on M. (Mr. Scott),
Âgricultnral. Fertilizers I, (III). on 2ad
rom.. 43.
R.. rem.. 1487.
Fertilisers. Analysis of. M., 816.
Ând.iior General B. (208): on 2nd ÎR., -rem.,
Gold Roservo. Depletion of. rem.. 1504.
1549.
Hindoos at Vancouver: rom.. 502.
Bank Act Âmt .B. <160): on 2nd R.. remOpium Prohibition B. (205): in Com.. rom..
1819: in 0Cm.. rom.. 1854.
1676.
B3usiness of Parliament: rem., 896, 969.
of: rom.. 549.
Railway Charters, ]ienewal
Canada Temperance Âct Âmt. B. <WW):
Senate. Âppointments ta the: M., 501.
in Com.. rom.. 1110.
1
Senator Lovitt. Tho lato: rom.. 819.
Canada Shipoingz Act Âmt. B. (209): on 2ne
Shipbuilding Industries of Canada:. inq., 846
R.. rom.. 1679.
St Johia and Halifax. Tonnage at: M., 1202.
Civil Service Insurance Return: inq., 98;
Standing rules of the Sonate: on M. (Mr.
rom.. 210.
Douglas).' rem., 237.
Civil Service Act Amt. B. (189): on 2nd R.,
Union Jaeck, Hoisting the: rem., 905, 910.
rom., 1581 : in 0Cm.. on el. 9. rom., 1003;
DOUGLAS. Hon. J. M.
on el. 45, rem., 1621, 1624.
Committee of Solectian:' on M. (Mr. Scott).
Co-operation B. (5): on M. to concur in rerom.. 42.
port. rom.. 1254. 1M35.'1337; on M. (Mr.
Hîndoo Immigration: rom.. 482.
Scott), rem.. 1583.
Rùles of tho Sonate: on M. (Mr. Davis),
Delayed Returni: inq.. 40
rom., 410. 416.
Domitnion Lum-bering, &c., Company B. (11):
Rules of the Sonate, Suspension of: M., 87.
on 2nd R.. rem., 226, 228.
Standing Cammittoos: amt. ta reort. 63,
,ominion Notes B. -(159): on Sud R., rem.,
Standing miles af the Sonate: M., 232; rom.
1209.
242.
Dominion Quarantee Co. Âmt. B. (211).a
rom., 1652.
EDWARDS. Han. W. C.
Dominion Lands Survey B. <9): on 2nd R..
Comnmittee af Selectian: on M. (Mr. Scott).
rom.. 216
romn.. 43.
Dominion Elections Âct Âmt. B. (115): on
(Jeoruian Bay Canal: on M. (Mr. Caagrain),
2nd R., rom., 1700; in* Com.. on subol. 4.
rom., 865.
rom.. 1702; on cl. S. 1706.
Pulp wood from Canada. The export of:
Erchequer Court Judgo of Canada: inq.,
rem.. 841.
1231.
Standing rules af the Sonate: on M. (Mr
Exahequor Court Âct Â'mt. B. (116): ian Com..
Comosu). rom.. 143.
rom.. 1051.
ELLIS, Hon. J. V.
Gold Reserve. Depletion of: inq.. 1495.
Customs Act Âmt. B. (194): on 2nd R.,
Grain Inspection and Sale Âmt. B. (CCC):
reem., 1471.
in 0Cm.. rem., 1432.
Gold and Silver Markiug Âmt. B. (CC): on
Intoroolonial Ry.. Money paid ta: uscq.. 948.
ist R.. rem... 470.
Load Bountios B. (191): on 2nd R.. rom.,
1491.
Grand Truuk Pension Soheme: inq.. 965.
Governmont Railways Amt. B. (27):- in 0Cm..
New Brunswick Sauthemu Ry. Ca. B. (53):
rom.. 704.
lut.. 735. 2nd R.'. 761; $rd R.'. 92.
Governmont Ânnuitioa B. (120): on 2nd R..
Point of Order on inq. by Mir. Lsandry:
rom., 1489; in Com.. rom., 15M5, 15M8.
rom.. 879.
iliuhway Crossings. Fatal Accident at: M.,
Printing of Parliament: M. ta adopt report.
737.
781; M.. 1060.
DERBYSHIRE, Hon. D.-Con.
Petout Medicines B. (146): i
164a, 1669.

0Cm., rem.,

INDEX

FF.RGUSON, Hon. D.-Con.
FERGUSON, Hon. D.-Con.
Railway Subsidy B. (215):. on 2nd R.. rm..
of: inai.. 355.
Hudson Bay. Navigation
1720.
Hudson Bay. Construction of a RailwaY Lo:
Senate Debates: rem., 132W, 1885.
rom., 468.
Inspection and Sale Act Âmt. B. (148): in1 Senatorial Divisions: rem.. 1179.
Standing Committees: rem., 350.
Cons.. rem., 1294.
Standing miles of the Sejiate: rem.. 142.
Juvenile Delinquents B. <QQ) - - in Cous..
Supply Bill No. 1 (94):- on isi. R., rem.. 288.
rem., 1160.
Bill No. 4 <220): on 2nd R., rem.,
.. 03.Suvply
Leve Crssigs:
1731.
Manitoba and other Provinces, The bound.ý
Telegrapli Sytçtem cf Canada: rem.. US3.
&rais of: rem., 215.
Water Carrnage of Goods B. (Z: on 2nd
ishrie
Marne nd Inestgatonsrem
R.. rem.. 477.
rom
nvetigaion
Fsheres
Marie ad
1284.
Marking of Gold and Silver Plated Ware B. FISET. Hon. J. B. R.
Atlantic. Quebec and Western Hi. Co. B.
(AAA): on 2nd R.. rem., 1054; in Com.,
MT: Int.. 337: 2nd R.. 368; 3rd R.. 617.
rem.. 1217. 1247.
Major's Hill Park B. (89)- in 0cm.. rem.,, FROST. Hon. F. T.
1560.
Ânnunciator System: M., 1204.
Meat and Canned Foods Act Amt. B. (149):
Reform of the Sonate: rem.. 745.
in Cern.. rom.. 921, 924.
Sonatorial Divisions: on M. '(Mr. Ros.
Natal R.ct of British Columbia, DisallowMiddlesex), rom., 1179.
ance of: rem., 33.
ll Park B. <89): in Com., reff.,
Battlefields B. (219): on 2nd R.,* Mîaûrs
National
rom..1707.1555.
Divorce B. (A>: lut., 404; 2nd R.0,
rom..1707.Walker
rdR,47
National Battiefields B. (III):- in Com.. on;ui1
.,47
44 y
cl. 1. rem., 532.
Prohibition B. (205):- in Com., rem., GIBSON. Hon. W.
Onum
Canadian Northorn Ontario Ry. Co. B.
1677.
(67): Int., 480; 2nd R.', 520; srd a.*, 703.
Parliement, Supplying sinformation to: M.,
Civil Service Suspensions: rom., 791.
1098.
Gammoil Divorce Case: on report, rom.. 551.
Point of Order on inq. by Mr. Landry:
Grand Trnnk Rail-way B. (D): Int., 175;
rem., 880.
2nd R.', 219.
Point of Order on Shuswars and Tbompsoný
Hamilton, Waterloo and Guelph Ry. B.
River B.: rem.. 1169.
(EEE): Int.. 1172; 2nd R.'. 1222; Srd B.*.
Printing of Parliament: rem.. 1061.
1iw
Press Summary of Debates: rem.. 539.
Hamilton Radial Electric Ry. B. <25): Int..
Privilege. Questions of: rom.. 124. 127. 360.
479; 2nd R.. 539; 3rd R.'. 778.
Patent Medicines B.- (146): in Com.. rom.,
Inspection of Sale of Grain B. (CCC): in
1671.
Com., rem., 1300, 1303, 1308.
Prince Edward Island Ry. Branch B. <202):1
;Marking cf Gold and Silver Platedware B.
on 2nd R.. rom.. 1548.
<AÂÂ): in Com., rom., 1215. 1241. 1349.
Public Lands B. (181): in Com., rom.. 1633;:
Parliament. Supplying infoirmation te: rem.,
on Srd R., rem.. 1661.
112
Railway Commissioners, Jurisdiction of: M.,
IPrivileie Questions of: rom., 86.
793.
Rules of the Sonate: on M. (Mr. Davis),
Reports to the Sena te. Dolay in submitting;
rom., 411.
rom.. 1395.
Standing Committees: M. te adopt report,
Rulos of the Sonate: rom., 410.
63; on amt.. rom.. 66.
Bales of the Sonate. Suspension cf: rem.. 88.
Bailway Âct Âmt. B. (Â): in 0cm., rem., .IÂFFRAY. Hon. R.
302.
Customs Act Âmt. B. (194): on 2nd R., rom.,
Railway Act Âmt. B. (PP): in 0Cm.. rem.,
941, 961. 1066. 1370.14.
Bailway Âct Âmt. B. (3): on 2nd R.. rem., 1 Traders Lite Insurance Cc. B. (XX):-. t.,
898;- 2nd R.'1. 951.
153, 157, 163; on M. te, refer, rom., 167; o'
Standiard Plate Glass Insurance Co. B. <41):
report, rom.. 309, 310. on amt. (Mr. Beu
Int.. 793. 2nd B.', 805;, Srd R.'. 919.
que). rom., 508, ýC0; aint. to amt., 58,
613;j on amst. (Mr. Power), 635; rom., 694. TONES, Hon. L. MELVIN.
Gamtnell Divorce B. (FF): lut., 591; 2nd R.',
Raîlway Act Âmt. B. (112): in Cern.. rom.,
632; Srd R.0, 684.
1397. 1401. 1407; on Srd R.. anst., 1454.

INDEX

Vii

ANDRY, Hon. P.-Con.
Co-operation B. (5): on M. to concur in
report. rom., 1260; on M. (Mr. Scott).
rem.. 1592.
Delayed Printing: ina.. 45.
Dels.yed Ratura: inq., 352, 550, 6w3.
Doachambault Wharf. Construction cf: M..
ZERR. lon. J. K.
231. iflq.. 183.
Ângio.Canadian and Continental Bank B.
Dominion Lumiberlaz. &c., Co. B. (H): on
(J): on 2nd R.. rem., 283.
2nd R.. rem.. 224.
Gênerai Chomical Co. Patents B. (TT): int..
Dominion Lands Survey B. (9): in Coin..
8-76; 2nd R.'. 926 Srd R.'. 971.
rom.. 284.
Goodwin Car Co. Patente B. (60): Int., 829;
Dominion Guaranteo Co. Âmnt. B. (211):
2nd R., 35U; Srd R.'. 380.
rem.. 1650. 1651.
Manitoulin and North Shore Ry. Co. B. (R):
Electoral Lista. inq.. 1566.
Int., S08; 2nd R., 354; Srd R.'. 684.
French Reports. Dolay in publishing: inq..
1414.
Montreai. Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal
Co. B. (47): Int.. 479; 2nd R.*. M3; 3rd
French Reproentation in Sonate: ina.. 211.
R.. 6s4.
Garrison Ârtillory CompazLies: M.. 548.
Mocoe and Hleskett Pa.tenta B. (67): lut.,
Grand Trunk Pacific, Location of: inq.,
1338.
329; 2nd R.. 354; 3rd R.'. 380.
Ice-breaker ' Montcalm,' Ropairing cf: inq..
Niagara Grand Island Bridge Cc. B. (48):
59.
Int.. 231, 2nd R.'. 266; Srd R.0. 318.
Niagara, St. Catharines and Toron-to Ry.
Immigration Act Âmt. B. (135): on M. to
suspend rulos, rom.. SU8.
Co. B. (82): Int.. 617; 2nd R.'. 679; on
Intercoloniai Railway Tarifse: M.. 122.
report. M. ta refor back. '987; 3rd RL.'.
Intercolonial Railway Employesa: ina.. 716.
1060.
Inspection and Sale cf Grain B. (CCC): on
Pacific and Atlantic Ry. Co. B. (S): Int..
M. to concur in sumte.. rem.. 1432.
309; 2nd R.'. 479; 3rd R". 703.
Interooloniai Eailwoy, Tenders £or ironPoint cf Order on Shuswali and Thcmpson
work on: ina.. M4.
River B. (49): rom.. 1169.
Intercolonial Railway. Supply cf brushes
Raiiway Charters. Renowai cf: rom.. M4.
for: ina.. 846.
Rehm and Frank Patente B. (E): on 2nd
Ile Bough Fioating Light: inq., 851.
R.. rem., 220.
Japanose Immigration: rem., 267.
Raies cf the Sonate: on M. (Mfr. Davis),
rom., 416.
Juvonle Dolinquents B. (QQ): on 3rd R.,
rem.. 1155; amt. to oint. (Mfr. Power).
Standing miles cf the Sonate: on M. (Mr.
1158.
Comeau), reem., 144, .151.
King's Regulations: jnq.. 271. 273. 331. 403,
Standard Insurance Co. B. (C): Int., 175;
'45.
2nd R.'. 219-. 3rd R.'. 550; Commons
Labrador Boundary. ina.. 617.
oimts. ccncurred in. 792.
Lévis Forts. Clearing cf landa at: ina.,
Standard Mutuai Pire Insurance Co. B.
793. 846.
(71): lst R.. 2nd R.'. 993; Brd R.'. 1340.
Load Bounties B. (191): B. roi). fromn Coin..
RIRCHHOFFER. Hon. J. N.
1534.
Manitoba,. The Boundarios cf: M.. 420.
Gammeli Divorce Case: M. to adoPt report.
McGovern. J., Accusations against: ina..
551.
1551.
Gilmore Divorce Bull: M. to adopt report,
Michel Simeon Delisie: ina.. 209.
721.
National Battefields B. (219y: on- 2nd R.,
rom.. 1707.
LÂNDRY, Hon. P.
Northern and Crown Bank B. (GO3): on
Bic Hlarbour Wharf: ina.. 1M8.
2nd R.. rom.. 680.
Business of Parliament: on M. (Mr. MoParliament. Supplying information ta: on
rem., 967.
Mullen).
M. (Mr. Forguson). rom.. 1103.
«Canada Gazette,' Circulation cf: ina.. M3.
Patent Medicine& B. (146): ini Coin., on
Civil Servdce Commission: inq., 3SU, 404.
Pt. of ordor. 1669.
Commands-in-Chief: ina.. 717.
Point à Coté Wharf: ina.. 1858.
in reporta cf:
Committees. Concurrence
Point of Ordor on resolution te Manitoba
293.
boundarios: rom., 420.
Committee of Selection: on M. (Mr. Scott),
Point of Order on ina.: rem.. 877.
rem., 45.

JONES, Hon. L. Mselvin.-Con.
Manufacturers Mutuai Insurance Co. B.
(I): Int.. 187; 2nd R.. 244.
Sonatorial Divisions: on M. (Mr. Rosa. Middlosex), rom.. 1179.

ENDEX
LANDRY, Hon. P.-Con.
Commission
Railway
Transcontinental
Point of Order on Shuswap and Thomps>n
inq.. 1148, 1149. 1230.
Rover B. (49): rom.. 1165, 1170.
Private
Commissioners,
Trancontinontal
Printing of Journals of the Sonate: inq .
Car for: inu.. 856.
74.
Printinx cf Parliament: on M. (M.'. EWs!!). Water Ceoeriage of Goods B. ý(Z): in 0Cm..
rem.. 989.
rom., 781.
Prisoners on Parole: inq., 1552.
LOUGHEED, Hon. J. A.
Privilege. Questions of: rom., 366, 1149.
Âddress. The- on M. (Mr. Belcourt) tc,
Procedure, A Question of- rom., 949.
adopt. rem.. 10.
Prorogaticn: rem.. 1683.
Anglo.Canadiian and Continental Bank B.
Publie Bille in Sonate, Introduction of: 60.
<J): on 2nd R.. rem.. 263.
Public Printing. Delay in: inq., 1653.
Business of Parliament: on M. (Mrý M(Public Lands B. (181): in 0Cm.. rom.,
Mullen). rem., U8S.
1637;- on 3rd R.. rom.. 1665.
Canadian Cattle, British Embargo on:
Quebec Bridge Disastor: ina.. 295.
rem.. 261.
Quebec Bridge Company, Payment tc, DiCivil Service Commission: ina., 738.
rectors of: inq., 779.
Civil Service Âct Âmt. B. (189): on 2nd
Quebec Bridge: inn., 329.
R.. rem., 1518; M. in amt., 1521; in Com.,
Queboc Harbour Commissioners: ina., 904.
rem.. 1601. 1605. 1621.
Quebec. Leased (iovernment lands in: M..
905.
Contingent Accounts Committee: on report,
rem.. 127.
Quebec. The Mîlitia at: ina.. 905.
Cxowu Life Insurance Co. B. <YY): Int.,
Quebec Terminus Comnmittee- ina., 1056.
899; 2nd R.*. 946; Srd &t.4. 1004.
Quebec Bridge Company, Government boan
C ustoms Act Âmt. B. (194): on 2nd R.,
to: ina.. 61.
rem.. 1471;- in 0Cm.. rem.. 1494.
Quebec Bridge and Railway Co.: ini.. 72,
Dominion Elections Âct Âmt. B. (115): on
82, 448, 469. 736, 737. 816, 899, 900, 901, 902,
2nd R., rem., 1687; in Com.. rom.. 1706,
903. 927, 949, 1055, 1142 1338. 1392, 1450,
14718; M.. 176.
1711.
Quebec Tercentenary: inq., 317, 89&.
Dominion Lands Survey B. (9): on 2nd îZ.
rem., 216; in Com.. rem.. 275, 278. 280,
Quebec. Lieutenant Governorship of: inq.,
285.
212. 214.
Fisher les Question. The: Inq.. 3.
Quebec, Removal of Military Hospital in:
ina.. 232, 273.
French Treaty - inq.. 1391.
French -ropresen-tation in Sonate: rem.,
Quebec Bridge and Ry. Co. B. (217): -n
2nd R.. rom.. 1721.
212.
Railway Committee, Minutes of: M., 542.
Fur Soal Fisheries: rem.. 366.
llndc Imnmigration. rom., 482.
Railway Act Amt. B. (3): in 0Cm., amt..
310.
'Hindoos at Vancouver: rem., 502.
Railway Subsidies B. (215): on 2nd R.,
Hudson Bay Railway:- on M. (Mr. Davis).
rom., 1719.
rom.. 559.
Revised Statutes. French Edition cf: inq.,
Japaneso Immigration: rem.. 93. 267, 20ti
484, 614. 861.
Japanese in B.C.. Ârrest of: rem.. 368.
Ross Rifle: ina.. 45, 77, 618, 683. 816.
Kettle River Valley eRy.. inq.. 272. 542.
Sonate Debates: on M. <Mr. Béiaiue). rom., *Major's
ll Park B. <89): on 2nd R.. rem.,
1685.
15m3; in Com.. rom., 1556.
Senators and Members of H. cf C. appoint
Manitoba. The Boundaries of: rom., 215
ed te Office: M.. 1358.
Shuswap and Thompson Rivers B. (49)>: cx;
335; inq.. 357.
amt. te, rofer back report, rom.,* 1000 *National Battlefiolds B. (111): on 2nd R.
rem.. 520; in Coý., rem.. 525, 532.
on 3rd R.. amt.. 1206.
Standing Committees: rom., .950.
Puint of Order on ina. bv Mr. Landrv:
rom.. 880.
Standing rules cf the Senate- re-n.là
Printing of Parliament: on M. (Mr. Ellis).
237.
St. Joeph, Dry dock at: inq., 72.
rom.. 1061.
Privileffe, Questions of: rom.. 122. 123, 1098.
St. Lawrence River, Navigation cf the: M
Pnblic Lands B. (181): on 2nd R.. rom.,
231.
1512; ini Com., rom.. 1631. 1634, 1635. 1638;
Sydney Steel Works Strike: ina., 857.
on 3rd R., rem.. 1654, 1657.
Telegraph System of Canada: on M. 01'r
Prorogation: rem., 1447. 1683
Davis). rem.. 333.

LÂNDRY, Hon. P.-Con.

INDEX
MCHUIJH, non. G.
LOUGHEED, Hon. J. A.-Con.
High Court of Foresters B. '(62): lut., 617;
Publie Bille in Senate, Introduction of2ud R.t 679; Srd R.*, 781.
Ci.
ina.. 59; -rem..
Li.ndsay. Bobeaygeon and Pont.ypool R.Y. Co.
Quebec Terceutenary: ina.. 738.
B. (04):lut., 911; sud RM, 219; Srd -B.*, 318.
Rehin and Frank Patents B. <E): on Sud
R.. rem.. 219.
Rehm e.ud Frank Patents B. (B):- on 2nd R.,
rem., 220.
Reporte to the Sonate. Delay in submitting:
rem.. 1M9.
St. Claire and Brie Ship Canal B. (F)>, MA&CKEEN, Hon. D.
Iut.. 176; M. 2nd R.. 221; Srd B.*. 318.
Civil Service Suspensions: rom.. 791.
Sonate Debates: on report, rom.. 1M2
Eastern Trust Co. B. (G): lut.. 176;, 2nd
Senater Lovitt. The late: rem.. 818.
R.*. 219. 3rd R.O. S5U.
Senatoprial Divisions: on M. (Mr. Boss,
Manufacturera' Mutual Insurauce Cc. B
Middlesex), rem., 1176.
M1: B. rep.. 337.
Standing Cemmittees: en rep., remn., 65, 67;
Roms, Middlesex) Tein., 401.
on M. (Mr,.
McMULLEN. Hon. J.
Standing miles of the Sonate: on M. (Mr.
Âdd rou. The: ou M. (Mr. Belcourt) te
Comeau). rom.. 138.
adopt, 46.
Bill No. 1 (94)>: on Ist R.. rem.,
Supply
Bank of Hamilton Pension Fund B. (56):
287; on Srd R.. rom., 289.
lut.. 617; 2nd R.*. 679; 3rd R.O. 781
Supply Bill No. 4 (220): on 2nd R.. rom.,
Business oi Pamlia.meut: M., 884; rem..
1726.
rein.. 969; M.. 1010.
897; M.. 96r
Tobacco Restraint B. (173): on 2ud R.,
Customns Act Âmnt. B. (194): on 2udR.
in Coin., (rom., 1458, 1469; on
rein., 1410;
rom.. 1471.
3rd R.. rein.. 1481.
Freight rotes on grain: rein., 79.
Tmaus-Cauada Ry. Co. B. (M): on 2nd R..
Fur Seal Fishories: rein.. 366.
rom.. 291.
Gaminoîl Divorce Case: on report, rein.,
Under Secretaries in Canada. Âppointment
552.
of: on M. (Mr. Bose. Middlesex), rom.,
Goorigian Bay, Canal: on M. (Mr. Casirrain).
206.
rer'., 782.
Unrevised Hlansard: ina.. 25.
E. F. Giraud Patent B. (52): lut.. 251:
Western Alberta Ry. Co. B. <K): on 2ud R.,
2nd R.. 291. Srd B.*. 380.
rein., 265.
Lead Bounties B. (191): on 3rd R.. rem.
MACDONALD. Hon. W. J. <B.C.).
1491.
Majem's .Hill Park B. (89)>: in Com.. rein.,
Business of Parliament: on M. (Mr. Me1559.
Mullen). rein.. 86.
New York .Mutual. Beserve Life AssociaCoal lands, Leasing regulations of: ina.,
tien: ina.. 3au.
522, 946.
Owen Sound and Meaford Ri,. Co. B. (83):Pia9hing Leases in Northwest Watere: inq.,
luS. 4W0 - nd R .' 5W:~ Srd BR..ý684.
946.
Patent Medicines B. (146): ini Coin., rein.,
Fur Seal Fishories: inq., 364.
1569. 1667.
Govermient Departinents, Purchasingr byPrivilege. Questions of: rein.. 737.
M.. 858.
Public Ownership of -Public Utilitiee: M..
H.indoo Immigxation: M., 480.
369; remn.. 677.
Japanose Immigration: rein.. 270.
Pulp wood frein Canada. The expert of:
Northwest. Sale of tîmber lards in the:
rein.. 1379.
inn.. 331.
Ilailway Charters. Renewal cf: rein.. 547.
Quebec Tercenteuary: ina.. 855.
Iteform of the Sonate: *M.. 98.
Under Secretamies in Canada. Âppointinent
Railwsy Act Âmt. B. (A): lut.. 97, 2ud
of. on M. (Mr. Boss, Middlesex), rein..
R.. 231; in Coin.. M. inusait.. 295; rom..
838.
302. (Seu nder BiUls-Seriatim.)
MoGREGOR. Hon. J. D.
Senator Lcvitt. The late: rein.. 819.
Senatorial Divisions: on M. (Mr. Boss.
Canada Temperance Act Âmt. B. (WW).
Middlesex). rom.. 1175.
lut.. 876; 2nd R.. 965; in Coin., rein.,
South Outario Pacifie Ri,. Ce. B. (16): lut..
1105: M. 3rd R.. 1129.
211. Sud R.. 219 ; Srd R.. 318.
Nipissiugr Central Ry. Co. B. (ID): Iut.,
Standine rules of the Sonate: ou M. (Mr.
714; 2ud B-. 740; 3rd R.*, 920.
Douglas). rein.. 242.
Presbyterian College of Halifax B. <DD):
,upplv B. Ne. 1 (94): on 3rd R.. rein.. 289.
Iut., 521; 2nd R.,. 616. 3rd R.O. 781.

INTDEX
POIRIER, Hon. P.-Con.
McMULLEN, Hon. J.-Con.
Standingr Committees: on report, rom.. 64.
Undei Secrotarios in Canada. Âppointmont
69; on M. (Mr. Boss." Middlesex). rem.,
of: on M. (Mr. Boss. Middlesex). rom.,
761.
207.
Standing rules of the Sonate: on M. (Mr
West Ontario Pacifie By. Co. B.4.24): Int.
Comeau). -rem., 138, 149; on M. (Mir.
98; 2nd B.*. 175; Srd B.O. 213.
Douglas). rem.. 2M6.
McSWEENEY. Hon. P.
Toronto, Destitution in: rem., 213.
Interoolonial Ry., Providont Fuund of: iniq..
POWER. Hon. L. G.
72.
Âddress. The: on M. (Mr. Bolcourt) to
ina.. 155M.
By. Empiloyoes
Intorcolonial
adopt. rem.. 52.
Maritime Coal and By. Co.: ina.. 902.
Âdjournments: on amnt. (Mr. Ponley) to,
Privilegre. Questions of: rom.. 84.
M. (Mr. Baird). rem.. 405.
Public Ownership of Public Utilities: rem.,
Business of Parliamont: on M. (Mr. Me675.
Mullen), rom.. M9.
Canada Temperance Act Amt. B. <WW):MlLLER. Hon, W.
in Com.. romn.. 1111; on Srd R.. amt..
Privilegoe. Questions of: rom.. 357.
1129.
Ross.
Standing Committoos: on M. (Mr.
Canadian Cattie. British Embargo on: inq..
Middlesex). rem.. 346.
261.
Civil Ser-vice Act Âmt. B. (189): on 2nâ
MITCHELL. Hon. W.
R.. rem.. 1521-. in Com.. rem.. 1602. 1615.
Business of Parliament: on M. (Mr. Mc1620. 1622. 1623.
Muflen). rom.. 969.
Committees, Concurrence in reporta of:
OWENS, Hon, W.
rom 294.
Committee of Selection: on M. (Mr. Scott).
Freight rates on grain: rom.. 80.
rom.. il.
Goorgian Bay Canal: on M. (Mr. Casgrain),
Contingent Accounts Committo.: on report.
rom.. 497.
rem.. 76. 131. 14a9.
PERLEY. Hon, W. D.
Co-oporation B. (5): on 2nd B.. rem.. 632;
Adjournments: amt. to M. (Mr. Baird),
on report. 125U.
405: M.. 1040.
Copyright Act Âmt. B. (28): lst B.O. 329;
Business of Parliamont: on M. (Mr. Me2nd B.. 380; 3rd B.. 541.
Mullen). rom.. D66.
Cumberland By. and Coal Co. B. (46): DIt.,
Dominion Eelections Âct Âmt. B. <115):
246 ; 2nd B.. 270; Srd B.. 541.
on 2nd B.. rem., 1694; in Com.. 1714.
Customs Âct Âmt. B. (194):- on 2nd B..
Freight rates on grain: inq.. 772.
rem.. 1470.
Gilmoro Divorce B. (Ji): Int., 735; 2nd
Dominion Atlantic B.Y. Co. B. (50): Int..
B-4. 761; 3rd ".. 851.
479; 2nd B.*. 520; Srd B.*. 684.
Gold Rosorve. Depletion of: rom.' 1507.
Dominion Lands Survey B. (9): i Com.,
Government Bis by the Sonate. Rejection
276. 280. 285. 307.
of:' ina.. 267.
Georgien Bay Caênal: on M. (MT. Casgrain),
Grain Inspectors at Winnipeg: ina.. 1055.
rom.. 495.
Hudson Bay Bailway: on M. (Mr. Davis),
Hindoo Immigration: Sem.. 488.
rom.. 557.
Hudson Bay Baflway: on M. (Mr. Davis).
Manitoba Grain Act Âmt. B. RZZ): on 2nd
rem., 55M.
R.. rom., 983; in-Com.. rem., 1017, 102U,
Juvenile Delinquents B. (QQ): in Com..
1035. 1089.
rom.. 1042; on Srd B.. amt., 1157;, rem.,
Privilego, Quostions of: trem., 85, 86.
1158; amt. carried. 1165.
Roform of the Sonate: rom., 741.
Juvenile Offenders. An Institution for: on
Royal Grain Commission: inq., 379. 469.
M. (Mr. Comean). rem.. 10WO.
Spratte Divorce B. <BBB>: Iut.. 965; 2nd
Library of Parliament: M. to, sdopt report.
B.. 1011. M. 3rd R.. 1025; M. agroed te.
617.
1035.
Major's Hill Park B. (89): in Com.. rom.,
1557. 1561.à
POIRIER. Hon. P.
Marine and Fishories Investigation: rem..
Contingent Accounts Committee - on report.
1287.
rom.. 76.
National Battlefields B. <111):, in Com.,
Privilee Questions of: rom., 361.
rom., 535. 5M6.
Ruies of the Senate: on M. (Mr. Davis).
Point of Order on ina. by Mr. Landry:
rem., 417.
rem.. 877.

IINDEX
ROSS. Hon. GEO. WÇ.(Middlesex).
POWER, Hon. L. G.-Con.
Business of Parliament: on M. (Mr. Meof Order on Shuswap and Thompson
Point
Mullen). rem., 894.
rem.. 1168.
River B. (49):
Belleville Prince Edward Bridge Co. B.
Press Summary of Dobates: rom.. 540.
(t0): Int., lus8; M. 2nd R., 1222; reem..
Prison and Reformatory Âcts Âmt. B. (]KR):
1M24 M. carriod. 1M2. Brd R.'. 189.
Tnt.. 779; 2md RL. 799; Srd R.'. 862; Coni.
Contingent Âccounts Committês: on report
azots. concurred in, 1227.
mous
rem.. 132.
Pniviloge. Questions of: rom.. 125. 302.
Dominion Lands Survey B. (9): in Cern.,
Procedure. A Question of: rom., 950.
rom.. 281. 284.
Prorogation: rem.. 1084.Inland Fisheries: rem.. 1280.
Public Ownership) of Public Utilities: rom.,
London and Lancashire Quarante. Co. B.
654.
(Q): Int.. 2W3; 2nd R.. 820; 3rd RM. 523.
Rehm and Frank Patents B. (B): on 2nd
Northern and Crown Bank B. <0<3): Int..
R.. rom.. 219.
010; 2nd R.. 079; Srd R.». 781.
Reports te the Sonate. Delay in submitting:
Pulp wood from Canada. The export of:
rom.. 1395.
rem.. 1380.
Roportiniz Service of two Bouses. ConsolidaRailway Charters. Renewal of: ina.. 542.
tion of: M.. 1510.
Reform of the Sonate: rem., 103. 754.
Rules of the Sonate:- on M. (Mr. Davis),
Relection of Bills by the Commons: M..
rom., 413 . amt. te amt.. 414.
209.
Rules of the Sonate. Suspension of: on M.
<Mn. Douglas). rom.. 88.
Reports to the Sonate. Delay in submitting:
rom.. 1393.
Sonate Dobates: on report. rem.. 1323.
Sonate. Ezpendituros of the: M.. 851.
Sonate Debatos: on rep>ort. rom.. 13M5.
Senaterial Divisions: on M. (Mr. Ross.
Senatorial Divisions: M.. 1172; rom.. 1179.
1181.
Middlesex). rem., 1181.
Wmn. B. Smith Patent B. (PF): Tnt..
Standing Committees: M.. 346; rem.. 349;
1276:; 2nd R.. 1342. Srd R.. 1415.
M.. US83; rem.. 709.
Standing Committoos: on amt. to report,. Standing miles of the Sonate: on M. (Mr.
nom.. 65. 07. 69; on M. (Mr. Ross. MiddleComean). rom.. 147.
sex). rom.. 350. 773.
Supply Bill No. 4 (220): on 2nd R.. rom.,
Standing rules of the Sonate: on M. (Mr.
1733.
Comeau). rom.. 139., 151; on M. (Mn.
Tobacco Restriction B. (173): on 2nd R..
Douglas). rom.. 239.
rom.. 1409; in Com.. rom.. 1459, 1403;
Suspension of ruies: on M. (Mn. Davis),
on Srd R.. rom.. 1483.
rom.. 62
Undtr Secretaries in Canada. Âppointment
Telegraph System of Canada: on M. (Mr.
of: M.. 187; rom.. 839.
Davis). rom.. M3.
ROT, Hon. P.
Tobacco Restriction B. (173):- in Com.. amt.,
Edmonton, Dunvegan and B. C. RY. Co. B.
1457, rom.. 1400; on Snd R.. auit, 1479,
(38): Int.. 248:-. 2d RM. 270; *Srd R.'.
amt. carriod. 1486.
sis.
tYnder Secrotaries in Canada. Âppointment
Patent Medicinos B. (140): on 2nd R.. rom.,
of. on M. (Mr. Ross. Middlesex), rom..
1565: in Com., rom.. 1043. 1009.
245.
Saskatoon. Saskatchewan and Peace River
ROBERTSON. lion. J. E.
Ri'. B. (70): Tnt.. 501; 2nd R.'. 786.
Âdjournments: on M. (Mr. Baird).,rom., SCOTT. Hon. R. W. (Secretary of State).
405.
Accidents at Railway Crossings: rem.. 273,
ROSS. Hon. W. <Ho fax).
274.
Âdjournments: on M. (Mr. Ponley). rem.,
Civil Service Suspensions: rom.. 791.
1041.
Gammoîl Divorce Case: on report. rom.,
Âddross. The: on M. (Mr. Belcourt) te
552.
adopt. rem.. M5.
Goorgian Bay Canal: on M. (Mr. Casgrain).
Âgricultural Fertilizers B. (III): lot R.O.
rom., 681.
1447. 2nd R., 1487.
Inand Fishenies: rom.. 1279.
Ângrlo-Canadian. &c.. Bank B. (J): on 2nd
Privilege. Quesitens of: rom., 452.
R.. rom,. 203.
Public Ownenship of Public Utilities: 074.
Âuditor General B. (208). lst R.', 1513: M.
Reform of the Sonate: rom., 183.
.2nd R.. Brd R.'. 1549.
Standing Committees: on report. rom.. 70;
Bank Act Amt. B. (160): Int.. 1276; M.
on M. (Mn. Rose. Middlesex), rom., 398.
2nd R.. 1818: Brd R.'. 1356.
Union Jack, Hloisting the: rem., 910.

INDEX
SCOTT, Hon. R. W.-Con.
SCOTT, Hon. R. W.-Con.
Dominion Notes B. (159): let B.*. 1230; M.
(19):- on 2nd R.,
Bank of Winnipeg B.
2nd R.. 1261. rein.. 1268; Srd R.'. 1276.
rem.. 33.
Bills of Exchange Act Âmt. B. '142): let
Dominion Lands Surveys B. (9): lut., 97;,
M. 2nd R.. 216; rein.. 217. 218; in Coin.,
R.'. 2nd R.. 3rd R.'. 814.
Bounties on Crude Petroleuin B. (199): let
rem., 276. ý278. 281. 283. 286. 307; M. 3rd
R.. 331.
R.'. 1513; M. 2nd R.. 1544; in Coin., rein..
1545; 3rd R.'. 1546.
Dominion Elections Act Âmt. B. (115): let
Bic Harbour Wharf: repli te inca.. 135M.
R.'. 1681:- M. 2nd R.. 1686;- in Coin.. remn.,
Bush'Fires- reffly te inca.. 860.
1702. 1706. 1711; Srd R.*. 1716.
Boa.rd of Trade Aot Âint. B. (BB): lut., lst
Dominion Lunbering. &ic.. Company's B.
R.. 448; 2nd R., 487; iii Coin., rein.. 538;
(11): on 2nd R.. rein., 223. 225.
3rd R.'. MO0; Cominons aints. concurred.
Edmonton, Yukon and Pacifie Railway Exin. 1494.
tension B. (213): let R.'. 1716; 2nd R.,
British Columbia Court of Âppeal B. (165):
3rd R.'. 1717.
Int.. 1276; 2nd R.. 1321; Srd R.'. 1357.
Electoral Liste: repli te inca.. 1566.
Canadian Cattle. British Embargo on: reExchequer Court Judge of Canada: reply
pli fe inca.. 261.
te inca.. 652. 845. 1231.
'Canada Gazette,' Circulation of: reply te
Experimental Farin Reporte: repli te inca..
inca.. 232.
652. 845.
Canada Teanperance Act Âmt. B. (WW):
Eschecauer Court Act Âmnt. B. (116): Int..
on .3rd R.. rein.. 1129.
9M6; 2nd R.. 993. in Coin., rein.. 1051.
Canadian Patriotie Fend B. (JJJ): lut R.'.
1052; M. 3rd R.. 1053.
1514; 2nd R.'. 1582; aint. te 3rd R., 1582.
Fishing Leases in Northwest Waters: reCanned Goods Act Repeal B. (147): Int..
li te inca.. 946.
817; 2nd R.. 875; Srd R.'. 928.
Fisheries Question. The: reply te inq., 3.
Canada Shippingr Act Ânit. B. (209): Int.,
Freight rates on grain: reply te inca.. 79.
1651; M. 2nd R., 1678; Srd R.'. 1680.
French Representation in the Sonate: reply
Canadian Northern Railway Extension B.
te inca.. 211.
(214): lst R.'. 2nd R.. 3rd R.'. 1717.
F~rench Reports. Delay in publishing: reCivil Service Coiniission: repli te inca.,
ply te inca.. 1414.
356. 404, 714. 738.
French Treaty: riepli te inca.. 84. 1391.
Civil -Service Suspensions: repli te inca..
Fur Seal Fisheries: repli te inca.. 364.
790.
Georgian Bay Canal Route. Exploration of:
Civil Service Act Âmt. B. (189): lut.. 1453:
reply te inca.. 62.
M. 2nd R.. 1516. in Coin., rein., 1611,
Trunk
Grand
Gusranteed
Governinent
1617. 1622: Brd R.'. 1624.
Bonde B. <171): jet R.'. 1M2; M. 2nd R..
Criininal Code Âint. B. (212): Int.. 1649;
1292; 3rd R'*. 1340.
2nd and Srd R.'. 1678.
Governuient Railways Act Âmt. B. (27):
Cominande-in-Chief: reply to inca.. 717.
Int.. 617; 2nd R.. 679; in Coin., rein.. 704;
Coal Lands. Leasing of. rein.. 948.
3rd R.'. 721.
Coal Lande. Leasing regulations of:- repli
Gold Reserve. Depletion of: repli te inn..
te inca.. 522.
1501.
Oo-oPeration B. (5): Int., 479; M. 2nd R..
Governuient Bis by the Senate. Rejection
619; on report. M.. 1573: M. rejected,
of:- repli te inca.. 267.
1596.
Governinent Departinents. Purchasing bi:
Cominittee of Selection: M.. 39; rein.. 41.
rein.. 859.
Companies Act Aint. B. (L): Int.. lst IR.,
247; 2nd R.. 291; 3rd R.'. 3W3; Coinmons
Grain Inspectors at Winnipeg - revly to inca.
1055.
aints. concurred in. 652,
Grand Trunk Pacifie. Location of: reply ie
Construction of Dri Docks B. (119): Iut..
inca.. 1838.
1221; M. 2nd R.. 1287; in Coin., rein.,
Grand Trunk Pacifie Site in Ottawa- re1331. Srd R.'. 1340.
Customns Act Aint. B. (194): let R.'. 1413;
v)lî t'O inca.. 73.
Grand Trunk Pension Scheme : reply to
M. 2nd R.. 1467, rein., 14783: in Coin.,
inca.. 965.
rein.. 1494: M. Srd R.. 1515.
Halifax Signal Dues B. (152)-.: Int.. 946;
Delaved Printîng: reply te inca.. 46.
2nd R.. 993: Srd-R.'. 1011.
Delaved Returns: repli te inca., 46, 352,
Hindoo Immigration, Restriction of . rei..
550. 683.
484.
Desehambault Wharf. Construction of: reýHindoos at Vameouver: rein., 502.
pli to inca.. 1M8.

INDEX
SCOTT. Hion. R.. W.-con.
SCOTT, Hon. R. W.-Con.
Hudson Bay, Construction of a Railway te:
Manitoba
aud
other
Provinces,
The
rom.. 560, 567.
Beundaries of: repit ta ina.. rem.. 215.
Hudson Bay. Navigation of: reply to inq..
Marine and Fisheries Investigation: rom.,
SU5.
Ice-breaker 'Montcalm.' Reviairing of: r.Maritime Ceai aud Raiiway Company: reply te ina.. 59.
vit ta inq.. 902.
Immigration Act Amt. B. (135): lot R.'.
Major's Hill Park B. (89): Int.. 1453. M.
M. to suspend ruies. 805; rem., 807; 2nd
2nd R.. 1533; 3rd R.. 1564.
and Srd R.O. 810.
Manufacturers' Mutual Liability' B. (I): in
Insurauce Superintendent Salary B. (200)..
Cem.. rom.. 337.
lst R.'. 1511; M. 2nd R.. 1546; Srd B.*.
Markingz cf Goid sud Silver Piated Ware
1547.
B. CAAA): lot R.. M. 2nd R.. 1054; in
Inspection and Sale Âct Ârnt. B. <148) :
Com.. rom.. 1212. 1241. 1343. 1347. Srd Rý..
Tnt.. 1202; 2nd R.. 1228; 3rd R.'ý. 1298.
1353.
Interoolonial aud Prince Edward Island
Meat sud Cauned Focde Act Ârnt. B. (149):
Railway Act Amt. B. (117): Tnt.. 5W0;
Int.. 817; M. 2nd R.. 875; iu Com.. rem.,
Bud R.. 616; Srd R.'. U5S.
920. 924;: 3rd R.'. 928.
Inlaud Revenue Act Arnt. B. (143).: let R.4.
Meaford Harbour B. (158): Tnt.. 946; 2nd
2nd R.. 810; M. Brd R.. 813.
R.. 994; in Cern.. rom., 1009; 3rd R.'.
Indianapolis, State Life Insurance Compahiy
1011.
of: repit to ina.. 502.
McGovern. J., Accusations against: reply
Iuland Fisherjes: reply to ina.. 1277.
te ina.. 1551.
Iutercolonial Railway Employees: reffly ta
Michel Sirneon Delisie: revit te ina.. 209.
ina.. 716. 155.
Intercolonial Railway. Money raid to: meNatal Act cf British Columbia, Disailowance cf: revît ta ina.. 3U5. 357.
»)lv to inq.. 946.
Tutercolonial Railway, Supply cf brushes
National Battields B. (111).- iu Cern..'
for: revit te ina.. 846.
rom.. 526.
Intercolonjal Railway, .Provident Fund of:
Naturalization Act Amt. B. (W): Tnt.. lst
revît to ina.. 72.
R.. 355; 2nd R.. 380; in Cern.. ou ci. 1.
Intarcek>nial ijRaiîway. Tenders for iron
rem., 473; arnt.. 488; 3rd R.'. 504.
work on: repit to ina.. 845.
National Battefields B. (219): lot R.'. 1707;
Irritation Act Ârnt. B. (99)- Int.. 501;
ou 2nd R., rom.. 1708;: Srd R.' 1710.
2ud R.. 566:. Srd R.'. 684.
New York Mutual Reserve Life Association:
Isle Rough Floitinu Light: repiy to ina..
revît te ina.. 352.
851.
Northwest Territaries Act Arnt. B. (210):
Italian Immigration: reffly ta ina.. 429.
Tnt.. 1598; 2nd R.'. 3rd R.'. 1639.
Japanese in British Columbia. Ârrest cf:
Northwest, Sale of timber lands in the:
renit ta ina.. SU8.
repvt ta ina.. 331.
Japanese Immigration- rem., 89, 95. 268.
Ocean Steamships *Act
Arnt. B. (145): jet
Juvenile Delinquents B. <QQ): iu Cern.,
R.'. 2nd R.. Srd R.'. 815.
rem.. 1038; amt.. 1157.
Opium Prohibition B. (205): lst R.'. 1549;
Juveuile
Offenders, An Institution for:
M. 2nd R.. 1597; iu Cern.. rem.. 1672; 3rd
rem.,. 1078.
R.. 1678.
Judges Act Amt. B. (206): Tnt.. 1598; 2nd
Ottawa sud Georpian Bay Canal: revly te
R.. 'Srd R.'. 1630.
ina.. 45.
Kettie River Valley Railway: repiy te inq..
Parliarnt, Suvpving information te: rem.,
272. 542.
1101.
King's Regulations: repiy to inu.. 271. 273,
Patent Medicine B. (146): lut.. 1535; M.
M3. 403. 455.
2nd R.. 1565; in Cern.. rem.. 1570. 1641.
Labrador Boundary: reply ta ina.. 618.
1644, 1670; àrd R.. 1672.
Land Tities Act Assurance Fuud B. (168):
Point à Ceté Wharf: reply te ina.. 1358.
lut.. 1149; 2nd R., 1211; Brd R.'. 1297.
Point cf Order on resolution te Manitoba
Land Tities Act Amt. B. (113): lut.. 815;
boundaries: rem., 425.
M. 2nd R.. 834; in Com.. rom.. 912. 3rd
Post Office Act Âmt. B. (162): Tnt.. 1221;
R.*. 1004.
M. 2nd R.. 1291; 3rd R.. 1378.
Lead Bounties B. (191): Tnt.. 1453; M. 2nd
Prince Edward Island Railway Brauch B.
R.. 1491. 3rd R.'. 1534.
(202):- lot R.'. 1511; M. Sud R.. 1547;
Lévis Forts, Clearing cf lands at: repiy to
rom., 1548; 3rd R.. 1624.
inq.. 794, M4.
Press Summary of Debates: rem.. 540.

INDEX

SCOTT, Han. R. W.-Con.
SCOTT, Hom. I. W.-Con.
Ross Rifle: repli ta inq.. 45. 77, 618, 6S3, 816.
Printing of Journals of the Seinate: reply
Royal Grain Commission: reply to inq..
ta ina.. 74.
SU0. 469.
Prisoners on Parole: repli ta inaq.. 1552.
Sale of Ordnance Lands B. (218):- lst. 2nd
Privilege. Questions of: rem., 122, 124. 126,
and Brd R.O. 1681.
367. 485. 1098.
Sehool Lands Exchange B. <163): Tht.. 946;
Prorogation: rem.. 1447, 1683.
2nd R.. 10W3; 3rd R.O. 1060.
Public Lands. B. <181): lst R.'. 1511; on
Senator Lovitt. The late: rem., 818.
notice 2nd R.. rem.. 1512; M. 2nd R.. 1625-,
South Âfrican Volanteers' Bounty B. (109):
in Com.. rom.. 1631. 1635. 1638; M. Srd R.
Int.. 1651; M. 2nd R.. 3rd R.. 1680.
1654.
St. Joseph. Dry Dock at: reply to inq., 72.
Publie Bis 'in Sonate. Introduction of:
Standing Comniittees: rem.. 346, 399. 764.
repli ta ina.. 59; rem.. 61.
772.
Printing. Dolai in: repli ta ina..
Public
Standing rules of the Sonate: rem., 137,
1653.
141.
Quebec Bridge and Railwny Ca. B. <217):
Suvppî Bill No. 1 (94): M. Ist R.. 2S7ý 2nd
lst R.'. M. 2nd R.. rom., 1721. 1725; Srd
R.'. 289; M. Srd R.. 289.
R.'. 1726.
Supply Bill No. 2 (136): Ist R.'. 738; 2nd
Quoboc Bridge: repli ta ina.. 329.
R.. Srd R.O. 739.
Quebec Bridge Compani. Government boan
Supply Bill No. 3 (186): lst R.', M. ta susta:- reply ta ina.. 61.
pend rifles. 1143: rem., 1144, 1146; 2nd
Quobec Bridge Company. Payment ta Diand Srd R.O. 1147.
rectors of: repli ta ina.. 779.
Sunply B. No. 4 <220): lst R.', 1726; M.
Quebec Bridge and Railway Company: re2nd R.. 1726; rem.. 1729. 1736; 3rd R..
plî ta ina.. 72, 82. 448, 469. 736, 737. 816.
1737.
899. 900, 901. 902. 903. 927. 949, 1055, 1142.
Supreme Court Act Âmt. B. <121)- last R.'.
1338. 1392. 1450. 1478.
682; 2nd R.. 703; 3rd R.., 739.
Quebec Bridge Disastor: repli ta ina.. 295.
Sydney Steel Works Strike: repli ta ina..
Quebec Harbaur Commissioners: repli ta
857.
ina.. 904.
Telegraph System bf Canada: rem.. 3U3.
Quebec. Lieutenant Governorship of: repli
Telegraphîc Newsj Service B. <201): lst R..
ta ina.. 212. 214.
1511; 2nd R.. 154a; Brd R.*. 1549.
Quebec. The Militia at: repli ta ina.. 905.
Prirate
Commissioners,
Transcontinental
Quebec. Removal of Militari Hospital in:
Car for: repli ta ina.. 856.
repli ta inq.. 232.,273.
Transcontinental Railway Commission: reQuebec Tercontenari: reply to ina.. 317,
pli ta ina.. 1148. 1149. 123W.
738. 855. 898.
Timber Marking Âct Amt. B. <193): lut.,
Quebec Terminus Committee: repli ta ina..
1495; Znd R.. Brd R.. 1534.
1056.
Tobacco Restraint B. (173): Int.. 1391: M.
Railwaî Act Âmt. B. <112): lut.. 946; 2nd
2nd R.. 1409; ini Com.. rem.. 1458; M. 3rd
R.. 993. in Com.. rom.. 1404. 1408: M. Srd
R.. 1479; rem.. 1481.
R.. 1453; rem.. 1454.
Under Secretaries in Canada. Âppointment
Railway Act Âmt. B. <A): in Com.. rom..
of: rem.. 203.
305.
Unrevised Hansard: reply ta ina.. 25.
Railway Act Âmt. B. (PP). in Com.. rom.,
Union Jack. Hloisting, the: rom., 906.
940. 959. 1064. 1361.
Winding-Up Âct Âmt. B. <144): Int.. 815;
Railwai Act Âmt. B. (3): on 2nd R.. rom..
M. 2nd R.. 833; Srd R.. 862.
167.
Winding-Up Act Âmt. B. <102): Int.. 455;,
RailwaY Act Âmt. B. (118): lut.. 1391.« 2nd
2nd R.. 487; 3rd R.'ý. 550.
R.. 1410; in Com.. rom.. 1465;- 3rd R..
Yukon Act Âmt. B. (169): Int.. 1149; M.
1467.
2nd R.. 1233. Brd R.'. 1340.
Railway Act Âmt. B. (204): Iut.. 1597; 2nd
Yukon Placer Mining Âct Âmt. B. <150):
R.. 3rd R.*. 1638.
lut.. 1202; 2nd R.. 1229; in Com.. rom..
Railwai Charters. Renewal of: -repli ta
1296; 3red R.4. 1340.
ina.. à"4.
Railway Subsidy B. (215): lst R.'. 1717; M.
SULLIVAN. Hon. M.
2nd R.. 1718:;3rd R.'. 1720.
Address, The: on M. (Mr. Belcourt) ta
Reports ta the Sonate. Delay in submitting:
adopt. rom., 55.
rom., 1394.
Georgian Bay Canal: on M. (Mr. Casgrain).
Revised Statutes. French Edition cf: reply
rem., 4S8.
to inu.. 484, 614. 861.

INDEX

WATSON, HON. R.-Con.
SULLIVAN, Hlon. M.-Con.
Widows' and Orphans' Presbyterian Church
Juvenile Offenders. An Institution for: on
Pund B. (23): Int.. 329; 2nd R.', 364.
M. (Mr. Comeau). rem., 1078.
3rd R.'. 487.
Opium Prohibition B. (205): in Com.. rem.,
1677.
WILSON. Hon. J. H.
Patent Medicines B. (146): in Com.. rem.,
Committeeocf Soloction: on M. (Mr. Scott).
1566. 156U. 1641. 1645. 1667.
rem., 44.
Public Ownership cf Public Utilities: rem.,
Erie, London and Tilsonburg Ry. Co. B.
675.
(51): Tnt.. 480. 2nd R.', 520; Srd R.'.
Reform of the Sonate: rem.. 774.
Standing Committees: on report. rem., 64.
Gilmore Divorce Bill: rem.. 722.
68: on M. (Mr. Boss. Middleex). rem.,
Rûles cf the Sonate: on M. (Mr. Davis).
398.
rom.. 418.
Sonate. Âppointments to the: M.. 212.
TALBOT. Hon. P.
Sonate Debates: M.. 403.
MoLood. Cardston aUd Montana 1F.y. Co. B.
Standing Committees: on report. rem.. 71.
211; 2nd R.'. 219; 3rd R.,
(22): Int..
Standing rules cf the Sonate: on M. (Mr.
318.
Douglas). rom., 241.
55; 2nd
Ruthonian Mission B. (69): Tnt.
St. Clair and Erie Shiv) Canal B. (P):-o
rd. R.O. 805.
.
R.'. 566:
2nd R.. rem., 221.
Western Alberta Rv. Co. B. (K): on 2nd
TESSIER. Hon. JULES.
R.. rem.. 264.
Canadian Northoru Qnoboc Ry. Co. B. (77)k
Suspension cf rulos: on M. (Mr. Davis),
Tnt.. 480; 2nd R.'. 520; Srd R.'. 591.
rem.. 62. 63.
THOMPSON. Hon. P. P.
WOOD. Hon. J.
Transcontinental Railway. Boutes cf the:
Georgian Bay Canal: on M. (Mr. Casgrain).
M.. 335.
rom.. 725.
Tobiaue Manufacturinu Co. B. (8): Tnt..
Reform cf the Sonate: rem.. 648.
Brd R.', 380.
231; 2md R.0, 266;
YOUNG. HEon. P. M.
Alberta and Brazean Ry. Co. B. (44): Tnt.,
WATSON. Hon. R.
246:- 2nd R.. US.: Srd R.'. 430.
Anglo-Canadian Insurance Co. B. (Ui): Int.,
British Columbia Southern RT. Co. B. (13):
337-: 2nd R.'. 368; Srd R.'. 523.
Tnt.. 97; 2nd R.'. 174.; 3rd R.', 213.
Contingent Accounts Committoe: lst report
Canadian Pacific Ry. Co. B. (45): Tnt., 246;
proented. M. te suspend rule. 74 - M. te
2nd R.'. 270; Srd R.'. 318.
adopt. 127: M. te adovt 4th report. 1488.
Canadian Northern Ry. Co. B. (81): Tnt..
Dominion Guarantee Co. B. (M): Tnt.. 337;
480; 2ud R.'. 520; Brd R.'. e84.
2nd R.'. 382; Srd R.'. 523.
Committees, Concurrence lu reports cf:
Dominion Elections Act Amt. B. (115): on
rom.. 294.
2nd R.. rem.. 1689;, in COM.. rom.. 1702,
Esquimaux end Nanaimo Ry. Cc. B. (15):
1713. 1714.
Tnt.. 98. 2nd R.'. 175; Srd R.'. 213.
Freigrht rates on grain: rem.. Si.
Preiit rates on grain: rom.. 80.
Fort William Terminal Ry. and Bridge Co.
R ailway Âct Âmt. B. (3): Tnt.. 97; M.
B. (101): lut., M9; 2nd R.'. 805; 3rd R.'.
2nd R.. 152; M. te refer. 167.
920.
Manitoba Grain Act Âmt. B. (ZZ)- in
Gold Reserve. Depletion of: rom.. 1506.
Cern., rom., 1012. 1013. 1015, 1018. 1020,Grand Trunk Pacifie Brandi Lino Co. B.
1095; on M. te concur. rom.. 1648.
(Z: Iut.. lst R.'. US8; 2nd R., 454; Srd
North Empire Pire Insurance Co. B. (7):
R.. 761.
Tnt.. 617; 2nd R.'. 679; Srd R.'. 781.
Manitoba and Northwestern 'Ry. Co. B.
Rules of the Sonate. Suspension cf: on M.
(26): Tnt.. 98;- 2nd R.. 175; 3rd R.'. 213.
(Mr. Douglas). rom.. 88.
Occidental Pire Insurance Co. B. (B): Int.,
Standing miles cf the Sonate: on M. (Mr.
175; 2ud R.*. 219; Brd R.', 550.
Comeau). rom.. 148.
Ontario and Michigan Power Co. B. (X):
Bank cf Winnipeg B. (19): Tnt.. 329; 2nd
Tnt.. 3S6; 2nd R.. 381.
R.. 337; 3rd R.'. 523.
Privilege. Questions of:- rem., 361. 523.

PART LI-SUBJECTS
ACCIDENTS AT RÂILWAY CROSSINGS: M. IRILLS-8SERIATIM...
(Mr. Béique), M. aRreed ta. 176; rem.,
(E) An Act respectinor a certain patent of
Mr. Scott. 273-, Mr. Ferguson. Mr. Scott,
Froderick B. Rehm. Elias Frank and
274; oeem., Mr. Ferguwox, 292.
Isadore Frank (Mr. Beith). Int., 175; M.
2nd R. (Mr. Beith), rem.. Mr. Power. Mr.
ADDRESS. THE : M. ta adopt (Mr. BelLouuheed. 219; Mr. McHlugh. Mr. Kerr,
court), 3; soconded (Mr. Campbell), 6
Mr. Cloran. M. airreed ta. 220; 3nd R.*,
debated, Mr. Lougheed. 10; Sir R. Cart380; R.A.. 779 <c. 151).
wrigbt. 17; Sir M. Bowell. 25; Mr. Scott,
(F). An Alet Sespecting the St. Clair and
85; .Mr. MeMullen. 46; Sir M. Bowell,
Erie Ship Canal Company (Mn. Loughed).
Mr. Power. 52: Mr. Sullivan. 55.
lut.. 176; M. 2nd R. (Mr. LAugheed). rem.,
ADJOURNMENTS : M. (Mr. Baird). amt.
Mr. Wilson. M. - croed ta. 221; 3rd IR..
(Mr. Ponev). rem.. Mr. Davis, Mr. Power,
318. R.A.. 541 <c 153).
Mr. Robertson, amt. carried (c. 29; n.c.
<G) An Act respectjng the .Eastorn Trust
28), 405; M. <Mr. Perle.'. 1040; rem.. Mr.
Comp.any (Mr. MacKeen). lut., 176; 2nd
Scott, Sir M. Bowell. 1041.
R.'O, 219; B. rep. from Com. <Mr. Drummond). 330; 3rd R.'. 354; R.A., 1147 <c. 103).
ALUMINUM, IMPORTS AN]) EXPORTS 0F:
(H) An Act ta incorporate the Dominion
M. (Mr. Domville). 272.
Lumbering and Power Development ComnANNUNCIATOR SYSTEM : M. (Mr. Frost),
pany (Mr. Béique). Int.. 176; M. 2nd R.
1204; M. aureed to. 1206.
(Mir. Béique), rem.. Mr. Ells. Mr. Kerr,
Mn Clonan, 221; Mr. McMullen. Mr. LongBILLS-SERIATIM :
heed. 222. Mr. B6ique. Mn. Scott, Mr.
Clonan. 223; Mr. Landry. 224; Mr. Scott,
(A) An Act ta amend the Railway Act as
Mr. Power, Mr. Speaker. 225; Mr. Ferzurespects the selling of intoxicating liquors
son. Mr. Béions. 226; Mr. Wilson, Mr.
ta nailway emvlovees on duty (Mr. MeEdards, 227; Mr. Forgneon, Mr. DomMullen). Iut. 97; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Meville. Mr. Béiciue. 228. Mr. Cloran, M.
Mullen). 229; rem.. Mr. Davis. Mr. Meagneod ta. 229; M. 3rd R. <Mr. Casgraiu).
Mullen. Sir M. Bowell. 230;
M. agreed ta,
amt. Mr. Davis. 928; nom.. Mr. Bdine,
231; in Com.. M. in amt. (Mr.
McMuIlen)
Mr. Power. Mr. Poirier, 929; Mr. Wilson,
295; rom.. Mr. Power, Sir M. Bowell. 296;»
Mr. Kerr. 930; Sir M. Bowell, 931; Mr.
Mr. Claran. 297; Mr. Watson, 299; Mr.
Boss 'Middlee), 933; arut. loet <c. 12, m.c.
rougise, 300; Mr. Perley. Mr. Cloran, 301;
31). 934; amt. Mr. Davis, 934; rem.. Mr.
Mr. MeMallen, Mn. Kecrx, Mn. Feoegueon,
McMullon. Mr. Wilson, 935; Mr. Gibson.
302; Mr. Power. Mr. Wilson. 303; M. that
Mr. Davis, 936; amt. lest. M. 3rd R. affreed
Com. nise <Mr. Watson), 304; Mr. Clonan.
ta. 937.
Mr. Scott. 305; M. that Com. nise, carried
(I) An Act ta incorporate the Manufactur<c. 23. u.c. 13).
ors' Mutuel Liabjlîty Insurance Company
<B) An Act nespocting the Occidental Pire
<Mr. Joues). lut.. 187; 2ud R.. 244; iu
Insurance Company (Mr. Watson). lnt.,
Com., nom., Mr. Scott. B.- roi,. fnom Com.
175; 2nd R.*, 219; Srd R.*, 550; B.A., 1147
(Mr. M.acKeen), 337.
4c. .139).
<J An Act ta incorponate the Angzlo-Canadian and Continental Bank (Mr. De<C) An Act ta incorporate the Standard AcVeber).
Iut.. 2nd R.. 282; nom., Mr.
cident Insurance Company <Mr. Kerr).
Lougheed. Sir M. Bowell, Mn. Scott, Mn.
Int.. 175; 2nd R.., 219; 3rd R.*. 550; ComRen, 263; 3rd R., 523; 'Rý.,. 1147 (c. 81).
mons amts. concurred in (Mr. Kerr), 792;
R.A.. 1147 <c. 159).
<K) An Act rospoctijig, the Western Alberta
Railway Company <Mn. De Veber).
let
(D) An Act respoctiniz the Grand Trunk
R., 214; M. 2ud R. (Mr. De Vobor), rom.,
Railway of Canada <Mn. Gibson>. Int..
MT. Wilson, 264; Mr. ILougheed, M. agreed
175; 2nd R.*. 219.
6o, %65; Srd R.', 504: R.A.. 1147 <c. 170).
9022-B

±viii

INDEX

xviii

INDEX

BILLS-.SERIATIM-Con.
(L) An Act to amend the Companies Act
(Mr. Scott). Int.. lat R.. 247, 2nd R.. 291;
Srd R.*. 363; Commons amts. concurred
in, 652; R.A.. 779 (o. 16).
(M) Ân Act respecting the. Trane-Canada
Railway Company (Mu.. Choquette). Int.,
247: M. 2nd R. (Mfr. Choquette). rein.,
Mr. Casgrain. Mfr. Lougheed, 291; Sir M.
Bowell. M. agreed ta. 292: Srd R.*, 368;
R.A.. 779 (c. 164).
MN An Act respecting the Windsor. Chathain and London Railway Company (Mr.
Coffey). Int.. 262; 2nd R.*, 291: 3rd R.*.
368;. B.A., 779 (c. 171).
(0) An Act ta incorporate the Sas~katcheTM
wan Power Company. Limited ( r. Davis).
Int.. 270: M. 2nd R.. (Mfr. Davis). rem..
Mr. Watson, Mfr. McMullen, Sir M.i
Bowell, M. agreed ta. 306; amts. concurred
in. 773; 3rd B.*. 774; R.A.. 1147 (c. 154).
(P) An Act respecting the Quebec and New
Brunswick Railway Company (Mfr. Costiaan). Iut.. 1sf R.*. 272 : M. 2nd R. (Mr.
Costigan). rem.. 1fr. MeMnulen. 319. M.
airreed ta. 320; Srd M,' 504; Commons
amts. concurred in. 833; R.A., 1147 (c.
149).

(Q) An Âct ta incorporate the London and
Lancashire Guarantee aud Accident Comapany of Canada (Mr. Ross, Middlesex).
lut.. 293; M. Znd R. (Mr. Ross). M. a~rTeed
to. 320; B. rep. froin Coin. <Mr. Drummond). 448; 3rd R.*. 523; Commons aints.
concurred in (Mr. Ross), 800; R.Â.. 816
<c. 124).
(R) An Act respectint the Manitonlin and
North Shore Railway Comipany (Mr. Kerr).
Int.. 308; 2nd R.. 354; Srd R.., 684; R.A.,
1147 (c. 127).
(S) An Act respecting the Pacific and Atlantic Railway Company (Mfr. Kerr). lnt.,
308: 2nd R.*. 479; Srd R.*. 703; R.A., 1147
(c. 142).
(T) An Act respectint the Atlantic, Quebec
and Western Railway Company (1fr.
Fiset). Int.. 337; 2nd R.*. 368; amts. concurred in (Mr. Casgrain), 616; 3rd R.,
617: R.A.. 816 (c. 84).

(U7)An Âot to change the -naie ci the head
office of the Anglo-Canadian Insurance
Company <(Mr. Watson). Int.. 337; 2nd
R.O. 368; Srd R.., 523; R.A., 1147 (c. 131).
MV An Act respectinu the Dominion Guarantee Company, Limited (Mfr. Watson).
Int.. 337. 2nd R.*. 382: 3.rd R.'. 523; on

EJlILS-SERIAT-IM-Con.
Commons aints.. M. not ta concur (Mfr.
Barker) remn.. 1fr. Speaker. Mfr. Power,
M. agfreed to. 1476; R.Â. 1738 (c. 102).
(W) An Act to ameud the, Naturalization
lut., lot B., 355; 2nd
Act (1fr. Scott).
R.. 380; ini (Joi.. ou el. 1. rein., 1fr. Macdonald 4B.C.). U.r. Scott, el. adopted. 473:
samt. .(Mre. Scott), -rem., Mr. Lougheed. aint.
carried. B. rep. froin Coin. (Mfr. Gibson),
488; 3rd R., 504: R.A.. 1738 <c. 48).
WX An Act ta incorporate the Ontario and
Michigan Power Company (1fr. Watson).
Int.. SU6: M. 2nd R. (Mr. Watson), 381;
rein., Mr. Lougbeed, Sir M. Bowell, Mfr.
Kerr, M. agreed to. 382.
(Y) An Act respecting the Grand Truuk
Pacifie Branch Line Company <(Mr. Watson). Int.. 1ot R.',. 368;- 2nd R.. 454: Srd
R.*. 761; R.A.. 1147 <c. 115).
<Z An Act relating to the Water Carniage
of Goode (Mr. Campbell). Int.. 382; M.
2nd R. (Mr. Campbell, 473; rem., Mr.
Louffheed. Sir R. Cartwxright, 476; Mr.
Mr.
Ferzuson. 477 ; Mr. Derbyshire,
Clonan. 478. M. aigreed ta, 479; lst report
adopted (Sir G. Drummond). 591; in Coin.,
Mr. Landry. Mfr. Belcourt. 989; Mr. Campbell, Mr. Kerr. 990; B. rer. froni Coin, as
amended (Mr. Watson), 993: Snd R.'. 1004.
(AÂ) An Act for the relief of Andrew
Walker (Mn. Prost). lut.. 404; 2nd R.*.
454. 3rd R.'. 487; R.A.. 1147 (c. 168).
(BB) An Act ta amend the Board of Trade
Act (Mr. Scott). Int.. lot R.. 448; 2nd
RB.. 487; in Com., remn.. Mfr. Lougheed. Mfr.
Scott, B. rep. from Coin. <(Mr. MeKay,
Truro), 538; Srd B.*, 550; <Jommons tint.
concurned in, 1494; R.A.. 1738 (c. 9).
(CC) An Act ta amend.the Gold and Silven
Markine Act (Sir R. Cartwright). Tht.,
îst R., rem., Mr. Lougheed. Mfr. Ferguson,
1fr. Gibson. 470; 2nd R.'. B. rep. froin
Com. (Mr. David), 3rd B.*. 487. R.A.,
779 (c. 29).
(DD) An Act reapecting the Board of
Preabyterian Collete of Halifax <1fr.
Gregor). Iut.. 521. 2nd R.*. 616; B.
froin Coin. <gir G. Druunmond) 777;
R.'. 781; R.A.. 1147 (c. 147).

the
Mcrep.
3nd

(EE) An Act respectinug the Pontiac Central
Int.,
Railway Compan.y (Mfr. Campbell).
567: 2nd -... 632; B. rep. froin Coin. (1fr.
Casgrain). 760; Srd R.'. 781; R.A., 1147
(c. 146).

INDEX

(FF) An Act for the relief of Edith Maud
Rosario Gammeil (Mr. Jones). .Int,, 591;
2nd R.*. 632; Brd R.*, 684; R.A.. 1147 (c.
110).
(GG) An Act respecting the Northern and
the Crown Bank of Canada (Mr. Boas.
Middlesex). Int.. 616. M. 2nd R. (Mr.
rem.. Mr. Landry, Mr.
Young). 679
Youing. M aizreed to. 680; B. rein. frorn
Corn. (Sir G. Drummond), 761; Brd R.',
781; R.iÂ., 1147 (c. 137).
(HH) Ân Act to restrict the evils of Divorce (Mr. Cloran). Int., 640;. M. 2nd R.
(Mr. Cloran), 722; M. lost (c. 22, n.c. 24).
724.
(Il) An Act resl3ecting the Nipissing Central
Railway Comnpany (Mr. McGregor). Int.,
714;: 2nd R.*, 740; 3rd R.*. 920; R.A., 1148
<c. 125).
(33) An Act for the relief of Edith May
Gilmore (Mr. Perley). Int., 735; 2nd R-..
761; &rd R.*, 851; R.A., 1737 (c. 112).
(KK) An Act te amend the Prison and Beformaterv Act in so far as the same affects
the Province of Nova Scotia. (Mr. Power).
Int., 779; 2nd R., 799; in Cern., varions
armts. -(iMr. ePower) agreed to, 853, 854;
B. veported £rom Cern. (Mr. Baker), 855:
Srd B.* 862: Cemmons amts. concurred in
(Mr. Pewer). 1227; R.A.. 1737 (c. 55).
(LL) An Act res-ectingr the Phoenix Insurance Company. Limited (Mr. Bostock).
.,
lnt.. 779; 2nd R.. 799; Srd R.*, 862;
1148 (c. 145).
(MM) An Act te incoriierate the Synod cf
Keewatin (Mr. Ellis). Int., 779; 2nd R.'.
799; 3rd R.*. 1004; R.A.. 1738 <c. 121).
(NN) An Act te amend the Canada Shix>ping Act (Sir R. Cartwright). Int.. 779;
2nd R., 8M5; in Cern.. Mr. Power, Sir M.
Bowell, 913; Mx. Domville, Mr. Lougheed,
914, Mr. Ellis, Mr. McGregor, 915; ProVress rep., 919; da Camn., 951-956; Sir R.
Cartwright. amt. (Mr. Pewer) toelc. 75,
ait. lest. B. rep. from Cern. with amts.
(Mr. Wilson) 1007; Srd R.'. 1011: Cernmons e.mke. o<mcnrred in, 1681; B.A., 1738
(c. 65).
(00) An Act te amend the Chinese ImmiInt.,
gration Act (Sir R. Cartwright).
817; 2nd R., 874; in Cern., Mr. Wilson, Mr.
MoMullen, Sir R. Cartwright. Sir -M.
Bowell, 1046. 1050; B. rep. frem Cern. (Mr.
Coffey). 3rd RB.'. 1050; M. te cencur in
Cemmons amts. (Mr. Scott), 1321; rern..
9022-Bi

1IJLLS--SERIATIM-Con.
Sir M. Bewell. Mr. Campbell Mr. Boateck, 132; Mr. Power, M. agreed te, 1323;
B.A.. 1737 (c. 14).
(PP) An Act te amend the Railway Act as
regards the preferential charge created by
the issue cf securities (Mr. Casgrain).
Int.. 817; l.st R., 818; M. 2nd R: (Mr. Casgrain), rem., Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Kerr,
Mr. B6ique. 863; Mr. Power. M. agreed te,
865; in Cern., rem.. Mr. Casgrain, 937
Mr. Lougheed, 938; Mr. Béiuue, 939; Mr.
Wilson, Mr. Scott, 940; Mr. Ferguson,
941; Sir M. BoweII, 9",; on el. 141, Mr.
Béiaue, Sir M. Bowell, 956; (Mfr. Boss,
Middlesex). 957; Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Scott,
959; Mr. Ferguson, 961; Sir M. Bowell.
933; Mr. Casgrain. Mr. L¶rngheed, Mr.
Power. Mr. Scott, .1064; Sir M. Bowell,
1065; Mr, Ferguson, 1066; Mr. Power, 1068;
Mr. Béicine. Mr. Cloran. 1071; Mfr. Wilson,
Mr. Casgra4n, 1073; -Mr. Casgrain, Mfr.
Gibeon, 1359; Mr. Ross (Miiddlesex) ,1360;
Mr. Scott. 1361; Sir M. Bowell, 1363; Mr.
Baird, Mr. Cinran. 1364; Mfr. Béique, 1366;
Mfr. Ferguson, 1370: Mr. Dornville. 1371;
Mr. Watson. 1371; M. that Cern. vise,
carried. B. dvopped. 1373.
DelinQuents <(Mr. Béicine). lst R., M. 2nd R.
(Mr. Béique). 971, rem., Mfr. Coffey, 975;
Mr. MacDonald (B.C.). ]&r. Lougheed, 979;
Mr. Kerr, 981; M. agreed to, 982; in Cern.,
Mfr. DeBouchei'ville, Mfr. Power. Mfr. Scott,
Mr. B4ique, Mr. Wilson, 1037-1039; Mfr,
B4îque. Mr. DeBoucherville, Mr. Power,
MT. Wilson, SiT M. Bowell, Mfr. Ellis, 10421046; B. rep. forn Cern. !(MT. Roy). 10416;
M S3rd R. (Mfr. Béiciue), 1149; M. in amt.
<(Mr. DeBoucherville) fer 3 m. h., 1152;
rem., M.r. Béique, 1152; Mr. Boss (Màddlesex). 1153; Mr. Landry, 1155; Mr. Béique,
«M. dor 3 m. h. lost (c. 4, n.c. 41), 1156;
arnt. Mr. Scott. carvied, arnt. Mfr. Power.
rem., Mr. B6ique, 1157; aint. te amt, Mr.
Landry, rem., Mfr. Power, 1158; Mr. Ferguson, 1160; Mfr. Boss (Middlesex), 1163;
arnt. te arnt. rejected. 1164; aint te amt.
Mfr. David carried. amt. Mr. Power carried, M. Brd R. carried and B. passed,
1165; B.A.. 1738 (c. 40).

(QQ) An ..Act respectinx Jiivenile

(RR) An Act for the relief of Catherine>
Ann Cannon (Mr. Baird). Int.. 876; 2nd
Rý., 926; Brd R., 928; R.A., 1737 (c.97).
(SS) An Act respecting the Lake Champlain
and St. Lawrence Ship Canal Company
(Mr, Belcourt).' Int., 876; Znd R.*, 966;
Srd R.'. 1042; R.A.. 1738 (c. 122).

INDEX

BILLS-BERIÂTIM-Ccn.
(TT) An Act iespecting certain patents cf
the General Chernical Company (Mi.
Krru). lut., 876: 2nd R.'.ý 9M6. 3rd B.*,
971; R.Â.. 1737 <c. 111).
<UU) An Act. foi the relief of Mary AlexInt., 876; 211d.
ander (Mr. Derbyshire).
R.'. 926; 3îd R.9. 928; R.A.. 1737 <c 80).
<VV> Au -Act for th. crelief of Ada Xatuoeah
Stewart Paulding (Mr. Derbyshire). lut.,
876; 2nd R.'. 926; Srd R.', 928; R.Â.. 1737
<c. 144).
(WW) An Act ta amend tha Canada Tamparance Âct (Mr. McGregoi). lut.. 876;
2nd R.. 965; in Cern.. rem., Mr. McGreaor,
1105; Mr. McSwfeney, Mr. <3eieau, Mr.
Cloran. 1106; Mr. Domvlle. 1107; Mi. Wilson. Mr. Cloran. 1109; Mi. Feiguson..1110;
Mr. Boss (Middlesex). Mr. Power. 1111;
genaral discussion. 1112. 1128; B. rap. witheut amit. (Mr. Talbot). 1129; M. Srd R.
(Mr. McGregor). amt. Mr. Power, amt. to
t'Mt. MT,. Scott, &Mmt. withdu., oint, ta
amt. caîîied. M. Sud R. cairied, 1129
R-A.. 1738 (c. 71).
<XX) An Âct te incorporata the Traders'
Life lInsuiance Company (Mr. Jaflray).
Int.. 898: 2nd R.'. 951.
(YY) An Act raspectine the Crown Life
Insurance Company (Mr. LouRheed). lut.,
899: 2nd B..*. 946; 3rd R.'. 1004; R.A.. 1148
(e. 99).
(ZZ) An .Act te amend the Manitoba Grain
Act (Sir R. Cartwright). Int.. 905; M.
2nd R. (Sir R. Cartwright), 982; ram..
Mr. Perlai. 983; Sir M. Bowall. 985; M.
agread to, 986; ini Cern., Sir R. Cartwright,
Mr. Young. 1012; Mr. Davis, Mi. Young,
-1013; Mir. Youag, Mr. Davis, Mr. Gibson.
1015:. Mr. Watson. Mr. Parlai. 1016, 1017;
Mu. Young, Sir. R. Cartwright. 1018; Mr.
Campbell. Mr. Davis. 1019; Mr. Davis,
Mr. Younz. Mr. Parlai. 1020, 1024; Mr.
Davis. Mr. Ponley. Sir R. Cartwright,
1035 te 1037; amt. Mi. Davis, 1084; rem.,
Mr. Gibson. 1084; Mr. Béique, Mi. Davis,
1087; Mi. Perlai. Sir R. Cartwright, 1089;.
amt. withdn.. amt. Mr. Talbot, 1091; amt.
cariad. 1092; amt. Mi. Davis, 1093; Sir
R. Cartwrighit. Mr. Youn.g, 1095; amt.
. rap. ftom Com. (Mr.
withdn., 1097;
McSweeney). 1098; 3rd R.'. 1105; M. ta
concur in Commoins Amts. '(Sir R. CartWright), ram., Mr. Young, 1648; Mr. Davis,
.,
Sir M. Bowall. M. agraed ta, 1649;
1738 (c. 45).
An Act raspecting tha sale and mark<A)
ing cf Manufacturas of Gold anud Silver,

and Gold snd Silver Pia.ted Ware (Mr.
Scott). lot BR.,M. 2nd R. ý(Mr. Scott), ram.,
Mr. Farguson; M. agoeeed ta, 1051; in (Com.,
rem.. Mr. Scott. 1212; Mr. Gibson. 1215;
Sir M. Bowell. 1216; Mr. Ferguson. 1217;
general discussion. 1218, 1221. discussion
on cle. 3 to 9, 1237-1239; rem., Mr. Kerr,
1239; Mr. Scott, Mr. Gibson, 1241;. Mr.
Lougheed. 1243; Mr. Power. 1245; Mr.
Ferguson. 1247. Mr. Béiqiue, 1249; Mr.
Scott on el. 9. 1343; rem., Mr. Kerr. 1344;
Mr. Scott. 1347; Mr. Gibson. 1349: Sir M.
Bowell, 1350- Mr. Power, 1351; B. rap.
from Cern. (Mr. Belcourt). 1352; Brd R.O.
13W2; B.A.. 1738 (c. 30).
(BBB) An Act for the relief iof Blattie
Spratte (Mr. Perley). lu., 965; 2nd R.,
1011; M. 3rd R. <Mr. Perley>, arnt. (Mr.
Cloran), 105; rem., Mr. Kirohhofier, 1031;
Mr. Domville, 1033; Mr. McMullen, 1033;
Mr. Ross <Ralifax), 1034; ,amt. lest, M.
for 3rd R. agreed te, 1035; R.Â., 1737 <c.
158).(
(CCC> An Act ta amend the Inspection and
Sale Act as ,regards grain <Sir R. Cartwright). lst R., 2nd R.'. 1053; in Cern.,
rem., Sir R. Cartwright. Mr. Perley, Mr.
Lougheed, 1131; Mr. Watson, Mr. Douglas, .$Mr. ,Campb3ll, 1133; genaral discussion, 1134-1142; Mr. Perley, Mr. ,Doug-'
las, 1299; Mr. Young, Sir R. Cartwright,
1300; Mr. Davis, Mr. Perlay, 1301; Mr.
Y.oung, -1303; 'disoupssipn oa &-nt. -Mr.
Davis, 1304 ta 1306; amt. lost, 1307; Mr.
Talbot, Mi. Young, 130a; amt. Mr. Camp,bell te cl. 16. 1310; amt. lost, 1310; enmt.
Mr. Davis, 1311;4 Mr. Poirier, Mr. Power,
1312; Mr. Watson, Mr. Wilson, 1314; Mr.
Douglas, 1315; Mr. Davis, 1340; amt. Sir
Rt. Cartwright carried, .1374; amt. Mr.
Davis carried, 1375; B. rep. from Com.
(Mi. Boy), 1377; B. referred back, 1411;
in Com., Sir R. Cartwright, Mr. Watson,
Mr. Perlay, 1411; Mi. Power, B. rep.
fîom Com. (Mi. Boy), 1412; M. to concur
in amts. (Sir R. Cartwrighit), amt. Mr.
Davis, 1416; Sur R. Cartwright, 1419; Mr.
Douglas, 1421; Mr. Watson, 1422; Mr.
Perlay, 1425; Mr. McHugh, Mi. Wilson,
1427; Mr. Power, 142M; sub-amt. Mr.
Bernier, rem., Mr. Davis, 1429; Mr. Landry, Mr. Faîguson, Mr. Domville, 1432;
Mr. Douglas, sub-amt. lost <c. 18; n. c.
30), 1435; amt. lost, M. ta concur caiiied,
1437; M. ta suspend rulas (Sir R. Cartwright), rem., Mi. Davis, 1437; M. agiaed
to, M. Srd R. <Sir R. Cartwright), 1444;
amt. Mr. Douglas, 1444; rem., Mi. Watson, 1445; Mr. Davis, Sir M. Boeall, amt.

INDEX

withdn.,,1446; M. 3Srd R. agreed to, 1447;
Commons amts. -concurred in, 1650; R.A.,
1788 (c. 86).
<DDD)
and
(Sir
1053;

An Act to incorporate the Alberta
British Columbia Railway Company
ML. Bowell>. Int., 1025; 2nd R.,.
:Srd B.*, 1172; R.A., 1788 (o. 78).

(ERE) An Act respecting the Hamilton,
Waterloo and Guelph Railway (1fr. Gibson). Int., 1172; 2nd R.0, 1222; ýR.A-,
1738 (c. 118).
(FFF) An Act respecting a certain patent
of William B. Smith (Mfr. Power). Int.,
1276; M. 2nd R. (1fr. Power), rem., Sir
M. Boweil, Mfr. Wilson, 1342; M. 2nd R.
agreed to, 1343; B. rep. from Com. (Mfr.
Cloran), 1378; M. Srd R. (Mr. Power)
rem_, Sir M. Bowell, 1415; M. Srd B
agreed to, 1416; R.Â., 1738 (c. 156).
(GGG) An Act for the- relief of Arthur
Jlames Townsend (Mfr. Campbell). Int.,
1276; 2nd R.*, 3rd R.*, 1343; R.A., 1738
(c. 163).
(RHHH) An Act respecting certain patents of
the Metallie Shingle and Sîding Company,
Limited (Mfr. Compbell). lst R.., 1414;
2nd R.*, 1476; 3rd R.0, 1486; R.A.. 1738
(c. 128).
<fil) An Act respecting Agricultural Fertilizers (Mfr. Scott). lat R.-, 1447; M.«
2nd R. <(Mr. Scott), rem., Mfr. Ferguson,
1fr. Lougheed, 1487; M. 2nd R. agreed to,
1488.
(JJJ) An Act respecting the Canadian Patriotic TFund Association (Mfr. Scott). lst
R.0, 1514; 2nd R.0, 1582; M. Srd R. (1fr.
Cox), amt. Mfr. Scott, amt. carried, M.
3rd R. -agreed ,to, 1582; R.A., 1738 (c. 96).
(3) An Act to amend the Railway Act (1fr.
Young). Int., 97; M. 2rd R. (1fr. Young),
rem., Mfr. McMulien, 152; Mr. Wilson,
1fr. Ferguson. 153; Mfr. McMullen, 1fr.
Ellis, Mfr. Watson, 154; Mfr. Davis, 1fr.
Power, 155; 1fr. Casgrain, 156; Mfr. Fer.
guson, 157; Mfr. Jones, 160; Mfr. Ferguson, 163; Mfr. 'Béique, 164, Mfr. Scott, M.
agreed to, 167; M. to refer <(Mr. Young),
rom.. Mfr. Ferguson, 167; Mfr. Watson, 1fr.
Davis, 168; Mfr. MoMullen, 169; Mfr. Kerr,
170; Mfr. Edwards, 1fr. Wilson, 171; 1fr.
McSweeney, Mfr. Power, 173; Mfr. .Býique,
Mfr. Domville, 174; M. agreed to, 174; B.
roported (1fr. Casgrain), 308; rem.. 1fr.
Forguson, -Sir -*M.. Bowell, -309; Mfr. Ferguson, 1fr. Poirier, 1fr. Speaker, -amt. (1fr.
Landry). 310; rem., Mfr. Ellis, Mfr. Béique,

B1lms-SERLÂATIM-Coa.
811; Mfr. Power, Sir M. Bowell, SU; Mfr.
Cloran, 818; Mfr. Speaker, amt. carried,
815; on report cf Com., amt., Mfr. Béique,
504; rem., Mfr. Ferguson, 508, 560; amt.
ta amt. -(Mr. Ferguson), U85; rem., Mr.
Poirier, 585; -Mr. Béique, 587; Mfr. Bostock,
580; Mr. -er'r. .591; Mfr. Cssgrain, 597;
Ma!r. -Power, ,i99; Mfr. MeMullen, 602; Mfr.
MceGregor, Mfr. Douglas, 604; Mfr. Cloran,
605; Mfr. Scott, 609; Mfr. Ferguson, 613;
amt. (Mfr. Ferguson) to amt. declared
lost, 614; amt. to amt. (Mfr. Power), 63I2;
rem., Mfr. B6ique, 683; Mfr. Ferguson,
635; Mfr. Sullivan, 689; amt. (Mfr. Power)
to amt. declared lost, 639; amt. to amt.
(Mir. Belcourt), amt. declared lost, 640;
;rem., Mfr. Davis, 685; Mfr. Ells, OE6; Mfr.
Wood 80; 1fr. Sullivan, 692; Mfr. Poirier,
693; *amt. <(Mr. Béique) carried,. 694; rem.,
Mr. Ferguson, 694; Mfr. Gibson, 699; amt.
(Mr. Ferguson) declared lost, 701; amt.
<1fr. Ellis> lost (c. 14; n. o. 42), report
of Com. conourred in, 702; M. Srd R.
<(Mr. Young), amt. (Mr. Cloran), 718;
amt. lost, 720; rem., Mfr. Casgrain, 720;
M. carried, 721.
(5) An Act respecting Co-operation' <(Mr.
Scott). Int., 479; M. 2nd R. (gr. Scott),
619; rem., Mr. Mc1fullen, 620; Mfr. Bcstock, 622; Mfr. Béique, 623; Mfr. Cloran,
M2; Mfr. Lougheed, 625; 1fr. Sullivan,
626, Mfr. Macdonmald <B.C.), Mar. Derbyshire, 627; Sir M. Bowell, 627; Mfr. Wood,
630; 1Mr. Owens, 681; Mfr. Power, M.
agreed to, 63M; M. to concur in report
<(Mr. Gibson), 1252; rem., Mr. Power,
M
Sir,M. Boweil, n pt. f urdEr T r. Power>,
1253; rem., Mfr. Ferguson, 1fr. Speaker,
1254; Mfr. Gibson, Mr. Wilson, 1255; Mfr.
B4ique, 1fr. Poirier, Mfr. VM1uilen, 1257;
Mfr. Lougheed, Mfr. Kerr, Mfr. Landry,
1260; rem., Sir M. Boweil, 1332; Mfr.
Ferguson, Mfr. Speaker, 1m3; 1fr. Wilson,
1fr. Ferguson, amt. to refer back (1fr
Casgrain), 1387; amt. carried, 1338; M.
Mfr. Scott, 1578; Mfr. Boss (Middlesex),
1577; Mfr. Ferguson, 1583; Sir M. :Bowell,.
158U; Mr. Lougheed, 1587; 1fr. Kerr,
1588; Mr. Landry, 1592; Mr. Wilson,
1595; Mfr. McMullen, 1596; M. (Mfr. Scott)
rejected <c. 18; n. c. 19), report of Com.
adopied, -1596.
(7) An Act to inoorporate the North Empire
Fire Insurance Company <1fr. Young).
lnt., 617; 2nd R.,-679; 3rdR.#, 781; R.A.,
1147 <c. 136).
<(8)An .îAct 'respecting the'Tobique «Manufacturing "Company --and to change its
name ta "Fraser Lumber Company,-Limit-

INDEX

xxii

BLLS--SERIATIM-Col.
BI.LLS-~SEP.I.TIM-Coit.
(21) An Act respecting the British Yukon
ed' (Mr. Thompson). Int., 231; 2nd R.*,
Int.,
Railway Company (Mr. Beiconîrt).
266; 3rd R.*, 380; 11.Â., 541 (c. 162).
M8; 2nd R.*, 430; B. rep. from Com. (Mr.
Casgruin), 480; Srd R.*, 503; R.A., 541
(9) An Act respecting the survey of publie
(o. es).
and Survoyorse nlande of the Dominion
(22) An Act reapecting the Macleod, Card*_
titled to make "eho survey (Mr. Sct)
stan and Montana Railway Company (Mr.
lut., 97; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Sctt), rom.,
Talbot). lut., 211; 2nd B.*, 219; 3rd R.*,
Mr. Fergusan, Mr. Lougheed, 216; Mr.
318; R.Â., 541 (c. 125).
Scott, Mr. Casgrain, 217; Mr. Scott, M.
agreed ta, 918; in Cern., rem."- Mr.
<23y Au Aý reseing the Ministeir',
Lougheed, Mr. Scott, Mr. Power, Mr.
widows and orphans fund of the.PresbyCasgrsin, 275, 276; Mr. Casgrain, Mr.
terian Church cf Canada (Mr. Watson).
Sullivan, 277; Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Scott,
lut., =39; 2nd R.*, 364; 3rd R.*, 487.
278; amt. ta el. 21 .(MTr. Kerr), 280; reem.,
R.A., 541 (c. 148).
Mr. Power, Mr. Laugheed, 280; Mr. Scott,
Mr. Ross (Middlesex), 281; Mr. Scott,
(24) An Ac£ respecting the West Ontario
Mr. Bernier, 283; Mr. Landry, Mr. Rose
Pacifie Railway Company (Mr. McMulIen).
Mr. Kerr, 284; Mr. Lougheed, Mr. SulliInt., 98; 2nd R.*, 175; Srd R.*, 213; R.A.,
van, Mr. Power, 285; Mr. Scott, Mr.
23(c. 169).
Kerr, amt. lest, 286; on ci. 22, rem., Mr.
(25) Ân Act respecting the Hamilton Radial
Casgrain, Mr. Pawer, Mr. Scatt, cl. struck
Electric Railway Company (Mr. Gibsan).
aut, 807; an el. 44, amt. (Mr. Power), 307;
Int., 479; 2nd R.*, U39; 3rd R.*, 778;
sait. adapted, B. .reported with amts.
R.Â., 1147 (c. 117).
cancurred. in (Mr. Ellis), 3W8; M. $rd B.
(Mr. Scott), rom., Mr. MeMullen, M.
(26) An Act respecting the Manitoba and
agreed ta, 331; R.A., 541 (c. 21).
Naîthwestern Railway Company of Canada (Mr. Watson). Int., 98; 2nd R., 175;
(13) Ân Act respecting the British CalumnSrd B.*, 213; R.A., 293 (c. 126).
bia Sauthern Bailway Company (Mr.
Yaung). Int., 97; 2nd B.*, 174; 3rd R.',
(27) An Act ta amendthe Gavernment Rail.
213; B.A., 293 (c. 87).
ways Act (Mr. Scott). Int., 617; 2nd R.,
679; in Com., rom., Mr. Fergusan, Mr
(14) An Act respecting the Campbellfard,
Scott, 704; Mr. Wilson, Mr. Watson, B
Lake Ontario and Western Bailway Cemrep. from Coin. (Mr. McKay, Truro),
pany (Mr. Beith). Int., 97; 2nd R.*, 174;
705; 3rd B.*, 721; B.A., 779 (c. 31).
Srd B.*, 213; R.A., 293 (c. 90)
(15) An Act respecting the Esquimait and
Nanaima Bailway Company (Mr. Young).
Iut., 98; 2nd B.*, 175; Srd R.', 213; R.A.,
1738 (c. 107).
(16) An Act respecting the South Ontario
Pacifia Railway Company (Mr. McMullen).
Int., 211; 2nd R.*, 219; Srd R.*, 818;
R.A., 541 (c. 157).
(19) An Act ta incarparate the
lut.,
Winnipeg (Mr. Young).
'2nd R. (Mr. Watson), rom., Mfr.
337; Mr. Scott, Mr. MeMillan,
te, 338; 3rd R.*, 523; R.A., 779

Bank of
3M9; M.
Leugheed,
M. agieed
(c. 173)!

<20> An Act respecting the Belleville Prince
Edward Bridge Company (Mr. Ross,
Middlesex). lut., 1083; M. 2nd R., (Mr.
Boss), 1222; rem., Mr. Derbyshire, Mr.
Wilson, 1223; Mr. Ross, Mr. Poirier, 1224;
Mr. Power. amt. (Mr. Davis) fox 6 m. h.,
1225; Mr. Kerr, Mr. Ponley, Mr. Cloran,
1226; amt. withdn., M. 2nd R. carried,
1227; 3rd R.*, 1396; B.A., 1737 (c. 85).

(28) An Act ta amend the Copyright Ac
(Mr. Power). lst R.', 329; M. 2nd R s
(Mr. Pawer), rem., Mr. Lougheed, 380; M
agreed ta, 381; in Com., rem., Mr. Boa
(Middlesex), 454; B. rep. front Cern. (Mr
Baker), 455; 3rd R., R.A., 541 (c. 17).
(32) An Act ta incorporate the Bank «,
Vancouver (Mr. Bostack). Iut., 501; 2nE
R.*, 589; 3rd R.*, 703; R.A.. 779 (c. 166) d
(33) An Act respecting the Calgary an
Fernie Bailway Company (Mr. Bastack)
Iut., 231; 2nd R.*, 266; 3îd R.*, 318
T
R.A., 541 (c. 89).
(84) An Act respecting the Lindsay, Bobc-a7
gean and Pontypoel Bailway "Companý
(Mr. McHugh). lut., 211; 2nd B.*, 219
Srd R.*, 818; R.A., 541 (c. 123).
(35) An Act ta incorparate the Traveller
Life Assurance Company of Canada (M
David). lut., 617; 2nd B.*, 679; Brd R.'
781; R.A.. 1147 (c. 165).

INDEX

xxiii

INDEX

xx"'

BILLS-SERIATIM-on.
(36ý An Act respecting the Boundary, Ka-loops and Cariboo Central Railway Company (Mr. Bostock). Int., 231; 2nd R.',
266; 3rd R.', 318; R.A., 541 (c. 86).
<37) An Act to incorporate the Canada
Weather Ineuxrarnce Comraeans (Mr. Beflh).
Int., 640; 2nd B.*, 703; Brd R.*, 781;
R.A., 1147 (c. 91).
(38) An Act respecting the Edmonton, Dunvegan and British Columbia Railway Company (Mr. Roy). Int., 246; 2nd R.', 270;1
3rd R.', 318; R.A., 541 (c. 104).
(39) An Act ýrespeating the KamlooPs a.nd
Yellowhead Pass Railway Company (Mr.
Boqtock). Int., 211; 2nd R.', 219; Srd
R.', 318; R.A., 541 (c. 120).
(40) An Act respecting the Pacifie Coast
Fire Insurance Company (Mr. Bostock).
Int., 793; 2nd R.', 805; 3rd R.', 928; R.A.,
1147 (o. 143).
(41) An Act to incorporate the Standard
Plate Glass Insurance Company of Canada
Int., 793; 2nd R.', 805;
(.Mxr. Jaflray).
3rd R.', 919; R.A., 1147 (c. 161).
<44) An Act to incorporate the Alberta and
Brazeau Railway Company (Mr. Young).
Int., 246; 2nd RB., 308; B. rep. from Com.
(Mr. Casgrain), 355; amts. concurred in,
381; 3rd R.', 430; R.A., 541 (c. 79).
(45) An Act respecting the Canadian Pacific
Railway Company (Mr. Young). Int., 246;
2nd R.', 270; 3rd R.', 318; R.A., 541 (o.
95).
(46)An. Act respecting the Cumberland
way and Coal Company (Mr Power).
246; 2nd R., 270; In Com., amts.
curred in, 455; Srd R., R.A., 541 (c.

RailInt..
con100).

(47) An Act respecting the Montreal, Ottawa and Georgian Bay Canal Company
(Mr. Kerr). Int., 479; 2nd R.', 539; 3rd
R., 684; R.A., 779 (c. 130).

FILLS-SERIÀTIM-Con.
(Mr. Casgrain), 1183; amt. (Mr. Comeau)
for 3 m. h., 1184; rem., Mr. Bo6tock, 1184;
Mr. Baird, 1186; Mr. David, 1187; Mr.
Gibson, 1188; Mr. Béique, 1190; Mr. MeMuflen, 1192; Sir M. Bowell, 1193; Mr.
Kerr, 1195; MT. Longheed, 1197; Mfr. Wilson, 1201; amt. rejected (c. 9; n. c. 23).
M. agreed to, 1202; M. 3rd R. (Mr.
Bostock), amt. Mr. Landry, 1206; rem.,
Mr. Béique, 1207; Mr. Cloran, 1208; Mr.
Belcourt, 1209; Sir M. Bowell,. 1210; amt.
rejected (c. 10; n. c. 29), M. 3rd R. carried,
1211; R.A., 1737 (c. 155).
(50) An Act respecting the Dominion AtRailway Company (Mr. Power).
.,
Int., 479-, 2nd R.*, 520; 3rd R.', 684;
779 (c. 101).

jlantic

(51) An Act respecting the Erie, London
and Tilsonburg Railway Company (Mr.
8
lnt., 480; 2nd R. , 520; 3rd
Wilson).
R.*, 591; R.A., 779 (c. 106).
(52) An Act respecting the patent of Eugene
Int.,
François Giraud (Mr. McMullen).
231; 2nd R.', 291; 3rd B.'. 380; B.A..
541 (c. li3).
(53) An Act respecting the New Brunswick
Southern Railway Company (Mr. Ellis).
Int., 735; 2nd R.', 761; 3rd R.', 920;
R.A., 1147 (c. 132).
(567) An Act to incorporate the Bank of
Hamilton Pension Fund (Mr. McMullen).
Int., 617; 2nd R.', 679; 3rd R.*, 781;
R.A., 1147 (c. 116).
(57) An Act respecting a certain convention
between. His Majesty and the President of
the French Republic (Sir R. Cartwright).
Int., 480; 2nd R., 703; in Com., rem., Sir
R. Cartwright, 705; Sir M. Bowell, 707;
Sir R. Cartwright, 713; B. rep. from Com.
Wood), 714; 3rd R.', 714; R.A., 779
(c. 28).

j(Mr.

(58) Au Act respecting the Ashcroft, Barkerville and Fort George Railway Company
(48) An Act respecting the Niagara Grand
(Mr. Bostock). lut., 231; 2nd R.', 291;
Island Bridge Company (Mr. Kerr). Int.,
3Rd .*, 368; R.A., 541 (c. 83).
266; 3rd R.', 318; B.A., 541
231; 2nd R.',
(6)An Act respecting patents of the Good(c. 133).
* win Care Company (Mr. Xerx). Int., 329:.
(49) An Act to incorporate the Shuswap and
2nd R., 354; 3rd R.', 380; R.A., 541 (o.
Thompson Rivers Boom Company (Mfr.
114).
Int., 714; 2nd R., 740; M. tc
Bostook).
(Mr. Casgrain), amt. tc
concur in report
(61) An Act respecting patents of Montagne
refer back (Mr. Bostock), rem., Mr. Ellis, * Moore and Thoma.s James Heskett (Mr.
Kerr). Int., 329; 2nd R., 35M; 3rd R.',
Sir M. Bowell, 994; Mr. Kerr, 995; Mr
380; R .A., 541 (c. 129).
Iléique, 997; Mr. Cloran, 999; Mr. Lan.
dry, 1000; Mr. Belcourt, 1001; Mr. Me
M-\ullen, amt. to refer back carried (c. 29 *(62) An Act respecting the Subsidiary Hligh
* Court of the Ancient Order of Foresters
n. c. 15), 1002; M. to concur in amts

xxiv

INDEX

xxiv

INDEX

BILLS-SERIATIM-Con.
in the Dominion of Canada (Mr. McHugh).
Int., 617; 2nd R.*, 679; 3rd R.', 781;
R.A., 1147 (c. 108).
(67) An Act respecting the Canadian Northern Ontario Railway Company (Mr. Gib-1
Int., 480; 2nd R.', 520; 3rd R.*,
son).
703; R.A., 1147 (c. 93).
(68) An Act respecting the Edmonton, Yukon
and Pacifie Railway Company (Mr. Davis).
Int., 501; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Wilson), rem.,
Mr. Power, Mr. Wilson, M. agreed to,
539; 3rd R.*, 951; R.A., 1148 (c. 105).
(69) An Act to incorporate the Ruthenian
Catholie Mission of St. Basil the Great
in Canada (Mr. Talbot). Int., 355; 2nd
R.*, 566; amts. concurred in (Mr. Cloran),
800; 3rd R.*, 805; R.A., 1147 (c. 152).

BILLS-SERIATIM-Con.
sier). Int., 480; 2nd R.*, 520; 3rd R.*,
591; R.A., 779 (c. 94).
(81) An Act respecting the Canadian Northern Railway Company (Mr. Young). Tnt.,
480; 2nd R.*, 520; 3rd R.*, 684; R.A., 779
(c. 92).
(82) An Act respecting the Niagara, St.
Catharines and Toronto Railway Company (Mr. Kerr). Int., 617; 2nd R.*, 679:
M. to concur in report (Mr. Ellis), arnt.
to refer back (Mr. Kerr), 987; amt.
agreed to, 988; 3rd R.'. 1060; R.A.. 1737
(c. 134).
(83) An Act
Meaford
Mullen).
R.*, 684;

respecting the Owen Sound and
Railway Company (Mr. McInt., 480; 2nd R.', 520: 3rd
R.A., 779 (c. 141).

(70) An Act to incorporate the Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan, Peace River and Dawson
Railway Company (Mr. Roy). Int., 501;
2nd R.*, 786.

(86) An Act to incorporate the Northern
Empire Railway Company (Mr. DeVeber).
Int., 714; 2nd R.*, 740; 3rd R.*. 920: R.A.,
1147 (c. 138).

(71) An Act respecting the Standard Mutual
Fire Insurance Company, and to change
its name to the ' Standard Fire Insurance
Company ' (Mr. Kerr). lst R.*, 2nd R.,
993; 3rd R.*, 1340; R.A., 1737 (c. 160).

(87) An Act to incoporate the Vancouver
Island and Eastern Railway Company
(Mr. Bostock). Int., 480; 2nd R.*. 520:
3rd R.*, 721: R.A.. 1147 (c. 167).

(72) An Act respecting the ptent of the
Windsor Pump and Foundry Company,
Limited (Mr. Beith). Int., 231; 2nd R.*,
291; 3rd R.*, 180; R.A., 541 (c. 172).
(73) An Act respecting the Quebec Railway,
Light and Power Company (Mr. Choquette). Int., 480; 2nd R.*, 520: 3rd R.*,
919; R.A., 1147 (c. 150).
(74) An Act respecting the Ottawa, Brockville and St. Lawrence Railway Company
(Mr. Derbyshire).
Int., 480; 2nd R.*,
520; 3rd R.*, 721; on Commons amts., M.
(Mr. Derbyshire) to agree with Commons
and restore original cl. 4, 795: rem., Sir
M. Bowell; Mr. McMillan, 796; Mr. Cloran,
Mr. Béique, Mr. Kerr, 797; amended M.
(Mr. Derbyshire) carried, 798: R.A., 1147
(c. 140).

(88) An Act to incorporate the Architectural
Institute of Canada (Mr. Béique). Int.,
759: 2nd R.*, 778; 3rd R.*, 971; R.A.,
1147 (c. 82).
(89) An Act to authorize the sale to the
Grand Trunk Railway Company of Canada of a portion of Major's Hill Park. in
the City of Ottawa. as a hotel site (Mr.
Scott). Int., 1453; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Scott),
rem., Mr. Lougheed, 1533; M. 2nd R.
carried, 1534: in Com.. rem., Sir M.
Boweil, Mr. Frost, 1555; Mr. Lougheed.
Mr. Sullivan, 1556: Mr. Power, 1557; Mr.
Ferguson. 1558; Mr. Watson, 1558; Mr.
McMullen, 1559; Mr. Ferguson, 1560; Mr.
Power, 1561; Sir M. Bowell. 1562; Mr.
Kerr, Mr. Ross
1563; B. rep.
from Con. (Mr. Comeau), 1563; 3rd R.,
1564; R.A., 1738 (c. 44).

(Halifax),

(76) An Act respecting the Interprovincial
Railway Bridge Company of New Bruns.
wick (Mu. Costigan). Int., 480; 2nd R.*,
520; 3rd R.*, 591; R.A., 779 (c. 119).

(94) An Act for granting to His Majesty
certain surns of money for the public
service for the financial year ending 31st
March, 1908 (Mr. Scott). M. lst R. (Mr.
Scott), rem.. Mr. Lougheed, Sir M. Bowell,
287; Sir R. Cartwright, Mr. Ferguson,
288; M. agreed to, 289; 2nd R.*, 289; M.
3rd R. (Mr. Scott), rem., Mr. Lougheed,
Mr. McMullen, 289; Mr. Douglas, 290: M.
agreed to, 291; R.A., 283 (c. 1).

(77) An Act respecting the Canadian Northern Quebec Railway Company (Mr. Tes-

99( Anî; Act to amend the Irrigation Act
Int., 501; 2nd R., 566; B.
SlMr. Scott).

(75) An Act to incorporate the Women's
Auxiliary to the Misisonaary Scciety of the
Church of England in Canada (Mr. Baker)
Int., 329: 2nd R.*, 338; 3rd R.*, 380; R.A.,
541 (c. 98).

INDEX
BILLS-SERIATIM---Con.
2nd R. (Mr. Scott), 1686; rein., Mr.
Lougheed, 1687; Mr. Watson, 1689; Mr.
Ponley, 1694; Sir M. Boweii, 1697; Mr.
(101) An Act respecting the Fort William
Ferguson, 1700; Mr. Béique, M. 2md R.
Terminai Bailway and Bridge Company
agreed ta, 1701; in Cam., on subci. 4, Mr.
(Mr. Watson). Int., 793; 2nd R.*. U05;
Ferguson, Mr. Scott, subcl. adopted. on
3rd R.*, 920; R.Â., 1147 <c. 109).
subci. 6, Mr. Watson, cl. adopted, 1702;
on cl. 8, Mr. Kerr, Mr. Rose (Middlesex).
(102) An Act ta emend the Winding Ufp
Sir M. Boweii, 1704; Mr. Ferguson, Mr.
(Mr. Soott). lut., 455; 2nd R., 487; B.
Act
Scott, Mr. Ljoughieed, 1706; Mr. Scott, Mr.
3rd R.'.
rep. from Coin. (Mr. Wàlson> 5W9;
Lougheed, ci. adot.ted,. 1711; en ci. 21, oint.
550; BR.A., 779 (c. 74).
Sir M. Boweli, Mr. Ross (Middlesex), 1712;
Sir M. Boweil, Mr. Watson, 1713; amt.
(109) Au Act taauthorize a bounty ta Voliost, ci. adopted, 1714; on el. 26, Mr. Perunteers who served the Crown in South
iey, Mr. Watson, 1714; ei. adopted, on
(Mr. Scott). Lut., 1651; M. 2nd R.
Africa,
ci. 36, Sir M. Boweii, 1715; B. rep. froin
(Mr. Scott), rein., Sir M. Bowell, M. %geed
Coin., 3rd R.', 1716, R.A., 1738 (c. 26).
ta. 3rd R., 1680; R.A., 1738 (c. 67).
(116) An Act to amend. the Exchequer
(111) Au Act respecting the National BattieCourt Act <Mn. Scott). Int., 946; 2nd R.,
fields at Quebec (Sir R. Cartwright). Int.,
993; in Coin., Mr. Scott, Mr. Ferguson,
480; M. 2nd R. (Sir R. Cartwright), remn.,
Sir M. Boweii, 1051; Mr. Scott, Mr. FerMr. Choquette, Mr. Lougheed, 520, M.
guson, Mr. Bulis, B. rep. froin Coin. (Mr.
agreed ta, 521; in Coin.. rem., Sir Rt.
Talbot), 1052; M. Srd R. (Mr. Scott),
Cartwright, 524; Mr. Lougheed, 525; Mr.
rein., Sir M. Boweii, M. 3rd R. agreed to,
526; Mr. Dandurand, 528; Mr. BerScott,
1053; R.A., 1147 (c. 27>.
nier, 528; Mr. Macdonald (B.C.), Mr.
(117) An Âct ta amend the Intercolonial
Poirier, 529; on ei. 1, rem., Mr. Ferguson;
Raiiway and Prince Edward Island Railon ci. 5, rem., Mr. Lougheed, 532; on ei.
way Empioyees' Provident Fund Act (Mr.
9 and 10, rem., Mr. Power, 535; on ei. 16,
Scott). *Int., 550; 2nd R., 616; 3rd R.*.
rem., Ure. Power, 536; B. Tep. front Com.
653; RB.A., 779 (c. 37).
(MS,. Roy), 537; Srd R.*, 537; R.A., 541 (o.
57).
(118) An Act ta amend the Raiiway Act
with respect ta Teiegraphs and Teiephones
(112) An Act ta amend the Raiiway Act as
and the jurisdictian of the Raiiway CoinCom. (Mr. Roy>, 537; 3rd RB.', 537; R.A.,
missioners (Mr. Scott). Int., 1391; 2nd
respects the constitution of the Board of
R., 1410; in Coin., rein., Sir M. Boweli,
Raiiway Commissianers (Mr. Scott). Int.,
Mr. Scott, Mr. Béique, 1465; B. rep.
946; 2ndRB., 993; in -Com., Mr. Lougheed,
frain Coin. (Mn. Campbell), 1467; 3rd R.,
Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Casgrain, 1397; Mr.
1467; R.A., 1738 (c. 6i).
McMuiien, 1399; Mr. Ellis, 1400; Mr.
Ferguson, 1401; Mr. Power, 1402; Mr.
(119> An Act ta encourage the construction
Béique, 1403; Mr. Scott, 1404; discussion
of Dry Docks (Mr. Scott). Int., 1221, M.
on clauses, 1405-1407; Mr. Ferguson, 1407;
2nd R. (MT. Scott), 1287; rein., Mr.
Mr. Scott, Mr. Béique, 1408; B. rep. from
Lougheed, 1288; Sir M. Boweii, 1290; Mr.
Comn. (Mr. Bolduc>, 1409. M. 3rd R. <Mr.
McMuilen. M. 2nd R. agreed ta, 1291; in
Scott), ait. Mr. -Béique carried, 1453;
Coin., on cl. 3, rein., Mr. Power; 1329;
aint. Mr. Ferguson, rem., Mr. Scott, 1454;
Mr. Béique, Mr. Ross (Middlesex). Mr.
Mr. Ferguson, 1455; aint. adopted, aint.
MeSweeney, 1330; ei. adopted. 1331; on
Mr. Landry rejected, M. 3rd R. carried,
ci. 8, rein., Sir M. Boweii, Mr. Béique,
1457; RB.A., 1738 (c. 62).
Mr. Scott, 1331; ci. adopted, 1332; B. rep.
froin Coin. (Mr. Cox), 1332; 3rd R.',
(113) An Act ta amend the Land Tities Act
1340; R.Â., 1737 (c. 24).
(Mr. Scott). Int.. 815; M. 2nd R. (Mr.
Scott),' rein., Mr. Lougheed, 834; M.
(120) Au Act ta autharize the issue of Gon.
in Com., remn., Mr.
agreed to, 835;
.
erninent Anuuities for aid age (Sir
Mr.
Lougheed, Mr. Power, Mr. Ellis, 911;
Cartwright). Int.,'1453; M. Znd R. (Sir
-Scott, 912; rSir M. Boweii. B. rep. froin
R. Cartwright), 1488; renMr. Ferguson,
Coin. (Mr. Bulis), 987; 3rd R.*, 1004; R.A.,
1489; *M. 2nd R. agreed ta, 1491; in Coin.,
1147 (c. 41).
rein., Mfr. Ferguson, 1535; Sir R. Cartwright, .1536; on ci. '4, 'Mr. Ferguson, Mr.
(115) 'An Act to amend the'Dominion EiecCox, Sir R. Cartwright, 1538; ei. adopted,
tions Act (Mr. Scott). lst R.*, 1681; M.-

BILLS--SERIATIM-Con.
rep. froin Coin. (Mr. McKay, Alma), 679;
3rd R, 684; R.A., 779 (c. 38).

INDEX

BILLS-SERIATIM-Con.
BILLS-S3ERIATIM-Con.
Landry), Chairman's ruling upheld (o.
15We; discussion on clauses, 1540-1543; o
28; n. c. 6), 1669; rem., Mi. Roy, Mi.
el. 11, Sir R. Cartwright, Mr. Béique, Mr.
Kerr, 1669; Mi. Scott, Mi. Power, 1670;
Sullivan, cl. adopted, 1544, B. rep. from
Mi. Ferguson, 1671; arnt. Mi. Derbyshire
Cern. (Mr. Forget), 3rd R.*, 1544; R.A.,
carried, B. îop. fîorn Com. (Mr. David),
1738 (c. 5).
3îd R., 1672; B.A., 1738 (c. 56).
<121) An Act ta amend the Supreme Court
(147) An Âct ta repeal the Canned Goods
lot B.*, 082, 2nd R.,
Act (Mr. Scott).
Act (Mr. Scott). Int., 817; 2nd R., 875;
703; Srd R.*, 739; R.A., 779 (c. 70).
3îd R.0, 928; B.A., 1147 (c. 13).
<135) An Act ta amend the Immigration Act
(148) An Act ta amend the Inspection and
(Mr. Scott). lst B.*, M. te suspend rules
Sale Act (Mr. Scott). lut., 1202; 2nd R.,
(Mr. Scott), rem., Sir M. Bowell, 805; Mr.
1228; in Cern., rem., Mi. Lâougheed Mr.
Scott, 807; Mr. Landry, 808; Mr. Béique,
Foîguson, 1294; Mi. Power, 1295; B. rep.
809; 2nd and Srd R.*, 810; R.A., 1738
from Com. (Mr. McSweonoey), 129; Srd
(c. 33).
R.*, 1298; R.A., 1737 (c. 35).
(136) An Act for granting ta Ris Majesty
(149) An Âct ta amend the Meat and Canned
certain sums of rnoney for the public
Feodi Act (Mr. Scott). Iut., 817; M. 2nd
service ef the financial years onding reR. (Mr. Scott), rem., Mr. Lougheod, Mr.
spectively March 31, 1908, and Maîch 31,
Gibson, 875; M. agieed te, 876; in Cern.,
1909 (Mi. Scott). lst B.*, 738; 2nd R.,
rem., Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Scott, 920; Mi.
3rd R., 739; R.A., 779 (c. 2).
Feiguson, 921; Mr. Power, Mr. Bostock,
<142) An Act to amend the Bills of Exchange
Mr. Baird, M3; Mr. Jaflre.y, Mti. Làougheed,
Âct (Mr. Scott). lat B.*, 2nd R., Srd R.*,
92M; Mr. Scott, Mi. Feigusen, 924; Mr.
814; R.A., 816 (c. 8).
Cleran, 925; B. rep. from Com. (Mr.
<143) An Act toa mond the Inland Revenue
Ellie), 926; 3rd M, o28; B.A., 1147 (c. 47).
Act (Mi. Scott). lat B.*, 2nd R., 810; in
<150) An Aot ta amend the Yukon Placer
Cern., rem., Sir M. Bewell, Mr. Power,
Mining Act (Mr. Scott). lut., 1202; 2nd
812; B. rep. fîom Cern. (Mi. Kerr), M.
R., 1229; in Cern., rom., Mr. Scott, Sir
Srd R. (Mr. Scott), 813; rem., Sir M.
M. Bowell, 1296; Mr. Liongheed, 1297; B.
Bowell, 813; M. agîeed te, 814; R.A., 816
îep. fîom Cern. (Mr. Béique), 1332; Srd
<c. 84).
B.*, 1340; B.A., 1737 (c. 77).
<144) An Act ta amend the Winding-Up Act
(152) An Act respectiniz Signal Dues at Hali(Mr. Scott). Int., 815; M. 2nd R. (Mr.
fax (Mi. Scott). Int., 946; 2nd R., 993;
Scott), rem., YIr. Lougheed, 833; M. agreed
B. rep. fîom Cern. (Mr. Sullivan), 1008;
te, 834; in Cern., B. rep. from Cern. (Mr.
Bîd R.*, 1011; R.A., 1147 (c. 66>.
Mitchell), 855; 3rd R., 862; R.A., 1147
(158) An Act respecting the Meaford Hai(o. 75).
boni <Mr. Scott). Iut., 946; ýndT R., 994;
(145) An Act ta amend the Act relatiniz te
in Cern., Mr. Scott, Sur M. Bewell, 1009;
Ocean Steamships Subsidies (Mr. Scett).
B. îep. fîom Cern. (Mi. Bostock), 1010;
lst R.*, 2nd R., rem., Sir M. Bowell, 3rd
Srd R.*, 1011; R.A., 1147 (c. 46).
R.0, 815; R.A., 816 (c. 68).
(159) An Act rospecting the issue ef De(146) An Act respecting 'pioprietary or
minion Notes (Mi. Scott). lst R.*, 1230;
patent medicines (Mr. Scett). Int., 1535;
M. 2nd R. (MT. Seott), 1261; Mi. Lougheed,
M. 2nd R. (Mr. Scott), rom., Mi. Roy,
1262;- Mr. Domyile, 1264; Mi. Watson,
M. agreed te, 1565; in Cern., Mr. Pewer,
1265;- Mr. Scott, 1268; Mi. Ferguson, 1269;
Mr. Sullivan, Mi. McMillan, Mi. Béique,
Sir M. Bowell, 1274; Mi. Gibsen, 1275;
1566, 1567; Mi. Sullivan, 1568; discussion
M. 2nd R. agreed te, Sid B.*, 1276; R.A.,
on clauses, Mi. MeMullen, Mr. Scott, Mi.
1737 (c. 23).
Peweî, Mi. Wilson, Mr. Deuglas 1569-1573;
(160) An Act ta arnend the Bank Act (Mi.
Mr. MeMullen, Mi. Scett, Mi. Sullivan,
Scott). Int., 1276; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Scott),
1641; Mr. Kerr, Mi. Derbyshire, Mi.
1319; Mi.
1318; xem., Mii. Ferguemc,
Roy, 1643; Mi. Scott, 1644; Mi. Ces.. Mr.
Campbell, 1320; Mi. Béique, Mr. Power,
Sullivan, 1645; Mr. Ross (Middlesex), Sir
M. 2nd B. agieed te, 1321; in Cern., remn..
M. Bowell, 1647; Mr. Cefiey, 1648; en cl.
Mi. Ferguson, 1354; Sir R. Cartwright,
7 reeonsideied, amnt. Mr. Sullivan, rem.,
1354, 1355; B. rep. fîom Cern. (Mi.
Mr. MeMul1eu, Mi. Béique, 1667; e.mt. lost,
Coffey), srd .*, 1356; R.A., 1737 <c. 7).
amt. Mi. Derbyshire, on pt. of eider (Mr.

1NDEX
TiNDEX

xxvii

xxvii
BILLS---ERIATIM-Cofl.
BILLS.-SERIÂTIM-Cofl.
Edwards, 1484; Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Wilson,
eh Post Office
(16,2) An AMt ta, &mend
13), M. 3rd
1485; e.mt. caïrri.d Ko. 32, on..
Act (Mr. Scott). Tnt., 1221; M. 2nd B.
R. carried, 1486; B.A. 1788 <c. 73).
1291; rom., Mfr. Lougheed.
(Mr. Scott),
(181) An Âct ta consolidato and amend the
Sir R. Cartwrighit, Sir M. Bowoli, Mr.
Acte respecting the. Public Lande of the.
Power, M, 2nd B. agreed ta, 1292; in Com.,
Dominion (Mr. Scott). lst R.., 1511; on
rem., Mr. MoMullen, 1377; B. rep. tram
notice of 2nd B., rom., Mr. Lougiioed, Sir
Com. (Mfr. Legris), 1378; 3rd R.*, 1378;
M. Boweii, Mr. Scott, 1512; M. 2nd B. (Mr'.
B.A., 1738 (c. 53).
Scott), 1625; Sir M. Boweil, 1627; Mr.
<163) An Âct to authorize the Exchange of
Davis, M. s.greed to, 16U8; in (Com.. on cl.
Sciioci Landa for otiier Dominionl Lande
15, Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Scott, Mr. BNique,
(Mr. Scott). Tnt., 946; 2nd R.. in Com.,
1631; Sir M. Bowell, Mr'. Ferguson, ci.
rem., Sir M. Bowell, Mfr. Scctt, B. rep.
adopted, 1633; on cl. 32, Mr. Lougheed, Sir
from 0cm. (Mfr. Sullivan), 1053; Srd B.*
R. Cartwright, el. adopted, 163U; on cl. 39,
1060; R.A., 1147 (c. 22).
Sir M. Bowell, Mr'. Scott, ci. adopted, 1635;
en ci. 42, amat. (Mr. Lougheed) 1035, Mr.
(165) An Act roapecting the. Court of Appeal
Landry, Mr. Watson, 1637; Mr. Lougheed,
of British Columbia (Mfr. Scott). lnt.,
3,
Mr. Soott, amt. r.jeoted <co. n.c. 15). B.
1276;' 2nd R., 1321; B. rep. from 0cm. (1fr.
rep. tram Com. <(Mr. Coffey), 1638; M. 3rd
Kerr'), 3rd R.*, 1357; B.A., 1737 <c. 10).
R. <(Mr. Scott), rem., Mfr. Longheed, 1654;
<168) An Act ta authorizo the psyment ta
amt. Mfr. Lcugheed, 1657; Mfr. Scott, 1658;
the. Provinces of Saskatchewan and AiMfr. BRas (Middlesex) 1659; Mfr. Watson.
berta of part cf the Assurance Pund under
Mfr. Forguson, 1601; Sir M. Bowell, 1662;
the. Land Titios Act, 1894 <(Mr. Scott).
Mfr. Kerr', 1664; Mr. Landry, 1665; amt.
lut., 1149; 2nd R., 1211; B. rep. tram Com.
lost, M. Srd É~. carriod, 1666; R.A., 1738
(Mfr. Young), 1286; 3rd B.*, 1297; R.A.,
(c. 20).
1737 (c. 42)..
(186) An Act for granting ta His Majesty
(169) An Act ta amond the Yukon Act <Mr.
certain sums of money for the. public
Scott). Tnt., 1149; M. 2nd R. <(Mr. Scott),
service of the financial year ending March
.rem., Mr'. Lougiioed, 1233; M. agreed ta,
31, 190 (Mr. Scott). lst R.., M. ta sus1234; in Com., B. rep. from Com. (Mfr.
pend ruies (Mr. Scott), rem., Mr. LongDerbyshiire), 1316; $rd &0, 1340; B.A., 1737
heed, 1143; Mfr. Scott, 1144; 1fr. Miller,
(c. 76).
1145; Mfr. Scott, 1146; M. agreod to, 2nd
B.*, Srd R.*, 1147; R.A., 1148 <c. 3).
Act resp.cting Govornment Guar(171) An
anteed Bauds of the. Grand Trunk Rail<189) Au Act ta amend the. Civil Service
way Company <(Mr. Scott). lot B.*. 1221;
Act (Mfr. Scott). Tnt., 1453; M. 2nd B.
M. 2nd R. (1fr. Scott), 129; rem., Mr.
(Mfr. Scott), 1516; rem., Mfr. Lougheed,
Lcughoed, Sir M. Boweil, 1298; M. 2nd
1518; M. in amt .(Mfr. Lougiieed), 158;
B. agreod ta, 1294; Srd W. 1340;B.,
rom., Mfr. Power, 1521; (Mfr. B4ique), 1525;
,1737 (c. 82).
Mfr. BoSs (Middlesex), 1626; Sir M.
Boweli, 1528; Mfr. Ferguson, 1521;, it.
(173) An Adt ta reatrain the use of tabacco
lost, M. 2nd R. agroed te, 1533; in Com.,
Young persons (Mr. Scott). Iut., 1391;
by
on cl. 6, rem., Sir M. Bowell, cl. adoptod,
Scott), 1409; rem., Mr.
M. Bnd R. (Mr-.
1600; on cl. 8, rem., Sir M. Bowefl, Mr.
Boss (Middlesex), 1409; Mr. Ellis, 1f-r.
Lougheed, ci. amended adoptod, 1601; on
Laugiieed, M. 2nd R. agreod ta, 1410;, in
ci. 9, rem., Sir M. Boweli, Mr'. Poer,
Corn, on let el., amt. Mfr. Power, 1457;
1602; Mfr. Perguson, Mr. Béique, 1603;
Mr. Soott, Mfr. Lougheed, Mr. Me
rem.,
Mr. Lcugheed, Mr. McSweoney, Sir M.
Boss (Halif ax), Mr.
Mullen, 1458; Mr.
Bowell, 1605; Mfr. Watson, Sir R. CartRoss (Middlesex), 1459; Mr. Pawer, Sir
M. Bowell, Mfr. Lougiieed, 1460, Mr. Béi. * wrighit, 1607; Mfr. Kerr', Mr. Domville,
1609; ci. adopted, 1610; on ei. 11, Mr. Rosa
que, amt. lat, 1461; on ci. 2, amt: (Mfr.
(Middlesex), Mr. Scott, ci. adeptod, 1611;
1462; &Mt.
MoMufllen), -rem., Mfr. Gibson,
on ci. 38, Mfr. Power. Sir M. Bowell. 1615;
carried and ci. adopted, 1483; amt. Mfr.
1r.
M Scott, Mfr. MoMullen, 1617; Mr. Boss
Roas .<Middlesex), 1463; rem., Mfr. Gibson.
(Middlesex), 1618; cl. adopted, 1619; on ci.
amat. carried, 1404; B. vep. from Com. (Mr
41, Sir M. Boweli, 1619; Mr. Power, Sir R.
1484; M. Srd R. <1fr. Scott), 1479
Wilson),
Cartwright, 1620; ci. adopted, 1621; on ci.
amt. 1fr. Pawer, 1479; rem., Mfr. Scott
45, Mr. Lougheed, Mfr. Ferguson, 1621;
Mî'. David, Mr'. Lougheod, 1481; MSr. Kerr,
* Mr. Power, Mr. Scott, 1622; Sir M. Bowgfl.
1483; Mr. Boss (Middlesex), 1483; 1fr

xxviii
xxviii

INDEX

INDEX
BILLS--SERIÀTIM-Con.
1t LLS--SERIATIM---Con.
(205) An Act ta prohibit the importation,
WilMfr. Power, 162W; Mfr. Ferguson, Mfr.
manufacture and sale of opium for other
son, ci.adopted, B. rep. ftrm Com. (Mr.
than medicinai purposes (Mr. Scott). Ist
Campbell), Brd R.', 1624; R.A., 1738 (c.15).
R.*. 1549; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Scott), rem.,
(191) An Act respecting the bounties on iead
Sir M. Bowell, 1597; M. 2nd R. carried,
contained in lee.d-beariniz ores mnined iu
1597; in Com., rem., Mr. Scott, 1672; Sir
1453; M. Sud
Canada (Mfr. Scott). lut.,
M. Bowell, 1678; Mr. Domyille, Mr. Kerr.
R. (MTr. Scott), »em., Mr. McMullen, Mr.
1676; Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Ferguson, B. rep
Euei, 1491: Sir M. BoweU., Sir R. Caxtfroin Com. (Mr. McKay, Aima), 1677; Srd
wright. 1493: Mf. 2nd R. agreed ta, 1494. B.
R., 1678, R.A., 1738 <c. 50).
rep. £romn Com. (MS. Landry), 3rd R.',
(206) An Act ta amend the Judges Act (Mr.
15U4; R.A., .1738 (c. 43).
Scott) . Int., 1598-, 2nd R., Srd R.*, 1639;
(193) An Act ta amend the Timber MarkR.A., 1738 (c. 39).
ing Act (Mfr. Scott). Int., 1495; 2nd R.,
Srd R.', 1534; -R.A.,1738 (c. 72).
(208) An Âct respecting the Office of Audita General (Mr. Scott). lst R.*, 1513;
(194) An Act ta .&mend the Custome Act (Mfr.
M. 2nd R. (Mr. Scott), rem., Mr. Lough.
Sott)!., let R.', 1413; M. 2nd IR. (1fr.
heed, Mr. Fer guson, Sir M. Boweii, M.
SoVf), 1467; remn., Sir M. Bowel, 1468; Mfr.
agreed ta, 3rd R.*, 1549; R.A., 1738 (c. 6).
Gijbson, 1469; Mfr. Power, 1470; Mr. Lauiz.
heed. Mfr. Ellis, Mfr. McMullen, 1471; Mr.
M
(209) An Act ta, amend the Canada Shipr. Ja.ffray, 1474;
Scott, 1473; Mfr. Béique,
ping Act (Mr.- Scott). lut., 1651; M. 2nd
1475;i
-ta,
Sfr M. Bowell; Mf. 2nd -B. agreed
R. (Mr. Scott), remn., Mr. Lougheed, 1678;
in Coin., reem., Mr. Ljouaheed. Mfr. Scott.
Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Ferguson, 1679; M.
1494; B. rep). froin Com. (Mfr. MoSweenèY),
agreed ta. Srd R.*, 1680; R.A., 1738 (c. 64).
.
&,Ott), -rein.,-Sir M
1495; M. Srd R. (Mr.
Bowel, .1515; M. Srd R. cariried, 1516; .,
(210) Ân Act Éboamend the Northrwest Ter1738 (c. 19).
ritaries Act (Mr .Scott). lut., 1598; 2nd
R.0, Srd R.', 1639; R.A., 1738 (c. 49).
(199) An Act 4<, provide for the paynient
of bounities on crude petroleun (1fr.
(211) An Act ta amend the Act of the jrelst R.'. 1513; M. 2nd R. (Mr.
Scott).
sent Session entitied An Act respecting
Doinville,
Scott), rein., Mfr. Lougheed, Mfr.
the Dominion Guarantee Company, Limit1544; M. agreed ta, 1545; in Coin., rein.,
B. reSeived, "em., Mr. Baker, Sir
ed.
Sir M. Bowel, Mr. Wilson, 1fr. Scott,
M. Bowell, Mr. Landry, Mr. Power, Mr.
B. rep. from Coin. (1fr. Doiville),
1545;
Speaker, 1650; Mr. Speaker, Mr. Landry,
Srd R.'. 1546; R.A., 1738 (c. 52).
Mr. power, 1651, Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Baker,
(200) An Act respecting the Ealary cf th~e
Mr. Speaker, 1652.
Superintendent of Insurance (Mr. Scott).
(212) An Act ta amend the Criminal Code
lst R."'1511; M. 2nd R. (Mr. Scott), rein..
and ta repesi section 415 of the Raiiway
Sir M. Bowell, Mfr. Cox, 1546; M. agreed
Act (Mr. Scott). Int., 1649; 2nd R.', Srd
ta, 1547; 3rd R.', 1547; R.A., 1738 (c. 69).
R.*, 1678; B.A., 1738 (c. 18).
(201) «An Act ta assist ini maintaining an
and efficient service cf teleindependent
(213) An Act respecting aid for the exten~Ra.phic news from. Great Britain for
sion of the Edmonton, Yukon and Pacifie
publication in the Canadian Press (Mfr.
Railway (Mr. Scott). let R.*, 2nd R., Srd
Scott). lst R.', 1511; 2nd R., 1548; 3rd R.',
R.,1717; R.A:., 1738 (c. 25).
1549; R.., 1738 (c. 12).
(214) An Act respecting certain aid for the
(202) An Act ta, authorize the construction
extension of the Canadian Northerni Railcf a -branch line of. the Prince Edward
way t(Mr. Scott). list R., 2nd R., 3rd R.*,
Island Railway fromn Harmony on the
1717; R.A., 1738 (c. 11).
branch ta Elmira (1fr. Scott). let
Souris
Scott), rem.,
R.', 1511; M. 2nd R. (Mr.
<215) An Act ta authorize the granting of
Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Lougheed, 1547; Mr.
subsidies in aid of the' construction cf
l'erguson, 'Mr. Scott, M. agreed ta, 1548:
the lines of raiiway therein mentioned
3rd'R., 1624; R.A., 1738 (c.54).
(Mfr. Sc,ýtt). lst R.', 1717; M. 2nd R. (Mr~.
Scott), remn., Sir M. Bowell, 1718; Mr.
chap. 38 cf the
(204) An Act to amend
Landry, Mfr. Scott, 1719; Mfr. Ferguson,
Statutes, 1907, in ameudment ta the RailM. agreed to, .3rd R.', 1720; R A., 178
way Act (Mr. Scott). lut., 1597; 2nd R..
(c. 63).
Srd-R.', 1638; R.A., 1738 (c.,60).

INDEX

xxix

INDEX
xxix
CIVIL SERVICE INSURANCE RETURN:
BJLLS--SERIÂTIM-Oon.
mgq. (Mr. Ferguson), reply (Mr.
%ot,
';
(217) An Act respecting the Quebec Bridge
rem., Mr. Ferguson, Mr. Sot'~t, -'ýir M.
and Railway Coinpaay -(Mr. Soot). let
Bowell, 210.
iR.,. M. Lnd R. -(Mr. Scott), rem., Sir M.
-Boweli, 1720; Mv. Scott, Mr. Landry. 1721; CIVIL SERVICE SUSPENSIONS: inq. (Sir
Mr. Scott, 1725; M_. areed. ta, Srd B.*. 17N6:
M. Bowell), 786; replIy (Mr. Scott), 790;
R.A., 1738 (c. 59)*...
rem., Mv. Ross (Halifax), Mr. Gibson, Mv.
MacKeen, 791.
(218) An Act ta authorise the sale or other
disposition cf cerai~n Orduance lan1ds in COAL LANDS, LEASING REGULATIONS
the cities cf Toronito and Montreal (Mr
OF: img. «MT. Macdonald, R.),
replv (Mr.
Scott). lst B.-, 2nd R.-, Srd R.'. 1681;
*
Scott), 522.
R.A., 1738 (c. 51).
GOAÂL LANDS, LEAÂSING 0F: M. <(Mr. Mac<219) An Act respecting the National Baffle.
donald, B.C.), 946; Tom., Mr. Scott, M.
fieldseat Quebec (Mr. Scott). Ist "., M
withdn., 948.
2nd R. (Mr. Power), rem., Mr. Landry,
Mr. Perguson, Sir M. Bowell, 1707; Mr. COMMANDS-IN-CHIEF : inq. (Mr. Landry),
reply (Mr. Scott), 717.
Scott, Mr. Lougheed, 1702; M. 2nd R.
apreed ta, Srd R.0, 1710; R.Â., 1738 (c. 58). COMMITTEES, CONCURRENCE IN REPORTS OF : rem., Mr. Landry, Mr. Cas(220) An Act for granting ta His Mpjesty
grain. 293; Mr. Power, Mr. Young, 294
certain sums of money for the publie serMr. Speaker, 295.
vice for the financial year ending S1s1
March, 1909 (Mr. Scott). Ist R.*. 1726; COMMITTEE 0F SELECTION: 'A. (Mr.
M. 2nd R. (Mr. Scott), rem., Mr. Long
Scott), rem., Mr. Gibson, 39; Sir M. Bowell,
heed, 1726; Mr. Scott, Sir M. Bowell, 1729,
Mr. Davis, 40; Mr. Scott, Mr. Powerv, 41;
Mr. Ferguson, 1731; Sir M. Bowell, 1732;
Mr. Douglas, 42; Mr .Edwards, Mr. DomMr. Ross (Middlesex), 1733; Mr. Scott, M.
ville, 43; Mv. Wilson, 44; Mr.,Landry, M.
2nd R. agreed ta, 1736; 3rd R., 1737; .,
agreed to, 45.
1738 (c. 4).
COMMITTEE ON STANDING ORDERS: Re0BIC HARBOUR WHARF- inq. (Mr. Landry),
ports adopted, 271, 799.
reply <Mr. Scott), 1358.
BILLS A SSENTED TO : 293, 541, 779, 816, CONTINGENT ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE:
Fivet Report pvesented, M ta suspend rmb
1147, 1737.
(Mr .Watson), rem., Sir M. Bowell, 74; Mr.
BUSH FIES : in. (Mr. Baird), reply (Mr.
Watson, Mv. Bernier, 75; Mv. Powev, Mr.
(Scott), 860.
Speaker, Mr. Poirier, 76; report adjourned,
77; M. to adopt report (Mr. Watson), 127;
BUSINESS 0F PARLIÂMENT : M. (Mr.
rom., Mv. Lougheed, 127; Mr. Watson, 128;
M<Muflen), 894; rem., ýMv. Macdonald <B.
Sir M. Bowell, 129; Mv. Clovan, 130; MrC.), S8U; Sir R .Cartwright, 887; Mv. LongPower, 131; Mr. Bernier, Mr. Ross (Middleheed, S88; Mr. Power, 890; Sir M. Bowell,
sex), 132; Mr. Belcourt, 134; Report adopted,
891; Mr. Ross (Middlesex), 894; Mr. Fergu136. M. ta adopt 4th rep. (Mr. Watson),
son, 896; Mr. MoMullen, 897; M. carriid on
rom., Mv. Power, M. agveed to, 1488.
division (c. 23, n.o. 23), 898. M. Mr. McMullen), 966; rem., Mr. DeBoucherville, Mv.
CONVI(,TS UNDER AGE 0F TWENYiY: M.
Perley, 9U6; Mr. Landry, 967; Mr. Speaker,
(Mr. Comeau), 295.
Sir M. Bowell, 968; Mr. Fergxon, Mr. McMullen, Mr .Mitchell, 969; M. withdn., 970. DELÂYED I>RINTING : inq. (Mr. Landry),
M. (Mr. MeMullen, rem., Sir M. Bowell,
45; veply (Mr. Scott), 46.
M. carried <c. 28, n.c. 19), 1010.
DELÂYED RETURNS : inq.' <Mr. Ferguson>,
CANAD)A GAZETTE, CIRCULATION 0F:reply (Mv. Scott), 46; inq. (Mr. Landry),
inq., (Mr. Laiidry), reply (Mr. Scott), S32.
veply (Mr. Scott), 352, 550, 683.
CANADIAN CATTLE, BRITISH EMBARGO
WHARF, CONSTRUCDESCITÂMBAULT
ON . inq. (Mr. Power). reply (Mr. Scott).
TION 0F : M. Mv. Landvy, 231; inq. (Mr.
rem., Mr. Lougheed, 261; Sir M. Bowell, Mr.
Landry), reply (Mr. Scott), 1883.
Scott, Mr. Choquette, 263.
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION : ig., .(Mr. DIVISIONS:
On M. (Mr. DeBoucherville; in amt. to
Landvy>, reply, (Mr. Scott), 356, 404, ing.
report as to Standing Committees, M. vo(Sir M. Bowell), reply <(Mr. Scott), 714; ing.
jected (c. 14, n.c. 27), 68.
(Mr. Lougheed>, reply (Mr. Scott), 738.

IDEX
(Mr:inq.
FRZELGRIT RAT1ES ON (JIN
LI[VISIONS-Con.
F'eriey), 77; reply (Mr. Scott), rem., Mr.
On M. (Mr. Conieau) to anaend Standing
McMuIIen, 79; Mr. Owens, Mr. Young, 80;
Rules of the Senate, M. rejected (c. 23,
Mr. Watson, 81.
n.c. 31), 152.
(Sir M. Bowell), 82;
On M. (Mr. Douglas) to aniend Standing FRENCH TRMIÂY :inq.
reply (Mr. Scott), 84; inq. (Sir M. Bowell),
pf the Sonate. M. rejected (c. 16,
Rules
reply (Sir B. Cartwright), 1339; inq. (Mr.
n.c. 45), 244.
Lougbeed), reply (Mr. Scott), 1391.
Watson) that Coin. rise on Bill
On M. (Mr.
(A) An Act to amend the Railway Act as 1?RICH] REPORTS, DELAY IN PtJBLISHregards sale of intoxicating liquors. M.
1140 : inq. (Mr. Landry), reply (Mr. Scott),
carried (c. 23, n.c. 13), 80ô.
1414.
On suit. to M. ta adjourn (Mr. Perley), agit. FREN'CIl
IN THE
REPRESENTATION
carried (c. 29, n.c. 28), 405.
SENÂTE : inq. (Mr. Landry), reply (Mr.
On aint. (Mr. Power) to M. as ta Rules.
Scott), 211; rem., Mr. Lougheed, 212.
aint carried (c. 34, n.c. 17), 420.
(Mr. MacFUR SEÂL FISRERIES :inq.
On M. (1fr.. MeMullen) as ta business of
B£C.), reply -(Mr. Scott), 364; remn.,
donald,
Parliàment, M. carrîed (c. 28, n.c. 23), 8U8.
Sir M. BowelI, Sir R. Cartwright, 365; Mr.
Lougheed, Mr. McMullen, 366.
On amt. (1fr. Bostock) ta refer back report
on Shuswap & Thompson Hivers B., agit.
GAMMIELL DIVORCE CASE: M. (Mr. Kirchcari ied (c. 29, n.c. 15), 1002.
hofler) to adopt Teport, rem., MT. Cloran,
Mr. (libson, 551; Mr. Ross (Htalifax), Mr.
On M. (1fr. McMullen) as to Business of
Panliament, M. cari ied (c. 28; n.c. 19),
MeMullen; M. agreed to, 552.
1010.
Q.ARRISON ÂlrTILLERY COMPANIES : M.
On M. (1fr. DeBoucherville) for 3 m. h. on
(Mr. Landry), 542.
B., M. lost (c. 4,
Juvenile Delinquents
n.c. 41), 1156.
GEORGIÂN BAY CANAL- M. (MT. Casgrain), 247; Tein., Mr. Beloour't, 430; Mr.
On aint. (Mr. Comeýa) for 3 m «hl. on ShusSullivan, 488; Mr. Power, 495; Mr. Owens,
wap & Thompson Hivers B., amat. rejected
497; Mr. Bernier, 680; Mr. Ross (Halifax),
(c. 9, n.c. 23), 1202.
681; Mr. Wood, 725; Mfr. MeMullen, 782; Mfr.
On sait. Mr. Landry to refer saine B ta
Cloran, 819; Mfr. Edwards, 865; Mfr. Béique,
Supreme Court, aint. rejected (c. 10, n.c.
869; Mr. VoBoucherville, 870; Mfr. Casgrftin,
29) 1211.
871.
On sub-amt. on Inspection and Sale Agit. B.
BAY CANAL ROUTE, EXPLOR(1fr. Bernier), sub-amt. rejected <c. 18, GEORGIAN
ATION OF inq. (Mfr. Bernier), 61; reply
n.c. 30), 1435.
(Mr. Scott), 62.
On aint. (1fr. Power) ta 3rd R. of Restraint
BILL : M. to adopt
of use of Tobacco B., amat. carried (c. 32, (JILMORE DIVORCE
report (Mfr. Kirchhoffer), rem., Mfr. Cloran,
n.c. 18)', 1486.,
721; Mfr. Wilson, M. agreed ta, 722.
EXOHEQUJER COURT JUDGE 0F CANADA:
inq. (Mfr. Choqiaette>, 651; reply (Mfr. Scott), (IOLI) UESERVE, DEPLETION 0E : inq.
(Mr. Ferguson), 1495; reply (Mfr. Scott),
652, 846; inq., (Mr. Ferguson), reply (1fr.
1501, 1503; rein., Mfr. DomviIIe, 1504; Mr.
Scott), 1231.
Watson, 1506; Mr. 1>erley, 1507.
EXPERIMENTÂL FARM REPORTS:- ig.
reply (Mn. Scott), 652, 845. (IOVERNMENT BILLS BY THE SBNATE,
(Mfr. Choquotte),
REJECTIION OF' : inq. (Mr. Ponley), replY
ELECTORÂL LISTS : inq. <1fr. Landry>, re(Mfr. Scott), 267.
ply (1fr. Scott), 1566.
PURDEP.ARTMENTS,
(*OVERNMENT
CHÂASING BY:- M. (Mn. Macdonald, B.C.).
858; remn., lir. Scott, 859; M. agreed to, MO0.
NORTHWES'I
I1N
LEASES
FîSUiIU
G*RAIN INSPECTORS AT WINNIPEG : inq.
WATERS: inq. (MR-. Macdonald, B.C.), re&(Mfr. Perley), reply (Mfr. Seott), 1055.
ply (Mfr. Scott), 946.
inq. (Mfr. GRÂND) TRUNK PACIFIC, LOCATION OFFISHIERIES QUESTION, THE:
(Mfr. Landry), replv (1fr. Scottl, 1338.
.iinq.
Lougheed), repIy (Mr. Scott), 3.
FER'TILIZERS, ANALYSIS
Doinville), 816.

0Fk-:

M.

(Mn.

INDEX
GIA»TRUNK I>ACIFIC SITE IN OT- ISLE ROU GH iLOATJ.NG LîIIT:- irsq.
(M-r. Landry), raply (M-r. Scott), 851.
(M-r. Bernier), reply (M-r.
TIAWA :inq.
Scott), 73.
(M-r.
inq.
IMMIGRAT101N:
1TALIAN
Cloran),. 425, reply (M-r. Scott), 429.
GRAND TRUNK PENSION SCJIEME: inq.
(M-r. Ferguson), reply (M-r. Scott), %65.
FATAL ACCICROSSINL*S,
R1GRWAY
DENTS AT:. M. (M-r. Ferguson), 717.
RteritCTION
MIN DUO IMMIGRATIrON4,
0F: ;M. (Mw. M-acdonald. BC.), 4W0; rmm.,
M-r. Lougheed, M-r. Douglas, 482; M-r. Power,
Sir M. Uowell, 483; M-r. Scott, M. withdn.,
484.
J1INDOOS AT VANCOUVER : rem., M-r
Lcughoed, M-r. Scott, M-r. Dom-ville, 502.
HUDSON BAY, NAVIOATION 0F: inq.
(M-r. IÉerguson), reply (M-r. Scott), W5.

jApANESE IN BRITISH COLUMBIA, ARaBEST 0P: inq. (Sir M. Bowell$, M67; reply (M-r. Scott), U6S; rem., Mr. Lougheed,
388.
rom., 1Mr.
JAI>ANESE IMMIGRATION:Scott, 89, Mr. Lougboed, 93; Sir M. Bowell,
94; M-r. Sot, 95; Tom.. M!r. Landry, M-r.
Scott, M-r. Lougheed, 20?, 268; M-r. Cloran,
M.
SiJ).8r Bowell,
269: M-r. Macdonald
270.
JUVENILE OFFENDERS, AN INSTITUTION FOR: M. (M-r. Comeau), 1075; rem.,
Mr. Scott, Mr. Sullivan, 1078; M-r. Power,
M-r. Speaker, 1079; M-r. Delloucherville, M-r.
Cloran, 1080; M-r. DeBoucherville, M. agreed
ta, 11M5.
KETTILE RIVER VALLEY RAILWAY :inq.
(.Mr. Lougheed). reply ý(MT. Scott), 272, 542.

BAY, CONSTRUCTION 0OF A
HUDSO.N
RAILWAY TO: M. (M-r. Davis), 455; rem.,
M-r. Ferguson. 468; M-r. Powrer, 55W; M-r.
Bernier, 5W6; M-r. Ponley, 557; M-r. Loughe.d, 559; M-r. Scott, 560; M-r. Davis, 161, KING'S REGULATIONS: inq. (Mr. Landry).
Mi. êarried, US1; on M. to adin., rem., Sir
reply (M-r. Scott), 271, 273, 331, 403, 455.
M. J3owell, M-r. Scott, 567.
LABRADOR BOUNDARY: inq. (M-r. Landry),
ICE-BRFEÂKER 'MfONTCALM'.' REPAIRING
S617; reply (Mr. Scott.), 618.
OF': inq. (M-r. Landry>, reply (Mr. Scott),
LEVEL CROSSINUS : M. (M-r. Ferguson),
69.
703.
INDIANAP>OLIS, STATE LIFE INSURLA1CE
LEVIS FORTS, CLEARING 0F LANDS ÂT:
COMPANY 0F: inq. (M-r. Choquette), Teinq. (M-r. Landry), 793; reply (M-r. Scott),
ply (Mir. Scott), 502.
794, 848.
INLANI) FISRERLES:- inq. (M-r. Costigan), LIBRARY 0F PÂRLIAM.ENT : M. toa dopt
reply (M-r. Scott), 1277; rem., M-r. Costigan.
report (M-r. Power), 617.
1277; M-r. Ross (Halifax), 1279; M-r. Bos
MANITOBA AND OTIIER PROVINCES.
(Middlesex), 1280.
THE BOUNDLRIES 0F:-inq. (M-r. Bernier)
INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY, PROVIDENT
Teply .(M-r. S0oott), rem., MT. LoUglleed. M-r.
FUNI> 0F : inq. (M-r. M-cSwoenoy>, reply
Fergueon, M-r. Gcoct, 215; M. (M-r. Landry),
(M-r. Sott), 72.
420; ÏM. -withdn., 679.
MARITIME COAL AND RAILWAY COMINTBROOLONIAL RAILWAY TARIFFS: M.
PANY - inq. (M-r. MoSweeney), reply (M-r.
(M-r. Laaidry), 122.
Scott), 902.
INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY EMPLUYBES:
inq. (M-r. Landry), reply (M-r .Scott). 716; MARINE AND FISHEIIIES INVESTIGAM-r.
T101N: rem., Mr. Ferguson. 1284inq. (M-r. McSweeney), reply (M-r. Scott).
Scott, 1286; Sir R. Cartwright, M-r. Powrer,
1550.
1287.
M-ONEY
RAILWAY,
INTERCOLOIÂL
l'AIl> TO : inq. (M-r. Ellis). reply (M-r. Mo<*OVERN, J., ACCUSATIONS AGAINST:
inq. (M-r. Landry>. reply (M-r. Scott), 1551.
Scott), go6.
MICHEL SIMEON DELISLE : inq. (M-r.
RAILWAY, TENDERS
INTERCOLIONIAL
Landry). reply (M-r. Scott), 20.
FOR 1ROe WORKS ON: inq (M-r. Landry),
reply (M-r. Scott), 84.5.
NTLACT 0F BRITISH COLUMBIA, DISALLOWANCE OF : rem., M-r. Longhoed,
INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY, SUI'PLY 0F
Mr. Scot't. 335;, M-r. Fergueon. 3W-. inq. (M-r.
BRUSUES FOR : inq. (M-r. Landry), reply
Lougheed), repir (M-r. Scott), 367.
(M-r. Scott), 846.

.i

INDEX

INDEX
mn
NEW YORK MUTIJAL ItESERVE LIFE AS- PRIVILEGE, QUESTIONS OF-Con.
BoweII, Mr. .Power,. 362; M. withdwn., 363;
SOCIÂTION%: inq. (Mfr. McMuIien), 3M5
rem., Mfr. Landry, é66; Mfr. Scott, 867 ; romu.,
ropiy (Mfr. Scott), 832.
Mfr. Cioran, Mfr. Spe3ker, -443; Mfr. Ross
NORTHWEST, SALE 0F TIMBER LANDS
Ha1ifax), Mfr. David, 452; Tom., MY~. Clarim,
IN THIE: ànq. (Mr. Macdonald, B.C.), repiy
Mfr. Scott, 485; rem., Mfr. Cloraui, 522; Mfr.
(Mfr. Scott), 331.
Choquette, 1fr. Watson, 523; rom., Mfr. MeMullen. 737; rem., Mfr. Lougheed, Mfr. Scott,
OTTAWA AND GEORGIAN BAY CANAL:
1098; rem., Mr. Landry, 1149; rem., Mfr.
inq. (Mfr. Bernier ), repiy (Mfr. Scott), 45.
Davis, Mfr. Speaker, 1452.
INFORMASUPPLYLNG
PARLIA1fEIý ,
TION TO : M. to adjourn (Mr~. Ferguson), PROCEDURE, A QUESTION 0F: rom., Mfr.
Landry, Mfr. Béique, 949; 1fr. Speaker, 1fr.
1098; rem., Mfr. Scott, 1101; Sir R. CartPower, 950.
wright, 1101; 1fr. Gibson, 1102; Sir M.
13owell, Mfr .Landry, 1103; M. withdn., 1105. PROROGATION: rem., MWr. Lougheed, MSr.
Scott, 1447; Sir Mf. Bowell, 1448; rom., 1fr.
POINT A COTE WHARF: inq., (Mr. Landry),
Loughoed, 1fr. Scott, Mfr. Landry, 1683; Sir
ropiy (Mfr. Scott), 1358.
M. Bowell, Mfr. Power, 1684.
POINT PF ORDER ON RESOLUTION RE
MANITOBA BOUNDARIES : rem., 1fr. PUBLIC BILLS IN SENATE, ]INTRODUCTION 0F : inq. (Mfr. Loughoed), repiy (Mfr.
Landry, 420; 1fr. Scott, 1fr. Speaker, 425;
Scott), 59; rem., 1fr. Landry, Mfr. Cioran,
Mfr. Speaker's ruiing, 471.
Sir M. Bowell, 1fr. Scott, Mfr. Lougheed,
0F ORDER ON INQUIRY BY MfR.
POINT
60, 61.
LANIIY . rem., Mfr. Power, 877 ; 1fr.
Landry, 877; 1fr. Choquette, 878; Mfr. Ellis, PUBLIC OWNEIISHIP 0F PUBLIC UTILITIES : M. (1fr. MoMullen), 36); rem., 1fr.
Mfr. Speaker, 879; Mfr. Loughoe-d, 1fr. FerguCioran, 375; I)obate adjournod, 563; rom.
son, Sir M. Boweli, 880; 1fr. Speaker, 881.
Mfr. P9ower, 6M4; 1fr. Beicourt, 661; Mfr. Ross
SIIUSWAP&
POINT 0F ORDER ON
(Ralifax), 674; 1fr. McSweeney, Mfr. SulliTHOMPSON RIVER B. (49): rem.. 1fr.
van, 675; Mfr. MoMulien, 677; M. withdn.,
Landry, 1165; Mfr. Power, 1168; Mfr. Kerr,
679.
Mfr. Fergison, 1169; 1fr. Béique, 1fr. Landry, PUBLIC PRINTING, DELAY IN : inq. (Mfr.
1170; Mfr. Speaker's ruling, 1171.
Landry>, reply (Mfr. Scott), 1653.
PRESS SUMMARY 0F DEBATES : rem., PUL> WOOD> FROM CANADA, THE EXMfr. Ferguson, 539; 1fr. Scott, 1fr. P9ower,
PORT 0F : 1f. (Mfr. Baird), 8W6; reim.,
Mfr. Edwards' 841; 1fr. MaMuien, 1379; Mfr.
Bolduc, 1384; Mfr. Ross (.Middlesex), 1386.
PRINTING 0F JOURNÂLS 0F THE SENATE : inq. (Mr. Lanciry), repiy (Mfr. Scott), QUEBEC BRIDGE DISASTER : inq. <1fr.
74.
Landry), ropiy (Mfr. Scott), 295
PRINTING 0F PARLIAMENT - M. to adopt QUEBEC BRIDGE COMPANY, PAYMENT
report (Mfr. Ellis), rem., Sir Mf. BoweIl,
TO DIRECT.1ORS 0F:. inq. (Mfr. Landry),
Mfr. Jia.ndrv, 781; M. agreed te, 782; M. (1fr.
reply (Mr. Scott), 779.
BIRie>, rom., Sir M. Bowell, 1060; 1fr. FerLandry>,
inq. (Mfr.
QUEBEC BRIDGE:
gnson, Mfr. Lo»ugheed, 1061; M. agroad to,
ropiy (Mfr. Scott), 329.
1063.
inq. (Mfr. QUEBEC HARBOUR COM1fISSIONERS:iflq.
ON PAROLE .
PRISON ERS
(Mfr. Landry>, reply (Mfr. Scott), 90t.
Landry), repiy (Mfr. Scott), 1552.
QUEBEC, LEASED GOVERNMENT LANDS
PRIVILEGE, QUESTIONS 0F : rem., 1fr.
IN:M. (1fr. Landry), 905.
MeSweoney, 84; Mfr. Ponley, Mr. Cioran, 85,
inq. (1fr.
Mfr. Gibson, 1fr. Perney, 86; nom., 1fr. QUEBEC, TUE MlLITIA AT
Landry>, repiy (Mfr. Scott), 905.
Bostock, Mfr. Lougheed, 1fr. Scott, 122; Mn.
Loughoed, 123; Mfr. Forguson, Mfr. Scott, QUE-BEC TERM3INUS OOMMITTEE: inq.
Sir Mf Bowell, 124; 1fr. Power, Sir M.
(Mfr. Landry), reply (1fr. Scott), 105S.
Bowell, 125; Mfr. Scott, Mn. Cloren, 126;
QUEBEC BRIDGE COMPAN Y, GOVERN1fr. Forguson, 127; rem., MTr. Miller, 357;
MENT LOAN TO : inq. (Mfr. Landry), roMfr. Speaker, Mfr. BUlis, Mfr. Ferguson, 360;
ply (Mfr. Scott), 61.
Mfr. Watson, Mfr. Poirier, 361 ; Sir M.

INDEX

=Xiii

BRIDGE AND BÂILWÂY COM- KOSS RLIFLE : inq. (Mr. Landry>, reply (Mr.
QU]eBle,
Scott), 45, 77, 618, 683, 816.
PANY~ : inq. (Mr. Landxy), veply (MrScott), 72, 82, 448, 4M9; inq. (Mir. Landxy), RULES OP TURE SENÂTE. SUSPENSION
OF : M. (Mr. Douglas). 87; rem., Mr.
reply <luT. 8cottX 736, 737, 816, 899, 900,
901» 90, 90M, 927, 949, 1055, 1142, 13U8, 1392,
Power, Mr. Forguson, Mr. Young, Mr.
1450, 1478; M. (Mr. Landùvy), 176.
Speaker, M. adjourned, 88.
imq. .(Mr. MULES 0F THE SENÂTE:- rein., Sir M.
QUEI3EC TEECENTENARY :
I3oweUl, 317; Mr. Speaker, 318; M. (Mr.
Landry), reply (Mr. Scott), 317, 898; inq.
D>avis), 406; rem., Mr. Cioran, 407; amt.
(Mr. Loughood), roply (Mr. Scott), 738; lnq.
(Mr. Iléique) 409; Mr. Ferguson, Mr. DongB.C.), oeeply (Mfr. Scott),
(Mfr. Macdonald,
lau, 410; Mr. Oiîbson, 411; Mr. Cioran, 412;
M55.
Mr. Power, 413; amt. ta sumt. (Mr. Powor),
QUEBEC, LIEUTE.NANT GOVEBNORSHIîP
414; Mm. Davis, Mr. Dawdd, 415; M.r. Kerre,
0F:- inq. (Mr. Landry), reply (Mr. Scott).
Mr. Douglas, 416; Mr. Poirier, 417; Mr.
rem., Sir M. Boweil, 212; inq. (Mr. Landry),
Wilson, 418; eant. of Kfr. Power oaried
reply (Mr. Scott), 214.
(c. 34; n.c. 17), 420.
QUEBEC, REMOVAL 0F MILITÂRY HOS- SENÂTE, APPOINTMENTS TO THE: M.
PJ'rAL IN : inq. (Mr. Landry), roply (Mr. .<Mr. Wilson), 212; M. (Mr. Domville), 501.
Scott), 232, 273.
SmeNAE D)EBÂTkIBS: M. (Mr. Wilson), 4W3;
BRAILWAY 00MMITTEE,
M. (MT-. Landxy), 542.

MINUTES

0F:

RAtILWL&Y CHARTERS, RENEWÂL 0F:
M. (Mr. Boss, Middlesex). 542; reply (Mr.
Scott), 544. rem., Mr. Casgrain, U45; Mx.
pavis, W4;.Mr. MeMullen, 547; Mr. Kerr,
54;.Mv. Domnville, 549; Mr. Bostock, 550.
JURISDICR&AILWÂ'Y COMMISSIONERS,
TION 0F,- M. (Mr. Fovguson>, 793.

M. agreed to, 404; M. to adopt report (Mr.
Iléique). rem., Mr. Power, Mr. Forguson,
IM32; Sir M. Bowell, 13U4; Mr. Lougheed,
Mr. Rose (Middlesex), 1325; Mr. Béique,
1327; M. agreod to, 1328; M toa dopt report
Béique), rem., Mr. Ferguson, Mir. Lçàn(MT1f.
dry, 168M.
SENÂTE, EXPENDITURES 0F THE:. M.
(Mr. Power), rem., Sir M. 380wUi, 851; M.
agreed ta, 8W3.

BEFOÉM, CF THE SENÂTE: M. (Mr. Me- SENÂTOR LOVrJYI', THE LÂTE : rem., Mr.
Mallen). 96; rom., Mr. Boas .(Middlesex), 103;
Scott, Mr. Lougheed, Mr. MeMullen, 818;
Mr. Coffey, 117; Mr. Davis, 177; Mr. .Roaa
Mr. Domyille, 819.
G(Halifax),, 183; M. in emt. .(Mr. David)
SEN~ATORS, NEW :
184; amt. to amt., Mr. Béiqu'e, 640; rem.,
Bon. Napoléon A. Beloourt, 1.
Mr.
Mr. Comoan, - 645;-Mr. Wood, 648,
&Spe&kOv, 729; M1fr. Perney. *741; Mr,. Frost,
Iton. Âxchibald Campbell, 1.
745;, Mr. Ellis, 747; Mr. Boss (Middlesex),
Hon. Daniel Derbyshixe, 1.
754; Mr. Sullivan, 774; M. and amt. withdn.,
SENÂTORIÂ.L DIVISIONS : M. (Mr. Boss,
_777.,
Middlesex), 1172; Mr.: MeMulen, 1175; Mr.
BLOXAI GRAIN, COMMMSS0ION: -inq. (Mr.
Lougheed. Mr' BUlis on pt. of order, 1176;
Ponley), 379; reply (Mr. Scott), 380, 469.
Mr. MoMulien, Sir M. Boweil, 1177; Mr.
* Spoaker's ruing, 1178; Mr. Boss, Mr. ForguREJECTI0IN OF' BILLS BY TRE COM.
son, Mr. Jones, Mr. Froat, 1179; Mr. BerM01N8: M. (Mr. Boss, Middlesex), 209.
nier, Mr. Power, Mr. Boas, 1181; M. withdn.,
REVISED STAT£UTES, FRENCH EDrrION
0F : inq. (Mr. Landry), xeply (Mr. Scott) *SENÂT!OI*S ÂL'4
OF THE
MEMUEHIS
484, 614, 86.
flOUSE 0F COMMONS APPOINTED TO
REPORTS TO THE SENATE. DELAY IN~ OFFICE: M. (Mr. Landxy), 118.
SUBMTIIINU : rem., Mr. Boss (Middle SUIPB'UIIWNG INDUSTRIES 0F CANson), 1393; Sir M. Bowell, Mr. Scott, 1594
ADA : inq. (Mr. Domville), 8i6; reply (Sir
Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Power, Mr. Forguson
B. Cartwright), 850.
1395.
SPEECH FROM THE THEONE, 1, 1789.
REpORTI2NG SERVtICE'0F TWO HOUSES
CONSOLIDATION 0F : M. (Mr. Power) *ST. JOHN- ANI) HÂLIFÂX, TONNAGE AT:
.M. (Mr. Domvila), 1202.
1510; M. agreed ta, 1511.
902-C

X3Z~XiV

IND)EX

STANDING COMMIÏTTEES: M. to adopt report (Mr. Gibson>, M. in amt. (Mr. Douglas), 63; rein., Mr. Poirier, Sir M. Bowell,
Mr. Sullivan, 64; Mr. Lougheed, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Power; M. in amt. (Mr. DeBoucherville), rom., Mr. Gibson, 66; Mr. Lougheed,
Mr. Power, Mr. Davis, 67; amt. rejected (c.
M. Bowell,
iÎ
14, n.c. 27), 68; rom..
Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Ells, 68; Mr. Poirier, Mx. Po'wer, 'Mr. Speaker, amt. rulgd
ouot ci order, 69; "em., MT. Damvas, 69;
Mr. Ross (HalIifax), Mr. Wilson, M. agreed
to, 70i 71; M. -(Mr. Boss, Middlesex), Mr~.
Scott, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Miller, 346; Mr.
Rom, 849; Mr. Ferguson, Mr. I'ower, Mr.
Landry, Mr. Speaker, M5; Mr. FBi, Mr.
Béique, 351; M. (Mr. Boss, Middleaex), US,;
»em., Mr. Boas <HeEifax), Mr. Sullivan, 3U8;
Mr. Scott, 399; Mr. Lougheed, 401; Mr. BMique, 403; Mi. Poirier, 761; Mr. Scott, 764;
Sir M. BoweUl, 765; Mr. Cioran, 768; Mr.
Boss (Middlesex), 769; Mr. Scott, 772; Mr.
Power, 773; M. oaîried as amended, 773.

ST. LAWRENCE RIVER, NAVIGATION -OP
TIEE: M. (Mr. Landry), 231.
SUSPENSION 0F RULES: M. (Mr. Davis),
rem.. Mr. Power, Mr. Wilson, Mr. Speaker,
62; Mr. Davis, Mr. Speaker, Mi. Wilson, 63.
SYDNEY STEEL WORKS STRIKE: inq.
(Mr. Landry), reply (Mr. Scott), 857.
TELEGRÂPi. SYSTEM 0F CANADA : M.
(Mr. Davis), rem., Mr. Power, 332; Mi.
Davis, Mr. Landîy, Mr. Ferguson, Mr.
Scott, Mr. Speaker, 333; M. ruled out of
order, 334; M. dropped, 652.
TORONTO, DESTITUTION IN.
Poirier, 21..

rem., Mi.

COMRAILWAï
TRANSCONTINENTAL
MISS10N : inq. (Mr. Landry), reply (Mr.
Scott), 1148, 1149, 123.
TRANSCONTINENTAL RÂILWAY, ROUTES
M. (Mr. Thompson), 335.
OF TUE:

COMMSIIONERS,
±iRANSCONTIN ENTAI
PRIVATE CAR FOR: inq. (Mr. Landry>,
: M.
STANDING RU LES 0F TUE SENATE
reply (Mr. Scott), 856.
(,.i.î. Comean>, rem., Mr. Scott, 137; Mr.
Poirier, Mr. Lougheed, L"8; Mr. Cioran, Mr.
UNDER SECRETARIES IN CANADA, APP'ower, 139; Mr. Scott, 141; Mr. Feiguson,
POINTMENT 0F: M. (Mr. Rosa, Middle142; Mr. Bernier, Mr. Edwards, 143, Mr.
sex), 187; rem., Mr. Scott, 203; Mr. LongKerr, 144; Mr. Cioran, 145; Mr. Caagrain,
heed, 206; Mr. MoMuilen, 207; Mr. Power.
145; Mr. Belcourt, 146; Mr. Boss (Middle2sa; Mr. Power, 321; Sir M. Bowell, SU4;
sex), 147;!Mr. Young, 148; Mr. Poirier, 149;
MTr. Macdonald (BiC.), S38; Mr. Boss (MidBI. Power, Mr. Landry, Mr. Kerr, 151
diesox>, 339; Sir R. Cartwright, M. withdn.,
M. oejeoted (c. 23, n.c. 31), 1,52; M. (Mz.
845.
Douglas), 232; rem., Mi. Davis, Mr. Cloran.
284; Mr. Poirier, 236; Mr. Landiy, Mr. UNION JACK, HOIST.ING TliE: rem., Mr.
Domviile, >ZS; Mr. Scott, Sir M. Bowell,
I)omviile, 237; Mr. Power, 239; Sjr M.
Mr. Cioran, 906; M. to adin. (Mr. Cioran),
Bowell, Mr. Wilson, 241; (Mr. MoMullen,
907; Mi. Boss (HIalifax), Mr. Domville, M.
16, n.o.
Mi. Douglas, 242; M. rejected (o.
lost, 910.
45), 244.
UNREVISED HAffSA.11): inq. (Mr. LougST. JOSEPH, DRY DOCK AT:7 inq. (Mr.
71; reply (Mr. Scott), 72.
Landry>,

